[{"Title":"Great","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great action comedy adventure from the mid 80's starring Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner and Danny De Vito. Douglas and De Vito are great but to me the film belongs to Kathleen Turner, she's fantastic and looks absolutely stunning. Its also very well directed from the future director of Back to the Future and Forrest Gump amongst others. Its often mentioned as a rip off of Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom but I don't really think it is that apparent, the scenes in the Jungle at the start of the film are really good especially when they find the crashed plane There's nothing like a good fire!!!. Danny De Vito is really funny as the comic relief and his cousin has some funny lines Look at them snappers, would ya. My only small complaint is the romantic stuff is a little corny but I suppose thats for the female audience. They followed this up with Jewel of the Nile just a year later! Sadly like most sequels it wasn't nearly as good as this, actually its not really worth bothering about unfortunately, Douglas, Turner and De Vito also teamed up again in another film War of the Roses but that film has no connection with this or Jewel of the Nile. So if you haven't seen Romancing the Stone look out for it, it's excellent. "},{"Title":"Superb adventure-comedy","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Romancing the Stone is argubly my favorite adventure movie of all-time. Yep, in my opinion it surpasses all three movies in the Indiana Jones trilogy (which are right behind in terms of greatness). This movie has action, adventure, comedy, drama, and romance all rolled up into one great motion picture. Kathleen Turner stars as Joan Wilder, a romance novelist who flies to the South American country of Colombia to rescue her kidnapped sister. She's ordered by the kidnappers to bring a treasure map that she received in the mail with her to the Colombian city of Cartegna. Ms. Wilder ends up getting on the wrong bus that ends up taking her deep into the jungle where she meets a fortune hunter who saves her life in more ways than one. He also seems to resemble the hero in her books. Jack Colton, the fortune hunter, is played by Michael Douglas (who also produced the film) and he talks her into using the map to find the treasure. But they're not the only ones who are dying to get their hands on the treasure. A couple of bad guys are in hot pursuit of the two adventurers. There's Zolo (Manuel Ojeda), an evil colonel who's on to Ms. Wilder (and is the real nasty bad guy of the bunch); Ira (Zack Norman), one of the crazed kidnappers who's obsessed with crocodiles (he's always saying Look at those snappers!); and Ralph (Danny DeVito), Ira's bumbling cousin who goes to the airport to pick up Ms. Wilder, see's at the last second that she got on the wrong bus, and is forced to go into the jungle to find her. Even Ralph and Ira know that Zolo is bad news. There are also minor supporting characters in the film. There's Gloria (Holland Taylor from TV's The Practice), Ms. Wilder's publisher; Elaine (Mary Ellen Trainor), Ms. Wilder's sister; and Juan (Alfonso Arau), a Colombian native who actually turns out to be a huge fan of Ms. Wilder. In one very funny scene, Ms. Wilder and Mr. Colton go to the house of this man and ask him if they can borrow his car. The Colombian tells them to get lost, until he finds out that the woman is actually Joan Wilder the novelist, and admits that he's one of her biggest fans who has read every one of her books. He proceeds to help the two get out of a jam. Romancing the Stone has plenty of exhilarating action scenes, and a load of big laughs. This was director Robert Zemeckis' first hit movie (which he made before the original Back to the Future), and I still think this is his best film. Zemeckis is one of our best directors working today, and rarely (like Steven Spielberg and James Cameron) does he make a bad film. Romancing the Stone is a great movie. Turner is splendid as the novelist up to her neck in trouble; Douglas is terrific as her sidekick; and Norman and Arau are hilarious in smaller roles. But the one who provides the biggest laughs in the movie is Danny DeVito. He is literally a scream in Romancing the Stone. I kept falling down on my side because he had me laughing so hard. This is one movie that's a must-see for people who like a mix of action, suspense, adventure, romance, thrills, and lots of comedy. One of the '80s best. Followed by the very good sequel Jewel of the Nile.**** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Hilarious, entertaining, timeless, classic","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie.  I'm sure that it's in my top-ten somewhere, because ever since I was a kid, I've never gotten sick of watching it.  The premise is one of those that's just so damn crazy it actually works.  It starts with a successful romance novelist, Joan Wilder, who has just finished her last book, but lacks the sort of love-life that she writes about.  When she learns that her sister has been kidnapped and is being held hostage, she takes off to South America to help her out.  It seems that the kidnappers want a treasure map that is in Joan's possession.  Joan is very much a city girl and doesn't fully realize the bind that she and her sis have gotten themselves into.  Once in South America, she takes the wrong bus, which breaks down in the South American jungle.  When she's held up by a corrupt Police Chief, a very rugged, unshaven, shot-gun toting, Michael Douglas (Jack Colton) shows up and kicks some ass.  See, Jack is a bird-trapper who wants nothing more than enough cash to buy himself a yacht.  Realizing that Joan is lost in the jungle and fully incapable of surviving on her own, Jack agrees to take her to the nearest town for $300 in travellers' checks, so off they go.  By now, we've learned that besides the two goons who've kidnapped Joan's sister (one of which is Danny DeVito in one of his funniest roles EVER) the South American police are after the map as well.  Everyone wants what's at the end of the map.  What follows for the next hour and a half is one of the most exciting and funny action/adventure movies ever filmed.  Michael Douglas is absolutely perfect in the role of Jack Colton and delivers some of the funniest one-liners I've ever heard.  Kathleen Turner is equally great as the naive romantic and, as always, she looks great.  A great script is brougth to life perfectly by Robert Zemeckis and his direction is air-tight.  Please go watch this movie, even if you've seen it a hundred times already......Oh YEAH!!!! Now that's a campfire!!!!   "},{"Title":"If you've never read a romance novel, don't.  Watch this classic, though!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"22 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's been a while since Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas have done something fun, even separately. We'll have to settle for this classic, which has plenty of positive elements.Romance novelist Joan Wilder is determined to find her kidnapped sister; the strongest, most important plot point that a lot may not realize. By chance, she meets Jack Colton in Colombia. Jack is an American wanderer with profit on his mind, and even expected it from her.Douglas and Turner act very well together, and Danny DeVito was one of the funniest actors around, showing his comedy skills here in all their glory. Plus, if you think that movies like She's All That or Princess Diaries started the reclusive frumpy girl who transforms into a beautiful open minded woman concept, then you never saw Joan Wilder's transformation! Whoo!When you toss in several great chase and action scenes, a nasty corrupt cop-villain, and flawless comedy, the end result is a living (for lack of a better adjective) romance novel. Now, I've never read one myself, but it wouldn't surprise me if Robert Zemeckis and the writers did. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite adventure movies","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A lot of great adventure movies came out of the 80's like the Star Wars sequels, Indiana Jones, The Goonies, etc. Romancing the Stone is one of those little gems, no pun intended, that somehow gets lost when we think of a great adventure movie. I just adore this movie, ever since I was a little girl I just wanted to live this movie. Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas had this amazing chemistry that made you wonder how the heck they were not a real couple in life. Though like Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio, their friendship shows so well on screen as well as off that you're grateful they could bounce off each other so well. Romancing the Stone is such a fun film that shows off DeVito, Turner and Douglas' talent so well that we saw them all again in War of the Roses. Romancing came first though and what a great movie.Joan Wilder is a lonely New York romance novelist who receives a treasure map mailed to her by sister, Elaine who calls Joan and begs her to come to Cartagena, Colombia, because Elaine has been kidnapped by bumbling antiquities smugglers Ira and Ralph, and the map is to be the ransom. Hastily flying to Colombia, Joan is detoured from the rendezvous with Ralph by Colonel Zolo, the man who killed Elaine's husband. Joan ends up in the jungle and is almost killed by Zolo, but is saved by the swashbuckling American exporter Jack T. Colton. For getting her to Cartagena, Joan promises to pay Jack for getting her to Cartagena so she can save her sister. But she ends up living one of her romance novels as her and Jack grow closer as they discover the map holds a stone that they will romance.Romancing the Stone is a perfect mixture of adventure, romance and humor. It is literally like a romance novel, but one that even the guys could get into. I really like how Kathleen's character Joan goes from this anti-social caterpillar into a woman of the world by the end. It had such a great story arch for her. Michael Douglas as Jack, couldn't have been a more perfect choice, like his daddy, he reminds me of one of those old Hollywood actors who has been doing it for years. He's handsome, charismatic, funny and strong, so perfect for the role. Danny DeVito was so funny, I nearly died laughing when his cousin was leaving him to take the fall and Danny screams When will you come back his cousin screams Soon! he asks How soon?! and the cousin replies with very soon!, how sweet to do that to your family, right? The villains are great and very scary. Everything about this film is just a ton of fun, I guarantee there will be something that you can connect with in this film. Wither it's the action, the romance or the humor, Romancing the Stone is a film not to be missed.9/10 "},{"Title":"Still the romantic adventure film to measure all others by.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Truth be told  I came a little late to the party when it comes to having seen Romancing The Stone.  I didn't see it for the first time until the Fall of 1993, but had seen it's sequel, Jewel of the Nile numerous times since its initial theatrical release in 1985.  Normally when it comes to seeing sequels, I almost always prefer the original to the sequel--but for many years I absolutely loved Jewel of the Nile not knowing about Romancing the Stone.When I finally did see Romancing the Stone nine solid years after its theatrical release on some premium cable channel, I was blown away by it. All those years spent raving about Jewel should have been spent raving about Romancing the Stone.  The original is leaps and bounds superior to the sequel  (even though Jewel of the Nile does have its own charms--to a degree upon reflection) and contains what is arguably Kathleen Turner's best on-screen performance.  Have we ever seen her better in anything else? Maybe in Peggy Sue Got Married or in Prizzi's Honor perhaps even in Body Heat, but, it's safe to say that without her enormously captivating, thoroughly fabulous performance as Joan Wilder opposite Michael Douglas' career best comic performance as Jack Coltin, the movie wouldn't be such the modern-day classic it is and always will be.As far as I'm concerned, Turner was robbed of the Oscar for Best Actress in 1984 for this film.  So often the Academy favors dramatic performances over comedic performances when everyone worth their Screen Actors Guild card knows comedy is infinitely trickier to pull off convincingly than drama. How many actresses could have been as perfect as Turner is as Wilder? Only Susan Sarandon comes to immediate mind--she would have been magnificent come to think of it.Also, there hasn't been a successful romantic adventure film made since that even comes close to comparing with Romancing the Stone I believe.  And, I've looked long and hard to find one even compatible to this and have failed.  There may be many knock-offs but no real diamonds in the rough.Danny DeVito as always was a hoot to watch and Holland Taylor as Joan's book editor, Gloria, is simply sensational in a brief but memorable turn at the beginning and tail-end of the movie.  It's a mystery why she's never really been a bigger star before now, with her groundbreaking, Emmy Award-winning work on The Practice at least giving us a taste on what we've been denying ourselves by not making a big noise in support of her landing bigger, juicier starring roles.So 16 years later, Romancing the Stone is still unequivocally the best of its genre and makes you wish the Turner would get the chance to work far more than she's been in recent times.  The woman is a comic genius and we need to let the powers that be in Hollywood know that we want more of her and quickly.One suggestion  If Turner, Douglas and DeVito ever do reteam--let it not be in a second sequel.  Romancing is just too perfect to capitalize on any further.  They couldn't do a sequel to The War of the Roses for obvious reasons (if you've seen the movie you already know why).  Just imagine how great they would have been in Primary Colors as Jack and Susan Stantin. John Travolta (on target for sure) and especially Emma Thompson (in a surprisingly weak performance) take note.  It's a shame the film's writer, Diane Thomas didn't live long enough to have written any other films of this magnitude.  This one produced gem of hers has given millions of people the world over countless hours of fun-filled escapist delight.  A true classic in every sense.GRADE A "},{"Title":"A romantic adventure you won't want to miss.","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was highly entertaining with humour, danger, romance & likeable leads. Danny De Vito put in a great performance as Ralph and deserved more screen time. The hero and heroine had the right chemistry and were good to watch. The jungle locations were breathtaking and I liked the soundtrack. Never a dull moment. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The very best adventure/comedy of all time, honest!","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Romancing the Stone came out just 3 years after Raiders... and in my mind is cemented as one of the great watchable movies. The on-screen chemistry between Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner is wonderful, both playing their parts flawlessly. It is most likely the movie that made Douglas a big star. I can't tell you how many times, with my children, I watched this movie, and still when I catch it on TV I enjoy it almost like it was the first time.  I want to own it when it comes out on DVD. For me it is a 9, only because I rate Raiders... better and it is a 10. "},{"Title":"Romance novelist Turner finds real life adventure","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Kathleen Turner stars as a romance novelist who receives a mysterious map from her murdered brother in law and then must go to Columbia to save her kidnapped sister by giving up the map for ransom.After getting on the wrong bus she meets up with Michael Douglas and the adventure begins..as Douglas seeks the treasure also..A fast paced adventure that features great chemistry between Douglas and Turner (they would make two more movies at least after this...including a sequel jewel of the nile).  On a scale of one to ten...8 "},{"Title":"Adventure and love in the Columbian jungle","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is an adventure flick that's one hair away from being a chick flick--but a better genre-straddler you may never find. It's lifted out of pure romantic comedy rut by a young and feisty Michael Douglas playing a hard-bitten, coarse adventurer by name of Jack Colton and young, sultry Kathleen Turner playing naive New York romance novelist Joan Wilder. When Joan is stranded in the middle of the Columbian rainforest with a greedy and ruthless military leader, Colton chases him off, accidently playing the role of Joan's romance hero, Jessie. Chased across the country by thieves and corrupt government officials, Joan comes into her own, often getting out of sticky situations with her own talent for words when reluctant hero Jack would have shot his way out of things. Great movie... far better than any romance I've ever had the misfortune to read. Danny DeVito lends the film some of its funniest moments. One of my favorite films! "}{"Title":"fun flick.  not a polished gem.","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film tries to do it all adventure, comedy, and romance. Romancing the Stone succeeds, but Crocodile Dundee and other films have done it better. Kathleen Turner stars as romance novelist Joan Wilder, a city girl who unintentionally finds herself stranded in the Colombian wilderness, miles away from modern communication and transportation. She encounters her opposite, a rugged outdoorsy soldier of fortune named Jack. Their clashing personalities are fun to watch. Of course, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom presented a similar relationship and did it better, but let's give Romancing the Stone credit for doing it first (by a few months). Good cast. Danny DeVito is especially entertaining. I liked how Joan's experiences transform her character. Good plot premise. But parts of the script are a bit sloppy. The story moves forward at a good pace, but the progress of the story relies too often on coincidences. (Imagine if you read a Superman story where every time Superman is about to catch the bad guy, a piece of kryptonite falls from the sky and knocks him unconscious.)I was shocked that this film was nominated for best editing. In some getaway scenes, the editors apparently cut the part where the hiding party realizes that their pursuers have just arrived. The editors simply cut to the shot where the hiding party is attempting their escape. Fixing this problem would have extended the film's runtime by about 10 seconds. Also, there are some goofs involving stunt doubles, one of which could have been fixed by simply cutting the shot a second earlier.I was disappointed that we never learn the history of the treasure or the map. Nor do we learn how or why Elaine's husband acquired the map or why he was in Colombia in the first place.Despite its flaws, this movie is fun. Check it out if you enjoy adventure flicks. "},{"Title":"One of the most delightful adventure movies of all time","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone is an Indiana Jones-like adventure/comedy/romance film. It is everything entertaining, exciting, thrilling, great fun, hilarious, involving, dark, sometimes scary, very pleasant and a timeless classic.Adventure is something which isn't missing in this movie by any means. This is adventure/action in the nostalgic 80's style. Lots of 80's elements are in this film music, cars, the quality of film-making, hair styles, clothes and even in the sounds of the guns (they have a formidable sound). Nothing to do with the excessive violence and noise of nowadays's action films and also with no need of any special effects at all - and it works so well! This movie proves that a simple but good story with no special effects can make a quality film and such thing is certainly much better than a movie with only special effects but no plot.The movie is supposed to take place in Colombia, but it was filmed in Mexico. Who cares anyway? The scenario is one of the many solid attributes of the film. Cartagena is a beautiful place and the colombian jungles are amazing either. The backgrounds/landscapes are simply brilliant forests, mountains, rivers, waterfalls, clouds, etc...This film features the talents of actors such as Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, Danny DeVito, Zack Norman, Alfonso Arau, Manuel Ojeda, Holland Taylor, Mary Ellen Trainor, Kymberly Herrin, Ted White and others. All of them are very well in their roles. It was directed by the great Robert Zemeckis, who also directed Back to the Future, Who Framed Roger Rabbit and The Polar Express.The characters are all well developed and interesting. Jack T. Colton is a funny fortune soldier (the T means trustworthy, according to himself) and he's greatly played by Michael Douglas. Joan Wilder is the romance novelist of the story, very well portrayed by a beautiful Kathleen Turner. Zolo is a very dangerous and persistent villain, well played by Manuel Ojeda. Ira is obsessed by crocodiles and often says «Look at those snappers» - he's portrayed by Zack Norman. Ralph is a funny, very tense, nervous and stressful villain, comically played by Danny DeVito. But despite being villains, both Ralph and Ira fear Zolo and his men because they know how dangerous they are. Juan is a very humorous character, beautifully portrayed by Alfonso Arau.The movie contains some swear language, but with moderation. They don't overdo it, so this detail doesn't ruin a movie with little to be improved for me. This movie also contains some cool Spanish lines. The emerald (called El Corázon) is a gorgeous precious stone! Romeo (Joan Wilder's cat) is beautiful, adorable and fluffy. I wouldn't mind to have a cat like him (and Romeo is a cute name for a cat).As a fan of cars, I also have a word to say about some of the cars used in this film. The Ford Bronco is the off-road vehicle that really shines here. It is a bullet-proof pick-up off-road vehicle baptized as Pepe, the little mule by its owner Juan. That is a fabulous car! Wow! That is war material. It's also delightful to see the legendary Renault 4L, also known as quatrelle, but internationally known as simply the Renault 4. The Renault 4 is one of the best cars in the world. It has charming lines, a bullet-proof reliability and is an indestructible and very robust car. There's also a Shelby Cobra replica in this film (a fantastic and charismatic car) driven by a boy who looks like Joaquin Garay III but I don't know for sure if that's him.Romancing The Stone is one of the best movie choices to watch on a Saturday afternoon. It is, without a doubt, one of the best films of the year 1984. Eddy Grant's song Romancing the Stone is great, why wasn't it included in the film?This should definitely be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"Simple jungle adventure, easy to watch and thoroughly enjoyable despite minor flaws.","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Robert Zemeckis serves up an enjoyable, if derivative, South American adventure with Romancing The Stone. The main positive to emerge from the film is the on-screen chemistry between stars Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner. They remind one of the old-fashioned tradition of a hero and heroine who bicker their way through an entire movie, while we in the audience know that secretly they're in love with each other. Perhaps the main drawback with the film is the curiously bloodthirsty climax which seems out of keeping with the old-fashioned tone established in the rest of the film.Shy lady novelist Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner), a hopeless romantic, receives a package from Colombia. Shortly afterwards she discovers that her sister Elaine (Mary Ellen Trainor) has been kidnapped in Colombia and Elaine's husband has been murdered. Seems that someone is particularly keen to get hold of whatever is in the package, and Joan must personally take it to South America if she wants her sister to be freed. From the minute she arrives, Joan is sucked into a world of danger and sudden death. But - like a mysterious hero from one of her many novels - a handsome soldier of fortune, Jack Colton (Michael Douglas), comes to her rescue. Later Jack and Joan discover that the package contains a treasure map showing the route to a priceless emerald. Small-time crooks Ira (Zack Norman) and Ralph (Danny DeVito) are desperate to get hold of the treasure. But they are bungling strangers in a strange land, and they have had to join forces with the ruthless guerrilla Zolo (Manuel Ojeda) in their hunt for the loot. After many narrow escapes, Jack and Joan successfully find the emerald themselves &#150; then make plans to save Elaine from her captors, using the precious stone as bait.With its fast-paced story and entertaining action scenes, there's nothing boring about Romancing The Stone. It's certainly easy viewing, but beyond the polished surface sheen there's not that much to it. Diane Thomas's script is straightforward slam-bang stuff, offering a simple premise and punctuating the story developments with action set pieces. One benefit that does emerge from having a script penned by a female is that Turner's character has a bit more substance than most screen heroines from these kinds of pictures. Douglas and Turner bounce off each other well, and of the supporting characters DeVito generates some well-judged humour as a crook in over his head, and Alfonso Arau puts in a brief but energetic turn as a helpful driver. The plot is never less than preposterous, but this is one of those films &#150; in a similar vein to the Indiana Jones movies &#150; that never pretends to aspire to realism. The over-the-top action and comedy is meant to do one thing and one thing only- to entertain&#133;. and that's exactly what it does. Romancing The Stone is fast, humorous, action-packed fun. It might be thin, it might be derivative, and it might climax more violently than necessary, but these are minor flaws in an otherwise well-packaged adventure romp. "},{"Title":"Addictive, Slick, Humorous and Entertaining!","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Extremely likable and watchable adventure film, which mixes up humour and adventure to make a great film! This film has a great cast, especially Douglas who plays the main character Jack Colton. Colton is both funny and sweet! The number one character that is funny is DeVito! DeVito plays an American, who is part of a plot to kidnap the sister of a romance novelist named Joan Wilder, to lure Wilder to them, and to retrieve a map that was recently picked up by Wilder.The story follows a romance-fiction novelist (Turner) who finds out her sister has been kidnapped in Columbia, and she must deliver a treasure map to the kidnappers or else awful things will happen to her. When she arrives in Columbia she is lured away by the other team that want the map, and she starts going away from her desired destination. She then escapes and needs to find her way to her sister, and the kidnappers. Along the way she meets shotgun-wielding soldier of fame Jack Colton (Douglas) who comes to her aid. Together they go to face the kidnappers head on, and to try and keep the stone they retrieved!The story may have been done many times before, but near the end, and during the middle, there are some great stunts and some excellent action!The beginning of the film is one of the strongest beginnings for a film, it opens with some great action, and of course some humour! Then the ending leaves you wanting some-more, then we get it with 'Jewel of the Nile', which has an awesome beginning as well, but it doesn't beat the opening of this film!10/10, A must-see landmark film!Another thing, what on earth is with the DVD? All we get is some bad video and audio quality, and a trailer! This film deserves a heap more! Especially since director Zemeckis usually gives his films great DVD treatment! ('Back to the Future' trilogy, 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit' etc.) How can he let 20th Century Fox do this to his great film! "},{"Title":"Though I Be A Mondo Dismo, I Loved The Movie","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Spoilers AheadComedy is based on incongruence, situational and existential, so when you meet mild Joan Wilder, the romance novelist, who lives with her cat, it is the perfect contrast for what's to come. Her sister has been kidnapped in Columbia and she has to venture out into the real world. Her editor tries to dissuade her, the movie is full of clever dialog, my header is from the editor as the women are perusing the unappealing man at the bar. Loser, Loser, Major Loser, oh, check it out this one, Mr. Mondo Dismo, the movie's dialog is half the attraction. This was made by Zemeckis one year before his monster hit Back To The Future. Gen. Zolo, the death squad leader, comes to New York and follows Wilder to Columbia making sure she gets on the wrong bus. Devito and his brother Ira are also after this treasure map she is carrying in an envelope her sister Joan mailed her before being abducted by a kid who throws bowlers at her. The movie moves like lightning with only a couple romantic stops with Douglas. As Zolo is about to attack her, Colton rains shotgun fire down on him from different heights until Zolo decides maybe another time would be better. Colton agrees to take her back to town for a huge amount. They machete their way back to civilization while Zolo and Ralph / Ira are in pursuit.This was one of DeVito's first big movie parts and he has some great scenes and dialog. My favorite is where he tries climbing under a corpulent Columbian lady's restaurant table to reach Joan's purse with the map sticking out of it. She finds him under her table, things don't go well for him. Turner plays the absolute opposite of the Femme Fatale she played before this in Body Heat. Colton protects her while gently steering her towards recovering the stone before her sister. I love DeVito's line here,That's right I'm stealing the stone from you, I'm not trying to romance it out from under you, you dope. Watch for a hilarious cameo by Alfonso Arau, from Three Amigos, as the leader of a local drug gang who is about to shoot both Colton and Wilder but they are saved because he reads and collects all her romance novels. He gestures with his gun, brandishing it in front of them,This is the one whose books I read to you guys every Sunday. This is the reason this was a monster hit and the sequel bombed the dialog. Even tiny little scenes, back in NYC where the neighbor elderly lady says to Joan,Oh pumpkin, I never take the elevator, you know, rapists. Be warned, it has some graphic violence that earned it its PG 13.Zolo has a fondness for crocodiles, as does Ira, and there is a scene where his hand gets bitten right off. There is some serious peril with Joan in danger, I wouldn't show this to children under ten. It starts quite light but builds to an intense showdown at this Columbian fort at night. Their are only torches lighting the place, it is a bit intense. There are a couple romance scenes that, as a philosopher I endured, women may really enjoy these. The whole cast is excellent even Ira. I love when Ira leaves Ralph on the docks, Ralph yells at him to come back,I will send a boat right back for you, soon Ralph, very soon. Yes, I wouldn't wait there Ralph. Douglas and Turner had such chemistry here that it launched the sequel after this shot to the skies. Unfortunately, Jewel Of The Nile was a huge bomb that crashed what could have been a great series of movies. That sequel won razzies and terrible reviews; trust me, buy this alone not in a set with both films. This is how Robert Zemeckis became famous. The humor, action, writing and pacing are the stars. Turner, completely out of Body Heat's previous role, established herself as an actress with this great performance. One of my favorite movies, though, I guarantee you they would call me a Mondo Dismo. Q.E.D. "},{"Title":"One great blockbuster","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't think this underrated film really lacks anything in any way. But still, I can positively say that adventure is something it definitely doesn't lack.There are no special effects, but who cares anyway? On a movie like this, special effects would have little purpose and add nothing. This film has a good plot, lots of adventure and action but in a way that makes it so much fun to watch and without excessive noise, action and violence (although there are ultra-violent scenes). All of this in a way that only an 80's film could do. In conclusion, a successful case of simplicity over complication.Alan Silvestri's soundtrack is majestic. Although very calm and relaxing, it is appropriate for the movie in question. Hilariously it takes place in Colombia and yet was filmed in Mexico. I don't mind about that. The exotic settings are beautiful and inviting.Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner shine as the lead actors (Jack Colton and Joan Wilder), with a flawless chemistry. Danny DeVito (Ralph), Zack Norman (Ira) and Alfonso Arau (Juan the bellmaker) are great fun as some of the bad guys and well portrayed by the actors. When it comes to the bad guys, I especially like Ira and Juan. Although a bad guy, Juan suddenly becomes so sympathetic and delightful and even helps the lead characters that you have to love him, to which the actor's impeccable performance is one precious help.Manuel Ojeda portrays the baddest of all the bad guys, Zolo, but unlike the others, he ain't funny. He is a criminal of the worst species. Zolo and his army are feared even by Ralph and Ira. Nevertheless, the fact that Zolo is so bad only means that the actor is good because he is quite convincing.Even the actors who play minor roles were selected by finger, including the very few children seen in it, such as the kid who kidnaps Elaine and drives her car.'Romancing the Stone' is a movie filled with charm. A successful combination of American charm and Latin charm. Latin not only because of where it takes place and was filmed, but also because of the nationalities of certain actors and the use of some Spanish words. Robert Zemeckis directed this great movie but refused to make its follow-up, 'The Jewel of the Nile' which stars once again Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, Danny DeVito and Holland Taylor. Much against Douglas's and Turner's will.Title in Portugal 'Em Busca da Esmeralda Perdida'. "},{"Title":"Fun and laughs in the jungle","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner are Romancing the Stone in this 1984 adventure film, well-directed by Robert Zemeckis.Turner plays romance author Joan Wilder, who in order to ransom her sister Elaine, flies to Colombia to deliver a map sent to her by her late brother-in-law. Joan soon gets involved in a bizarre situation better than anything she's ever written. She gets on the wrong bus and soon meets Jack (Michael Douglas), an adventurer who lives by his wits. He agrees to get her out of the jungle for $375 in travelers checks, as long as they're American Express. Because Joan has the map, several factions are after her, including Ralph (Danny DeVito) and lots more scary people. Jack talks Joan into going after the treasure themselves to give her more of a bargaining chip.This is a very fun film, with lively performances by Douglas, Turner, DeVito and the rest of the cast. Many funny and suspenseful moments, including Joan being recognized and feted by a Colombian drug dealer, a Tarzan-like swing across a river, and problems with alligators. Not to mention a little romance along the way for Joan and Jack.Highly enjoyable, very satisfying film with the two stars working very well together. "},{"Title":"Romancing the Stone","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I had read somewhere that it was rumored that Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner were having a passionate affair while they were making Romancing the Stone, and I must admit that I thought about Mr. and Mrs. Smith as I was watching it because the leads generate serious chemistry, the sparks are visible in all their scenes together.The movie is a fast-moving, charming romantic adventure that allows the viewer to go along for the ride without worrying with any kind of major story-line to get in the way. It's about a lonely, but beautiful, romance novelist who must return a treasure map to Columbia, in exchange for her sister's safety. Her sister's husband had been murdered and she kidnapped over a map which leads to a priceless stone. Joan Wilder(Turner)flies to Columbia, is sent towards the wrong direction by a violent revolutionary, Zolo(Manuel Ojeda), where she meets up with a rugged loner, Jack T Colton(Douglas)when the bus she was riding crashes into his jeep. On foot, fleeing Zolo's soldiers, Jack and Joan must evade death or capture in order to save Elaine's life. Elaine, Joan's sister, is played by director Zemekis' then-wife Mary Ellen Trainor. Also in pursuit of the map is the kidnapper's cousin, Ralph(Danny DeVito, an inspired bit of casting). Plus, Jack and Joan make the decision to seek out the priceless stone, using is as a bargaining chip(..or so they plan, but of course other factors prevent this from going as smoothly as they'd like).Essentially, the movie is about two people falling hard for each other as they move through Columbian jungles, fleeing gunfire and certain death. It's fluff, really, an exciting way to spend 90 minutes. It's no wonder the movie was a blockbuster because the leads all turn in entertaining performances and there's plenty of stunts and nicely orchestrated action sequences(..such as a rope swing from one side of a mountain to another, a lengthly mud slide, and a jump from a vehicle into a river). Romancing the Stone is popcorn fodder that goes down nicely and doesn't hurt. This was a wonderful period for Kathleen Turner, she was sexy and had a presence many actresses could die for. I can't imagine anyone not falling in love with her while watching this movie. Douglas is rarely as likable as he is here. "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You have adventure, comedy, romance, GREAT music, and GREAT locations all in one movie. Why don't they make them like this anymore? Kathleen turner and Michael Douglas had the best chemistry in their movies together in the 80's and 90's. They should definitely revisit that again. This movie is never slow or dull. Danny Devito adds witt and comedy to every thing he says and the bad guys actually make it seem scary and real. And I don't know if they actually filmed it in Columbia but if they did it was worth every penny. You almost want to go hiking through the jungle with them. And don't even get me started on the treasure they find. OMG. I want to go treasure hunting so bad now! GREAT MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Great adventure/romantic comedy","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a rare film that can be enjoyed by almost everyone.  I don't recommend it for really young kids, but early teens and older will enjoy it.  Those who prefer adventure (a la Indiana Jones) will enjoy it, as will those who like romantic comedies.  In addtion, the great Danny DeVito adds his own brand of humor.  This is a movie that we all enjoy as a family over and over.  I just wish that the movie company would put out a special edition DVD with commentary by the stars...I'd love to hear what Michael Douglas, Danny DeVito, and Kathleen Turner have to say about the making of this film.  I also wonder if there are any outtakes or deleted scenes.  What a disappointment the DVD is as far as extras go.  We bought it because we enjoy the movie, but would definitely spend more if there was a special edition! I give it 4 out of 4 stars. "}{"Title":"A great eighties action-adventure to be enjoyed again and again!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Romancing The Stone plays like a modern-day Indiana Jones film, but can also be seen as something very different - a kind of eighties classic - eighties musical score, eighties clothes, and that common eighties film combination of all genres in one film - comedy, action, adventure, romance. Everyone goes on about Michael Douglas's performances in Wall Street and Fatal Attraction as his best. But take a look at this movie - he is so great in it - really charming and funny. But Kathleen Turner is really the star of the movie - it's her story - and she is just excellent. Plus, besides the two stars, there's the magnificent Danny De Vito - who is so good, you just can't get enough of him - he practically steals the show - especially when he's in the police station and falls off the desk ! (I've seen it a hundred times and still laugh out loud!) Robert Zemeckis must be credited with keeping this film going at an incredible pace, pushing all the right buttons, knowing what the audience wants, and obviously gaining much influence from Spielberg. This is an excellent eighties movie (when you look back, all the most entertaining movies were made in the eighties). Followed by a disappointing sequel, Jewel of the Nile, but still worth watching because the three stars make such a great team (as seen also in The War of The Roses).  "},{"Title":"You're a man who takes money from stranded women!","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone is exactly my kind of film It has humor, great performances, and an adventurous tone. It was director Robert Zemeckis' first financial success, and was essential to his career, paving the way for Back to the Future and Who Framed Roger Rabbit.Kathleen Turner portrays Joan Wilder, a meek romance novelist who has yet to find any adventure in life and must save her sister from smugglers. She ends up depending on Jack T. Colton, a money-hungry scoundrel. They're chased across Colombia by the pushy Danny DeVito and a number of armed gunmen while coveting hidden treasure, and as the adventure gets better, so do the characters. Turner and Douglas have great chemistry, and DeVito gives a very funny performance.Zemeckis's direction is great, as is Dean Cundey's cinematography (Cundey would later do some of his best work ever in Zemeckis' Who Framed Roger Rabbit). This was Cinderella-story screenwriter Diane Thomas' first and last film, as she was tragically killed soon after. Fortunately, she is immortalized by the excellent screenplay she wrote for this film, and we can all only hope we'll have a creative work to leave behind as great as this. "},{"Title":"A Dated Adventure","Date":"18 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember watching Romancing the Stone directed by Robert Zemeckis when I was in grade school when it first came out. I remember the protagonists being chased often. I just watched it again in it's entirety and find it a bit difficult to rate. Perhaps at one time this was a 7 movie, but it's dated pretty badly now. The chases are pretty standard and the climax is laughably bad. There is a fairly good setup though to the movie's credit including a great introduction. Michael Douglass is his trademark egotistical self while Kathleen Turner is satisfactory. It was some good nostalgia having not seen it for at least 17 to 20 years since, but I probably wont watch it again soon. "},{"Title":"Mindless Entertainment","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The writer of romance novels teams up with a soldier of fortune to save her sister, who's being held for ransom in Columbia. The plot is contrived, including clichéd elements involving buried treasure, with the emphasis being on chase scenes and larger than life adventure. It moves at a frenetic pace, and much of the action is mindless, but it is quite entertaining. Turner is terrific, displaying the right combination of vulnerability and valor as she navigates obstacles in a foreign land. Douglas is pretty good as an adventurer not unlike Indiana Jones. DeVito provides the laughs as one of the kidnappers. The trio of actors reteamed more successfully for The War of the Roses. "},{"Title":"Por el dinero salta el perro.","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Michael Douglas is Jack Colton. Colton -- now, there's a real whitebread name for you, ready to be rolled up into a tiny ball of sodium propionate. Could be one of those family series that were so popular on television -- The Coltons. But it's tempered with the first name, Jack. Just imagine if it had been something else, almost anything else. Chester Colton. Whitney Colton. Montmorency Colton. But no. No one named Jack Anything can be other than one-hundred percent red-blooded testosterone-busting adventurer.And so he is. Katherine Turner, on the other hand, is an eremetic New Yorker who writes romance novels. She is, as they say, unattached because she's still waiting to meet someone like the masculine hero of her books.She receives a letter from a gang of thugs in Colombia. They are holding her sister hostage. They will give her up when she, Turner, delivers a treasure map to them. The treasure map has something to do with a giant emerald. So she flies at once with the map to Colombia, gets lost, and is rescued by the heroic Jack T. Colton, who looks exactly like both the hero of her romances and like Michael Douglas.There follows a wild ride through the jungles and corrupt fortresses of Colombia, a fashionable target at the time because of the drug cartels. (Today it would probably be Venezuela.) They are tracked and hectored by Danny DeVito and his cousin, who are in on the whole deal.It's not worth spelling out the plot, I guess. It's one impossible escape from danger after another impossible escape from danger. Let's see. First, just after Douglas and Turner meet, they slide down a hill of mud in a pouring rain and splash into a puddle, and Douglas winds up with his face buried between Turner's abducted legs. Then they are shot at by the thugs. Then they swing on vines across a high chasm over a plunging river. Then they hack their way through the jungle. Then they stumble upon the old wreck of a drug smuggler's airplane and make a fire out of the marijuana and get high. Then -- I forget. I get mixed up. And all the way through these labors, Turner fumes with indignation (except when she's screaming) and Douglas is making wisecracks, some of which carry with them the slight taste of Angst. At the end, they both die tragic deaths and the thugs get the emerald and walk away sneering. Just kidding.Douglas is pretty good as the imitation Indiana Jones, although he is by no means an Arnold Schwarzenegger, who would simply have wrenched off the head of anyone who stood in his way. He's not Burt Lancaster either. Lancaster would have done a back flip and disappeared when cornered. Kathleen Turner is properly breathless and wide-eyed. Danny DeVito contributes some laughs. In a police station, with his Wanted poster on the wall next to him, he's forced to make a phone call to his gangster cousin and tries to disguise himself and the purpose of his call. Hello, Ma? It's me, Irving. . . Calm down, Ma. . . . Who SAYS I never call? I don't know why but for some reason that line always cracks me up.It's funny because it's so desperately unbelievable. The head honcho, the capo, of the thugs catches the monstrous emerald in his hand. A crocodile snaps his jaws up and chomps off the hood's hand. Mind you, this is even worse than slitting your wrists. But the hood manages to let out only some kind of horrible MOAN, then wraps his bloody stump in a handkerchief and carries on, cranky, as if with a hangnail.Probably the equal, or nearly so, of Raiders of the Lost Ark, without the moral message or the sublime artistry of the original. "},{"Title":"Goofy and Silly, but still a lot of fun.","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone is a slight but humorous adventure. It's in the same vein as Indiana Jones, although this one more thoroughly embraces its goofiness. It's not perfect, but it is entertaining.Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) is an introverted novelist who has become famous for writing romantic adventures. However, she's about to get an adventure of her own her sister Elaine calls her frantically from Columbia, telling her that she has been kidnapped and her captors want the map that her husband sent her right before she was killed. So Joan flies down to Columbia to make the delivery, despite the fact that she has no idea what she's doing. Luckily, she runs into Jack T. Colton (Michael Douglas), who for 250 dollars in traveler's checks is willing to help her out. Meanwhile, she's got the police, headed by Zolo (Manuel Ojeda), and one of the kidnappers, the hilariously inept Ralph (Danny DeVito).There is no possible way anyone can take this movie seriously, and that's the best way to view it. It's totally ridiculous, and it knows it. Although some of the humor may have lost its bite over the years, there are laughs to be had (particularly when they run into Juan (Alfonso Arau), a Columbian kingpin, who's also a huge fan of Wilder's), and it's impossible not to be won over by its charm.The acting is solid. Michael Douglas shines as the rough and tough hero. It's not an original character, but Douglas keeps things interesting. Kathleen Turner is a little too neurotic in the beginning but she gets in step before long. Danny DeVito is hilarious as the hopelessly inept kidnapper. Constantly outsmarted, outwitted and outdone, DeVito represents the best type of comedy a comic personality that feels genuine. You don't get that anymore. Manuel Ojeda is suitably vicious as the corrupt policeman, despite not saying much. Alfonso Arau is known as a director of magical romance films, but he started out as an actor. He steals his scene as Juan, who even Jack admits is crazier than he is.For once, it's nice to see a movie that doesn't rely on quick cuts or camera tricks to be enjoyable. Zemekis, who is known for pushing the boundaries of special effects, uses stuntwork (probably because CGI was almost non-existent at the time of making) and it works. The cinematography is great, and the timing of the jokes is solid. He also pays attention to the characters, and delicately builds the romance between Jack and Jane (this isn't a spoiler since it's inevitable in these types of movies, and there isn't a person alive who isn't going to recognize the double meaning in the title).The bottom line is that Romancing the Stone is great, simple fun. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Adventure, exhilarating Comedy and naughty Romance !","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Michael Douglous has done a very interesting job in this film alongwith Kathleen Turner as his romancing buddy. Unlike his father, Kirk Douglas, he is good at portraying light comedy roles beset with adventure. However, his father could perform towering historical roles like in Spartacus, sturdy and sombre western roles and serious roles with quite beguiling perfection.Whereas, Michael belongs to the next generation suited to perform light comedy, crazy and romantically charged roles. With versatile and vivacious Kathleen, this movie becomes very interesting. De-Devito adds more acid to the feisty adventure and one cannot but feel exhilarated after watching the movie. The next episode The Jewel of the Nile featuring this pair (Michael & Kathleen) could not draw those crowds, which were witnessed during this movie.This type of entertainment seems more real and satisfying to watch than the present day loaded fiction movies with creepy and bizarre creatures which present nothing but ridicule and puerile joy to an already crazy audience. "},{"Title":"Who would know that a purposely old-fashioned story could be a basis for a film that is so much fun?","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I certainly wouldn't call Romancing the Stone the best adventure film ever or anything, but it is a truly entertaining and fun one at that. The story is admittedly old-fashioned(and I think purposefully so) but the freshness of the material more than compensates. The gags are very tongue-in-cheek, there are some very clever touches in the writing and the action is breathless. The film is great to watch, there is a terrific score and the direction is fine. Michael Douglas is quite world-weary here and his character is nothing special but he also has a lot of charm about his performance, while Danny DeVito is great fun as the inept kidnapper. But it is Kathaleen Turner's movie, she dazzles in the role, and her chemistry with Douglas is in general very good. In conclusion, a lot of fun. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Looking back at the early 1980's, it seemed almost like a mini-golden age for movies. Romancing the Stone was one of those gems to come out of that period. As an action/comedy/romance, it struck gold in a market hungry at the time for Indiana Jones type adventures, and succeeded by delivering non-stop, fourteen carat entertainment from start to finish.OK, enough with the precious stone analogies ) Seriously, more than anything, this movie is just plain FUN. Kathleen Turner is Joan Wilder, a New York romance novelist and indoor girl who writes about adventures she can only dream of having. But then, when her sister suddenly winds up in some big trouble down in Columbia, SA and needs to be rescued, she is reluctantly thrust headlong into her own adventure tale. Naturally, the adventure involves a hidden treasure and a love interest along the way, as well as some people that are about as evil as they got back in 1980's Hollywood. So right off the bat, there is action, mystery and suspense. First Joan finds herself in the possession of a strange package, the contents of which will be the source of all her troubles down the road. Then her sister calls frantically from a distant phone in far off Columbia, demanding that Joan deliver that package to her or she may lose her life. Finally, a mysterious man shows up at Joan's apartment door and shoots a witness in cold blood. All of this takes place in New York, and it's only the beginning. Soon enough, the action shifts to Columbia.Once in South America, Joan's adventure really takes off, and so did mine. In fact, I fell in love with this movie while watching the bus she had mistakenly gotten on climb a lush, tropical mountain road the morning after her arrival. You could feel the tension now, and also a sense of foreboding. Joan is now terrifyingly alone in an unfriendly, exotic land, and already she is being pursued by dark forces. Not only that, she is on the wrong bus, headed for nowhere! So clearly she is in need of a hero, when all of a sudden, in one of Hollywood's most memorable entrances, Jack T. Colson (Michael Douglas) arrives to help our damsel in distress. Well, perhaps somewhat reluctantly at first, though... )Anyway, I can't give it all away. But suffice it to say the two proceed to team up and then fall in love while evading their pursuers at every turn. The action, meanwhile, is often funny. It is also often beautifully photographed against a backdrop of South American uplands. And it is often poignant. You see, Jack is kind of a macho guy and is completely at home in the bush, but otherwise he's a nobody. While Joan is.....well, pretty green as a bushwacker, but a really big deal as a romance novelist, especially in South America. So all of this makes for some incredibly funny moments as well as fodder for an unlikely romance. And little Danny Devito, who lurks in the wings when he's not falling off of counter tops, is everyone's favorite bad guy, especially when stacked up against the sadistic Zolo. Backed by an ingenious score (that used electronic drums for the first time in movie history), the magical scenery, and the sometimes funny, sometimes harrowing action, the viewer is kept entranced for the next hour or so of screen time. Meanwhile, Jack fumes, then gets upstaged, then ultimately falls in love under a canopy of fireworks. Oh yeah, and what about that treasure hunt that has everyone, good and evil, scrambling up and down mountainsides? What good is a romance without a prize to cement it with, or a prize to finance a honeymoon with? Jack's lonely man's dreams are about to be fulfilled.....But wait, there is more. Before the honeymoon can begin, the evil ones strike back, and a tense, grizzly climax ensues. I was a bit put off by the ending here, though. Apparently, some felt the need to have the most evil character severely punished at the end. Maybe he deserved it, but the whole tone of the movie changed for me at this point and I was uncomfortable with that. In a way, it was almost as if the film attempted to achieve not only comedic plateaus, but action/violence plateaus as well. But the result for me was a bit unsatisfying and sort of like attempting to cram intense sweetness, sourness and bitterness all into one flavor. Such contrasts will inevitably repel to some extent, and on the balance, which one remains for you to savor?But that was a relatively minor issue for me when compared to the hugely positive affect the movie had on me overall. I think what I will savor the most from this movie was the scenery, the opposites attract romance, and one particularly memorable scene in a mountain village that was quite possibly the funniest to ever appear in a film of this genreJoan Wilder?.....THE Joan Wilder?? So go see Romancing the Stone, if only for those reasons. ) You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Romancing the Stone","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From director Robert Zemeckis, this is a fantastic adventure with a great jungle treasure hunt and some great tongue-in-cheek gags along the way. Basically Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) is a romance novelist, and one day receives a treasure map from his recently murdered brother-in-law, she also finds out her sister Elaine (Mary Ellen Trainor) and taken to Colombia, and the villains she go there to exchange the map for her sister. She gets there alright, but she finds herself stranded in the jungles, but she finds help with soldier-of-fortune Jack T. Colton (Michael Douglas, also producing) who agrees to bring her back to civilisation. Soon enough the villains start coming after them, and Jack now also has to deal with that, i.e. killing them and rescuing Joan. These villains include Ralph (Danny DeVito) and Ira (Zack Norman) who are determined to get that map, with hardly any concern for the ransom exchange. Soon enough Joan and Jack know that if they get to the treasure on the map first, the villains will have nothing to look for, but Ralph is on to them with that plan. Also starring Alfonso Arau as Juan, Manuel Ojeda as Zolo, Holland Taylor as Gloria, Eve Smith as Mrs. Irwin, Joe Nesnow as Super and José Chávez as Santos. The action you can't take your eyes off of, the stars all have their great giggly moments, this is just great fun (Indiana Jones, eat your heart out)! A sequel, The Jewel of the Nile, followed in 1985. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Film Editing, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. Michael Douglas was number 100 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Outstanding! "}{"Title":"Michael Douglas attempts to play Indiana Jones...","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ... with one important difference pretender Jack T. Colton comes into our story as an amoral man, which means he gets more funny one-liners. Aside from minor character tweaks, the format is basically the same, though. Turner plays an idealistic writer of chick-lit, and gives a more sympathetic performance than was pitched to the audience by Kate Capshaw in ... Temple of Doom. The chemistry between the male and female lead is obvious enough that they would go on to further collaborations in the future, and the jungle maze they have to contend with is exotic and seamy enough to evoke pleasant memories of old style afternoon serials.Director Zemeckis shows his customary adeptness at handling the blend of action and comedy. If you want an old fashioned adventure to entertain the teenagers, or if you're an adult yourself who's just in the mood for some silly escapism, this is one gem that's been made to order. "},{"Title":"I gave this movie 9 stars out of a possible 10, a must see for all adventure enthusiasts","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The storyline is somewhat hokey and the acting (on the surface anyway), appears second rate. This movie however is anything but second rate or hokey. It is highly reminiscent of the early Hollywood swashbuckler films. The amazing leading cast members, composed of Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, and Danny Devito, turned this into one of the all time great hidden gems. Turner and Douglas's on screen chemistry seemed both natural and hot. Danny Devito delivered the perfect comic relief, with his portrayal of inept kidnapper Ralph. Ralph and his cousin Ira, (Zack Norman) kidnap Elaine, (Mary Ellen Trainor) sister of renown romance novelist Joan Wilder, (Kathleen Turner). The object of their ransom is a mysterious package that had recently been mailed to Joan from Elaine's late husband Eduardo, (apparently just before he met with his hideous demise, which it would seem included some form of body dismemberment). The package turns out to be a treasure map, and the next thing you know, Joan Wilder finds herself on a madcap adventure in the jungles of Columbia. There was more offbeat comedy with drug lord Juan, (Alfonso Arau).I don't want to give away the whole movie, but the adventures are amazing, and everything comes together nicely in the end. I will leave you with one small bit of trivia. The girl who plays the part of the fictional Angelina also played the part of the dream girl in Ghostbusters. I won't tell you her name, but this would be a good time to put your IMBD to use. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Romancing The Stone is a funny action/adventure film! The movie is about a mousy romance novelist (Kathleen Turner) who travels to Colombia to find her sister, but met and fell in love with an American fortune seeker (Michael Douglas) on a treasure hunt to find her. The film co-stars Danny DeVito, Zach Norman, Manuel Ojeda, Alfonso Arau, and other cast and crew. Romancing The Stone is a must-see for any Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, Danny DeVito, Robert Zemeckis, or any movie fans. Followed by a great sequel!10/10 stars! "},{"Title":"Rollicking adventure yarn with great sense of humor...","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There is a comic strip quality to the adventures of a prim writer of wild mysteries (Kathleen Turner) who finds herself caught up in the middle of one when her sister is kidnapped by some madmen from Colombia. Off she goes to South America to bring the map her sister has asked her to bring. Enroute she takes the wrong bus and ends up in the jungle with a rugged adventurer/rogue (Michael Douglas) who joins her in her search for her sister.The pace is breakneck, the pratfalls and laughs are continuous, the lines are witty and the performances are all great. Though the villains are darkly evil, it's played strictly for laughs and adventure and it works. Turner and Douglas make a nice team and Danny De Vito provides plenty of comic moments. Kathleen Turner proves herself a fine comedienne. Asked whether she ever smoked pot, her quick reply is, Sure. I've been to college.So successful that it called for a sequel--'Jewel of the Nile'. "},{"Title":"A Fun, Exciting Adventure","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw something on TV about Robert Zemeckis, and it showed some clips of this film, so I decided to check it out, since it looked pretty exciting.Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) is a romance novelist in New York. She recently heard that her sister Elaine's husband was killed in Colombia, and Elaine is still there. One day, after receiving a yet-unopened package from Elaine's husband, she comes home to find her apartment trashed. Then Elaine calls and tells her that she's been held hostage and the people holding her want a map sent to Joan. Joan opens the package, and sees that she does in fact have the map, and knows she must now go to Colombia to give it to the captors and save her sister. But when she gets off the airplane, and is to take the bus to Cartagena, where she's headed, she gets on the wrong bus and ends up in the jungle. A police officer that has been tracking her (and trashed her apartment) knows she has the map and tries to take the map from her, but just then, Jack Colton (Michael Douglas) shows up and chases the cop off. After that, the two team up to cross the jungle and get to Cartagena, meanwhile being persued by Ralph (Danny DeVito), who works for the men holding Elaine hostage.This really is a great movie. It's funny, but not too much of comedy to ruin the action or the romance. Kathleen Turner, Michael Douglas, and Danny DeVito are all very impressive in their roles, and DeVito is absolutely hysterical. The action and adventure is exciting, with enough shoot-outs, chase scenes, and more to keep anyone's attention. The romance between Turner and Douglas is plausible and doesn't slow much down, and the climax ends the movie perfectly. I would definitely recommend this movie for all it's great aspects. I don't know about The Jewel of the Nile, the sequel, but I'll have to see it to see if it's any good.   "},{"Title":"Pretty good!","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very entertaining flick! Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner are a natural acting pair. They work so naturally together. Speaking of natural, Danny DeVito is so good at portraying slimeballs and he does another great job in this one. The story has been reviewed over and over ad nauseum, so I won't bother with it here. Suffice it to say that the story is believable, the acting first-rate and the film overall an excellent piece of work! "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie! It is so funny. The love-story is excellent! I saw this movie when I was a kid and saw it again the other day. It´s just as good. Robert Zemeckis has made a wonder of an 80s movie. It´s just superb. Watch it! Watch it! Watch it! Highly recommended a long with a movie like Raiders of the Lost Ark.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone  is a movie that could only have been made in the 80's. For the way it was made, for the fact that it has action, adventure and romance exactly in the right amount, for its soundtrack, for its charm, etc...This movie is supposed to take place in one place but was actually filmed in another. In other words, Romancing the Stone takes place in Colombia but was filmed in Mexico. Not that it matters, though. Things like these happen more frequently in movies than it seems. Plus, the landscapes in the movie are so beautiful and natural.This movie is fun to watch. There are many funny scenes, but the funniest ones are those with the character Juan who is, in my opinion, the comic relief of the movie and steals the show in his appearances. Michael Douglas is funny in this one either. The movie also has many great lines, despite the use of some salty language.Michael Douglas is terrific as Jack Colton. Same for Kathleen Turner as Joan Wilder and for Danny DeVito as Ralph. Alfonso Arau is absolutely impeccable as the fun character Juan. I also like to view Zack Norman as Ira. Manuel Ojeda is great as the main villain, Zolo.To finish my review, I think that this should be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"Well that was a waste of time","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this on cable a few days ago and checked it out. What a mistake. The film is basically a chick flick disguised as action / adventure comedy. It really was not funny which is strange because it has Danny DeVito starring back in his prime. Really, Danny DeVito is still in his prime but you know what I mean. The only reason I'm giving this film a five out of ten is because it finally wakes up during the last 20 minutes. The last 20 minutes of the movie are what the whole thing should have been but whatever, we're talking about a movie that is more than 30 years old so who cares. There is a sequel to this film called The Jewel of the Nile which currently has a lower ranking than this movie but I'll check it out if I ever see it on TV. Purely out of curiosity. And it looks like Danny DeVito is also in The War of the Roses but now I'm just getting lost in IDBM. What can I say about this movie? It is totally boring until the last 15 or 20 minutes and not worth hunting down to watch. "},{"Title":"A classic romantic action adventure, Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas masterpiece!","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take a classic romantic action adventure masterpiece, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Romancing the Stone (1984) is a classic romantic action adventure flick that I love so much! I grew up watching this movie and it has a heart. In the opening scene on the wild west, first I thought it is a western movie, when that girl Angelina (Kymberly Herrin) throws a knife in to Grogan (Ted White) killing him and than she flees in to the west. Grogan's brothers come after her, firing guns, but her lover Jessie (William H. Burton Jr.) comes to the rescue and safes her. When they kiss, the opening scene ends and I was a bit disappointed because it wasn't a western movie that I thought when I saw Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) typing, but even after that, the movie gave me a heck of a ride, with a lot of suspense and twists around. This movie is fast paced, highly entertaining and a heck of a ride. Even tough Michael Douglas is in the lead role and this movie made me in to a Michael Douglas fan, I must say watching this again on Blu-ray I have enjoyed Kathleen Turner much more in this movie than I did Michael Douglas. She should be in the lead role and not him. She steal the show not Michael Douglas! Plot Kathleen Turner is Joan, a romance novelist who gets caught up in a real life South American adventure when she is forced to find a mysterious treasure in order to rescue her sister. During her quest, she is assisted by Jack Colton (Michael Douglas), a bird smuggler. When Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner)'s sister Elaine is kidnapped and her sister Elaine (Mary Ellen Trainor) calls her and tells her,that she is kidnapped and she needs the map, her dead husband sent to her by mail, or her kidnappers will kill her, Joan didn't even hesitate, not even for a second to help her sister out, she drops everything and fly's instantly to Colombia, Cartagena o safe her sister. She wasn't an asshole, or selfish, she did everything that is in her power, that she would safe her sister. She wasn't a selfish or a jerk, she had a heart and she cared what happened the her only sister. She paid for the tickets to fly down there, that is what I love in this movie. That is rare in the family Joan was brave and she risk her own life for saving her family, her only sister. I love the scene where Jack and Joan race through the jungle with Columbian police in hot pursuit. In the scene which they come to a rickety bridge over a chasm and Jack wanted to fight but Joan was so brave that she went to cross the bridge on her own risk and she did, she grab a vine and she swing across the bridge saving her self, ha ha that scene was awesome. On the end scene she fought alone with Zolo (Manuel Ojeda) which she defeated him by her self all alone. While Jack was trying to get that Diamond and than he tried to help Joan but he couldn't. I love when Joan throws the knife in to Zolo but he catches the knife with the wood in his hand that was spectacular! I seriously love the last scene when Joan saved her sister on the end of the movie and she wrote and publish her latest book. I really love this movie to death and it is my favorite film I love it. I love the score by Alan Silvestri he was awesome, the score for the whole movie is so beautiful. I love the action sequences and I also love the shoot outs with Michael Douglas and Manuel Ojeda on the bus that was spectacular. I really do believe this movie is a classic I really do believe that. Last actor I have forgot was Danny DeVito as Ralph a small criminal who was also after for that stone and that map, Danny was always amazing, I grew up watching his movies famous roles from Romancing the Stone and Batman Returns. I would say Danny is amazing guy and awesome actor, I love him. I miss the 80's, this one is fantastic and the score from Alan Silvestri is literally awesome I love it. I love the character Joan Wilder in this movie, I love Kathleen Turner's character. I even love the happy ending. Overall This movie get's a perfect 10 by me. I have enjoyed this movie and it was a fun adventure action flick. Once Joan begins her bus trip into the jungle from there, it's a rather fun flick with a good dose of action, some great scenery, some good laughs, and a few misfires. I hardly believe that this movie turned 30 years after it was filmed. This movie to me feels that it is forgotten, because I don't see or hear anyone that talks about it. I have still grew up, with this movie it is my favorite childhood film and I don't care what anyone says about it. I love it. Romancing the Stone is a 1984 American action-adventure romantic comedy. Directed by Robert Zemeckis, it stars Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner and Danny DeVito. The film was followed by a 1985 sequel, The Jewel of the Nile.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio 20th Century Fox Starring Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, Danny DeVito, Alfonso Arau Manuel Ojeda, Zack Norman, Holland Taylor, Mary Ellen Trainor Director Robert Zemeckis Producer Michael Douglas Screenplay Diane Thomas Rated PG Running Time 1 Hr. 46 Mins. Budget $10.000.000 Box Office $$86,572,238 "}{"Title":"Very entertaining film","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the stone (1984) starring Kathleen Turner, Michael Douglas and Danny DeVito is an immensely entertaining film that is full of romance, action, and some comedy is even thrown in the mix for the audience to enjoy. The script is very delightful and fun. And the action scenes are thrilling, well coordinated, and well edited, hence the academy award nomination for best film editing, which was well deserved. Kathleen Turner was very delightful to watch on screen, she has great on screen chemistry with Michael Douglas, and she carries her own weight very impressively. And Michael Douglas really fits his character well, and he is very engaging in the action scenes. The movie really is just a whole lot of fun to sit down and enjoy, and the setting is great too, very fitting for the movie. Now this film is not a family movie, there is a pretty substantial amount of profanity, it's targeted towards a teen and adult demographic. 8/10 for romancing the stone. "},{"Title":"Romancing the 80s","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In a movie (and time) that looks like it would rip off Indiana Jones, I was impressed it really didn't. It's a harmless, fun and funny adventure that stood on its own. (For the opposite of these statements, look no further than the movie's own sequel, The Jewel of the Nile.)I vaguely, and I mean maybe I really didn't, remember seeing this many years (or decades) ago. So, this viewing appeared fresh to me, and I don't regret it. It was charming, incredibly set in the 80s flick and I had fun with the main characters.While not groundbreaking, even for the 1980s, it's a good throwback for those of us who love movies made with heart and not the CGI of today. If you have seen it and liked it, it's a nice revisit to the good old days. If not, no harm can be done from seeing a movie not restricted by some offended audiences of today. "},{"Title":"One Stop Shop for Escapism","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) gives us a preview of one of the books she's finishing and has to get to her publisher the next day, which she wakes up late for. When she returns, her room is rifled through for a package her late brother in law mailed to her. She gets a call from her sister Elaine (Mary Ellen Trainor)to come to Columbia namely Cartagena to get the map to her as she has been kidnapped.After the bus she's on (leading here AWAY from Cartagena) crashes, enter Jack T Colton who saves her from Colonel Zolo, a corrupt cop who is also the man that murdered Joan's brother in law. We are lead through mazes of jungle, shootouts with police, Mounties, the kidnapper's cousin (Danny DeVito) all trying to get their hands on the map.The end is a spectacle and polishes the film very well. I enjoyed the rising action, the height of the action and the falling action (literary terms) that gave us the film that is Romancing the Stone The music is mostly derived from one score by film veteran Alan Silvestri and the soundtrack is great. However, it is easy to get some of the music titles mixed up If you want a great romantic dramedy adventure film, Romancing the Stone is a great one stop shop! "},{"Title":"It's one of those movies that should only be watched with popcorn","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A good movie! It is undoubtedly similar to Indiana Jones atmosphere and therefore has a funny script with lots of action which captivated me.Kathleen Turner shows once again her talent for comedy and drama. But I still prefer her performance in Body Heat. However, i didn't really enjoy the chemistry and dynamics created between Joan Wilder and Jack Colton. For this reason, I find important to refer the movie It Happened One Night, which holds one of my favorite pairs )Danny De Vito embodies the thousandth time the figure of the street-smart.Romancing the Stone is a hymn to adventure and is full of twists, etc .... It isn't original you say. So what? Continues to be entertainment at its best. It's one of those movies that should only be watched with popcorn ) "},{"Title":"Not Zemeckis' best film, but it is worth watching","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone is not really Robert Zemeckis' best film, but it is worth watching. I am not sure if I have a whole lot say about this movie, but I'll give it a try. Romancing the Stone is about a lonely author Joan Wilder, who is writing her latest novel receives a phone call from her sister that she has been kidnapped in Colombia by a group of bad guys, then tells her to bring the map of treasure if she ever wants her sister back and alive again. So she travels to Colombia, and comes across a smuggler Jack T. Colton as they both teamed up to not only get her sister back, but find the emerald. The movie does have some good laughs, but I only wish if it could use some more humor. Although the movie isn't trying to be a comedy because all it wanted it is to be an action-adventure movie with romance as what the title says Romancing the Stone. That is just me, in my opinion. With that said, I thought the action in this movie is well done but there are not as exciting as some of the action in the Indiana Jones movies. The cast in this movie did great. I thought Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas both made a very good chemistry with each other, and they do carry out as the pacing goes along. Also, I thought Danny DeVito did good too. Alan Silvestri does a fine job with score, but nothing too special about it. The movie is also well written; well filmed; and it is well directed by Zemeckis. It is interesting to know that this movie did well for Zemeckis as he would later go on to directed the Back to the Future movies; Who Framed Roger Rabbit?; and many others as well as winning best director for Forrest Gump. So that is how much I got to say about this movie. Again, it's not Zemeckis' best film, but it is worth watching. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good script, great cast, terrific locations!","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Because I'm a keen photographer myself, I always like to see a movie that's captivatingly photographed. And by captivating I mean both technically perfect yet artistically balanced and composed. For that reason, I usually avoid movies directed by people like Abner Biberman, Jesse Hibbs and Robert Zemeckis who have no sense of composition. On some occasions, of course, a director who flunks the composition test could be assigned a photographer who does the work himself and whom the director is smart enough to use without any interference or suggestions. The photographer supervises the lighting and lines up the shot, while the director contents himself with browbeating the cast or making his producer happy by keeping both his eyes firmly on the clock. Recently, I purchased a Fox video cassette of Romancing the Stone and I enjoyed it very much. I didn't notice even a single composition that seemed to be cropped and that didn't fit snugly on my old 4x3 TV. So I'm glad I didn't see this movie in a cinema. I would have run screaming out of the theatre before the very first scene was even a quarter over, thanks to Mr. Zemeckis' habit of lining up close-up after close-up of Kathleen Turner with presumably a superabundance of ugly blank space on either side of her face! Mind you, the movie will gain no kudos south of the border, but on its own romance/thriller level it's quite involving and exciting. And Mr. Zemeckis does make thrilling use his many south- of-the-border locations. My only quarrel is that Danny De Vito's role is so small, but you can't have everything, and at 101 minutes, the movie was just the right length to retain interest almost from first (the movie does take a while to build up) and certainly until last. "},{"Title":"One of the the all-time great watchable movies.","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing The Stone is one of those movies that just works on every level. It works as an adventure, it works as a romance & it works as a comedy. In short, IT JUST WORKS!. Michael Douglas & Kathleen Turner have never been involved in a more entertaining movie & almost certainly never will again. Also, Michael Douglas has said in a TCM interview that they cast Danny DeVito in the movie because of his peculiar comic ability & how right they were. After her sister is kidnapped in Columbia authoress Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) is forced to travel there to try & rescue her. After leaving the airport in Columbia she needs to travel to Cartegena but is put on the wrong bus by corrupt police chief Zolo (Manuel Ojeda). After sleeping on the bus she wakes up to find herself travelling in the Columbian jungle & realises something might be wrong. As she consults the bus driver he crashes into a Land Rover belonging to Jack Colton (Michael Douglas). What follows is a really marvellous escapist adventure movie that will cheer up anybody feeling a bit down in the dumps. My only criticism is that the IMDb user rating of 6.9 is way too low for a movie of such superb entertainment value. Many other reviewers have said they feel it is up there alongside any of the Indiana Jones movies & I agree entirely!. "},{"Title":"Douglas, Turner and DeVito all shine and make for some fun action","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Despite having all the makings of a chick flick (exotic locales, female screenwriter, rugged leading man with a heart of gold, plot driven by an '80s career woman), Romancing the Stone is a pretty solid adventure movie with a great sense of humor. Danny DeVito plays the sleazeball like it was a snap (plus, he has a lot of the funny lines), and Manuel Ojeda shows up in a terrific bit role. Douglas, for his part, ably pulls off the rakish adventurer and works well with Kathleen Turner's damsel in distress. And even after making a pretty kickass intro (drawing down on a pistolero with his shotgun), Douglas gets to have fun with the role, and it informs the rest of the movie. A good time, all around.7/10 "},{"Title":"Fun!","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Romancing the Stone', Directed by the amazing Robert Zemeckis, is unabashed fun! A great entertainer, that doesn't bore for a minute!'Romancing the Stone' Synopsis A romance writer sets off to Colombia to ransom her kidnapped sister, and soon finds herself in the middle of a dangerous adventure.'Romancing the Stone' is regarded as a adventure-classic today, and rightfully so, it deserves to be. Its a joyride, that is funny, romantic & wild at the same time. A lovely blend of bumps & romance. Diane Thomas's Screenplay is thoroughly entertaining. Robert Zemeckis's Direction, as always, is pitch-perfect. What a storyteller! Cinematography is lavish. Editing is vastly done. Art Design is admirable.Performance-Wise Michael Douglas & Kathleen Turner are fantastic. Also, the on-screen chemistry between them, is very happening. Danny DeVito is first-rate. Others lend good support. On the whole, 'Romancing the Stone' is one ride! "},{"Title":"Escapist romantic adventure that ultimately works","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas star in this romantic comedy whereby a best-selling novelist of popular romances (Turner) and an American drifter (Douglas) cross their paths somewhere in Colombia on their search for a precious stone (diamond). Dany DeVito also stars as the thieving vagabond who tries to get hold of the stone as well but always something happens leaving him empty-handed.'Romancing the Stone' is not a very complicated movie. It is an escapist adventure with some over-the-top situations taking place and with an improbable romance that ultimately works. Turner and Douglas are certainly very competent actors and they have a great chemistry together. Do not search for a deeper meaning. Enjoy the ride. "}{"Title":"An enjoyable romantic adventure","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas make an excellent pairing with real chemistry. A big hit at the time. Big enough to spawn a sequel.The action scenes however are a bit average, with bullets managing to just miss the heroes over and over again, and a rather unconvincing scuffle towards the end.The plot ticks along agreeably though - along with its many contrivances - and is quite entertaining. At around an hour and forty five minutes it is quite pacy, never falling into the trap of outstaying its welcome.One of those 'sit back and enjoy without expecting too much' films. "},{"Title":"Good chemistry","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) is a scared New Yorker who writes extremely successful adventure romance novels. Her sister Elaine is kidnapped in Colombia, and is being held ransom for a treasure map. Joan got the map in the mail and must deliver it to Cartagena. She is hunted in Columbia by a corrupt cop, a scheming Ralph (Danny DeVito), and rescued by adventurer Jack T. Colton (Michael Douglas).Director Robert Zemeckis has made a fun adventure romance. The romance novel writer gets a taste of her own writing. Kathleen Turner usually plays a tougher chick. She's quite endearing as the mousy writer. And she has great chemistry with Michael Douglas. It's funny that they would reunite with Danny DeVito in his 'The War of the Roses'. They have that combative chemistry. It's a fun 80s movie. "},{"Title":"A cinematic romance novel. Art.","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone is a classic 1980s movie. It is about a romance novelist, Joan Wilder who dreams of 'Jesse', the heroic figure in her books. An all star cast is assembled with Kathleen Turner as Joan Wilder, Michael Douglas as Jack T Colton, Danny DeVito, Alfonso Arau and Manuel Odeja. It has one of the most loathsome villains in an adventure, action or romance movie...someone who will do anything and hurt anyone to acquire 'El Corzon a treasure. Ralph and Ira are two goons who kidnap Joan's sister, Elaine and blackmail her into traversing to Columbia with a map sent to Elaine's husband. Will Joan find love? Will her sister be rescued? All will be revealed in this 'Flash-Gordon'esque piece of entertainment. A living a comic book. "},{"Title":"You're a man who takes money from stranded women!","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone is directed by Robert Zemeckis and written by Diane Thomas. It stars Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, Danny De Vito, Zack Norman, Alfonso Arau, Manuel Ojeda and Holland Taylor. Music is by Alan Silvestri and cinematography by Dean Cundey.Joan Wilder (Turner) is a lonely romance novelist in New York who receives a treasure map in the post. Not long after she receives a phone call from kidnappers in Cartagena, Columbia, requesting the map in exchange for her sister. Upon arriving in Cartagena, things quickly go wrong and Joan finds herself paying for the help of grizzled American Jack T. Colton, a man who looks like one of Joan's novel creations; but certainly doesn't act like one. The couple, however, need to get on because there are others after the map...Holding up surprisingly well on a revisit these days, well except for Colton's white dance attire that is, Zemeckis' romantic adventure is one of the most telling and fun films of its type to follow in the slipstream of Indiana Jones.Everything works here, from the screenplay that is infused with mud- slides, grumpy banter, bandit dodging, water peril, snakes, treasure, gun fights, colourful villains and crocodile wrestling! To likable stars who would go on to make quite an impact on cinema, it's a film that doesn't lack for exciting genre staples.Douglas and Turner would work so well together a sequel would follow in 1985 and they would also make The War of the Roses for Danny De Vito in 1989. It's this pairing that drives the movie forward, where given a sharp screenplay to work from, written by Diane Thomas in the late 70s, the pair spark as the twists and turns send both their respective characters on an adventure of discovery of both mind and body.It can be viewed as a safe formula now, but just how many films of similar ilk get it right? This is fun, often exciting and sexy into the bargain as well, yep, still a treat after all these years. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fun Adventure Film!","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone is a fun adventure film that reminded me of Raiders of the Lost Ark. This film is essentially a ripoff of that film since it came out only three years later. I still liked this movie despite that because it has charm, adventurous spirit, and likable actors.This film is about a romance novelist, Joan Wilder who travels to South America to rescue her sister from kidnappers and along the way she must enlist the help of the adventurous Jack T. Colton.The acting is pretty good. Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, and especially Danny DeVito are really entertaining. No one could play Ralph like DeVito did.Overall, this is a fun film that the whole family can enjoy. It does have many Raiders ripoffs though and I don't know if I liked that too much. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Romancing the Ark. Raiders of the Lost Stone. Aww heck, it's got Kathleen in it, and that's good enough for me!","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone is one of many action/adventure films that followed in the wake of Raiders of the Lost Ark; from Michael Douglas's rough and ready hero, who looks like the only raiding he's been doing is of Harrison Ford's wardrobe, to the regular action set-pieces, the influence of Spielberg's mega-successful blockbuster is plain to see (as is the lower budget, unfortunately).But although Romancing the Stone occasionally comes across as 'Raiders-lite', lacking that film's relentless verve and spectacular special effects, it does possess a unique charm all of its own thanks to a witty screenplay blessed with genuine heart (or should that be 'genuine corazon'?), and an incredible on-screen chemistry between stars Douglas and Kathleen Turner (something that is sorely missing in many a modern adventure movie).Being an avid Kathleen Turner fan ever since seeing her all sweaty and nekkid in Body Heat, I could be accused of bias, but I rate Romancing the Stone 8/10&#x97; its a fun slice of good old-fashioned escapist action (one that just happens to benefit from the gradual transformation of Turner from plain-Joan to sizzling sex bomb). "},{"Title":"Romance and a Stone","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of our TV channels treated us with Romancing the Stone last week and Jewel of the Nile this week. I have seen both before but could not quite remember which was which, actually believed RTS to be the sequel. Soon it was apparent I was mistaking and when Jewel of the nil was on offer for the second week it was confirmed. Personally I could live with Romancing the Stone alone. I understand there are 90 reviews already scripted here so won't go into much details beside joining those who find it extremely entertaining. Reading trough others commentaries I saw much praising that I greatly share. As for comparison with the Indiana Jones series to me there is none; for unknown reason I never really appreciated them. Romancing the Stone, never made me draw any such comparison. Fresh, fun and furiously full of fantastic entertainment! Kathleen Turner gorgeous and so comfortable in her role, Michael Douglas, I used to love his father, and now I don't know who's who! Well I do and it's only praise for both. Danny DeVito. Hey pale...You're unreal! Holland Taylor!, Since this film from 1984, many reviews tag her to the Practice (I've somehow missed it!) but today she's the mother (and a half) of Two and a Half Men and just as brilliant! The only new car I bought whilst still in France was DeVito's car a Renault 4L, if I knew it was that good I would have kept it! As said before I could have done without the sequel, you can't go over the top when you've done it already, if you do it's just too much. Perhaps I needed to come down a little, wait a year or maybe ten before going for the sequel. RTS hip hip Hooray! "},{"Title":"Zemeckis makes light-hearted romance adventure enjoyable for both sexes","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kathleen Turner stars as a romance adventure novelist who ends up on a romantic adventure of her own Romancing the Stone. Naturally, fans of romance adventures will most enjoy this one, but to its credit there's a good balance of action to make this film enjoyable for just about everyone.Romancing the Stone is a writer's fantasy about a writers' fantasy that comes true. Screenwriter Diane Thomas must've been something of a hopeless romantic herself to create Joan Wilder and have her live out a story similar to her books. Wilder is a single woman in her 30s living with her cat who finds out her sister has been kidnapped and that the ransom has been sent to her randomly in the form of a treasure map. Joan flies to Columbia where another man interested in the map sends her off into the jungle instead of straight to her destination where Indiana Jones more or less in the form of Michael Douglas as Jack Colton finds her and helps her begrudgingly.The film certainly capitalizes on the popularity of Raiders of the Lost Ark only targeting itself at women. Joan is a naive and hopeless beauty-in-waiting and Douglas the rebellious adventurer who helps her for initially selfish reasons that turn into romantic ones. Their chemistry is a bit forced, but each fits perfectly into his/her role that we easily approve.From an action sense, director Robert Zemeckis, in his first major film, keeps the film light but suspenseful enough to keep our interest. Considering the writing calls for cat and mouse the entire time as Joan and Jack run from the corrupt the Colombian police officer Zolo and his men as well as Danny DeVito, a lot hinges on Zemeckis' creativity to keep the constantly recycling scenes of fleeing from gunfire feel more pressing each time until the climax. He also brings a healthy sense of humor that makes the movie easier to enjoy, knowing that even its maker wants this to be nothing but light-hearted entertainment.Romancing is predictable adventure with even more predictable romance, but Zemeckis finds a way to make it inherently more likable than even Turner or Douglas as talents do. In a film where there would be plenty to role our eyes at, Zemeckis graciously spares us the trouble. ~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"A fun action romance.","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" World famous author Joan Wilder(Kathleen Turner)is transported from New York into a non stop adventure in the jungles of Columbia.After receiving a frantic phone call from her sister she heads out to help her.Unknown to Joan she is being chased by killers intent on stopping her.Along the way she is thrown together with handsome adventurer Jack Colton(Michael Douglas)the two team up to find a priceless emerald the El Corazon Stone and rescue Joans sister. Although both are vastly different from each other they find they must trust each other and discover they care a lot about each other.Also starring Danny DeVito as Ralph who wants the stone as well.Funny and thrilling this is very worth watching. "},{"Title":"Mildly Provocative","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A young Kathleen Turner plays a romance writer in over her head when she flies to Columbia to rescue her sister from kidnappers.An equally youthful Michael Douglas demands money from the damsel-in-distress before he'll assist her, and manfully chops the high heels off her shoes with his machete.A fun treatment of romance novels and novelists - paired with a mildly serious exploration of the gulf between fictional adventures and dangerous, grimy reality. Lighthearted. Low-key sexual titillation. Definitely a good date movie.Brief illicit drug (marijuana) humor Yeah, that's what I call a campfire.Only one (brief) gory scene, near the end. "}{"Title":"Good but does not compare with Raiders","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is an amusing Raiders wanna-be. I really enjoyed it. However, it could never compare with Raiders of the lost Ark. It was too silly. RTS was a lot of fun but you can't take it too seriously. Raiders, although far fetched, wasn't so unbelievable that you have to roll your eyes. RTS however at times was just that - rolling your eyes silly.Now if you look at the other Raiders flicks I've got to say that the second one - and now the current one (...Crystal Skull) are much more like RTS because they just get too unbelievable and too silly. For example, in the 2nd Raiders flick remember the scene where Indy and friends jump out of an airplane with just an inflatable raft and it lands on a snowy mountain top and slides all the way down to a very green jungle looking landscape? And remember when in the latest Raiders Indy and friends drop off one very high water fall after another with no injuries? No that's what I would expect from RTS. Still, it was fun even if it was silly and unbelievable. You just have to go into it accepting the fact that it is the way it is. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Not Indiana Jones, But a Pretty Good Runner Up","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A terrific action adventure film obviously modeled after the Indiana Jones films.Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner have boatloads of chemistry together as a cocky diamond hunter and a pampered New York writer, respectively, trekking through the jungles of Colombia in search of treasure. The film has all of the requisite battle of the sexes scrapping between Douglas and Turner -- they hate each other at first, but then of course fall in love. In between, there are quite a few memorable set pieces, including mudslides, a car chase that ends up in a raging river, and a climactic showdown that takes place over a pit of hungry alligators.Followed by a not nearly as good sequel, Jewel of the Nile. Grade A- "},{"Title":"Adventures,romance,intrigue,comedy  with an exceptional trio Douglas,Turner and DeVito","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This exciting adventure tale concerns about a romantic,feisty writer named Joan Wilder-Kathleen Turner-who becomes involved in a dangerous journey to Colombia.He goes to rescue her sister,being kidnapped by a sympathetic mobsters-Danny DeVito-.Into lush jungles of Colombia,she finds a soldier of fortune named Jack Colton-Michael Douglas-who becomes to her ally.This agreeable comedy-adventure blends unstopped action,rip roaring,love story,cliff hunger,tongue in cheek and is extremely funny and entertaining.For comic relief with delightful bit of humor are supplied by Danny DeVito and continuous jokes about relationship between both stars Turner and Douglas.The picture contains spectacular scenarios,some nice stunts and funny lines.Colorful cinematography by Dean Cundey,Zemeckis's usual cameraman(Back to the future trilogy,Who framed Roger Rabbit).Noisy though catching music with synthesizer score by Alan Silvestri,posteriorly he made an excellent symphonic soundtrack,he's also Zemeckis habitual(Polar Express,Castaway,What lies beneath,Forrest Gump).The motion picture is well directed by successful director Robert Zemeckis.It's followed by an enjoyable sequel directed by Lewis Teague Jewel of Nile.The film will have you on the edge of your seat but the adventure and action never let up.It's a winner for Douglas and Turner fans.Worthwhile seeing it but will not displease those seeking likable and rip-snorting stories. "},{"Title":"Films Of The 80's Romancing The Stone","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing The Stone (1984) Kathleen Turner, Michael Douglas, Danny DeVito, Mary Ellen Trainor, Zack Norman, Alfonso Arau, Manuel Ojeda, Holland Taylor, Eve Smith, Joe Nesnow, Jose Chavez, Camillo Garcia, Rodrigo Puebla, Evita Munoz, Paco Morayta, Kimberly Herin, Jorge Zamora, William H. Burton, Ted White, Michael Cassidy, Vinent Deadrick Sr, Richard Drown, Jeff Ramsey, Joe Finnegan, Jimmy Medearis, Ron Silvers...Director Robert Zemeckis, Screenplay Diane Thomas, Lem Dobbs, Howard Franklin, Treva Silverman.Released in 1984 by director Robert Zemeckis, this is a film that easily won the hearts of movie-goers with a taste for romance and adventure. Michael Douglas's career really took off in the 80's (Wall Street, Fatal Attraction) and there is genuine chemistry with Kathleen Turner in this film, the first of subsequent films they would do together (Jewel of the Nile, War Of The Roses). Set in New York City, Joan Wilder (Turner) is a romantic novelist looking to write the one big novel that will make her or break her. Pressured by her publisher and friend Gloria (Holland Taylor) she begins work on a new novel but she's interrupted by the shocking news of her sister's abduction in Columbia, where she is being held hostage for a ransom. Joan's apartment is broken into and a mysterious treasure map arrives via postal package. Before long, she goes to Columbia to save her sister and embarks on a dangerous adventure with a priceless emerald involved. She's joined by bad boy Jack Colton (Douglas) who dreams of buying a ship and sailing around the world. Danny DeVito, a well-known star by this point, appears for comic relief as Ralph and would again reprise the role for the film's sequel Jewel of the Nile. For some reason, his casting is a success for he is funny, smart-alecky and the kinda guy you don't want to hate because he is so much like someone we know. His chemistry with Douglas and Turner also lend itself to the success of the later film War of the Roses. The success of Romancing The Stone owes to its timing. In '84, adventure films were invading mainstream American film. By this time people were eating up the Indiana Jones films, and this film is similar in its adventure theme. The film differs from the Indiana Jones film in that this is also more of a romantic comedy. Though there are bad guys, the heroes are flawed and governed by personal passions. The original music is by Alan Silvestri, who would compose many other Hollywood film scores and the cinematography is glorious - excellent vistas of the jungle and high mountains of Columbia where the film was shot. The film is not based on any book or comic-book but rather was an original screenplay, the work of many writers. The sequel Jewel of the Nile is absolutely inferior to this great film and was made simply to cater to fans. If you love adventure, good comedy and romance, this film is for you. At the time, it was also a date film and can still be a date film. This is feel-good movie, a movie movie and to this date people still enjoy that kind of thing, especially because it's a type of film that is non-existent in our present day. "},{"Title":"This is one of the most rollicking and exciting adventures on screen.","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Take A glamorous old-fashioned romance/adventure with witty characters and splendid adventure. There are a lot of adventure films of our time, but only a few can be called the greatest. Well, there's Raiders of the Lost Ark and the other Indiana Jones series. But I also like a wide range of adventure flicks involving treasure hunting, damsels-in-distress, profit-hungry villains and edgy cliffhangers like the underrated King Solomon's Mines (1985), National Treasure and this and its sequel Jewel of the Nile. Romancing the Stone is about a timid novelist (Kathleen Turner) joining forces with a soldier of fortune (Michael Douglas) on a fantastic adventure in Columbia in search of priceless jewel. Danny DeVito is hilarious as the bad guys' advance man and Robert Zemekis does a great job directing. This action/adventure movie is sure of a treat.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Romancing is a romantic comedy","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone is for the most part a fast paced romantic comedy. Kathleen Turner's character (Joan Wilder) goes from a quiet shy novelist to an adventurous risk-taker. While Michael Douglas' (Jack T. Colton) character turns out to be the good guy/prince-charming in opportunist's clothes. The adventure begins when Joan must go to Columbia to save her sister. She gets thrown off her intended path and ends up meeting Jack. Who agrees to help Joan get to her destination, but for a price. Although he agrees to help her for the money Jack becomes fond of Joan, but Joan is keeping a secret unsure if she can trust him. This secret as well as other factors make for an interesting plot. This is a great movie for viewing with friends or alone with your favorite snack. I really enjoyed this movie and I watch it every time it comes on cable (P.S. I have rented it more times then I can count also). If you like movies such as the Indiana Jones Trilogy and The Mummy & The Mummy Returns, you will enjoy Romancing the Stone. Once you see it you must see the sequel The Jewel of the Nile. Happy Viewing! o)P.S. It is not a rip off of the Indiana Jones trilogy, the style is similar because of the action. However, the Indiana Jones trilogy usually has a supernatural element to it. The focus of Romancing the Stone is on the damsel in distress turned heroine and her interaction with the hero. As opposed to the other way around, in the Indiana movies the plot is focused on the hero/man. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ROMANCING THE STONE is highly recommended to film buffs, especially those under 30 who have never seen it. A young and attractive Kathleen Turner plays a romance novelist whose world is turned upside down when her sister is kidnapped and held ransom for a map Turner has in her possession. The adventure takes her to wild and wooly Colombia, where she encounters an adventurer and jack of all trades, played by an equally young and dashing Michael Douglas, who has proved he can play any role with equal aplomb, from the U.S. president and the nation;s drug czar to a drug-addled university professor and a deranged office worker. The fun in this movie is watching these two excellent actors play off each other; they have real chemistry and would team up again a couple of years later for a pretty decent sequel. And then many years later, they would again play opposite each other, this time as bickering spouses in WAR OF THE ROSES. One might almost say their ROSES characters are the same characters from STONE, just years later with the honeymoon definitely over. Director Robert Contact Zemeckis for once directs a movie that is not technology-riddled, so nothing dampens or ruins or slows down the fun. For those who only know Turner as a supporting player who excels as overweight hags and busybodies, seeing her in STONE will be a revelation. And while Douglas has also done some aging, it also is a nice surprise to see him in all his boyish charm. This is his pre-DON'T SAY WORD/FALLING DOWN/TRAFFIC/ paternal roles. And be sure to check out his hair! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This one has it all, great story, great music, awesome cinematography, loveley scenery and Kathleen Turner never looked better.This looked like a chick flick, but its not.This is one of my favorite movies of all time. Its funny, it's action packed. it has everything a great should.Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) is a romance novelist in New York. She recently heard that her sister Elaine's husband was killed in Colombia, and Elaine is still there. One day, after receiving a yet-unopened package from Elaine's husband, she comes home to find her apartment trashed. Then Elaine calls and tells her that she's been held hostage and the people holding her want a map sent to Joan. Joan opens the package, and sees that she does in fact have the map, and knows she must now go to Colombia to give it to the captors and save her sister. But when she gets off the airplane, and is to take the bus to Cartagena, where she's headed, she gets on the wrong bus and ends up in the jungle. A police officer that has been tracking her (and trashed her apartment) knows she has the map and tries to take the map from her, but just then, Jack Colton (Michael Douglas) shows up and chases the cop off. After that, the two team up to cross the jungle and get to Cartagena, meanwhile being pursued by Ralph (Danny DeVito), who works for the men holding Elaine hostage.This really is a great movie. It's funny, but not too much of comedy to ruin the action or the romance. Kathleen Turner, Michael Douglas, and Danny DeVito are all very impressive in their roles, and DeVito is absolutely hysterical. The action and adventure is exciting, with enough shoot-outs, chase scenes, and more to keep anyone's attention. The romance between Turner and Douglas is plausible and doesn't slow much down, and the climax ends the movie perfectly.there is a sequel called Jewel of the Nile but it isn't up to the same standard that Romancing the Stone set. "},{"Title":"On the heels of Raiders","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kathleen Turner plays a romance novelist who travels to Colombia to pay ransom for her kidnapped sister. Along the way, she gets lost in the dangerous jungles and must rely on a witty soldier of fortune, played by Michael Douglas in a breakout performance, to survive animals and evil Colombians (not the good ones - the evil ones). Three years earlier, Raiders of the Lost Ark made a clear path for adventure films, and this movie, directed by some dude named Robert Zemeckis (who later did some flicks about time-traveling DeLoreans, framed rabbits, and a guy named Gump), cleverly follows the footsteps. My favorite scene is a jump-out-of-your-seat surprise near the end; let's just say you learn why you shouldn't stick your hand out over dank and eerie swamps. Douglas and Turner were in quite a few movies together, but this is the one that pops into about anybody's mind first. Danny DeVito also shines, doing what he does best playing a short, sleazy guy. "},{"Title":"Great fun; Turner is fantastic","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Covering ground similar to RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK (1981)and THE AFRIACAN QUEEN (1951) but without ever feeling like a retread, ROMANCING THE STONE has left it's own ineligible mark on the sub-genre of serial-inspired adventure films. Robert Zemeckis directs the film with the appropriate light-hearted touch, yet also does not shy away from some of the more unpleasant attributes of Diane Thomas' screenplay, which builds to a surprisingly suspenseful climax. The film also seamlessly pays homage to the classic screwball comedies of the thirties and forties, with magnetic chemistry between Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner as they entertainingly hurl the expected barbs at one another without the slightest feeling of script contrivance. STONE also features a memorable supporting turn from Danny DeVito, who manages to effectively serve as comic relief without interfering with the surrounding romance and action.Although nominally an exotic jungle adventure involving a mysterious treasure map and a priceless jewel, ROMANCING THE STONE is actually a perfectly structured showcase for the amazing Kathleen Turner, in a terrific, Golden Globe-winning performance. It is through the eyes of Turner's character that the story unravels, and her character's drastic development is what supplies the film with it's heart. The transformation from bookish wallflower to capable heroine has been played by many actresses over the years, but few have managed to pull it off with the class and finesse of Turner. There is much to love in the film with impressive stunt work and beautiful scenery, but it is the husky-voiced Turner's immensely likable and totally believable performance that truly makes the picture a sentimental favorite of mine. "}{"Title":"I've never been anybody's best time before.","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If I'm cruising the cable channels and this film is playing it's usually a given that I'll pick it up midstream and stay for the rest of the ride. Romancing The Stone has just the right mix of action, adventure and comedy to make it one of the most watchable and entertaining films ever.The first real hook in the film occurs with that downhill mud slide, just brilliant! I'd pay good money at any amusement park to take a ride just like that. At that point the relationship between romance novelist Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) and bird trapper Jack Colton (Michael Douglas) is just getting under way, and the early going is ripe with great one liners fired off by Colton - That's not a bridge, it's pre-Colombian art.That's not to say Danny DeVito doesn't get his share of sight and sound gags in as well. His character is an inept henchman loosely modeled on the Louie De Palma persona in Taxi. He plays off cousin Ira (Zack Norman) who has an affinity for alligators which he calls 'snappers'.The surprise performance for me though is the one put in by Kathleen Turner. All of her scenes, from the ransacked New York apartment to the Colombian vine swing, the wrecked plane pot fest and the Cartagena dance with Colton, each is played with just the right emotion and facial nuance that shows a great range of expression.The frosting on the cake is when Colton shows up in New York wearing the alligator boots. I think that makes an even bigger impression than the yacht when one considers how he got them; that was just the right touch to cap the film.With a rather large voting fan base for the movie on this site, I'm surprised it only comes in at a 6.8 as of the time of this posting. No matter, if you like the film, the rating isn't that important. It's a fun ride with principals Douglas, Turner and DeVito that doesn't wear out it's welcome with repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"see, i told you she used to be sexy","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ah, romancing the stone, what a great movie this was. and yikes, talk about chemistry, i couldn't believe how hot turner and douglas were with each other. you totally knew she wanted him, it was so obvious. i'm such a dork, i actually believed that kathleen turner and michael douglas were a thing. i'm serious, it wasn't the firs time my inability to differentiate between fantasy and fiction manifested itself in this manner. for most of the first ten to twelve years of my life i was actively convinced (as in i thought about this quite often) that olivia newton john and john travolta were married. after all, she took his name, didn't she? "},{"Title":"Box Office In Gold","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I never miss this movie. It was on last night at 200 AM and I stayed up to watch it. It gets better every time I see it. Michael Douglas sure can survive in the dangerous parts of Colombia. All I would do is throw a rock at the bad guys and run LOL. Kathleen Turner man, does she get any better or hotter rather? 75% of the movie, she had her hair tied back. When she finally wears her hair down, my jaw always drops. Plus, that smile of hers always give me goosebumps. Those two in that movie did have something for each other. I really liked that movie it was romantic. Jewel of Nile, comical because of the arguing. Romancing the Stone, awesome watching those fall in love. It was box office gold. "},{"Title":"Hero's Journey","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I use this film to teach mythology to my High School students.  The plot follows exactly the formula for the Mythic Hero's Journey as laid out by Joseph Campbell and others. The students and I love it because it's contemporary (at least more so than Clash of the Titans or other similar flicks), it's fast-paced, it's funny (especially DeVito), and, (bonus) it has a female protagonist, something sadly lacking from this genre. (2 other similar tales are True Grit and Beauty and the Beast, but in the one, John Wayne's character dominates instead of Kim Darby's, and in the other, well, the kids have been disneyfied already, and I'd rather not have singing furniture in class.  "},{"Title":"Great Action and Comedy.","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie is about a writer who has to go to South America to bring a map to this guys who have the writers sister.  This is a fun movie to watch, as the writer (Turner) runs into Michael Douglas and the interplay between these two is great to watch.  The map leads to a stone so Douglas's character convinces Turner's to go after the stone, cause frankly he wants it. Danny DeVito also is good in this one and is quite funny.  They have a lot of adventures in the jungles and that is another thing I like about this one. The conclusion is also pretty good as well. "},{"Title":"Adventure and love in the Columbian jungle","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is an adventure flick that's one hair away from being a chick flick--but a better genre-straddler you may never find. It's lifted out of pure romantic comedy rut by a young and feisty Michael Douglas playing a hard-bitten, coarse adventurer by name of Jack Colton and young, sultry Kathleen Turner playing naive New York romance novelist Joan Wilder. When Joan is stranded in the middle of the Columbian rainforest with a greedy and ruthless military leader, Colton chases him off, accidently playing the role of Joan's romance hero, Jessie. Chased across the country by thieves and corrupt government officials, Joan comes into her own, often getting out of sticky situations with her own talent for words when reluctant hero Jack would have shot his way out of things. Great movie... far better than any romance I've ever had the misfortune to read. Danny DeVito lends the film some of its funniest moments. One of my favorite films! "},{"Title":"Fantastic film!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Romancing The Stone is a funny action film and a classic! It's also one of my favorite films. It's about a mousy novelist (Kathleen Turner) who travels to Colombia to find her sister, but met and fell in love with an American fortune seeker (Michael Douglas) on a treasure hunt to find her and stop a con (Danny DeVito) who kidnapped her. Romancing The Stone is a movie to rent or be seen on TV, if you haven't seen it. And if you like it, buy it (like I did on DVD). You won't be disappointed!10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Good Old Fashion Fun","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just got through watching this movie ... again.  I feel compelled to comment on just how much fun it really is.  The 80's produced a rash of these adventure type movies.  They seem to rank at about 3 levels.  Beginning with Raiders of the Lost Ark, followed by this movie, with Alan Quatermain and the Lost City of Gold bringing up the rear.  I actually like this movie better.  I think Michael Douglas does the tongue in cheek thing better and although I am not a Kathleen Turner fan, she plays off him much better than Karen Allen did Harrison Ford.  Danny De Vito is a laugh riot - something really lacking in Raiders.  I think this movie was underrated, I think Michael Douglas is underrated, and I think some of the elite snobs who review for a living ought to get down in the mud and stop butt kissing Harrison Ford and Steven Spielberg. "},{"Title":"Great show!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This lighthearted show has everything going for it - action, comedy and romance. Douglas and Turner are good looking and have a lot of on-screen chemistry. The story is engaging and the dialog is constantly amusing. Plus it has one action scene after another. And, it's done in a good taste - OK for the family.Welcome to Columbia Joan Wilder! "},{"Title":"A funny, entertaining, adventure movie.","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a really good movie though it doesn't quite reach greatness. The comparisons to Indiana Jones are largely responsible for that. But if you watch it on its own level, it's highly entertaining. Danny DeVito is really very funny and Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner are solid in the lead roles. Actually, this may be my favorite as far as her work goes.For all you who don't care what is said in a movie, ignore this part. But, I have to say that the language seems a bit to crude and harsh and overall excessive for a family film. Don't get me wrong, Pulp Fiction is one of my favorite movies, but it's not marketed for the family. This is, and although I think a little spicy language is fine in a family film, this just seems to go too far with that and some of the crude humor. This is just in case you are sensitive to that sort of thing when looking for a movie to show the kids.That being said, this movie works on every other level. It's one I crave to watch every now and then.*** out of **** "}{"Title":"one of Michael's best !!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this movie was Great!!! action filled.. romance.. all you could ask for.... Michael and Kathleen were Perfect for their roles.. it made me want to be Kathleen's character.. and go off with Jack ... i own a copy of the movie.. and it was a good investment ... and Danny Devito did a good job as the bad guy... they all worked good together... its just too bad that the sequel to this movie The Jewel of the Nile was such a disappointment.. i think they should have just ended it with this one and not bother with a sequel.. but i Highly recommend Romancing The Stone .. it deserves the 10 out of 10 rating .... "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy with good action","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As I said before, Romancing the Stone is good Romantic/Comedy/ Action movie.  It combines both Michael Douglas' and Kathleen Turner's great acting with Indiana Jones type action.  The movie also has funny parts as the characters develop to like each other; it's the romance like Harrison Ford and Carrie Fisher in Star Wars.  If you liked Indiana Jones, parts one, two, or three, you'll like Romancing the Stone.  It's a great date movie if you're sick of all the boring love stuff that pretty much makes up most date movies.  Enjoy!Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Romancing the Stone is one of the most enjoyable mixtures of action, adventure, comedy, and romance. Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas are a magnificent pair, and director Robert Zemeckis keeps the pace going. Personally, I prefer this to the Humphrey Bogart-Katharine Hepburn classic The African Queen, mainly because I felt Douglas and Turner were more likeable and their romance was more plausible than Bogart's and Hepburn's. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good film","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When my Dad said, ok we are watching Romancing The Stone. I was thinking, ohh great! a really boring movie made in the 80's! I decided that I should give this movie a chance, and then, I absolutely loved it! There were great performances by Kathleen Turner, Michael Douglas and probably the best performance of all was by the talented Holland Taylor! "},{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The transformation of Joan Wilder via the acting of Kathleen Turner is simply marvelous.  However, the best part of the film is the script. There are so many little quips and asides that make the movie come to life. This effort is Diane Thomas's only credit.  She died young (auto accident), and before there was time for us to enjoy any more of her work.  This movie is a good example of how everything depends on the screenplay first.  The sequel, Jewel of the Nile has none of the witty brillance of this one. "},{"Title":"One of the original romantic movies.","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am a child of the 90s who grew up on 80s movies, and Romancing the Stone holds a special place in my heart as do many other 80 movies. Watching it again recently, it seems filled with cliches that we have definitely tired of, but it is a classic romantic movie in its own sense and is best enjoyed with an open mind. The thrills that made it an infamous classic are still enjoyable, but for the modern viewer, needs to be taken with a pinch of salt. "},{"Title":"Romancing the Stone","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Slam-bang romantic adventure with all sorts of goodies, aside from the always sexy Turner. There's suspense in a mad dash for buried treasure and twinkling humor between the perfectly matched Douglas and Turner. DeVito is also in top as a bumbling member of the thugs who have kidnapped Turner's sister. Director Zemeckis keeps the pace going smoothly with wonderful mixes of adventure, suspense and comedy.  "},{"Title":"A tacky, but funny action movie","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw this movie way back when I was a young adolescent I became infatuated with Michael Douglas after seeing this movie, I can promise you that infatuation has gone and has been gone for a long time! But at the time he reminded me of Indiana Jones. And this movie is sort of a simpler take on the Indiana Jones movies, but it's still cool. The plot is simple as it was back then. Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) is one of those trashy romantic novelists and she secretly longs to be carried off into the sunset like one of her heroine's in her books. But when her troubled sister posts her a treasure map from South America. Joan ends up having to travel to South America after her sister gets kidnapped by a couple of cons (One of them being Danny Devito in a great role) who want what is at the end of the map so therefore need the map which is in Joan's incapable naive hands. Another lot (Secret police) want the map themsevles and she gets put on the wrong bus and ends up in the middle of nowhere and when held up by the head of the police Michael Douglas comes to the rescue. What follows is their extremely funny trek through the south american jungle. This is a great film, tacky but so were most of the movies in the 80s. That was what the 80s were all about. Tacky movies, clothes, music. But hey in 10 years time everyone will be saying the 90s were tacky and that old phrase will of course be used It's oh so 90s! But this film is great, give it a try, but avoid the sequel at all costs it's rubbish. "},{"Title":"Never quite fires as it should but is still solidly entertaining for what it is","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A random discussion recently led to me getting hold of this film to watch it for the first time in at least a decade. There was once a time where it seemed to be on terrestrial television with a high frequency and it was not too much longer ago that it was the big film of its season. Star driven, the film is essentially an action adventure comedy with plenty going on to distract while the on/off love/hate relationship between the two leads adds that romantic element to it. In terms of its construct it really doesn't have much that will shock or surprise you and in a way it is not that different from countless other blockbusters.It doesn't help that it is very clearly dated of course but if you watch with any acceptance of the time that has passed then you are probably being unfair on it. It is on entertainment value that the film should be judged and where a film is well made at its base, it won't make too much difference what the special effects, fashions or actors look like when looking back on it from 20+ years in the future. In terms of Romancing the Stone, this entertain value comes out as solid because it is not as good nor as fun as it clearly meant to be and may once have been when it was a big film that everyone was flocking to see at the cinema. The problem I had with it was that nothing in it really ever sparkled or fizzed in the way that it was clearly trying to. I'm not sure why either because all the pieces are in place. We have a rugged Han Solo style hero, a wise-cracking comedy villain, actual evil moustached villains, set-piece stunts and a clear ending that sends the viewer home happy.All of these things work reasonably well which is why the film is solid entertainment but none of them really fire on all cylinders. The plot does what it does well enough for this type of film but it is the fun that is not there in sufficient quantities. The central relationship is what you expect it to be and goes where you expect it to go and is all well and good but it doesn't have the tension or crackle between the two actors or characters that it needs. Douglas is pretty good in the role because he does have a certain rugged charm to him &#x96; I can think of many who have done it better (he does feel like a poor man's Indiana Jones) but he is pretty good. Turner is perhaps a little too proper in her performance and she is partly responsible for the lack of real chemistry between the two. De Vito is a nice bit of casting but is wasted on the edges for the majority of the time and he is never allowed to be as much fun as his weasely character could have been.The stunts have dated of course but they do still have a bit of adventure and fun about them. Shame there is not more of them or rather more consistency across film because these do add a sense of adventure and fun to the film that the less action-related scenes do not. The reason these scenes stand out as the stronger scenes in the film is because they are big enough to work as silly fun spectacles which do not need you to care about what is happening or to be bought into it. The rest of the film lacks this and relies on the audience being into the story and caring &#x96; which, if I'm honest, I didn't that often. There isn't really a sense of danger or tension to the story and the pantomime villains don't help either as they just seem too generic to be a real presence in the film. "},{"Title":"A shiny 'gem' in the comedy world.","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie won a few awards, and it should have. After I saw this back in 1984 in the theater, I went back and saw it probably 4 or 5 times more. I was only in high school, but I really enjoyed the set up and the execution of this smart, 'Jungle-Love' story. The real test is how does it do over time and watching it 21+ years later, it still holds itself in a practically perfect place. I know it was eighty-four then, but it just still plays out well, everything is still as it should be. It is amazing that the original role of the male lead was offered to Christopher Reeves (Superman) that would have been a whole different Jack Colten, character no doubt about it in my mind.Two convincing actors and a right on supporting cast, a location that is very odd for a romance to take place, however it takes shape along the way. You understand the story as it unfolds, and does it very well! The acting was vaudevillian at times and very 'festive' at other times, and made for an interesting combination. The 'adversarial' Ira and Devito's Character 'Ralph' was quite a surprisingly wise choice as an assistant Villain. For as much suspense filled activity, really great performance and dialog between the characters in this first, a second installment was made as a continuation of the story. This was 'The Jewel Of The Nile'. Now this with a few great scenes, set-up shots framed really 'smart' and the 'Jewel', his performance in the movie that was sort of a heart-warming, attribute, beside that what cooled it for me was, taking a natural order of people, and inserting American-pop music into their midst and trying to make as if it was all just happening that way. I didn't understand that. It may be small to someone else, but to me it is an authenticating problem. There was a change of directors for 'Jewel' as well and just a bit too much hustle and bustle, just kind of going through one tribe and nationality to another, then a 'scenery' change at one point, that if it was the same country and area they were filming in, it didn't seem like it was the same area once the change of camera shots had happened. It ended the saga and connected the story, but I am quite satisfied with the original storyline and Zemekis's Directing. (***) "}{"Title":"A fun, Indiana Jones-style adventure movie","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Robert Zemeckis managed to find investors for Back to the Future due to the success of Romancing the Stone in 1984. In fact, he turned down an offer to direct the sequel (1985's disappointing Jewel of the Nile) so that he could instead film ...Future. On the BttF DVD, he seems to speak quite highly of Romancing the Stone, and I agree with the critics and him - it's a fun movie. Not great, but entertaining.Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner form a great pair (they've worked together a few times over the years, my favorite collaboration of theirs being War of the Roses in 1989). Their constant bickering is funny and they definitely have chemistry.Danny DeVito (who directed Roses, incidentally) co-stars and handles the short, funny comedic relief role quite well - he returned for the sequel as well, but in this one he actually seems to make sense (whereas in Nile he didn't seem to serve much of a purpose).If you enjoyed the Indiana Jones series or any other serial adventure-style movies, you'll love Romancing the Stone. "},{"Title":"Probably considered as dated by the younger audience, but it isn't bad","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I saw this movie, I didn't know what to think of it at first. Michael Douglas isn't exactly known as a comical actor, even though he has made some other comedies as well, but Danny DeVito is, and most of the time he doesn't do a too bad job. And when it comes to comedies, I'm more a fan of the movies from 10 or even 20 years ago. I don't like the more recent ones and there is one simple reason for that I hate toilet humor. Let's be honest, the genre of the comedy has become so vulgar and brainless that I don't understand how they still can find people or studios to finance and produce such projects. So when I get the chance to try and see an older one, I will not let it pass.Joan Wilder, single and writer of a lot of romantic novels, finds a package from her recently murdered brother-in-law in her mailbox. A little bit later she gets a phone call from her sister, telling her that she got kidnapped and that Joan needs to bring the package, necessary for her sister's safety and release, to Columbia. Joan can't tell anybody where she is going or why she is leaving and she has no choice but to step on the next flight to Columbia. Once she arrives there, everything starts to go terribly wrong. She soon finds herself stranded in the jungle, where she is nearly murdered by the men who probably have kidnapped her sister and who are searching for the package, which contains some kind of treasure map. But in the jungle she also meets Jack Colton, an American bird collector/smuggler who will help her through a number of adventures in return for a lot of money. He looks a lot like the hero and dream man from her books, but is far from the gentleman she had in mind...Even though not everything in this movie worked perfectly, I must say that overall I had a pretty good time watching it. The acting for instance isn't bad. Especially Danny DeVito does a nice job playing the role of one of the criminals, but Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner are sometimes very funny to watch too. The story may perhaps feel a bit naive and predictable from time to time and the images aren't always at the top of originality, but somehow I was able to see past that. The humor was of a decent level, I had some good laughs with it and that's still what I'm looking for in the first place when watching a comedy. Perhaps the younger audience will not like it, because the humor seems to be too 'well-behaved', but people who grew up in the eighties like me, will recognize and like the style. I give it a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Romancing the Stone is a classic!","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone is a classic film that has a great cast including Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, Danny DeVito, Zack Norman, Alfonso Arau, Manuel Ojeda, Holland Taylor, Mary Ellen Trainor, Kymberly Herrin, and Ron Silver! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Douglas is really excellent and hilarious in this film. I thought that his performance was great. Turner, Devito, and Norman were also very good. The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is great by Alan Silvestri. Great direction by Robert Zemeckis! The film is really magical and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a classic and thrilling film. If you like Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, Danny DeVito, Zack Norman, Alfonso Arau, Manuel Ojeda, Mary Ellen Trainor, Kymberly Herrin, Ron Silver, the rest of the cast in the film, Alan Silvestri's great score and Robert Zemeckis great directing, Action, Adventure, Family, Thrillers, Comedy, Romance, Dramas, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"Every woman's desire...","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"      Jessie in Romancing the Stone, is every woman's dream. The lawlessoutlaw brings out the animal in every woman. He is the epitomy of desire. He's a man that defends his woman at any cost. He's the untamed and strangely mysterious stranger riding off into the sunset.      And Michael Douglas was the only one who could fill his shoes. I think Kathleen Turner as the hopeless romantic and sexually repressed novelist was great.       At the start of the movie, she fits the part. Mousy, lonely but filled with secret desire and passion bursting to escape. By the end of the film, she's confident, and in the end, she gets her storybook ending. This time, Jessie won't be riding off into the sunset alone. "},{"Title":"Manuel Ojeda was the show stopper!","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The dark, evil debonaire murderer Zolo was played to perfection by the very talented Latino actor, Manuel Ojeda. His character added true suspense to the flick and you knew when those stunning brown boots stepped out of the jeep onto the ground and his switchblade knife flicked open, he meant business! His demise in the end was great, too! Almost hated seeing him go, as he added so much to the movie. Danny Devito is never less than hilarious and you couldn't help but love his slimeball crooked cousin, Ira. Michael Douglas really knew what he was doing and paired up with Kathleen Turner, they were a real winning team. The closing with Jack Colton's character riding on his yacht through New York City, propping up his new alligator hide cowboy boot up on the side of the boat was a winning touch to the end of a super action/comedy flick.  "},{"Title":"A Classic... 20 years later","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A romantic comedy when is debut in 1984, today, some would consider Romancing the Stone equal to Bringing Up Baby or even Casablanca. The cast is as powerful then as it is today. Turner, Douglas and DeVito is an excellent trio. This is the first time that the three would star together in 3 films. ( Jewel of the Nile / War of the Roses) Even though DeVito had done a handful of films and the Taxi television series, this was one of the first films that proved that he could be a strong supporting actor, as well as funny. Hepburn and Grant or Hepburn and Bogart, Douglas and Turner are just as good if not better. Romancing the Stone has a little bit of everything (comedy, drama, horror) to make it a classic. "},{"Title":"Superb Action-Adventure in an 'Indiana Jones' Vein...","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With the success of RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK, in 1981, it seemed that EVERYBODY began making adventure movies, but most were simply pale shadows of the 'Indiana Jones' exploits. But Diane Thomas (a gifted screenwriter who, sadly, died in 1985), created a true original, in the wonderful escapist adventure, ROMANCING THE STONE, directed by a pre-BACK TO THE FUTURE Robert Zemeckis.Starring Kathleen Turner as 'Joan Wilder', a successful romance novelist who receives a map to the secret location of a fabulous jewel, the story truly begins with her journey to Colombia, to exchange the map for her kidnapped sister. One of the kidnappers (broadly played by Danny DeVito), is supposed to take her to the rendezvous upon her arrival, but the film's 'true' villain, the thoroughly evil 'Zolo' (played VERY convincingly by Manuel Ojeda), directs her onto the wrong bus, in hopes of luring her into the mountains to kill her.Things look bleak for Wilder, until a spontaneous last-second rescue by Jack Colton (Michael Douglas), a laid-back young American adventurer (who, coincidently, resembles the fantasy hero of her novels), in Colombia collecting tropical birds to sell in the states, to purchase his 'dream' boat. His rifle volley chases Zolo away, temporarily, and she asks for his continued help...and he, in a most unheroic but funny response, CHARGES her for it! Soon pursued by Zolo and an entire army, the pair run for their lives, as Colton demands to know what he had gotten himself into. He finally sees the map, and convinces Wilder that possessing the jewel will give her greater leverage with both the kidnappers and Zolo.Turner and Douglas are a perfect team, and the search for the jewel is an ideal vehicle for their budding romance, nicely paced between comic and dangerous adventures. A high point of the film is a visit to a notorious drug runner (Alfonso Arau), who's hooked on Wilder's romantic novels. His Little Muel is a terrific sight gag, as well!With a wonderful, nail-biting climax involving the jewel, Zolo, and a truly nasty alligator, ROMANCING THE STONE delivers, in every sense of the word.While a less-successful sequel, THE JEWEL OF THE NILE, would appear in 1985, THIS is the film that truly got the formula right.Don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"Jewel of the 80s","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Kathleen Turner, then 30 and at the height of her popularity, plays a mousy, hapless (and perhaps sexually repressed) writer of trashy romance novels (the kind that usually have brawny, bare chested men making love to busty women on the cover) who is, in a way, dropped into one of her own books when she embarks on an adventure to rescue her sister from villains who want an emerald stone at the end of a treasure map that her sister's ill-fated husband had the misfortune to find. Unfortunately for Kathleen, the secret police of Colombia, lead by the evil Zolo (the man who killed her sister's husband), is also after it. The upside is that Kathleen has Michael Douglas to help her through the tough times. Will Kathy and Mikey fall in love along the way? Hell, will they even SURVIVE to fall in love along the way?This film is SO 1980s it's almost a crime. But maybe that's also why it's so endearing and fun to watch, even if it is on a smaller scale than the Indiana Jones trilogy (which it so obviously mocks here and there). Turner and Douglas play well off each other and Danny DeVito has a fun bit as a reluctant pursuer.Oh and for all you fans of the Friday the 13th series, that's a former Jason Voorhees in the opening, Ted White, as Groven. White played Jason, un-billed, in Friday the 13th Part 4 The Final Chapter. "},{"Title":"cool adventure movie","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is a cool adventure movie. I saw it when I was little and don´t remember so much. It´s probably a bit childish, but when I saw it as 10 or something it seemed very amazing and adventerous. Zemeckis is a great director. It is highly recommended. Especially for children.A nice X-mas movie if you can cope with the silly lovestory.  "},{"Title":"Zemeckis' Spin on the Cliff-Hanger.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In the tradition of Spielberg's Indiana Jones films comes Robert Zemeckis' view on the topic of cliff-hangers. A beautiful, but naive novelist (Kathleen Turner) gets much more than she bargained for when she must rescue her kidnapped sister in South America with the help of the shrewd Michael Douglas. Oh by the way, Turner unwittingly has a treasure map that leads to something truly spectacular. A nice little action film that is helped by brilliant direction and likeable performances. Danny DeVito steals every scene here as one of the inept bad guys. 4 stars out of 5.  "}{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A very entertaining action/comedy/romance film. Michael Douglas nailed a role that I'm sure his father would have liked to play. Kathleen Turner did an excellent turn as the mousy writer who flowers into the beautiful lover. Some of the bad guys were a little over-cliched, but DeVito did his usual top-notch work. I haven't seen the sequel, so I don't know about that, but this film is a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Funny, Sexy, and Adeventurous!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Romancing The Stone is a funny, sexy, and Adventurous film.  Although it did get kind of slow in the middle all and all I give it a 6/10.  Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Not so fine romance...","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember loving this movie on its original release back in the 80's and didn't want to miss its being shown here as part of an 80's movie season, but sadly learned that like so much other popular culture from that particular decade - music and fashion come just as prominently to mind - Romancing The Stone definitely shows its age.It has its charms, notably the chemistry between leads Douglas and Turner and a little Danny De Vito (or should that just be little Danny De Vito!) goes a long way, but it wasn't the rip-snorting adventure packed, fun-filled romantic romp I remembered, instead now coming across with as much flair and pizazz as a moderate TV adventure episode, a la Heroes or the like.Now my critical eye discerns that the prologue just seems to hold up the action, Douglas takes too long to make his appearance, the baddies aren't bad enough and the supposed excitement, danger and intrigue served up en-route just isn't exciting, dangerous or intriguing enough.It's still likable, I still laughed at Douglas' throwaway comment about The Doobie Brothers disbanding and I was still pleased to see the couple sail off, if not into the sunset, then certainly down the boulevard, but on reflection I wished I hadn't watched it at all and thus preserved intact my youthful happy, I dare say more innocent recollections of a popular family entertainment which hasn't aged at all well. "},{"Title":"great adventure!!","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing The Stone really has it's history in correlation with Back To The Future. This truly was the under-dog movie. Romancing The Stone was originally a book by Diane Thomas. Designed to be her 'version' of Raiders Of The Lost Ark, she pitched the idea for the movie to Steven Spielberg. Having not wanting to repeat the recycled idea, Steven turned her to Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale, who were his 'interns' at the time. Romancing The Stone has become one of the first in a long run of having a female protagonist as the lead role. Kathleen Turner may have had a defining role in Body Heat, but this picture gave us a more down to earth character for turner to play. It's a brilliant thrill ride from start to finish. All three of the films leads, Douglas, Turner and DeVito have been defined with this movie as a staple for their careers. The start of production of Romancing The Stone would also form a strong bond with each other. They all came back to do the Back To The Future trilogy as well as Roger Rabbit, Forrest Gump and countless other Hollywood hits. Romancing The Stone definitely comes recommended for fans of action flicks. "},{"Title":"One of the best adventure movies ever","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is the stuff dreams are made of.It has everything in it.Love,action,adventure,the eternal battle between good and evil.The el corazon is the heart of the movie.This movie is one of Michael Douglasses finest performances.We all dream about adventure in our lives but few have the courage to follow their dreams because following dreams means risking everything to make that dream come true.Sometimes its worth it if your heart is true.Watch this movie and you will never forget it.It deserves to be preserved in the hall of movie records for all times and for all generations. "},{"Title":"Silly Adventure Comedy.....","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Any movie with Divito in it has to be a comedy, right? Well, this movie was no exception. Part suspense-thriller, part action-adventure, part romantic-comedy, this movie attempted to include many genres without excelling at any. The most ineffective part was the romance between Kathleen and Mike. I didn't buy it for a minute because Mr. Douglas was portrayed from the getgo as an unlikeable person without dating or matrimony appeal. So, the romance that blossomed between the two was unbelievable. Even in Fatal Attraction, which was a much better movie, Mike was not likable, but in that movie, it didn't matter because it wasn't a romance.Harrison Ford would have been more suited for this movie because he's emotionally well rounded. He can go from rough and tough to soft and sensitive all in one movie. That's what this movie needed in order to make the romance part of the title credible.The ending scenes, with the predictable reunion of the two lovers sailing down 5th Avenue, were silly and anti-climatic given such an unlikely couple. "},{"Title":"Saw this on HBO the night it premiered,,,","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'll never forget the night this came on HBO the first time...I was about seven. My dad and I watched it and now I own the DVD. It is a good movie. Kind of boring in a few spots, but the Shelby Cobra 427 scene is one you don't forget...along with the Bronco, or was it F-100/F-150? Good action, check it out.I'll never forget the night this came on HBO the first time...I was about seven. My dad and I watched it and now I own the DVD. It is a good movie. Kind of boring in a few spots, but the Shelby Cobra 427 scene is one you don't forget...along with the Bronco, or was it F-100/F-150? Good action, check it out. "},{"Title":"Rather a disappointment...","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Having never seen this film or its sequel, I decided to take a couple of evenings to sit down and watch the movies I've heard so many great things about.  As I finished, I wondered why I had heard so many great things...Romancing the Stone had a clever enough story, some noteworthy acting (particularly by Kathleen Turner) and some fun action scenes, but it left me seriously unsatisfied.  Maybe I've come to expect more from movies, especially since there are so many well made movies lately, but I really didn't care much for Michael Douglas or even Danny DeVito in RtS.  It makes me wonder if Douglas hadn't been behind the scenes producing the film if he would have starred in it at all.  Turner's character had some interesting potential for development, but it seemed reduced to a change in costume to change her character, leaving it seemingly inconsistent and a bit unbelievable.All in all, take some disjointed scenes, a poorly written and/or poorly handled script, some inconsistent characters and horrendous 80s elevator music where there should be epic, memorable themes, throw in a couple of redeeming points and some good acting moments and you get Romancing the Stone.  I didn't hate it, but by NO means did I love it.6/10. "},{"Title":"Better than Raiders","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, okay, *I* liked it better than Raiders of the Lost Ark.  Which, I guess, isn't saying much because I don't like the Indiana Jones movies all that much (but that's a whole other story).  So I'm not saying this is a perfect - or even excellent - movie, but it's pretty good.  Definitely underrated.  I gave it a solid 7/10.What'd I like?a) A love story I actually gave a damn about.b) Some growth in the characters (well, okay, Kathleen Turner's character anyway).c) Protagonists who are inept without being totally stupid.d) The humour.  I still love the whole swinging over the ravine sequences.e) The doubt as to whether or not Douglas' character would do the right thing.f) And, what the heck, I don't even mind the dated aspects that others despise (the hairstyles, clothes, music, etc.).What didn't I like?a) The slow beginning (but the ending was great).b) While much of bickering between Turner and Douglas worked, some of it felt too much like your typical arguing before falling in love crap.c) Some dialogue was entirely unnecessary (Devito's She got on the wrong bus, for instance).I suppose there are a couple other things I didn't care for, but I can't recall them right now.  Overall, good stuff.  But give the sequel, Jewel of the Nile, a miss. "},{"Title":"Kathleen Turner -- fagetaboutit","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Not for the plot -- hokey.  Not for the action -- not Indiana Jones level.  Not for Danny DeVito -- almost midget humor.  I loved this movie for Kathleen Turner.  She's perfect because she's no bombshell. She does not have good hair or a gorgeous face.  Nor is she well endowed, but, oh man, if you put her in the right dress she'll knock your socks off.  Let's just say that she looks good in mud.  Kathleen Turner is the best example of someone who is sexy without being drop dead gorgeous. Romancing the Stone captures all of her sexy je ne sais quoi better than any movie -- even Body Heat.  "}{"Title":"Oops it was successful","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the 1980s there were a number of movies made with a similar idea to this. Deconstructionist adventure stories. How this movie was successful, nobody has ever managed to work out, it is a great mystery.It was a simple idea. Take a romance novel writer who has never been out of the big city, put her in the jungles of South America. Team her up with an anti-hero and then have them chased by some bad guys.B-movie stuff is a bad movie all the way through yet manages to entertain. Think about it when you laugh at the joke about you must mean my little mule and actually want these 2 characters to fall in love and get together.Maybe it works because you have the 2 opposite characters who are obviously incomplete and who need each other to grow and become better. Then there is the fact they both work on finding out the good in each other (not endlessly bickering like some other movies). Maybe it is because the action is fun rather than over the top and so we can believe that we might be part of it.Enjoy, but don't tell your friends you do....it will be our little secret...OK "},{"Title":"Anti-Indy","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Here's a movie that knows what it's about.  I give bonus points to Zemeckis for shaking the spoof stick at the works of pop culture with focus.  This isn't the quality of 'Back to the Future' or 'Death Becomes Her', but it's more creative than his works since 'Forrest Gump'.The story is fairly unique, similar to that year's 'Beverly Hills Cop' for another fish-out-of-water movie, but it's been flipped for a partner/romance archetype.  It's not the most innovative idea, but Zemeckis knows how to make the film work in the details.Yes, this is his version of 'Raiders' and he parodies everything we took serious about Spielberg and makes us laugh for it.  Unlike Mel Brooks, he doesn't create humor by belittling the audience.  Instead, he belittles the film itself so we laugh at it by accepting the spoof as serious.As such, Zemeckis puts Michael Douglas in the lead.  Danny DeVito does a Michael Keaton impression.This was when Zemeckis had to be a detail-pessimist and when he had loads of energy.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"Enjoyable!!!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think that Romancing the stone must be the first movie I ever watched in the cinema and was very glad when the DVD arrived today giving me the chance after 20 years to see it again.Overall I find it an enjoyable movie with good cast, who have great on screen chemistry together (after all Devito and Douglas were roomates in New York in 1975), plot to keep you going all the way making it funny exciting and interesting to watch.Nothing more though.6/10 "},{"Title":"RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK for grown-ups....","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ROMANCING THE STONE opened a couple of months ahead of INDIANA JONES AND THE TEMPLE OF DOOM on it's initial release in 1984 Star and producer Michael Douglas was quick to dispel the similarity in a UK interview by saying the film script was FIVE YEARS old (so effectively was written TWO YEARS BEFORE RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK.)R.T.S. is a much better film than TEMPLE OF DOOM, which in my view is the weakest of the Indy saga, despite some good moments. STONE is also more suited to mature audiences with some things in it that are funnier to older ears, especially from Danny De Vito's slimy character.Lots of romance, suspense, action and comedy combine to make this one of the best adventure films of the 80's. Sadly, Diane Thomas was never able to fulfil her potential as a screenwriter, having died in a car accident soon after. "},{"Title":"Turner makes this movie great!","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A mousy, shy, unattractive romance novelist named Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) lives a romantic, adventurous life through her books. Then her sister Elaine is kidnapped in Columbia and Joan goes to save her. She's helped by he man Jack T. Colton (Michael Douglas seriously miscast) as various groups try to get her for some treasure map she has.The story is predictable--you KNOW how this is all going to turn out and some bursts of violence are far too strong for a PG film (especially at the end). Also Douglas (a good actor) is totally wrong for the he man role here. He is masculine and all but seriously--Douglas as a he-man??? Come on!!! Still this film works. It moves quickly and has a fast and funny script. Not all the lines work but the majority do. Plenty of action too and a seriously explicit (for a PG movie) sex scene between Turner and Douglas. But what really drives this picture is Turner's acting. She's just GREAT in her role! You see her character change in a totally believable manner throughout the film. Also when she totally changes at the end she's incredibly beautiful. This is all totally predictable but it's a lot of fun. The studio thought this would bomb when it came out but it became a surprise hit. There's a so-so sequel called Jewel of the Nile--but stick with this one. A 9 all the way. "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones copy and not much more...","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are three similar movies of the era, and this one is chronologically the middle one. First one is Raiders of the Lost Arc, last one is The King Solomon's Mines.While Raiders... remains legendary and ...Mines is utterly stupid this one is just dull and mediocre.I remember loving it as a kid, but recent viewing was even embarrassing experience. The plot is stupid to begin with, the villains are unconvincing even for a comedy (plus one of them is the guy I hate in every movie - De Vito), and two main characters are not too interesting (although one can't deny some chemistry between them).However, there are some successful jokes there, and Kathleen Turner is always sexy, but if I want to watch her again I'll watch Prizzi's Honor instead. "},{"Title":"Poor Imitations","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This adventure yarn from director Robert Zemeckis is just plain average. A great disappointment considering some of his other works including Back to the Future and Forest Gump.The plot from writer Diane Thomas concerns the adventures of romance novelist Joan Wilder (played by Kathleen Turner) who races off to Colombia to save her sister from evil clutches. Along the way she receives the reluctant help of happy-go-lucky Jack Colton (Michael Douglas).Big deal! All of the above was just an attempt to cash in on the success of Raiders, which it did.Wednesday, February 27, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"This is the WORST film in R, Zemeckis career as a director.","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I must say I have seen better movies than this. If you want to see a a romantic comedy see The Woman in Red (1984).This film is an action-adventure film and NOT A ROMANTIC COMEDY.My recommendations are King Solomon's Mines (1985), Indiana Jones And The Temple Of Doom (1984), Bird on a Wire (1990), Big (1988), Vice Versa (1988), Coming To America (1988), The Golden Child (1986), Splash (1984), Joe Vs. The Volcano (1990).The films I mentioned above are WORTH SEEING/BUYING.This film produced by Michael Douglas was mainly meant to promote himself further in the Hollywood limelight. Make no mistake, this guy is SHREWD. He hires Robert Z. to direct the film. In doing this he is insured that his film will not flop at the box-office.Sure, M. Douglas should technically have no brains at all due to the fact that he spends most of his waking life uncorking women.Plot Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) is a lonely New York romance novelist who receives a treasure map mailed to her by her recently-murdered brother-in-law. Her widowed sister, Elaine (Mary Ellen Trainor), calls Joan and begs her to come to Cartagena, Colombia because Elaine has been kidnapped by bumbling antiquities smugglers Ira (Zack Norman) and Ralph (Danny DeVito), and the map is to be the ransom.Hastily flying to Colombia, Joan is detoured from the rendezvous with Ralph by Colonel Zolo (Manuel Ojeda), the man who killed Elaine's husband. Joan ends up in the jungle and is almost killed by Zolo, but is saved by the swashbuckling American bird exporter Jack Colton (Michael Douglas). For getting her to Cartagena, Joan promises to pay Jack $375.Jack and Joan elude Zolo, who wants the treasure for himself and who chases them with military police, which he commands as a private army. After spending a night hiding in a crashed marijuana smuggler's airplane, they encounter a drug lord named Juan (Alfonso Arau), who is a big fan of Joan's novels and who helps them escape from Zolo.After a night of dancing and passion, Joan suggests to Jack that they find the treasure before handing over the map. They follow the clues and find the treasure an enormous emerald called el Corazon (the Heart). Unknown to Jack and Joan, their trail has been picked up by Ralph, who tries to take the emerald and taunts Joan that Jack would have done the same.But Ralph flees without the treasure when Zolo appears, and Jack and Joan are chased into a river and go over a waterfall. Jack and Joan end up on opposite sides of the raging river; Joan has the map, but Jack has the emerald. Jack directs Joan to Cartagena, promising that he will meet her there with the emerald, but she is skeptical, owing to Ralph's taunts.In Cartagena, Joan contacts Ira, but cannot find Jack. She meets with Ira and Ralph at their base (an old fortress) and makes the exchange. As Joan and Elaine attempt to leave, they are stopped by Zolo and his men, who have captured Jack. Zolo demands the emerald and threatens Joan with the crocodiles that Ira keeps as pets. To save Joan, Jack surrenders the hidden emerald to Zolo, but a crocodile bites off Zolo's hand and swallows it along with the emerald.As a furious gun battle takes place between Zolo's soldiers and Ira's gang, Joan and Elaine dash for safety, but they are pursued by the enraged Zolo. Jack tries to stop the crocodile from escaping but lets it go when he sees that Joan is in danger. Joan knocks Zolo into the crocodile pit, and Ira and his men escape, but Ralph is left behind as the authorities arrive. After a kiss, Jack dives into the water after the crocodile, leaving Joan behind with her sister.Some time later, Joan is back in New York, delivering a new manuscript based on her adventure, and her publisher, Gloria (Holland Taylor), loves it. Returning home, she finds Jack waiting for her in a sailboat. He caught the crocodile (and had it made into a pair of boots), sold the emerald, and bought the boat he had told Joan was his dream. They go off together, planning to sail around the world.P.S I never did like that over-sized b*tch of an actress Kathleen Turner. "},{"Title":"terrible.","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this movie is one of the biggest rip-offs i've ever seen. hmm, let's think, where have i seen this before...hmmm....oh yeah! indiana jones maybe??? only the indiana jones movies were fantastic. romancing the stone just plain sucks. i feel sorry for any of you who commented on how great it was. you lead very sad lived indeed. this movie makes me want to commit suicide. don't try to copy harrison ford. ever. it's just not going to happen. this movie is retarded. stupid. stupid. stupid stupid. never watch this movie!!! ever! i have to fill up ten lines so i'm typing randomly! ahh! this movie sucks! awful! romancing the stone? who would watch it anyway??? i remember being forced top watch it and going into a coma shortly afterward. "}]