[{"Title":"My life changed that autumn afternoon...","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"182 out of 229 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Neverending story is by far the best Fantasy film ever made and I doubt that it will ever be topped. I saw this movie with my dad one cold autumn afternoon, and my life changed forever that day. This movie taught me that fantastic places and wonderful creatures really do exist. You only have to want them to. Even today, aged 23, working in the computer industry, I find myself slipping in the Neverending Story soundtrack in my CD player and dreaming away to Fantasia...This movie the most beautiful and touching movies ever created. It's an example of a timeless story, told with wonderful creatures and dazzling vistas of the land of Fantasia. The amazing and perfect soundtrack help capture your heart and won't let go until the end credits fill the screen. At which time you notice that you've been crying for the last ½ hour. I consider myself extremely lucky that this wonderful movie was shown to me at such a young age, telling me that the world is what you make of it.And luckily, this September I can watch it all on DVD!!This is a masterpiece, nothing less "},{"Title":"This is such a BEAUTIFUL film, with a message that will never die.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"152 out of 180 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Although I was only a year old when the Neverending Story first came out, I remember watching it over and over as a little girl. My grandma got it for me when I was little and I remember making her watch it with me almost every day--sometimes two or three times in the same day. Then somehow I lost the tape, and although I still remembered and loved the movie, I forgot just how magical it really was. Then finally, (after years of I wonder what happened to...) I found it. I realize now that in finding it I not only rediscovered a part of myself, but a beautiful world I forgot existed.I admit that I am still waiting for a luck dragon to come and take me home to Fantasia. I belong there. A part of me lives there and so does a part of everyone, although they may not be aware of it. This is without a doubt the most beautiful movie ever made (although Legend comes close) and its message will never die as long as people hold on to their dreams. Barret Oliver's performance as Bastian still makes me cry. He speaks to that part of all of us that is not afraid to do what we dream. Noah Hathaway was perfect for the part of Atreyu. He is one of the most beautiful and realistic heroes ever depicted. And Tami Stronach as the Childlike Empress (Moon Child) remains one of the most beautiful characters ever to grace the screen. The acting is wonderful, and the background scenery is breathtaking.But the Neverending Story is more than just a movie. It speaks to that part in all of us that will never let go of our dreams. It is a story that will never end as long as there are people to appreciate its message. Everyone should see this movie and remember Fantasia IS real. And Fantasia can arise in you. "},{"Title":"A classic with flaws","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"123 out of 170 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This film was a favorite of mine as a kid, but even back then I recognized that the book by Michael Ende was superior. Overall, it's a wonderful children's film marred by an inconsistent tone and an unsatisfying ending.No fantasy film I've seen has tapped more successfully into the kinds of philosophical thoughts that kids have. Think of Rockbiter's speech describing the Nothing A hole would be something. Nah, this was nothing. And it got bigger, and bigger, and bigger.... This is the type of film that greatly appeals to introspective kids who think about things like infinity and the end of the universe. Do children really think about such things? I did. People who find that surprising have forgotten how profound children can sometimes be.The whole of Fantasia, indeed, seems to be built out of children's dreams and fears. Some of it is about exhilaration, as when Atreyu rides Falkor. Others reflect anxiety, as in Atreyu's trek through the Swamps of Sadness. What appealed to me most as a kid was how an imaginative but passive child, sort of a young Walter Mitty, opens up a book in which an older, braver version of himself goes on adventures. But Neverending Story isn't so much escapism as it is about escapism. It's essentially a fable about the destruction of a child's fantasy world as he grows older and adapts to the modern world.The special effects are good for their day. Although they look phony at a few points, the film's distinct visual look, from the shimmering Ivory Tower to the assortment of weird creatures, holds up well today. What makes the film work especially well is that the two child stars--Barret Oliver and Noah Hathaway--prove themselves capable actors. I use the word capable because almost everyone in the film overacts in an annoying way, which I blame primarily on the director. But there's a wonderful cameo by Gerald McRaney as Bastian's father. He has the perfect tone for the scene, appearing loving but distant, unable to fathom Bastian's mind. I wish the film had followed through by returning to their relationship at the end and exploring how Bastian changes as a result of his experiences in Fantasia.The reason the ending doesn't work is obvious to anyone who's read the book. Simply put, the movie shows only the first half of the book! While this isn't the movie's fault entirely--there was no way the entire story could have fit into one movie--this could have been handled better. The Wizard of Oz faced the same problem yet managed not only to become one of the greatest fantasy movies of all time but to surpass its source material in some ways. The Neverending Story doesn't accomplish that feat. The story feels unresolved at the end while at the same time failing to clearly set up for a sequel. It attempts to wrap everything up with a sequence in which Bastian takes revenge on his old bullies. I enjoyed this scene when I was a kid, but in retrospect it creates a clash between the real world and the fantasy world. Bastian never grows as a character, he never learns to put his feet on the ground, something the early scenes suggest will happen.There's one other problem, and that's that Wolfgang Petersen never really figured out the proper tone for a children's movie. He must not have had a clear idea what age he was shooting for. Some of the scenes are quite scary and violent, making this film inappropriate for younger children. Yet the muppet-like characters are presented in an annoyingly condescending way that I doubt older kids (not to mention teens and adults) would appreciate. For example, the first scene in Fantasia plays like a revival of Sesame Street, with Rockbiter filling the Cookie Monster role. By the time I was old enough to appreciate the deeper aspects of the story, I cringed at the film's cutesy moments. Petersen didn't have to direct the film this way. Had he shot for a wider age group, the result would have been fresher and more authentic for everyone. "},{"Title":"1 of the best movies EVER!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"76 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a movie you'll enjoy no matter how old you are; it's not just for kids. It's got a message to keep fantasy alive, for good reasons, that every watcher will agree with! Bastian (Barett Oliver) is having a hard time getting over his mother's death & spends most of his time in dreamland. His teachers & father want him to get serious, & he's a constant target for bullies. Hiding out from them 1 morning in an old bookshop, he meets Coreander (Thomas Hill), the reclusive owner who piques his curiosity about the book he's reading, but warns it's not safe. Since Bastian loves reading, he borrows the book, The Neverending Story. Reading it in hiding, he glimpses Fantasia, an incredible world of rock-biters, night hobs, gnomes, a Child-like Empress who's dying of a mysterious illness. The quest to find a cure is appointed to Atreyu (Noah Hathaway), a young warrior who goes through amazing journeys. Bastian becomes more wrapped up in this book than any other he's read, sharing Atreyu's sadness & horror. What he doesn't realize is that he himself is in the plot of the book - he must choose a new name for the Empress. As Bastian tries to follow the characters' adventures & to choose whether he can do his task, you'll become entranced w/the characters and touching plot. The movie shows fantasy is a big part of reality, & it's important! Watch for yourself, & BELIEVE! "},{"Title":"Dark, if not surreal fantasy delivers a good message.","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"61 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Finally, the truth about stories. The fact is, nothing ever really ends, and thusly, someone had to say so. That's what this movie does, and it does it ever so elegantly. A young boy, who knows so much about the Lord Of The Rings, and Beowulf is about to find out something more real as he borrows a mystical book he finds enchanting. the even more powerful fact, is that once the book is opened, it will never close. Just as life never really ends on this earth, neither to stories. The book, titled The Never Ending Story, is about Fantasia, a world that is dying, and an unbelievably horrifying substance known as The Nothing, is enclosing it. A young warrior must face the danger of finding a cure. On earth, or in the book, life is intertwined to reach the ultimate answer to a young boys fears, and a young warriors quest. Film is full of some really lovable characters such as Falkor, the luck dragon, and the Rock Biter. Then, there is the Gmorg, whom I believe, is the most wretched creature in cinema. That thing is scary! In any case, film starts out as colorful and mystical, and grows dark and nightmarish with every scene, leading to a wonderful message about the substance that keeps Fantasia , and every other world out there, alive. Beautiful, just beautiful. A classic. "},{"Title":"Great fantasy film!","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"50 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  One of the best kids fantasy films of the 80's. This is a great films about troubled young boy Bastien who escapes some pursuing bullies in an old book shop finding a story. As he reads this story alone, in hiding, he becomes enraptured in it and soon begins to feel more than a reader but involved in the story and is sucked into the world of Fantasia.Now, does the film have the important elements of a fantasy yarn? Yep it sure does. It looks great it has strange creatures and wonderful landscapes and it's fair share of adventure. The book bastien read centres around Artreyu a young warrior who is the only hope of saving Fantasia from the evil that is the Nothing which is what it's name suggest and will turn Fantasia into nothing.I had never watched this until recently when purely by chance it was on TV and had a good write up (ah the power of movie critics!) so I thought that as a lover of fantasy, I would watch it. Glad I did people, glad I did. It takes you back to feelings of childhood and captures the imagination. Wolfgang Peterson, who didn't particularly impress me in recent flop Troy, directs preceedings with class and control. There are some good young actors too. **** "},{"Title":"The NeverEnding Story is magical","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"46 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is something special. The NeverEnding Story is a truly remarkable movie experience. A stunning and unique movie with this fantastic feeling and the feeling of being something out-of-this-world. The finest fantasy movie of all time. A timeless and nostalgic classic.The rich production is notorious in so many ways the gorgeous settings and landscapes/sceneries; the amazing special effects, visual effects and blue-screen effects; the magic; the spectacular combination of sounds, which impress even more if heard loud; the music...Another major strength is the wonderful soundtrack, work of Giorgio Moroder and Klaus Doldinger, with that genial synthpop orientation. It's so 80's and I very much welcome that. The songs are all beautiful. Another great song is Limahl's Never Ending Story, as well as the two lovely Tami Stronach's singles Fairy Queen and Riding on a Rainbow. It's impressing how she sings so well.The movie is thrilling, very involving, exciting, great fun, contains lots of adventure, danger, strong suspense, darkness, drama, strong emotions, fantastic and strange creatures, interesting and well developed characters and a great cast.There are strange and fantastic creatures such as the Racing Snail, the creepy Gmork, Morla the ancient one, the friendly Rockbiter (a gentle giant), the Sleepy Bat and Falkor the luckdragon. I like Falkor very much he's so big, so cool, so fluffy, so cute and so friendly. He also has a great sense of humor and his dog-like appearance makes him irresistible.Other interesting characters are the somewhat rude Nighthob, Teeny Weeny, the hilariously typically grumpy old man Mr. Koreander, the eccentric and amusing gnomes Engywook and Urgl, Cairon and especially Atreyu (and his horse Artax), Bastian and the Childlike Empress. Atreyu, Bastian and the Childlike Empress are all terrific kids. Atreyu is a different kind of hero a true hero child, which is unusual and amazing. Bastian himself is another hero child.The movie is promising since the very beginning, with those stunning, dazzling and colorful clouds, which bring it a magical touch. The beauty of the Ivory Tower palace, the golden of the Sphinxes and the blue of the Southern Oracle are also magical details about this movie, among many others. On the other hand, the storm called The Nothing is spectacular but slightly creepy. Nevertheless, it is another precious help to give magic and beauty to the film. Not to mention details like the sky full of stars and no clouds and when the sky has clouds...It's amazing how one gets involved into the story. While watching the movie, one can feel deeply involved in the story as much as Bastian does. It's impossible to ignore it because it captures one's attention and heart. Also, one can't help but get deeply involved in Atreyu's quest and everything he confronts to save Fantasia, including his emotions and despair.The actors are all wonderful. Barret Oliver is amazing as the shy and imaginative Bastian, Noah Hathaway is awesome in the role of the young warrior Atreyu and Tami Stronach is terrific as the Childlike Empress. Her role is minor but very relevant and significant. She really looked like a little princess by portraying the Childlike Empress. It's kinda surprising that this was her only movie role ever. Noah Hathaway... that long hair really fitted very well on him and his character Atreyu resembles an Indian, but only a little bit.The NeverEnding Story is more than one of the greatest movies from the 80's. It is one of the best, most beautiful, magical and distinguish movies ever. A fine movie with a very good message as well. I can positively say that Mr. Wolfgang Petersen knew what he was doing. This is his masterpiece.The movie is a German production filmed in English with mostly American and English actors. The majority of the film takes place in Germany. And it was officially launched under its original title, Die Unendliche Geschichte, despite being filmed in English. By the way, I was born in 1984 and I'm very proud that this movie is from that year. After all, it's a movie that I love.This should definitely be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"Who didn't want to ride a luck Dragon?","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"47 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  &#145;Turn around, tell me what you seeeee', flying through the clouds as the titles roll. It is on every Christmas, I own it and I simply love it. The Neverending Story is one of the least offensive and nicest family films out there. It has numerous sequels, but it is the first one directed by Wolfgang Peterson that is the best of the three.Bastian, a young boy lives in a dream world, his father wants him to grow up his school would like him to get his head out of the clouds and is tormented by bullies. On his way into school while trying get away from the bullies he runs into an old book shop. While hiding inside the owner shows him &#145;The Neverending Story' a huge volume decorated with the Orin the symbol of the child like emprise of the Land Fantasia. When the owner isn't look Bastian takes the book. This is a beautiful film; it enthralled me as a child and still does as an adult. I have watched over and over again, never tiring of it and always enjoying it.  If you have young children or are an old child it doesn't matter this is pure a adventure fantasy for all ages, with colourful characters.  "},{"Title":"A Must See!  Great Fantasy Film!!!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"41 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I think most people that have seen this will agree that this is one of the best fantasy films ever made!  I think I may have to agree with them!This film has a special place in my heart, cause I grew up with this film.  I've probably seen this film more times than any other movie (although, it may be too close to call with Labyrinth, The Wizard of Oz and The Dark Crystal in the running)!  Isn't it funny how when you were young you could watch the same movie over and over and over and over and never get sick of it...not that a whole lot has changed since then, but it cracks me up how well I remember this film ever time I see it.  I remember just about ever line, every scene, every nuance, every single little miniscule detail about this movie!  Ok...I'm sounding a bit obsessed aren't I.Well, what I'm trying to say here is that this is a great film and with an excellent story.  The acting, directing, special effects, and everything else is just excellent in this film!  Wolfgang Petersen really out-did himself with this film!  I would definitely recommend this film to anyone that likes fantasy films...what am I saying, I would (and do) recommend this film to EVERYONE!  What are you reading this review for?  Go see this movie!!!  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Life without Fantasia","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The boy Bastian (Barret Oliver) misses his mother, who has died, and is bullied at school by three bullies. One day, he is running away from the three boys and hides in a bookstore, where the owner shows him a book that he has never read called The Neverending Story. Bastian does not resist and shoplifts the book, leaving a note telling that he will return the book after he reads it. He goes to the school attic and anxiously reads the book that tells the story of the magic kingdom of Fantasia that is doomed to destruction, unless the boy Atreyu (Noah Hathaway) can save it. But he needs the help of an Earthling boy to avoid that The Nothing destroys his world. The first times that I saw Die Unendliche Geschichte, a.k.a. The Neverending Story, I was younger and younger and I simply loved it. Twenty-eight years later, I have just bought the Blu-Ray and after watching it again, I liked but less that I remember.The state of art especial effects in 1984 is now dated and the acting is only reasonable. But the story of the coming of age by force of a boy that sees his innocence lost due to the death of his mother and bullying at school has a beautiful message in the end and is still worthwhile watching it. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A História Sem Fim (The Neverending Story) "}{"Title":"Neverending Nonsense","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A kid escapes from bullies by curling up in the attic of his school with a book that he comes to love so much that it has him in tears. The movie may have the same effect on viewers except that it would be tears from boredom. The book that it's based on is apparently much loved so something must have gotten lost in the translation. The story has no rhyme or rhythm; it is disjointed, uninteresting, and unbelievably contrived, laughably bad in some parts. The whiny kid who plays the warrior looks like a little girl and is rather annoying, as is the cry-baby who is reading the book. The sets are cheesy and the creatures are ridiculous looking in this utter waste of time. "},{"Title":"Maybe a funny movie, but what about the book?","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I don't really know why so many persons love this movie maybe it's funny, OK, but it has totally ruined one of the best novels ever written. As the author himself said, this movie has betrayed the book not only the story is violently cut to about 1/3, but all the symbols, all the complexity, everything is lost in a very 80's-fashioned fantasy/adventure film for kids. Today we have effects, directors, a new attention to books I hope that someone (Tim Burton, Peter Jackson, Hayao Miyazaki...) someday will direct the REAL Neverending story. A great dead writer, a wonderful book and many literature lovers deserve it. "},{"Title":"Flawed but interesting","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie may years ago, and I loved it like many of those here who love it still.With hindsight though, it is a rather muddled and confused affair. There were legal wranglings with the book author who hated the screenplay (and it kind of shows in the finished product). The ending is abrupt and screams that the budget ran out.Really though, it works because of Noah Hathaway's on-screen presence. For sure, some of his acting is a little shaky, but this must have been a *huge* project for an eleven year old to carry. I imagine there must have been a lot of pressure on the kid at the time.He is, to put it simply, beautiful. I think the fact that he looks so androgynous is no accident - the director must very much have wanted him to look that way. Long before Peter Jackson brought his fantastic Tolkien adaptations to the big screen, I remember thinking that Atreyu/Noah looked very much how I imagined Tolkien's Elves would be - sort of too perfect and almost in-human in a way.Basically Noah single handedly carries this whole movie - along with some nice set pieces (swamp / oracle) and matte painting art work (which was very good for its time).But the story? Am I the only one here who gets the irony of a story about the power of reading and imagination being made into an Americanised movie for a popcorn audience? And what is with that ending? Completely inappropriate, hurried and nonsensical after the previous hour and a half.Lets be honest here folks, the source material is no great work of literature either, even if it was a best-seller in Germany (popular with adults and children). The message is about a subtle as being hit over the head with a plank of wood, and reads as rambling neo-romantic sentimental prattle. Do what you wish? Err, more than a little naive applied to most of the population of planet Earth I think!So watch it for the extraordinary Atreyu, for the visuals, and if you're my age, to remember your childhood.But there are no great insights into the meaning of life here (or in the book either).And please Hollywood, can you now just leave it the hell alone? Two crappy sequels, some lame cartoons and a re-imagined TV series?  Does the word originality mean anything to anyone out there in la-la land? Move on please! "},{"Title":"Fantastic fantasy film","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending Story, or Unendliche Geschichte, Die as it's called in Germany, was directed by Wolfgang Petersen, and is a tale about a young boy named Bastian, who is a boy with a large imagination, who stops in an old bookstore after being chased into it by bullies, when he finds a mysterious book called The Neverending Story.As young Bastian takes the book and begins reading it, the movie goes from what I thought to be a stuffy fantasy film, to actually be a magical, clever and emotional adventure. In an age where CGI rules nearly every movie, and pop culture references are to be scattered within every scene in order to create a bit of a norm with the audience, this film does the exact opposite, by creating no silly dialog based off of some other film, or referencing some famous TV show or popular song, this is what fantasy should be today, but sadly, is falling apart with every new Shrek and Hoodwinked out on the market.The scenes that give off the most powerful emotional responses to me are the ones when the world tends to look chaotic, destroyed and nearly moments away from their destruction. The creatures in the film, such as the Rock Biter and Falkor are the greatest examples of why making creatures for movies with good old fashioned foam rubber and some animatronics instead of CGI really go a long way. The magic Atreyu experiences with his interaction with these two creatures is a lot better than watching the child actor trying to imagine the creature in front of him. Working with CG, people's eyes wander because they cannot see the creature, with the characters in this movie acting with puppets, there's more response and emotion than trying to act with something that's not there.The last few minutes are the most emotional to me. The Princess is simply a cute little girl who knows what the problem is, but it's a bit different than just saying it.Yes, the acting on Bastian's part is a bit bad, and the ending is a bit weak, and the editing is pretty poor, compared to other movies, but you know what? I loved this movie. I didn't know what was going to happen next. I had tears in my eyes during the swamp of despair, I got emotional when the princess yelled for Bastion and I had little tears for the ending theme.People probably look at this movie as outdated, I think it's fresher than anything out to date. From the beginning song by Limahl (Check for Kajagoogoo from the 80's) to the ending with Bastion yelling Yeah!, it's an absolute treat.Give Shrek a break, grab this movie instead. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing overall, despite the well-crafted effects.","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Sure, this is a movie that young and old can enjoy. An entertaining and vivid fantasy story with a good hero.But only if you haven't read the book, which is way beyond in regard to characters, storyline and its message which has been evaporated in the film and twisted beyond recognition.I remember seeing this film when it came out and I was immediately disappointed. Sure, at first things like Atreju's skin colour not being green, Chairon not being an actual centaur, the Nothing being represented by storm and earthquakes bugged me most.But even I knew that the ending, Bastian's first wish, was really abysmal. In the film Bastian turns out to be a not the creative but insecure boy of the book but a being filled with nothing but vengeance. If everything had been fine in the movie (and it isn't) the ending would have ruined all efforts.Again, there is the Nothing. In the book it is slowly and silently creeping annihilation. It draws things and peoples into it and swallows them up without any trace. In the film it is the complete opposite.I will say nothing about events and characters that have been omitted as a movie cannot cover everything. However, the loss of Igramul is a severe blow as it forces the writers to invent a different way of rescue - one that stretches belief beyond any breaking point - quite in contrast to what the novel has.The Auryn is turned into a piece of useless jewelry as Atreyu is not kept from sinking into the swamp - as he is in the book.The Southern Oracle, a being of sound in the novel, is turned into two statues speaking in prose, thus bereft of all its mystery and poetry. Of its three gates, only the Mirror Gate is covered satisfactorily. The third gate (indeed hard to depict) is missing, while the character of the first gate is totally wrecked the Sphinxes care nothing about an entry's belief in himself (why this American obsession with self-confidence?), the open and close (seemingly) at random. They do not shoot laser beams but force the intruder to solve riddles thereby condemning him to eventually die there.But not all is bad in this movie. The visualization (except for the Nothing and the Oracle) are good on the technical side. The effects certainly were state of the art back then. Especially the dragon is great. However, sometimes the effects while good in themselves leave a sour taste when they cover the filmmaker's inability to make something of a scene, especially with the Morla. She sneezes about five times or so - and does little else. Her deep melancholic indifference might be mentioned but not actually present - it remains artificial. (And do people that talk to themselves actually realize it so that they can explain it to others) Engywuck and Urgl are doing a great job as the nagging couple. Atreyu looks good too (and I have long since forgiven him for not being green-skinned). Neither the Empress nor Bastian cover all there is to these characters (inwardly and outwardly) in the novel but that is very hard anyway, especially with the childlike, ageless, both young and old Empress.Gmork is also effectively scary as a pursuer (I was having nightmares about him then) but his talking when meeting Atreyu could have been better. "},{"Title":"Drop Dead Gorgeous!","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The NeverEnding Story is one of my all time favourite movies, it is just so magical. The music is brilliant, and the story is a magical, simple and effective one. The scenery, sets and costumes were visually a feast to the eyes, just gorgeous to look at, and if it didn't get any awards for best art direction, then that is a massive shame, because it was so beautiful to watch. Falcor was a fantastic character, a very warm and loving character, that you just have to love. I have to admit though, Gmork is very scary. The acting is fantastic, Barret Oliver very spirited as Bastian, and Noah Hathaway born to play Atreyu. And Tami Stromach as the Childlike Empress has a small but wholly relevant role in the film. This film is practically perfect in every way and has a wonderful message, don't miss it! The second film's okay, but the third one is god awful and should be in the bottom 100. 10/10 for this though. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"was spectacular in showing good vs evil, or even living/imagining vs not","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" In one of Wolfgang Peterson's better movies (maybe one of his best), The Neverending Story is the kind of 1980's kids movie that isn't made anymore, one that lacks over-extending cynicism and unnecessary humor dumbed down in favor of the kind of ambitious imagination of Jim Henson's more serious fantasies. While I don't remember it completely, as a younger kid some of the imagery was almost too terrifying, and almost had me crying (a softy and gullible back then perhaps, but it being all in three-dimensions and not computer animated). One such scene was the sort of quicksand scene in the story, where the main protagonist of the story within the story Atreyu can't help but watch as a girl slips down into her demise. It's a credit to the filmmakers that this and many other scenes work so well, and in retrospect isn't as dated as one might expect. There's also a lot of imagery at work here that is, while for kids, very expressive of the special effects, make-up, production design, costumes, and technical aspects that could serve the story. The premise is one most kids can relate to, about the need of escapism in the sometimes cruel and tired day-to-day life of being a kid. The story within the story, on boy Atreyu in Fantasia must stop the 'nothingness', which will engulf the world unless something- or someone- can stop it. What's interesting first looking back is this challenge of a 'nothingness' being the main antagonist ( maybe Sartre had a hand in the script somewhere), and how it does work by becoming in different permutations (like the wolf towards the end with a heap of exposition). Another thing is how earnest the characters are while still working in their archetypal forms- the boy hero(s), the endangered princess, the many side-characters. It's really a kind of cult treat that kids who were born and raised in the 80's went to with the purity (if not the greatness) of other fantasy counterparts. And if it still works today for kids possibly jaded by animated overload and below sophomoric humor, more power to them and their parents. "},{"Title":"Lame movie in 1984 and lame in 2013","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a terrible movie, not a good representation of the story told in the book. The special effects were terrible even by 1984 standards. I remember watching this with my kids in the '90s and laughing at the dragons stupid expressions and the creepy eyes. Fast forward to Dec. 2013, my teenage daughter was watching it with her boyfriend on TV and it was like a home version of Mystery Science Theater as we all laughed and made comments while narrating it. It was the only way we could make to the end of the movie. By the way, the dragons eyes are still creepy. None of the actors went on to have any type of illustrious careers. Although Barret Oliver did manage to star in the Cocoon movies only because of his cuteness. Director Wolfgang Petersen did go on to redeem himself with Troy, The Perfect Storm, Outbreak and Airforce One to name a few. He hasn't done anything since he failed with Poseidon. "},{"Title":"Ending kind of messes it up","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I never did watch this movie all the way through until today. It was pretty good (and interesting to see Deep Roy in what must have been a very early role), but the ending really messes it up a lot.******SPOILER!!!******* Our hero Bastian is pretty much a coward, running away from three school bullies who call him chicken and toss him into a trash bin. We're led to believe that he has learned more about himself and his potential, and become a braver, more confident boy, as a result of his saving Fantasia.Yet after using the power of his imagination to restore Fantasia, Bastian has one last wish for the Luckdragon; help him terrorize the three bullies. How do you like it, CHICKENS! he screams as he rides the back a 50 foot flying beast who chases the boys down an alley and makes them hide in the same trash bin they tossed him into.Seems to me Bastian hasn't grown much at all; if he had he would have faced the bullies on his own, just like Atreyu who faced most of the dangers of his quest alone. (Or, he could have brought a couple of smaller Fantasia denizens to make it an even fight.) The bullies may fear him because he can call on his friend the Luckdragon, but they won't respect him.Maybe I'm over-analyzing, but I just felt that ending was very poorly thought out and messed up an otherwise good film. "},{"Title":"Commendable adaptation of a mammoth children's' fantasy novel.","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" In the early days of his career, Wolfgagng Petersen (director of Air Force One, The Perfect Storm and Troy) showed some of his flair for enjoyable story-telling and technical bravura with this decent kid's fantasy flick. Based on a mammoth novel by Michael Ende, and blessed with a budget that at the time was the biggest ever approved for a non-American, non-Russian film, the pic has a good deal of invention and imagination on show. While the plethora of characters and adventures has been dramatically cut down from the book in order to keep the film's length sensible, there's still enough going on to create a fairly compelling story.A young bullied school-kid named Bastian (Barret Oliver) is pursued by a gang whilst heading for school, so he takes refuge in a dusty antiquarian bookshop. Here he comes into possession of a magical old book called The Neverending Story. By the time he gets to school he is running pretty late for his lessons, so rather than facing the wrath of his teacher Bastian hides in a cluttered storage attic and begins to read his new story. The story is all about a fantasy world named Fantasia, ruled by a gravely ill empress (Tami Stronach), which is being rapidly swallowed-up by a devastating force known - ominously - as The Nothing. The empress sends a brave young adventurer, Atreyu (Noah Hathaway), to find a way to save the kingdom from The Nothing. But the more Bastian reads the book, following Atreyu through a series of remarkable adventures, the more he realises that the story may not be quite the work of fiction he presumed it to be. Indeed, he seems to be drawn closer to an alternative dimension in which the events of the book actually become real-life events.The story is very appealing for anyone who has ever envisaged themselves being IN one of their favourite books. If you've ever fantasised that you're Jim Hawkins in Treasure Island, or Frodo in The Lord Of The Rings, or Charlie in Charlie And The Chocolate Factory, this film will probably strike a chord with your imagination. The young actors do reasonably well with their big roles (they are expected to carry the film, much more so than the adult actors, and they do so quite competently). The special effects are more than passable for a 1984 movie, with some interesting visual trickery and an amusing gallery of monsters and creatures, both friendly and hostile. As a fan of the book, I hoped for rather more of the story to make it into the film version but it basically only concerns itself with the first third of the novel - which is disappointing but understandable. However, for those who enjoy stories set in fantastical realms with outlandish characters and plenty of mythical adventures, The Neverending Story is definitely a pleasant time-filler. "}{"Title":"A piece of junk","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I thought it was a wonderful movie to begin with. But the moment I read the book all respect for the movie flew right out the window. The only good thing about it is the song.This is nothing close to the original story, not a single detail was done correctly. The Southern Oracle, Bastian, Atreyu, and every other thing. The Nothing and the Ivory Tower were even incorrectly portrayed.This film was poor, stupid and far too kiddie. The Neverending Story is not, by any means a kids book. It's for teens and up.Acting was good, but not good enough.The only thing the film did get right was the name of the fantasy world, which is more properly translated as Fantasia(the book calls it Fantastica).Overall the movie is great for kids and people who haven't read the book. But once you read the book, you'll find that it is far better and wait for a proper Neverending Story to be made.Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Watch this one and avoid ALL sequals to it.","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I can't believe such a great movie could have such crappy sequels. The second one was watchable but not great.  The third one, well I didn't make it that far. It's a real shame that Tami Stronach the girl who played the childlike empress only made that movie. I thought she was such a cute child.It's about a boy who runs into a book shop to hide from some bullies. While there he had a talk with the bookkeeper about books. The boy saw a book the bookkeeper was reading. As the bookkeeper was on the phone, Bastian took the book and ran to school.  He notice that the class was taking a math test so he ran up to the attic of the school to read the book.  The farther he read into the book, the he realized that he was also part of the book and that he is the one that is needed to save the childlike empress. And for all of you that don't know the name that he yelled, it was Victoria. I can tell by the way he yelled the book.  It was so sad when Atreyu(what a funny name) lost his horse in the swamp of sadness. I have to agree with another user's comment. I was 9 when this movie came out and I thought that Atreyu was a girl and not a boy. I guess with the clothes and his long hair. he was a cutie. I absolutely fell in love with the music in the movie. I loved it so much that I downloaded. I even gave this movie to my pastor's wife to let their kids watch the movie and they loved it. I could never get tired of this movie. A perfect 10. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Fantasy...wished there was more to it.","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" As a fantasy movie, The Neverending Story doesn't disappoint. Under the direction of Wolfgang Petersen, a cast of young talent at the time, and powerful visual effects, this movie will leave you wanting more.*SPOILER*An interesting point because this movie ONLY covers half the book! From my perspective, this movie should have been 3-4 hours long, which should be enough to cover the entire book. Not to mention it would have possibly given the film more of the substance and imagination of the novel. And I must side with Michael Ende, the author, on the fact that the producers used a script that lacked the novel's substance and that the film's technical perfection killed some of the imagination I am craving!Now if the movie had just covered the entire book, we wouldn't have to watch those awful sequels. Besides, I rather watch Barret Oliver experience and enact Bastian's adventures in the second half of the book than endure Jonathan Brandis's constant whining in the first sequel.Speaking of Barret Oliver, his role as the shy, awkward, and unheroic Bastian Balthazar Bux is probably the best portrayal of the main character in Michael Ende's book because here is a boy who can communicate the emotions and insecurities and imaginations so well it makes Bastian himself a believable character in a story. Compared to Jonathan Brandis and Jason James Richter, this person can REALLY ACT. Though his performance in D.A.R.Y.L. is his best, the Bastian role is perhaps the role that made him a cult-figure among NES fans and his own.As for the actors, Tami Stronach was simply remarkable as the Childlike Empress a.k.a. Moonchild and although Noah Hathaway was okay, I keep asking myself this IF NOAH HATHAWAY WAS AWFUL AS ATREYU, WHY DID HE GET THE SATURN AWARD AND NOT BARRET OLIVER?*END OF SPOILER*Despite what I didn't like about this movie, I still LOVE IT! It had a story that enchanted me with awe and imagination. If you like fantasy, this one recommendation to watch.Grade A "},{"Title":"One of the best films...EVER...","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The message behind this film and the original book have inspired so many people including Steven Spielberg who, so I've read, as a prop AURYN in his office, there to remind him to never stop dreaming because when you stop dreaming, you start dying.The effects, especially on the DVD, look amazing, better than most of the CGI crap we're force-fed nowadays.If you love the movie, go buy the book.  It's a million times better, if you can believe it, and certainly better than the crap sequels and cartoons and stuff that have come since. "},{"Title":"Neverendinng Wonder","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I first saw this film when I was a child and it has always been one of my very favourites. It's the kind of movie you can watch over and over and never tire of. The people of Fantasia come alive, the rock biter, the stupid bat ) Night Hob, The Racing Snail and more ... And you are there in the story with Bastian, Atreyu and the Childlike Empress. You were with Bastian when he took the book. You cried when Atreyu lost Artax. You were with him when he fought G'mork. You were with him all the way. You ride Falkor across the skies of Fantasia, every time you see the movie. I always wanted to be like the childlike Empress. The soundtrack too is wonderful, just the right music for this masterpiece, not as detailed as the book, perhaps and it's a pity the sequels didn't have the same magic of the original. I still believe in Fantasia, for if we don't, who will? For like Bastian, your journey is a Neverending Story. "},{"Title":"Oh, My Eyes! Ow, My Eyes!","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I would say this is the third-worst film ever made. It is a horrifyingly bad fantasy film that steals story elements from Brigadoon and Star Wars while paving a gruesome road for much better films in the future (films like The Pagemaster).The special effects are dismally extravagant at times, but frighteningly cheap at others. The best performance in here is from Noah Hathaway as a nauseatingly whiny young warrior whose swamp-bound sobbing could drive a harpy deaf. Then you have Falkor, the magical Luck Dragon who befriends the hero of the film, a timid but obnoxious little boy named Bastian.The idea of the parallels between the world of the book and Bastian's real life existence was not a good idea-- if you're interested in things like that, move along to Kevin Crossley-Holland's phenomenal Arthur books. Plus the existing sequels cheapen the film and polish up the fact that it never was any good.Oh, and one more thing the theme song to this movie is *sickening*. Absolutely *sickening*. Two seconds in, you're clutching that air sickness bag that I sincerely hope you brought with you. "},{"Title":"I used to love the movie until I found the book","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Yes I admit I loved this movie as a child, so much that I found a copy of the real book.  Unfortunately, the movie only covers a third of the novel, leaving plot holes EVERYWHERE! I know I might to receive a lot of flack for this but you must believe me that after reading the book, the movie pales in comparison.  After reading the script, even the author Michael Ende refused to have his name associated with the film.  I implore all of you who love this movie to go out and buy the book.  While it will ruin the movie for you, the story will become all the more special.  It was one of those few instances in which I missed the book and its characters when I finished reading it "},{"Title":"I forgot how much I loved this film!","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"23 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw this film on Channel 4 recently (for those of you who don't know, Channel 4 is a British T.V station). It brought back a load of memories for me as I loved this film when I was younger. I could recall all the things I loved about this film the talking dog (I think it was a dog anyway), a giant snail and the big bad wolf. I didn't understand what the film was about back then and after seeing it recently, I still am confused!The visual effects are quite impressive for the films' time (who would have thought they had such marvelous effects 20 years ago)! I haven't seen Neverending Story 2 & 3 yet because I've heard they're kinda rubbish but I am considering giving them a bit of a peak. One last thing...why is the title in German?  "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but a creative fantasy film mostly for children","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Opinions on Die unendliche Geschichte differ. Some see it as a children's movie classic and a fantasy epic, others don't see much in it at all. It was Wolfgang Petersen's next movie after the highly lauded Das Boot, a completely different genre though. He also wrote it with the help of two other guys. The movie is basically split into two parts. The story of the (bullied) boy who reads the book (not a working actor anymore) and the action that takes place in the book. Near the end these two get together.The central character in the book is Atreyu, another boy who looks a bit like a girl and also like the very young Rafael Nadal, still a working actor today. The humans (or human-like creatures) are all pretty fun to watch thanks to good costume and makeup-work. And then there are many fantastic creatures in this story, some truly memorable, some a bit ridiculous. The most memorable may be Fuchur, the dragon, although I may have even liked him even more if he had been silent. The main plot is saving the sick empress and saving the world this way at the same time. The visual inclusion of the empress was actually a highlight and lifted the film a bit. The middle part was less interesting than the beginning. The biggest strength of the film is possibly the music. Limahl's title song has great earworm potential and the score (by Doldinger who did Das Boot as well) is incredibly well-crafted and helps the story on more than one occasion. Visually, it is a good film as well. It's not breathtaking from start to finish, but there are a couple scenes that are truly nice to watch, such as Fuchur's final flight. All these explosions that looked like meteors I was not too big on. And the moon child/new name part did not wow me either. Felt a bit random to be honest. And sometimes the film loses even more realism than it should, also for a fantasy kids movie, for example when Atreyu stabs the wolf-like creature. What I did like, however, was the reference between Bastian watching Atreyu and us watching Bastian. Really interesting parallel. Nicely done!Petersen has not directed a film in almost 10 years and we will see if he ever returns to movie-making. This one here is possibly his best effort and of you are into films like Momo, you will certainly have an enjoyable time watching this. Oh and don't be fooled. The original language here is English, even if the title is German, probably due to Petersen's involvement. "},{"Title":"A fresh idea undermined by generic execution","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The NeverEnding Story introduces an interesting twist on a hackneyed idea, but it undermines its potential novelty by sticking too close to the kind of generic children's storytelling that it claims to transcend. The observation that books, particularly fantasy and escapist literature, are refuges for imaginative and introverted children is a familiar and easy starting point, but deep into its runtime The NeverEnding Story is still restating it with tiresome simplicity. It need not have leaned so heavily on that old saw, because the movie does have a fresh take on the theme, if only it would commit to it almost from the beginning, we are tantalizingly led to believe that the real world and the world of books have the potential to cross over into and influence one another. Given the early introduction of this idea, it is odd that the movie waits until the very final moments to explore its intriguing implications. The long delay means that the bulk of the film unfolds in a willfully generic, fundamentally unimaginative and uninspiring fashion. Consider that the child hero of the movie's real world storyline claims to have read through the 19th and 20th century fantasy and adventure canon Tolkien, Stevenson, Verne, Cooper. Theirs are works of real depth and observational detail and literary sophistication, and it is difficult to believe that a child who has read and enjoyed them could become invested in the derivative world of Fantasia that the movie creates and becomes mired in. The film might have done better to use a known, celebrated public-domain story and characters instead of its own third-rate pastiches. This would have made the idea of crossover much more dramatic the breaking of the fourth wall is necessarily less surprising and subversive when it is done by characters to whom we have only just been introduced and whose limits are not established than if a fictional person with a known set of parameters were employed for the purpose. Perhaps the filmmakers could not resist the urge to create their own characters, but the puppetry that animates creatures like the stone troll and the flying dragon suggests no technological advancement over earlier works like Henson's Dark Crystal (1982), while the landscapes of Fantasia are far less ambitiously conceived than those in Henson's film. Yet the child hero of the fantasy storyline is made to slog through them at length, and the protagonist of the real world storyline is, improbably, absorbed in the journey. The exciting new twist we were promised is relegated to an afterthought. "}{"Title":"Pleasant and Enjoyable","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Based (somewhat loosely) on the book of the same name, The NeverEnding Story takes a young boy into a fantastical world, the aptly named Fantasia, and explores the meanings of fantasy and imagination. It's not the freshest story ever told, but makes up for it with an enjoyable cast of oddities such as the Rock Biter and the Luck Dragon, presented in at-the-time very impressive effects work. The Rock Biter in particular is a colourful creation.Indeed, without the effects work this wouldn't be nearly as successful, with an efficient but undeniably bland cast of human characters. Atreyu appears out of nowhere and never really develops, and while Bastian is an adorable performance, it's nothing that hasn't been seen multiple times before. It's slightly disappointing that even in a fantastical world, both the saviour (Atreyu and/or Bastian) and the 'leader' (the Empress) are white humans- it would have been very interesting to have a more prominent, less helper-role for a non-human creature.The film also sports a notable framing device. While the idea of a plot device found in the 'real' world transporting someone into a fantastical one is cliché, the interaction between a single boy and the world notably indirectly, while bordering on silly and certainly cheesy, nevertheless manages to be endearing. Though speaking of cheesy, one will almost certainly cringe at 'Moonchild', and giggle at repeated shouts of 'say my name!' The film is neither a revelation nor an entry into the upper echelons of Fantasy Cinema, but it's enjoyable, with a nice message for kids. It is certainly a film primarily for kids, but can (just about) be enjoyed by all. "},{"Title":"You didn't need CGI at all.","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" In the melange of the fantasy cycle of the eighties, 'The Neverending Story' does stand out as a serious attempt to use special effects and creature-puppetry to an end other than just marvelling at.The boy protagonist is shut out from adult society, with his father and seems not to fit in at school, so takes refuge in a book proffered by an irritable yet double-bluffing old bookseller.So begins a filmic essay on the relationship between reality and fantasy and how our real, mundane everyday problems can still be solved through use of the fantastic and the mythological.The nauseating sequel it spawned should be avoided, though the creature effects were admittedly better. "},{"Title":"I live my life by this film","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is the only one that I have been able to watch my whole life. I thought it was the most creative, spellbinding, beautiful movie I have ever seen.  I recommend it to everyone I meet.   "},{"Title":"Hated this movie as a kid","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I hated it so much and saw parts of it today which reminded me why it bugged me so much. I remember crying and feeling depressed at the part where the horse sank. That was sad back then I was just a little kid who loved animals so that part always bugged me the most. Also Falcor looked like my families cocker spaniel who had died. Those big floppy ears...The whole mom died topic and his sadness for that was never really solved. The bully's part was maybe solved but didn't make sense of why it happened in the real world..the music was very creepy to me. It was so long feeling. I didn't have a happy feeling at the end of the movie. I'm not sure why some people really love this movie?? "},{"Title":"Great visuals, but one of the worst novel adaptations ever","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Sorry, I don't want to offend anyone who likes or even loves this But honestly, this movie doesn't make any justice to the book. It's so totally different, so much was left out, the main characters are totally not as they were originally intended In the book Bastian is fat, clumsy, nonathletic and has knock knees. So he is a scoop for bullies which makes much more sense than the way he is depicted in the movie and it makes him a much greater opposite to his counterpart Atréju. Atréju is in the novel not a handsome, soft spoken teenager but a brave and a little fierce kid with green skin. Fuchur (as Falkor is originally called) isn't a mixture of a dragon and a puppy but a pearly Chinese-style dragon. Artax can talk and has a complex personality which makes his loss in the swamp much more sad. The Sphinxe's don't shoot laser bolts in primitive Star Wars'esque action but petrify people by confronting their minds with all the riddles of the world. Cairon is in the novel- just as his model of Greek mythology- a centaur- not a poor people's Klingon. And what a petty that some of the- IMHO- most impressive characters had been left totally off Ygramul the Many and the Storm Giants. Granted, it had been really difficult to realize them technically but they are of great importance for the story and perfect examples for Michael Ende's remarkable imagination. Left alone that the movie only captures the beginning of the book- but of course the makers had to made accommodations to the footage.Granted, the visuals are stunning but in my opinion the movie fails- as every movie adaptation would have- one of the great intentions of the book To motivate people to read more and to use their own imagination. To make a movie of a book with that message is in my opinion just an extreme example for down-and dirty money making.By the way Why does Bastian live in Canada? In the novel he clearly lives in southern Germany. I'm not a nationalist but why change a literary model in this respect? To make it easier to consume for the world market? To me this movie makes perfectly clear why some books should stay books. "},{"Title":"The NeverEnding Story","Date":"25 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I am genuinely underwhelmed by this film, and to tell the truth many adventurous family fantasy films from past decades nearly live up to their fame, the most notorious one is THE PRINCESS BRIDE (1987), and now TNS is another competent contender (the first three STAR WARS are the scarce exceptions). The film is Petersen's exacting project after the tremendous triumph of DAS BOOT (1981), but the slender skeleton of the story (a 90 minutes running time which only covers half of the original novel by Michael Ende) could not even ignite any thrill after 28 years of its release. The only redeeming feature is the onerous special effects which are yet behind the times. Maybe the ugly truth is that I have become so immune to all these childish fairy tales, thus I feel frustrated by the wide-eyed storytelling without any visual tenability, it seems that my commitment of the film is null and void, which just leaves me the only option is to find fault with the film's sumptuous but jejune storytelling, if Fantasia is so insipid, it may not worth any fantasies there. I also wonder whether or not films like THE LORD OF THE RING TRILOGY, HARRY POTTER franchise or AVATAR (2009), our nowadays favorites will receive the same mishaps several decades later? Time will tell, but save for an indomitable technique renovation, it is the sole sincerity towards his demographic viewers that any filmmaker should bravely undertake before let their works ravage the market and become a cash-bagging vicious circle, which is verifiable throughout the entire march progress of film industry. "},{"Title":"Movie Rating F","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Falcor looks absolutely ridiculous and he is an integral part of the movie, the disappearance of land mass at he end when Atriu is hanging onto a tree is like someone accidentally flipped the screen to the left, the big bad wolf looks just as bad as Falcor, and the story just really sucks. I am not transported to another fantasy land. I am watching a movie with a kid reading a book that always looks and feels like a book and that has absolutely no magic to it. Sure its our imagination that creates Fantasia but there seems to be nothing magical about this story. No magic, no mystery, a little imagination, no effect. Good parts, Empress at the end brings some credibility, the cave pictures of the few adventures of Atriu were not bad, Atriu himself had potential to do great things. Rating F "},{"Title":"Never Gets Started.","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Uneven and often disgusting fantastical journey has a young boy (Barrett Oliver) being transported to the titled location via reading a book that weighs about as much as he does. The Neverending Story makes little sense and that is probably meant to be its calling card. However, the movie makes literally no impression for the most part as the youngsters involved are annoying and the adults (Gerald McRaney in particular) have such little time that they hardly make a dent in the celluloid. Dark sequences and light-hearted situations combine to create a tangled mess that is too silly for adults and a bit too demented for the youngsters. Disappointing outing for director Wolfgang Petersen. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"It doesn't have to end","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The genre of fantasy has never interested me. I am trying to watch the ones that are worth it, but let's be honest, at its worst, all it is is infantile wish-fulfilment. This is the first I caught that was mature(without alienating kids), and remains my personal favorite(and yes, I have taken in LOTR). Wolfgang Petersen, known for his masterpiece Das Boot(The Boat) brings his considerable talent to this, one of his best pictures. The atmosphere is incredible throughout. Everything is effective built up well. This is an adventurous ride, to fantastic places and meeting amazing creatures, including Falkor the luck dragon who could not be cuter(honestly, who did not want to fly him growing up?) and many other amusing ones. The comic relief is seldom irritating, and this is dark and surreal along with what lightness it has. This has astonishing FX(most of them hold up to this day... granted, not all of the lines are synced up), with a wide range of expression to the fantastic, creative and memorable beings. All three child-actors are immensely talented. Yes, Oliver can be annoying, and a bit wimpy, still, he does well, as he usually did. Hathaway delivers an impeccable performance(I wonder how many boys wanted their hair to be like his in the mid-80's?) as the brave and charming Atreyu. Stronach as The Childlike Empress is stunning, she captures the innocence and delicate nature of a young girl with the regal and a real calm quality to her, the kind we want in royalty. She also has an exotic and otherworldly quality to her that make you believe that she exists only in Fantasia. This is a brilliant and layered film, with an uplifting message that ought to be heard by everyone on the planet. And if you want more of this, after the packed 90 minutes come to a close, then you can read the novel(I hear it's excellent, and somehow better than this; and definitely stay away from the abusively awful sequels, they are empty shells produced with no other goal than to make money), or simply close your eyes and imagine it yourself... that's the whole point of this smart and even somewhat philosophical movie. There is disturbing content in this, and a little blood. The DVD comes with a theatrical trailer. I recommend this to everyone not turned off by it not being set purely in the real world. 10/10 "},{"Title":" A boy who needs a friend finds a world that needs a hero in a land beyond imagination!","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" First of all, I am surprised that this movie is a German production from 1984; I just watched this movie yesterday and I imagined to be an American movie/production.(maybe because of the language that is English) If I was a small kid when I first watched this movie, I would probably be scared with G'mork and some other characters of this movie, like the big stone man.Tami Stronach, the girl who plays the Empress is cute as well as Noah Hathaway(Atreyu) who had lot of injuries while filming this movie. The story is different ''The Nothing'' who represents people's emptiness and lack of dreams, is destroying and finishing everything in the Fantasia world. They need the hep of Atreyu in the journey. All the story is being passed while Bastian reads a book he borrowed from the library man.The film has a good message about not forgetting or denying your dreams, as well values of courage, hope and trust.aka A História Sem Fim - Brazil "}{"Title":"Love the book, not really satisfied with the movie","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I incredibly love the book, but not that much with the movie. Nevertheless, it's still a movie worthy of notice.Regarding technical aspect, the film was made in 1984 hence a few flaws in CGIs (which were not a thing at that time) are acceptable. The color is somewhat dull and sad, which I think wasn't really suitable with such a beautiful and dream-like story.The positive thing here is, Atreyu, Bastian, Flalkor and all other characters are super lovely and credible, together with the already intriguing plot will keep you watching, although might not as eagerly as with the book. For improvement, I do think it should have added more details in accordance with the original story. It lacks many sub-stories, which are totally crucial for one to understand the message and the story of Neverending Story the fullest. The ending also, I wish it had featured the wise words from the old man at the bookstore - those are one of the best things that help convey the whole idea of the book. Personally, I think if I hadn't read the book, I wouldn't have enjoyed the film that much. Strictly speaking, it could have improved its linkage between everything, rather than these somewhat fragmented single stories. Holistically, the movie isn't as intricate and engaging as the book, and the message isn't got across clearly. Many shortcomings, not so many redeeming features but is a relatively delightful movie to watch albeit. I guess if you haven't read the book, you might like the film a lot. "},{"Title":"Mr. Koreander","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This has to be my favorite childhood movie. Other than movies like The Dark Crystal, The Labyrinth. A lot of good memories. I wish there was a toy line.. a giant Falkor pillow or a in depth video game. But anyways.. during the scene with Bastian and Mr.Koreander.. I think anyone that reads the Book gets to have their own personal Interpretation of what Fantasia is.. Different characters, etc. Does anyone agree/disagree with this? Every once in a while I notice little things like this. On a side note I wonder what became of the Actors that played Bastian & Atreyu. Jesus Christ the guidelines for IMDb are dumb. -David H. Basch "},{"Title":"Timeless, isn't it?","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending story was the very first fantasy film for children ever and the most expensive production outside the U.S.A. at the time.The movie is only half of the book's story. There are more differences between the book and the movie.In the book, Atreyu is a warrior with a green skin. That's why I firmly believe that James Cameron's and his 'Avatar' was heavily inspired by Michael Ende's book. But that is no longer the issue here ;-)There are more differences, mainly because back in 1984 CGI wasn't possible yet and much couldn't be realised, like the centaurs. But also the horse, Artax, which can speak in the book. Back then, horses were made to 'talk' using peanut butter on the inside of the upper lip of the horse. Just imagine how ridiculous that would have turned out within this movie ;-)The movie has never bored me and it still gets me in renewed ways. The effects are way outdated, the typical '80's synthesizer music sometimes is too much nowadays and there are some more issues these days.But the moral of the story is still as strong as ever. Dispair as a result of losing your imagination in present society and the idea of the possible forces behind it. The magic mirror in which your true self is reflected. In which the brace discover they are cowards and the nerd turns out to be a hero. I love it!The movie is often described as dark and terrifying for kids. That's bullshit. The movie got me when I was only 8 years old. People who think this is terrifying for children, are practicing a nice dose of Freudian projection, like the mother who is afraid of lightning and passes this fear on to her children.For years I've been hearing about a new movie based on the book and I've been looking forward to it just as long.Until then? We're lucky to have the book and the 32 year old movie every now and then ;-) "},{"Title":"Solid fantasy film for both children and adults","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I recently read an awful article called 9 Reasons Why Adults Should Never Watch The NeverEnding Story by some clown writing for buzz-feed. For this review, I am going to list off this clown's 9 Reasons and pretty much prove why they hold no water.1. It is so slow. So incredibly slow. - This guy must be a fan of movies with a simplistic plot and multiple explosions. The movie has many layers to it; the surface story, the psychological aspect and the mythical groundwork. Complex movie are usually seen as slow by the slow-witted.2. Many characters' voices do not match their lips, and it is really distracting. - I didn't notice this at all. I'm guessing the buzz-feed review watched a bootlegged version of it online.3. Atreyu screams most of his lines. - Yeah.. when he is flying around on a dragon or doing action stuff maybe. 4. Falkor the Luckdragon is shockingly creepy. - The only thing creepy here is the guy seeing anything but a goofy/sleepy luck- dragon. Seriously.. I'm worried about you, buzz-feed guy.5. It is unrelentingly depressing. - Depressing? Maybe if you don't watch the movie all the way to the end. A hero's journey wouldn't be entertaining if it was all sunshine and lollipops.6. Speaking of The Nothing, it actually looks like a bunch of dark, swirling clouds &#x97; which, technically, is something. - And after the dark, swirling clouds.. there is nothing! Did he expect The Nothing to just quietly erase everything? That would be kind of boring.7. The final confrontation between Atreyu and Gmork is super lame. - Yeah.. this clown MUST be a huge fan of all the Transformer movies. Atreyu and Gmork have like a 5 minute conversation filled with dark overtones and suspense. The physical fight between them was short but grand considering the scope of their roles in the film.8. The climactic revelation is even lamer. - So this guy g00gled the name given to the princess in the book and is pretty much just using this point to show us that he read the WlKl page for the novel. He deserves a slow clap for such effort.9. The title song will be stuck in your head for days and days and days. - It will get stuck in your head for days and days.. unless you listen to the radio or other songs!Reading the buzz-feed article encouraged me to go back and watch this classic gem. I'm sure The Neverending Story will continue to entertain us and future generations for years to come. I hope they never remake it. "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" 1984 fantasy classic about lit-buff boy Oliver who obtains an unsafe book that ends up being the ultimate escape tool for dealing with his mother's death and the bullies at school... or perhaps, the adventures taking place in Fantasia are really a reflection of his own life and conflicts? A fun flick to ponder, but it would perhaps be clearer and hold up better if it didn't end at the halfway point of the Ende book in which it is adapted from. Epic for its time, but dates rather poorly compared to something like Ridley Scott's LEGEND made only a year later. Most expensive film made outside of USA or USSR at the time of its release. The soundtrack is marvelous.★★½ (out of four) "},{"Title":"Simply marvellous.","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" In terms of sheer imagination Wolfgang Petersen's fantasy The NeverEnding Story is, by some distance, out on its own. Barret Oliver plays Bastian a young boy bullied by his fellow school pupils because of his small stature & because he has his head in the clouds. Whilst escaping his persecutors he runs into a library & finds a book of fantasy from which the movie gets its title. After borrowing the book from the library he goes home & in his attic immerses himself into this strange tale of fantasy. What follows really is fantastic in terms of imagination & this movie must be seen to be appreciated. Although aimed primarily as a children's adventure, it is so good that adults will love it too. For anyone who has never seen it, DO SO!. "},{"Title":"Creepy But Very Enjoyable,","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The NeverEnding Story is a good movie with a great storyline and a lot of fun and imaginative characters.I find this movie very creepy at times for a family film,as a child it really creeped me out,and watching it today I still think it's very strange at times,most children will probably enjoy it but I think that protective parents should definitely watch this movie on their own before letting their kids watch it.The movie is a lot of fun and I love all the colorful animation and the characters,especially Falkor,I always wanted one of them when I was a child and I still think it would be awesome to have one today.It is a good family movie with a nice fairytale theme,but it can get creepy at times,especially towards the end,but if your children aren't very sensitive then its a movie for the whole family to enjoy.A lonely boy is transported to the magic land of Fantasia by a book,a land created by the dreams of people on Earth,and it is upto him to save this world from 'The Nothing'. "},{"Title":"A young, introvert boy divulges into the mysterious world of 'Fantasia' through a magical book.","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A young, introvert boy divulges into the mysterious world of 'Fantasia' through a magical book.Based on the famous fantasy novel by same name, it is a definite must watch for fantasy lovers. Keeping in mind it was made in the early 80s, special effects are quite commendable and story is well told. Compared to this, sequel made in 90s (starring Jack Black) is loaded with some horrid SFX! Only drawback Movie is primarily focused at a preteen audience unlike some of today's fantasy giants. But Petersen can't be blamed for that, as back then probably viewership base for fantasy movies was quite age restrictive and the fantasy genre itself wasn't so grand in world of cinema.6.8/10 "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" charming story. but not exactly an adaptation. only an isle. far from Ende continent, full of jewelery, wonderful, seductive, touching. trip in heart of magnificent world and chain of unforgettable myths. spirit of novel and very interesting cast. no errors, no fake parts. only subtle nostalgia and desire to read, again, the book. the great virtue - the measure. the beautiful thing - care for details. the most precious fact - respect for atmosphere. a brave work in special effects teenage time. and delicate manner to show an entire universe , memorable aspect of characters, an impressive Bastian and unique Atreyu. grace, force, courage.bricks for a fairy-tale as puzzle of tender images. "},{"Title":"Am I the only one creeped out with this movie?","Date":"23 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The NeverEnding story is a movie that I found, just okay. The story is nice and thrilling and a few of the characters are cool (like atreyu and that rock biter thing). But there are a few things I find wrong about this movie. One thing is the death of Artax. I find that scene sad and depressing, I thought this was supposed to be for kids. The other example is THAT TERRIFYING WEREWOLF THING. In his entrance seeing those green eyes terrified me. Also in every part with him, he comes out of nowhere. I don't know why some people think this is a kids movie, but because of gmork (the werewolf thing) and the death of artax, I gave it a five out of ten "}{"Title":"A great film?","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I watched this movie today and It was very interesting. At first I thought it was going to be this cheesy movie where a boy is in a fantasy world and he learns an easy lesson from this book and applies it in real life. However this went deeper than i thought. But before that let me say the cons first. First of all, there were a couple of scenes that didn't make sense at all. For example, when the horse drowns because the horse lost against sadness, he became sad but he didn't drown. Also I didn't like the ending where he comes to the real world and takes revenge (it was kinda childish). But what I like about this movie is that it went deeper than what i thought it will. I especially like the part where he talks to the wolf. I am the servant of nothing because when people lose their hope, it's easy to control them That is so true because when Germany lost their hope, they voted for Hitler because he promised everything. In my conclusion, this is a 6 star movie because the ending kinda ruined it. "},{"Title":"When Worlds Collide","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Young Barret Oliver (as Bastian Bux), who often has his head in the clouds, is having a hard time dealing with the death of his mother. A sensitive loner boy, Mr. Oliver is pursued by bullies, on his way to school. So, he takes refuge in an old bookstore. A lover of books, Oliver cops a magical tome entitled The Neverending Story. Escaping to the attic of his school, Oliver gets lost in the book&#x85; Therein, young warrior Noah Hathaway (as Atreyu) is summoned by the people of Fantasia to battle a seemingly unstoppable force called The Nothing, which is eating away at Fantasia. Ideally, Mr. Hathaway is also expected to locate the dimensional land's young Empress (Tami Stronach), who is deathly ill, and give her a new name. Eventually, reader Oliver and adventurer Hathaway join forces.The blueprint for a true classic is all here, but too much of writer Michael Ende's imaginative original work is left out or altered; there is little nuance, the characters' relationships are underdeveloped, and the parallel quest undertaken by the boys loses its grandeur. The cast and special effects crew do nicely, though; the problems are in the adaptation and presentation. It's worth a look, but read the book.****** The NeverEnding Story (4/6/84) Wolfgang Peterson ~ Noah Hathaway, Barret Oliver, Tami Stronach, Alan Oppenheimer "},{"Title":"fantasy movie","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" 'the neverending story' is a film that had two sequels starring different kids from original film. This first film is maybe strongest film in series. This film was filmed in Germany. It has a German director and features electronic music that was successful in Germany and uk at that time. Its catchy song is sung by limahl. It's English speaking film with actors from mainly USA and uk. Stars include patricia hayes, moses gunn, gerald mcraney. There's imaginative creatures like falcor the luck dragon and rock biter in interesting story developed for film with themes of discovery and value of reading. There are big challenges for characters such as wise, questioning, powerful oracles. The film has a light fantasy tone. All young actors and actresses in film starred in number of films. Barret oliver in one of main roles here starred in 'd.a.r.y.l' and 'cocoon' "},{"Title":"eh,,","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I loved this movie as a kid, and I loved it more when I found the book. The effects are a bit dated, but they really are great for their time, especially the Ivory Tower. The story is about Stories, and the way that the worlds of Fantasy and Reality define and need each other. The only problem I have with this film is the ending. I'm sorry, but it was just too stupid to be enjoyable. Other than that, this is a wonderful movie for anyone who loves to read and dream. That said, avoid the sequels if you value your sanity. The second one tries to follow the book more closely, but it can't seem to do it well, and the third should simply be scraped into a landfill and never spoken of again. Give this one a chance, you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"A great fairytale with a dark air that is suitable for kids without being too safe for them","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Tired of being bullied and depressed from the death of his mother, Bastian seeks refuge in an old storybook that he borrowed from a musty bookstore. Hiding up in the attic of his school, he starts to read the story of a place called Fantasia that is slowly being lost to a seemingly unstoppable force called the Nothing. Only one brave warrior can stop the force and save the land and the Childlike Empress &#150; but nobody expected that warrior to be the boy Atreyu. Atreyu sets out on his impossible quest with Bastian hooked on his every step but Bastian does not expect to lose as much of his time into the story as he does.I read this book as a child and loved it, rereading it several times afterwards. The film came out after this and I can still remember the excitement of going to see the film with my Mum while we were on holiday &#150; I remember loving it despite it not being as good as the book and the version in my head. Years later (just over twenty actually &#150; where is my life going to?) I decided to watch it again although I was sure it would be a corny kids film with very dated effects. In some aspects I was right but generally I was surprised by how strong a film it was and how great a kid's fantasy it still is. The tale is darker than I remembered &#150; full of loss, depression and hopelessness against great odds; it may all come down to a moral of believing but it is much less corny and clichéd than that idea suggests. At times it is genuinely frightening and I'm almost embarrassed to admit that I was often as engaged as Bastian was. It may all end up in familiar territory but the German roots are clear and it is much better than similar fairy-tales that American studios sanitise and serve up with loads of kid-friendly syrup.The puppets and effects of course look dated but they are still effective because mostly they are imaginative and well done. The cast are impressive considering the reliance on children on the whole. Oliver is a bit close to being cute but just avoids it, while Hathaway manages to lead the action side of the story convincingly. Voice work is mostly very good and compliments the puppets well. Petersen directs the whole thing with an atmosphere that compliments the material &#150; slightly magical but also pretty dark and mean.Overall this is a fine film and a great one for kids to see. Although the clichés are there they are well delivered in a clever and interesting plot that keeps the corn at bay. Meanwhile the whole product has a dark and magical air to it that draws you in &#150; it isn't perfect and modern kids may struggle with the effects but many will be too won over by the story and the mood to care. "},{"Title":"Book is SO much better than movie!!","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I know we've all said it The book was better. The Neverending Story by Michael Ende is much better than the movie. I'm sure many people have read the book, but i felt the need to have my say.The movie was part of my childhood, as many of us have in common. One day many years later i saw the book in a bookstore. I picked it up, bought it, read it, and never went back to the movie again. I felt the movie did the book no justice. I squinted my eyes to look at the credits and Michael Ende wasn't even named. (If he was, i could not see it.) If anyone has seen the movie and loved it, i urge you, please, PLEASE read the book! It has more magic in its pages than the film strip does in its pictures. "},{"Title":"a classic of our times","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie was one of the greatest! I remember the first time i saw it how wonderful and enchanting that it is.I just sat down and watched it today with my 7 year old son and watched as he was amazed by the many wonderful characters from the rockbiter and the racing snail to Falcor the luck dragon to the child-like empress!You will be amazed at the special effects that at the time were the coolest and still are a wonder for both adults and children!although some children real young might be scared of a couple of scenes with the wolf and the southern orracle. Wonderful scenery and the ivory tower is beautiful!A classic family film That will be enjoyed by all! "},{"Title":"Wonderful Fairytale","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It's the magical journey of a young boy, Bastian, through, Fantasia, the world of human fantasy.  It teaches without being preachy, sweet without being sacchariney (is that even a word?!?)The special effects are decent, not state of the art of today's movies, but still effective and believable.I saw this movie when it first came out and the soundtrack stayed with me all this time.   I spent a lot of time wishing that Fantasia was real and I could get there by just making a wish myself!All in all, a fine movie for adults as well as children. "},{"Title":"the story that never ends in my memory....","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The truth is I haven't watched The Lord of the Rings(any of the 3)and once I asked my sister if its just like THE NEVERENDING STORY and she replied, Not really... Well I knew that she adored LOTR  so much but was reluctant to say so because as kids we have always loved THE NEVERENDING STORY and it really served as our favorite movie, the movie that  served as a symbol of our friendship as sisters... I am now 25 and she's a couple of years younger and during our bonding moments together we still recall so much about our well-loved movies and we always talk about THE NEVERENDING STORY and as I blurt out my favorite line Why won't you do what you've dreamed Bastian?, she would reply her favorite line, It's only a story its not real!Then we end up laughing together. The truth is I am planning to watch LOTR 1,2,3...I'm sure those are great films...but you guys are right... There will be no LOTR if THE NEVERENDING STORY never existed because it's definitely the original fantasy film!  "},{"Title":"A NICE STORY.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is so nice, it mean much many things to me when young. I dont understand why its called never ending story, you understand, because the story it does end (after 2 hrs I belive).***SPOLER*** When the unicorn he die, I cry always. It is the saddest scene ever since the Champ. The film power has never been seen in another story, it is too much. I think for fantsay it is better than lord of the roings, because it is about a book, and book is better than a ring. I give the film high rating but not perfect, because the poster it lie, it say never ending story, and the story it finishes after 2 hourrs, but maybe it is meant for saying that the story will never end, in the heart, it lives on, because its so nice. "}{"Title":"lovely, but the book is much better","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  **POSSIBLE VERY MILD SPOILERS**I really loved this movie as a little girl- so much that I got myself a copy of the book it's based on. and when I'd finished the book, I realized how unfaithful to it the movie is.it only shows half of the story, which is to me the less important half, and conveys only half of the message of the book. plus, several important scenes are missing (i.e. Uyulala, Egramul and Atreyu being attracted to the Nothing in the ghost city).the movie itself is stunning visually, and the vistas and landscapes are beautiful-- especially breathtaking is the vision of the Ivory Tower floating on a huge rock in space-- and provides a great fantasy experience for anyone who hasn't read the book, but as a great admirer of The Neverending Story, I would like to see a version that portrays the book better. and a green-skinned Atreyu. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERSI enjoyed this movie.  The biggest problem I have is that it didn't actually make way for Part II (which would have been a lot better if they were fully connected.The movie is based on 1/2 of the book by Michael Ende, which was about a kid going into the fantastic realm of a book that he reads instead of going to class.  Unfortunately, the movie skipped out on most of the plot of the book and it ends rather abruptly.Unfortunately, some of my favourite scenes from the book were among the skipped ones *thinks of Ygramul the Many and Uyulala*And we don't see the effect of the Nothing.Still, a rather well-made film that scores above the sequels. "},{"Title":"neverending appeal...","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I couldn't stand this film as a kid. Whenever it would rain at the YMCA and we were stuck inside, they'd whip this out. After having to watch it for the fifth or sixth time one summer, I hated it. I revisted it last year after having not seen it in about 15 years. What an awesome picture. Watching it now from a fresh perspective with very vague memories of it, was like seeing it (mostly) for the first time. And now as adult, I really was affected by the magic they were able to create. Most know that it centers around a boy hold up in a storeroom one rainy morning (one of the great atmospheric things in the film). You can't help but want to watch it nowadays in that same setting in your house. As he reads, we are seeing it all in live-action. The story within also concerns a boy, he in a mystical universe. We follow his adventure in trying to save a doomed land. Watch it yourself for more details, as I don't have several weeks to sit here and get into the greatness of it all. The performances are terrific, as the two young boys have to carry most of it. Hathaway is great as the book's hero, as is Oliver as the enthralled observer on the outside. But maybe the most awesome thing about the film is the absolutely WONDERFUL soundtrack. Doldinger and Moroder totally blew me away with the emotional work, and just the same with the upbeat moments (the music accompanying the flying sequences will always take me away). Plus an extremely memorable title song by Limahl. And for those who bash the film because it is not loyal to the book...WHO CARES??? They still provided us with a terrific story experience that went far beyond the expectations of a childrens movie. I wouldn't care if they just stole the title and changed everything to what we see in the film. What they made was perfect. Unfortunately, some very lackluster sequels followed, but there's no way to re-create this kind of magic. So, here's to a story with 'neverending' appeal, with a totally perfect ending, as they saved the best scene for last. I mean, what kid wouldn't love to run his bullies into a dumpster with the help of a flying dog? "},{"Title":"A Great Fantasy Movie For All","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  In a time when fantasy was big. A time when movies were SERIOUS and appealed to the older audience as well with great morals, The Never Ending Story is probably one of the best fantasies of all time. I loved this movie when I was just a young boy, I use to watch it all the time and never get tired of it. I still don't. Years ago I went and read the original novel to this great film. Some wording in the original novel were a bit different however, such as the land being called FANTASTICA instead of FANTASIA. I personally like the original novel pronounciation better than the film because it seems more magical and FANTASIA is just used too much in too many things. Of course the book is much better and more complex than the movie, but what does one expect? Even though the movie is only the first half of the original novel, it still does great by itself. This film can be loved and cherished by everyone. If you haven't seen it, go out and rent it. Most won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining. That's A Good Word For It.","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"     MIGHT VERY POSSIBLY CONTAIN A SPOILER OR TWOMeet Bastian. Played by Barret Oliver (he was in the Cocoon movies). He's got a b**tard father who accuses him of day dreaming all the time. And three bullies pick on him. He finds shelter in a book store, where a disgruntled old man works, named Koreander. He shows Bastian a book. He says once you read it, you actually become part of the story. While he's not looking, Bastian snatches the book. He takes it to school and reads it in the attic. (Awkward, but a place where no one will bother you). The book is about a magical imagination land called Fantasia.(I doubt it has any relation with the Disney movie). I like Night Hob and the guy with the racing snail. Actually, the latter dresses like Willy Wonka from Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, don't you think?  The land is being infested by something called The Nothing. Not only that, but the young princess has fallen ill. A brave hero must be found who can save the land, and her. One who is indeed brave enough to perform the task. They find one a young lad named Atreyu. (I gotta tell you. Despite the fact he is a guy, Atreyu looks like a broad. I guess with his long hair and his outfit. I once thought he was a female). He's got a horse and sadly loses it in the Swamp of Sadness.But he carries on. He meets a giant turtle who's got very windy sneezes and doesn't give a hoot about much.  Atreyu meets a Luckdragon, Falkor, and meets an elderly couple. Atreyu nearly misses being blown to bits by two statues that shoot lasers at someone who doesn't know his own self worth. Engywood says the second gate to the Southern Oracle is a mirror gate and keeps saying it's worse than the first, but it don't look so bad to me!  Atreyu learns that in order to cure the princess, she needs a new name. It seems Bastian is the only one who can speak the name that can save the land. Bastian decides to give her his mother's name. I don't know what that is, so he opens the window and shouts out God knows what! Bastian soon get's to ride Falkor and get even with the bullies, so it's a happy ending for him and all of Fantastia.Now like I said before, Entertaining is the perfect word for this movie. Entertaining and Different. I haven't seen the sequels. I'm sure they're good. - "},{"Title":"A movie that touches one's soul","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is an all-time favorite movie of mine, because it says so much symbolically that many people miss, but which I think they get on a deeper level.An example would be the Swamp of Sadness representing one's Dark night of the soul in life, where we all must overcome the illusion that we are not strong enough to carry on despite terrible adversities we may face in our lives.I don't want to give away the plot of the movie, but when you watch it, please do yourselves a favor and notice the symbology of each part of the story...the mirror, the dialogue.  This is much, much more than just a children's movie.I purchased the book, and my son & I are going to read it aloud to each other every night until we finish it.  I feel that this will give us a wonderful memory he can carry into his adult years & I can carry into my old age (ack!), and help us get away from the 21st century high-tech world of television, heavy-metal music and computers.This movie is wonderful for any age, and if you are going through a difficult time, it will be very uplifting for you.I also cannot wait for the DVD to come out! "},{"Title":"A Tremendous fantasy film. **Contains Spoilers**","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  A great movie that had it all. You can laugh, you can cry,  and you can have an overall sense of happiness.Oh sure, some of the sayings in this movie are a little corny, or a little... weird. But sure doesn't every movie? For 1. I think one weird part was the boy reading the NeverEnding Story in the attic of his school. But hey, that's just one fall for this movie.And you can feel a sense of sadness of when Atreayeu's horse dies in the Swamp of Sadness (the quicksand).And the whole movie is just very good and very clever. 2 Thumbs up.Out of 10-9.1 "},{"Title":"still great viewing,after many years","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  i still remember seeing this movie when it first came out on the big screen,i was 17,it may have been 84/85,it was still a time of the big old picture theaters,it was a full house,the audience was fairly young,but i noticed there seemed to be a lot of mature people as well-for the duration of the movie, myself and the people around me were engaged and totally engrossed in the viewing.i also remember something i hadn,t seen before,when the movie finished,the whole audience stood up and started clapping,this at a time in new zealand when not every one owned a video machine-after all this time,even with so many distractions,home computers,playstations and everyday general living this movie still is a classic and even someone my age(34)it helps to take me back to my child hood times-a place filled constantly with dreams,a place where there was no dilemmas,no stress and being a kid was all about playing and having fun-i introduced this movie to my niece and nephew,a few years back and they absolutely loved it-a gentle reminder to the magic of being a kid-enjoy "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Wow. Sugary though it is, it only takes a few bars of Limahl's theme from this film to bring you roaring back to when you first witnessed this dreamlike masterpiece - for me it was the Christmas film in primary school. I had never experienced anything like it before - this was long before I saw films like Willow and Krull - and I can still remember the staggering range of emotions that it generated from nail-biting fear at the poltergeist intangibility of The Nothing; heart-wrenching sadness at the death of Artax (I was literally in tears as the Swamps of Sadness swallowed him; not good form for a rugged little brat) to a strange... something at the sight of the gorgeous Tami Stronach as the Child Like Empress. And, of course, what self-respecting 8-year-old was not spitting with jealousy at Bastian's triumphant ride of Falkor at the film's climax? There really is no denying that this film was a benchmark in its genre; in fact I think I could probably hold it responsible for my up-to-the present love of swords and sorcery in both film and literature. It remains both heartwarming and fast-paced, and a timeless reminder of youthful imagination. Sheer magic.  "},{"Title":"Fantasia ROCKS!!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The NeverEnding Story is one of my all-time favourite films, and Fantasia captures majestic creatures, intriging storylines and stunning backgrounds better than Oz or Neverland ever could.Michael Ende is a true genius for creating such a unique and exciting idea, about a lonely boy who finds solace in a mystical world within a book - too bad he didn't like this theatrical version of his story.I remember watching 'The NeverEnding Story' when I was about 3 and being totally mesmerized by it. Of course, my perception of special effects was pretty lousy, and although some of the effects seem somewhat weak, it was pretty damn good for 1984!!Barret Oliver and Noah Hathaway (Bastian Bux and Atreyu) are great little actors and play their parts very well, as did the girl who played The Childlike Emperess (can't remember name!).The characters from Fantasia are imaginative and original - Rockbiter, Falcore - they all rock! And God knows I probably cried when I was little when I watched poor Artax sink in the mud. (But anyway, I think this film is great - much better than Part II and a-kajillion times better than Part III, 'The NeverEnding Story' is one of the best films of the 1980's (after E.T. and Jumpin' Jack Flash, of course!)  "}{"Title":"this movie was one on my favorites.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  i have no idea how i got this movie on tape , but somehow i did and i'm glad i have it. i don't remember the first time i saw this movie, but i know i used to watch it all the time. i hadn't seen it in a few years, but just watched it of fox family today. i still loved it. after all the scary movies i've watched (and those are a lot) the only thing in a movie that has ever scared me is the servent of the nothing. everytime i watch the movie, i can never get one thing. What was the name??????? "},{"Title":"I'll side with the Rockbyter in saying I never thought it would be that beautiful","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  To call this movie a fantasy film is a bit too general.  To call this movie just a children's film is underestimating it.  It is a fantasy and it is good enough for children, yet it does so much more.  This movie let's it's watcher be a kid or experience the joy of being a kid.The NeverEnding Story is the story of a story (it's not so confusing for someone who's seen it).  This is the contemporary story about young Bastian.  Bastian is an elementary school daydreamer.  His daydreams help him cope with things like math tests, swim-team try-outs, bullies and especially from the loss of his mother.  Bastian is constantly reminded to keep his feet on the ground.  One day, he stumbles on this mysterious book that can surely feed his need to daydream.  The book is called The NeverEnding Story.  Bastian finds out that this particular story is about the majestic and surreal land Fantasia being destroyed by the ultimate of all evils, an evil that has not purpose, no reason, no shape no form and not identity that it can only be reffered to as the nothing.  All citizens turn to the leadership of the Empress during this crisis, but alas she has fallen prey to the nothing as well.  The last hope for Fantasia is the warrior-boy Atreju to find a way to stop the nothing, and so the adventure begins.Just like the way Bastian gets pulled deeper and deeper into this story, so will anyone who watches it.  This movie, based on the novel by Michael Ende , does the impossible by turning basic human emotions into tangible backgrounds and characters, such a the Swamps of Sadness ,The Southern Oracle, Gmorke the Wolf and Falkor the Luck Dragon.  The most memorable of all in this film is the Ivory Tower and The Childlike Empress.  Her presence in this film is all too enchanting.  No one is ever the same again ,after watching this film.  The underlining theme (of the nothing)is something that holds true to anyone of any age and time. Bastians' last act in the end of the film sums-up every kids' wildest dream.   At times it may be hard to root for Atreju when he rants and screams like a whinny ,spoiled brat.  He has his moments though. The rest of the colorful characters like Falkor, Engywook, Rockbyer, and especially The Childlike Empress more then make up for it.                I highly recommend this film for children of any and all ages.  It's a must see.   "},{"Title":"Still a classic after all these years.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  First off, I wanted to let everyone know that there is a rare book called The World of the NeverEnding Story which has a behind the scenes making of the film with photographs. I saw it on EBAY and it's a must have.I watched this movie today on HBO,and all I can say is Wow. They showed this movie in my school, Alexandria Avenue School about 16yrs ago (I was 7) and every kid laughed, cried and enjoyed the movie. Even watching it today at 25 yrs old, I still get choked up watching it. Barrett Oliver is underrated and it's a  shame he hasn't been in movies in 10 yrs.There is currently a 2001 version of this movie been worked out and It been a shame if Barrett didn't at least have a cameo appearance.Great Films dont age. This one lives forever. "},{"Title":"A timeless classic.","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film is wonderful,I used to watch it like three times a week when I was a child. When you watch that film you see that Barret Oliver(who play Bastian) was truly a great actor and he did some of the most memorable 80s film ever(Cocoon,Daryl..).After all those years that film still as good as I remember(even better). "},{"Title":"one word  transcendentalism","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  My favorite film when I was a child was long ignored in my adolescence, and now as I become an adult, I have found a piece of life-essence itself. The Neverending Story makes me cry.  It is not about reading books.  It is about creativity, oh, but so much more.  As a boy I wanted to visit Fantasia and ride the luckdraggon and even meet the Empress (who is still one of the most beautifully filmed characters ever) but I knew it was all a movie and continued with my life.  The biggest mistake ever.The Neverending Story was real.  It kept telling me that I was part of it to, but I never understood that as a child.  It is not about books, but about going beyond books, transcending them, moving away from words and pages into making things real for yourself.  Perhaps that's why I dislike the book so greatly.  It was too specific.  Bastian was made a character too detailed for his own good.  Bastian, in the movie, and appropriately so, is not only every child, but every person.  Anyone can relate to him and his wishes, whereas the book was too character driven and not fascinated enough by its own premise.  And those who scoff at the film's effects, then spend the rest of your life in a laboratory and concern yourself with the physical world and never understand what The Neverending Story was about.  If you do, someday you will regret it, lying sick in your bed, with no dragon to fly you to your dreams. "},{"Title":"No way out","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  When you see this movie, it keeps your mind going.  You can't get out of the thought that because you forget dreams a dream world is dying.  I remember when i was in kindergarten and Ted Turner as always playing and playing movies over and over again and the never ending story being one of them.  I love to dream and seeing movies and wanting to belive in worlds like Fantasia gives me reason to dream and builds on my dreams.  There's nothing funner to do than to sit in your room and think of impossible dreams and make them come true in your mind and heart, and that is one thing i'll never give up.  If i could find the words for my dreams i'd write story's about them because there are so many and they are so real in my mind. I want nothing more than to dream of charectors like luck dragons, and stone eating giants, and racing snails, and a book that is made while you read.  Thats somthing that makes life worth living. This is a reason to keep going.  Dreams that can only come true in your mind and your heart. "},{"Title":"One of the few films that scared me when I was little,but it's all good!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"   Once upon a time,when I was little,I huddled up in a closet one day and was looking through sci-fi/fantasy movie magazines.I saw a magazine that was promoting Die Unendliche Geschichte/The Neverending Story.Boy did the pictures terrify me!Gmorok(sp?) scared me,Falchor scared me,the Rock Biter Scared me,The two boys and their snail and bat scared me and the Gnomes scared me.The only characters in the film that didn't frighten me were the child stars(Bastian,Atreyu/Atreju and the Empress).Eventually,my mom wanted to see this movie,but I sure did not want to,so I hid in the garden.Eventually,she found my hiding place and so,I ended up sitting down watching the movie with her.For the most part,I covered my eyes.But now,17-18 years later,I've enjoyed this movie!I enjoy this movie as much as the book and I think it's unfair to compare the two!Just look at them in a diffrent view.And not to mention it was one of the few fantasy films to actually scare me when I was little (strangely coming from someone that was NEVER afraid of The Dark Crystal or Jim Henson's Storyteller).Just to let everyone know,the German version is longer than the English language version.Intresting,huh?  "},{"Title":"A marvellous swamp","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The great James Cameron could not have put together a more convincing Swamp of Sadness. His cast on Titanic complained about their watery long hours in the tank just imagine what it was  like for young Noah Hathaway immersed for hours in a freezing cold mudbath. Yet it was the only way that director Petersen could get the fantasy on screen in a convincing manner. No expense spared to bring the storyboard to life. The movie is uniquely textured it has its own particular magic which demands several viewings. Will the powers that be please release it on DVD soon? "},{"Title":"I L-O-O-O-OVE fantasies!","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"                    I'm sure the book was great, but this movie is visually memorable! I was only 5 when it came out, but I remembered how marked I was by the movie. I recall being terrified of that wolf, feeling sorry for the poor horse (aw! That still makes me cry EVERY TIME I see it), and being in love with Atreyu. Ah, those were the days.                 Whenever I crave a fantasy movie I go rent this or Legend.-Sep "},{"Title":"A Movie that should not be missed....","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I picked up a copy of the Neverending story for myself, after not seeing it for years.  I remember being drawn into the world of Bastien and Fantasia, and wishing it would happen to me.  Years later the magic still holds me spellbound.The story is wonderful. This movie is a wonderful example of how I feel when reading.  I am there, racing the Luck Dragon, meeting the Childlike Empress.  I know how Bastien feels.  I know what it is like to be so drawn into a book that no matter what, you have to turn the next page.I have read comments from other people saying that it it just not the same watching it now versus when younger because it is fake looking.  It was made 14 years ago.  Special effects have come a long way.  I am not sure the movie would hold its same magic if we had computer generated special effects.All in all I would reccomend this movie to anyone - first time viewers or viewers wanting to rediscover the magic of Fantasia.  I cannot wait to show my children this movie. "}{"Title":"The Neverending Story","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  After a very long time I had not seen the movie I bought it at amazon.com and watched it. I still felt the magic, though I'm an adult now, yet still a dreamer.I was only a little disappointed because the Neverending Story is not equal to the Unendliche Geschichte, the original German version I watched in the movies when it came out in Spring 1984.The most important shortcoming was the music. It's quite good but it does not come close to the effect of the original music by Klaus Doldinger.Then some scenes were shortened and one scene was entirely cut out. (The scene when the school housekeeper comes in after the Howling Forest and before the Ivory Tower.)It was not an important scene as such, but it underlined the happening and lenghtened the process of Bastians reading. One could better feel into Bastian with this scene.I would still give the Neverending Story a 10. If I could vote for Die Unendliche Geschichte, it would be an 11 for sure. "},{"Title":"A Modern Day Classic","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I have spoken to a lot of people over the years who hold this film in high regard. It is a very well made film, that is near impossible to beat (although Labyrinth comes close). This movie is the best and really reminds a lot of us of our childhoods. Was followed by two sequels, one that was decent, and one that was terrible.  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Back in 1984 I could not stop watching it at the pictures and it probably stressed my purse quite a lot then. But then it was so great to escape to Fantasia, as much as Bastian (Barret Oliver was well chosen for this part), I longed to dream of a World where I could be a hero too, with Atreyu (Noah Hathaway was just great) as an example. The special effects, though not as technical as in nowadays cult movies (eg Star Wars) were excellent too. You actually felt you were in Fantasia, and it was quite familiar, quite real. I long for it now and I would like to see it on a large screen again. An exceptional movie with great kid actors, who are grown up and forgotten now. How sad. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of my childhood","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Neverending Story is a model for children's entertainment in the 1980's.  The biggest moral to the story was that children should read more books.  So often today, children's entertainment focuses on making a statement.The Neverending Story was wonderful, full of fantasy and imagination. The story of a little boy named Bastian who borrowed a magical book from a small, old book store and whose imagination in the story doesn't realize until the end that he's a part of the story and the human boy that Atreyu is looking for is him.There are no hard core issues to this story.  No underlying reason for making the film beyond pure entertainment.  During a time when a kid could be a kid and innocence was a virtue in film making.  A movie that influenced kids that they could be whatever they dreamed.The cast couldn't of been better.  Every actor and actress filled their role perfectly and beautifully and every voice for non-human actors was perfect. Beautifully done, The Neverending Story is one of the best movies of all time. "},{"Title":"It's a classic of our modern day.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I grew up on this movie, and it's a good thing I did.  This movie set so many standards in movies (especially fantasy movies) today.  It and the Star Wars movies are the two things I would say have affected the way society today looks at Fantasy.In addition, the score is one that caused all others after it to model themselves after.  I'm watching the movie right now, and even though I haven't seen the movie in years, the music that I hear is SO familiar, SO much of an institution in the fantasy film genre, that I have still never forgotten it since the first time I ever saw it.  There should be more movies made like this. "},{"Title":"The Best Imaginable Movie Ever Told!","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I liked The Neverending Story alot on Michael Ende's Stories on Bastain Bux (Played by Barret Oliver) reads the entire chapters in the book on Atreyu's Adventures in saving the whole land of Imagination called Fantasia by the Powerful Destructive Forces called The Nothing.When Atreyu found out who's behind all of this destructive force is destroying Fantasia is The Werewolf named Gmork,who's spying on Atreyu trying to stop the Nothing.  "},{"Title":"Good Story, Baaaad Movie","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Like most people who have read the book, I felt a little cheesed to say the least by this movie.  I wanted to even suggest that it should be remade, after I saw Dragonheart.  But then I rememberedThis horror has sequels.Why did they butcher one of the most moving and realistic stories ever? And to make it worse, to add insult to injury, they made sequels that had nothing to do with the actual story whatsoever.  Please read the book.  It costs less and is much more worth your time then a boy riding a puppet. "},{"Title":"Wholesome and enchanting family film","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  It's been nearly 15 years since I first saw the movie, but I enjoyed it just as much the second time around. The child actors are convincing, the storyline inventive, and the imaginary characters (With the exception of that cocker spaniel dragon) well conceived. This is one that children, parents and grandparents should watch together. It effectively builds toward an ending that all will cheer.  "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is probably one of the most fun to watch movies I've seen. I can watch it for the 10th time and still be glued to the television. The acting is great, so is the plot. Geez, this movie brings back memories of when i took a day off in elementray school just to watch this movie.  I think this movie is very much like the game Master of Magic (has nothing to do with the card game) and Ultima, and I always want to play those games, or at least think about them after this movie.  "},{"Title":"Once again proving the book is (almost) always better.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie was waaaay back in second grade and all I really remember of it then was that it scared the heck out of me.  I saw it again a couple of years ago and wasn't particularly impressed. But then, on a whim I picked up the book this movie is based on and was blown away.  The book is a million billion times better than the movie!   Magical, mystical, lyrical and philosophical  it earned a special place on my bookshelf with the children's books I loved as a kid and still love as an adult, such as Peter Beagle's The Last Unicorn, C.S. Lewis' Narnia books and Susan Cooper's Dark is Rising series.  So, put down the VCR remote and the Blockbuster rental card and go get the book instead.  The movie is mediocre;  the book is magical.   "}{"Title":"Read the book instead","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Perhaps it was a mistake for me to read the book before I saw the film. The technology to recreate scenes found in the book wasn't available in 1984, and probably isn't available now. However, I'd actually find this a fairly convincing argument for not actually making the film at all.I can't in all conscience criticise the effects, or the soundtrack, or even the acting performance. My complaint really lies with the bastardised ending. I was really depressed to find the most powerful, meaningful book I'd ever read turned into a live-action version of a Saturday morning kids' cartoon. All I can really do is say please, please read the book instead. Then you can truly have the experience of a lifetime... "},{"Title":"Here's a classic!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is one of Wolfang Perterson's best films, knowing that this IS coming from a guy that does a lot of war films. This film is a lot of fun and has a lot of charm. The characters are VERY likeable (I like that nighthob guy that rides on an idiotic bat, not to mention Falcor) and is VERY faithful to the book.Just one flaw,I wish they would remake this as a mini-series (but let it be German though).But,then,this movie is near flawless. "},{"Title":"Michael Ende VS grown up producers","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I've enjoyed this movie a lot. This story is a perfect exemple of what we do as we grow up, giving our imagination away for responsibility. It has been a long time since I've seen this picture, but I read the book after seeing the film and it gave me much, more satisfaction. The story of Bastien and his experience through Fantasia is much more elaborate.  "},{"Title":"This ROCKS!!!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Another favorite of mine. I used to be scared of this when I was like 3 years old, but when I was 6 or so, I started to love this movie. A lot of cool characters in this movie,though none really steals the show.Must watch! "},{"Title":"One of the Most Magical Movies of the 1980s","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is another movie I saw as a middle-schooler in the 1980s and simply never, ever forgot!  One of the most beautiful and visually-compelling fantasies of the past twenty years, this is the perfect film for kids who are otherwise pummeled with the standard fare of TVs and movies these days.  The film contains the first half of the material in the book The Neverending Story, and that's a real treat too.  "},{"Title":"Great Fantasy Moments","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I watched The Neverending Story a lot of times on TV but not too much.My Favorite part of the movie is Atreyu Flying on Valkore's Back.When Atreyu was too late to stop the Nothing he fell off Valkore's back and Landed in the Seas of Possibilites and he lost the auryn and on the seashores he meets Rockbiter and He stepped in Spook City and saw Painting Designs and suddenly he spotted a monster named gmork who was the servant behind the Nothing is sent to get rid of Atreyu for facing of The Nothing.This Movie had one villain is The Monster named gmork is a type of a Black Wolf was following Atreyu in the Swamps of Sadness.here's a joke to gmork The Black Wolf I'm Going To Huff! I'm Going to Puff! and Blow FANTASIA! APART "},{"Title":"Let me tell you something...","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  During the editing of this film, Michel Ende, who had written the novel on which the film is based, distanced himself from this realization (see trivia). And he was right. As a kid, I saw this film and liked it very much, as it is beautiful, intense and quite well made. My parents told me again and again to read the book. I used to answer Why? I have seen the movie! Years later, I finally read the book. And I learned that this film is such a completely ridiculous version of a story that is, in its genre, as big and powerful as The Lord of the Rings is in pure Fantasy. Of course, a novel can hardly be turned into a good and satisfying film, but in this case there is nothing in common except the names of some persons. Just by the way The novel is printed in two different colors to show different parts of the story. I only can recommend reading the novel. "},{"Title":"The most imaginative movie I have ever seen","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I just love this movie, it was the one movie when I was a kid that inspired and opened my imagination up more than any other movie, partly because of all the unique characters and awesome visuals. "},{"Title":"Fantasia is a place everyone should be able to escape to.","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  What a beautiful movie,  you can come to it time and time again young or old and still want your own luck dragon and snake amulet.  This is the movie that makes you wish you had access to ancient tomes and your schools arcane backrooms. "},{"Title":"One that kind of scares me","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" So American children have had lots of experience... I for one have watched a lot of movies. Some of them are about different races, some of them are about different species of men. This doesn't make me older in itself.One of the worst movies for me to watch when I was younger was 120 Days of Sodomy, another was the Neverending Story, a fantasy film by Wolfgang puck. Now... this is NOT your average fantasy flick... this one was a lot sicker, a lot scarier, and a lot darker. the main darkness of the film is darkness himself.Now, why was this movie so hard to watch for children like sodomy? Because of frightening elements... with that said, that's what makes it more adult. This is a movie for big teenagers. This isn't a movie for little brittle ones. Some of the darkness in the movie is actually reminiscent of real-world trauma like the Holocaust of hip-hop in the late 90s.The movie played on several cable networks which gave it longplay as a classic amongst drug users and terminally ill... Hoobastank does the theme song and it's terrible but this is an 80s movie so it only adds to the magic. One of the worst things about the film is the message that it teaches about how to read. This is irrelevant in the internet age when most people are proggraminng at the push of a button. 10/10 "}{"Title":"actually better than I remember","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Spoiler possibility this review contains mildly-coded references to a couple of key scenes.Like most adults of a certain age, I first (and last) saw this film as a child of the 80's. I remember quite liking it, about as equally as its peers Legend, Return to Oz, Labyrinth, Willow and the like.Never-Ending Story is the first 80's fantasy film I've revisited as a (sort of) mature adult. It didn't start off great, the narrative was clumsily pushed along without any sense of setting, and the dramatic Artax scene felt off as we'd only just met the animal, so no time to really work up some kind of emotional connection to him (presuming it's a him).Generally the pacing felt a little artificial, but this was soon forgotten as the film entered its second half, with the memorable scenes piling up, not least the final threeway (oo'er missus!) dialogue, culminating in Bastian's glorious MOOOOOOOOOONCHIIIIIIIIIIIIILD!!!!!!!!!!!.I got the restoration version (Bluray, from Constantine). It genuinely looks fantastic and Atreyu is far less annoying than I remember, in fact he's a hero! Never appreciated his role when I was a kid (probably watched too much Jedi lark, haha). Big props to all 3 child actors, they did an excellent job.Note if you're in Germany don't activate the German-dub the constant references to kindliche Kaiserin are doubly-stupid when her voice actor sounds about 30 (research confirmed the voice actress was twice the age of Tami Stronach).My memory said a 7/10 but this re-watch ups it to 8/10. It's still a kids' film, but hey...recommended also for film buffs and fantasy fans alike. Oh, and lush soundtrack! The famous pop song didn't feature in this restored version, and I'm glad it didn't as instead we get tons of very nice instrumental electronic music. "},{"Title":"A Seminal Movie from My Childhood","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I recently re-watched The Neverending Story, one of my favorite fantasy films from my childhood, and was pleased to find that it holds up pretty well.The effects are much better than a bunch of other fantasy films from the 80s that I've been either revisiting or seeing for the first time lately, films like Krull, Labyrinth and Legend. And The Neverending Story feels much lighter on its feet than any of those other films, knowing just how seriously to take itself. You can't beat the movie's message either -- a sense of wonder and imagination is essential to navigating life, particularly as we leave childhood behind and take on the responsibilities and doldrums of adulthood.And then of course there's that famous theme song, courtesy of three- time Academy Award winning composer Giorgio Moroder.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Appealing for kids and the kid inside all of us.","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" There's much that is charming about this kind of family oriented, classically styled fantasy. It's not exactly subtle about its message, but it still offers a dazzling amount of entertainment, enhanced by memorable characters and settings. It marked the English language debut for the acclaimed German director Wolfgang Petersen, who'd previously done the WWII drama Das Boot. He works with an appealing group of child actors and an accomplished bunch of adult performers, giving his film great pace and plenty of atmosphere.Young Bastian (Barret Oliver) is a boy who's lost his mother, and is bullied at school. His dad (Gerald McRaney, in a brief cameo) is concerned that he's not rooted in reality, and that he's ignoring responsibilities. Bastian promises to do better, but gets sidetracked when into his life comes a magical, mysterious book, The NeverEnding Story. He escapes into the attic of his school, and the balance of the movie details what happens as he visualizes the actions in the book.It takes place in a land named Fantasia, which is in danger of being destroyed by an all- powerful Nothing. It turns out that the only hope for Fantasia is boy warrior Atreyu (Noah Hathaway), who must take on many challenges in the course of saving the land and the life of its childish princess (Tami Stronach).It's the wonderful animatronic effects and creatures that truly bring this to life the racing snail, the towering Rockbiter, the apathetic turtle-like being Morla, the frightening and hideous wolflike antagonist G'mork, the majestic parade float - er, I mean to say, luckdragon - Falkor, etc. Viewers will likely enjoy themselves spending time with such characters. Sydney Bromley and Patricia Hayes add appreciable comedy relief as the scientist Engywook and his companion Urgl. Veteran actor & voice over artist Alan Oppenheimer pulls double duty by doing a fine job of voicing both G'mork and Falkor.The visuals and special effects are arresting, and the theme is explicitly stated The Nothing represents the apathy that can overtake people once they dispense with the joy of pure imagination.It may be largely nostalgia playing a part in the appreciation of this film, for this now 40 something year old viewer, but he finds that this tale still holds up rather nicely 30 years later.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"FLASH GORDON (1980) meets Alice in Wonderland meets...","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Is it just me, or the scenes/visuals (especially the beginning) and the atmosphere seem copied from FLASH GORDON (1980)? Of course the story is totally different, but I'm talking about the cinematic visuals. This is a little charming movie Acting the ten minutes of the child Empress' acting are worth more than Oliver's entire acting career (and the actress starred in this movie only ); Hathaway is barely fine but overacts; the rest isn't worth mentioning. Nice parade of fantasy creatures in a fantasy world for small and not-so-small viewers alike. The plot is very simple...a 'coming of age' tale masquerading as another 'Alice in wonderland'...but it isn't bad. SFX are very good, although no longer A+ these days; for example some outdoor scenes clearly look like narrow studio sets. While individual aspects of this movie may fail, the whole still offers very reasonable entertainment. "},{"Title":"A new adaptation should be made.","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Michael Ende was never happy with Wolfgang Petersen's original film of The Neverending Story. While it still remains a brilliant film, many elements of the book were removed and changes were made. With the fantasy films being such hot property at the moment (Harry Potter, Narnia, LOTR etc) its a good time to do a whole new adaptation to Ende's original text. This is not a remake idea... i stress the word 'Adaptation'.The TV show was not all that great, but it did bring back some of Ende's original concepts. Get a credible director, and treat the material faithfully.... this could be a winner. "},{"Title":"On the whole powerful and pure magic, but beware the lucky dog thing.","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I remember this movie from way back, so i guess I'm sort of going to be a bit biased by sentimentality etc.... but hey.this movie is inconsistent, in that there are times when its' magnificently dark, imaginative, spectacular and spellbinding story telling- the sort that rips basically any kid out of the room they're sitting in and places them on some crazy other planet. in other words, at these times, its' brilliant, genius fantasy for kids.However, sometimes, this movie just gets so shockingly bad, in terms of characters and plot, that you just start to wonder what the makers were thinking. "},{"Title":"This is no Nothing","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  One of the most beautiful and enjoyable fantasies ever brought to the silver screen. A boy who loves reading and is suffering the loss of his mom and trouble with bullies hides out in the school one day and reads a giant creepy looking book called The Never Ending Story and shares the pain of the central character as he tries to save his world from the Nothing.Not necessarily for little kids by themselves, but a good film to watch with the kids so that they don't get too scared of the whole thing. Beautifully done by Wolfgang Petersen, a man who knows how to direct a good film and create visual splendor. Wolfgang is the kind of man who should direct those Harry Potter films, not hacks like Chris Columbus.Followed by a slew of inferior sequels. The voice of the dragon was also the voice of Man-At-Arms on He-Man & The Masters of the Universe. Also you gotta love that theme music.  "},{"Title":"Petersen's Fantasy for Children of All Ages...","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  When Wolfgang Petersen chose DIE UNENDLICHE GESCHICHTE (THE NEVERENDING STORY) as the follow-up to his brilliant submarine epic, DAS BOOT, as well as his introduction to American audiences, many American critics were stunned, and quickly panned the film. Here, they said, was one of the most gifted action directors of our generation, offering a European children's fantasy unfamiliar to a majority of Americans, a story that relied heavily on puppets, atmosphere, and a suspension of logic, with a EuroPop score and decidedly German 'feel'. Rather than savor the merits of the film, they chose instead to snub it, as second-class Disney or Jim Henson.The critics were wrong, as the enduring popularity of the film has proved!Based on the first half of a novel by Michael Ende, THE NEVERENDING STORY opens on a father and son (Simon and Simon and Major Dad star Gerald McRaney, and Barret Oliver) so numb with grief over the loss of the boy's mother, that their lives have become perfunctory and sterile. The child, Bastian, is the target of bullies, has lost interest in school, and simply can't connect to the world around him. While hiding out in a bookstore, he is introduced to a very mysterious book, The Neverending Story, which he gradually begins to read. Finding it diverting and entertaining, set in a world of trolls, flying dogs, rock creatures, and a young hero, Atreyu (Noah Hathaway) he immediately relates to, Bastian eventually decides set the book aside...when the story's beautiful Empress (stunning child actress Tami Stronach) mentions him by name! Bastian is, naturally, shocked and skeptical to 'find himself' in the text, and refuses to believe she was referring to him...but she makes it clear that she is, and that the whole world's fate depends on him providing her a name.With this novel twist, and a profound sensitivity towards issues of loss, as well as comedy and adventure, THE NEVERENDING STORY is a unique and quite remarkable children's fantasy that can be appreciated at whatever age you view it. In terms of theme, it is closest in spirit to THE PRINCESS BRIDE, without the slapstick and self parody. Wolfgang Petersen has opened the door to a world of wonders American audiences had never experienced before, and it is a world worth treasuring. And if you think Bastian receives an amazing revelation from THE NEVERENDING STORY, wait until the finale, dear viewer, just wait!  "},{"Title":"A split decision","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I love this movie....but somehow it falls just a tad short of the greatest movies in this genre.The message is great, the characters invented are cool.  It's pretty deep for a child's movie.  I cry when the childlike princess is begging Bastian to call out her name.I think Tami Stronach may have been the most beautiful child to ever be put on the screen (or else Brooke Shields, but Tami could actually act). I can't believe she never was in another movie.  I saw this in the video store and remembered liking it pretty well years ago and thought it would keep my 4 and 6 year old children occupied on a 5 hour drive to visit their great grandmother.  It did. They loved it and my daughter hasn't quit singing the theme song since she saw it. I got home and sat down and watched it again.  The acting of the two boys is a little weak and the special effects are a little too Land of the Lost even for the time it was made.  The whole thing has a cartoonish feel, but I love it.  The idea of the nothing really creeps me out.It's not Wizard of Oz or Chitty Chitty Bang Bang or ET, but it's a delight.  As a child I would make it a 9 out of 10.  As more critical adults we might make it more like a 7 out of 10.  But again, bonus points for Tami, I only wish I could have been the one to rescue her. "},{"Title":"Where are they now?","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This has been one of my favorite movies since I was 4 years old.  In college, I even did a research project about this film, along with The Princess Bride, Labyrinth, The Secret of Nhymn, and The Last Unicorn.  We were trying to make a connection between older children's fantasy movies and the gothic revival.  (We got an A+) I was really curious about all the film's stars, and what they are up to these days.  Does anyone have any updated information?  Particularly Noah Hathaway and Barret Oliver?  Someone had posted a real estate website for Noah, but when I checked it the page no longer existed.  How about any updated pics of these wonderful actors?  New info greatly appreciated! "}{"Title":"A test of manhood in certain primitive tribes...","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Imagine, if you will, The Princess Bride. With no adults in major roles. Remove all the funny parts. Now you have a movie which won't hold my 3-year-old's attention for 10 minutes. In one word, agonizing. Luck dragons, night hobs, gmorgs, oracular turtles, magical empresses, racing snails, and heroic warriors completely fail to make this film interesting. I believe the UN would rate this a clear violation of the Geneva Convention. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Adventure!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I have loved this movie since I was 6 years old...it is a truly enchanting tale of strength, bravery, honor and love.Young Bastian finds a unique book called The Neverending Story in a bookshop he stumbles upon while escaping bullies from school.  He takes the book, promising to return it to the shop, and embarks on a marvelous adventure.  Bastian himself becomes part of The Neverending Story, as Atreyu, the hunter of the purple buffalo, is sent on a quest to save the Childlike Empress and the land of Fantasia from the Nothing - a terrible source of destructive power. Bastian and Atreyu encounter many unique and interesting creatures along the way, making The Neverending Story a movie that you won't want to miss!If you are a fan of fantasy and/or adventure films, you will love this movie.  It is a marvelous masterpiece, sure to please any viewer! "},{"Title":"the magical first film that I remember seeing...","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is the first film that I remember seeing at the pictures as a child...I remember walking out of the cinema in a dream state and playing imaginary games with my friends about it for months and months after...it seemed so magical! "},{"Title":"still excellent...","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I used to watch this movie over and over when I was younger on the video at home & I love watching it every time!!! it's always been one of the best movies that I have seen & there isn't much I don't like about it! The acting is really excellent and the story is very original... everything in this movie fits so well, it can't just be called good, it is definitely excellent!!! I'm gonna go get the video & watch it right now! )*WATCH IT IF U HAVEN'T*! "},{"Title":"Dream on","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is a piece of What Dreams Are Made Of. Peterson did a wonderful and most imaginative job. The film reaches to the depth of a child's psychology. Enormous production, great credits, breathless special effects. A must for children and for adults who want to revise on their childhood dreams. I'm 21 and it can still move me. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorites. Wonderfully acted and presented. One of the best movies for kids out there, actually for any age! I have watched this movie sooo many times. It is absolutely great. I would recommend it to anyone. Everything about it is just so creative and imaginative. "},{"Title":"better watched when younger","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I remember this movie to be so much better when I watched it many years ago. Now it has lost its magic, due to the acting of the two leads and outdated effects.Atreyu's acting was unimpressive. When it came time for him to call out the Gmork the scene looked woeful. Where was the fight, a creature who had destroyed all of Fantasia, saying Atreyu was the last, I lost interest before that but here I had to laugh. It only looked like a scratch on the beast.And the time it takes Bastian to enter Fantasia.Better not to watch it later in life, keep whatever memories you have of it earlier. My final remark 'memories' may remind you of the 'next chapter'. "},{"Title":"Hope? Nope","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The eighties was an age of Cinematic Fairy tales, some were orgininal but most were adapted. Here they are in chronological order Dragonslayer, Krull, The Neverending story, Legend, Labyrinth, The Princess Bride, and Willow. As a novel, the Neverending Story is probably a fine fantasy. As a movie from director Wolfgang Peterson, it is nothing more than a cardboard fable, which doesn't even attempt to hide all its clichés. This is possibly the worst fairy tale on celluloid. Like the Princess Bride, this is a story within a story. It begins in the present day. Since his mother's passing, young Bastian has lost hope in the world, and is subsequently doing poor in school. One day he gets his hands on an old (and very big novel). He hides in the attic of his school and begins to read. The story takes him to the land of Fantasia, a magical world which is being destroyed a terrible force of nothingness. All the inhabitants of this world turn to the empress for help, but she is sick and dying, the last hope is the young warrior Atreyu who must go find a cure. Bastian continues to read, even after the school has closed down and he is forced to use candles, eventually he will find that he too has a place in this story.There are times when The NeverEnding story kind of resembles the Jungle Book, our hero is in fact a kid, and not much of a character at all. He even looks like Mowgeli, a toothpick dressed in rags. The creatures he encounters on the journey, look equally ridiculous and fake. Whatever money Peterson had was clearly not enough to make convincing effects. Even the starry night sky in one scene is so badly painted and dressed that you can see the outlines of the plywood backdrop on which it is painted. On top of all this, The Neverending Story is plain dull. Its intention is to reignite the dying spark of fairy tales, but if anything, The Neverending Story is more liable to have people thinking that there is no hope for the fairy tales. If it is hope you want go for the Princess Bride, leave this on the shelf to collect dust. "},{"Title":"The Neverending Story = Best Movie Ever (read on)","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Last night on my way home I stopped and bought The Neverending Story on DVD. Neither of my girls had seen it and it was my favorite movie when I was a kid.Both of my kids are immediately drawn into the story while I am pleasantly reminded of how much I loved this movie. It may seem a bit dated compared to modern CGI-engorged cinema - the special effects are somewhat cheesy and I haven't seen puppetry in a very long time - but watching it again brought me back to a more innocent time in my life when none of that mattered at all.The end of the movie, as you may remember, is very tense and my kids are sucked right in - literally on the edges of their seats. The movie ends. The music swells. The credits begin to roll. My little one, nearly in tears, jumps up and runs over to me. She is incredibly excited. Her arms are spread out wide like she's about to freaking take off. She gives me a 30 second breakdown of the last 5 minutes of the film. She is so happy. She jumps on me and hugs me like I just saved her from falling off of a building. For these very personal reasons, The Neverending Story has got to be the greatest movie of all time. Period. I absolutely love this film - and now both of my kids do as well. Do your kids - and yourself - a favor and add this movie to your collection. "},{"Title":"94 minutes of neverending inspiration and perfection","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Ah. . .The Neverending Story. . .what a perfectly extraordinary film. The Neverending Story is my most favorite movie ever. I first saw it four years ago (2001), and that day is now much honoured. The NES changed my life- I know it sounds cliché but it's true. I shall not divulge into that however; I shall proceed to sing the praises of this fine fantastic film. I hope I don't leave anything out. . . The acting is very good- I've heard numerous claims to the contrary but I think it is just spot-on. No one but Noah Hathaway could have played Atreyu, Barret Oliver is the only true Bastian, and Tami Stronach is my hero as the ethereal, graceful Childlike Empress. The gnomes Engywook and Urgl are just wonderful also. All the characters make up a splendid ensemble. The music is perfect, the sets and locations are so unique (TNES is NOT generic fantasy), and the basic idea of the story is pure genius. The concept of The Neverending Story is so different and outside-the-box, yet universal and timeless and oh so relevant. It is all about the power and scope of one's imagination and how important it can be to just lose yourself in a story in order to fuel that imagination. The theme song also breaks the mold and perfectly captures the essence of the film. I defy the irksome comments made about this film. Falkor does NOT look like a dog, he is a luckdragon. The acting is NOT cheesy, and of COURSE the movie has to end at SOME point (I mean really, don't take 'neverending' so literally). If you've read the original book by Micheal Ende, you may feel that the NES is a bit too short. That's its only fault, really. Just a bit short. . .anyway, I encourage everyone to see this brilliant movie. 12 stars out of 10. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable kid's fantasy movie.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This was one of those movies that I always wanted to watch in it's entirety when I was a kid. The worst thing you could ever do to me back then was to drag me away from a movie half way through for bedtime or bath or whatever (in fact it probably still is ... hmm), and that always seemed to happen with this one so all I ever had were little fragments and images here and there from the movie.I remembered the boy reading the book in the attic, and the flying dragon/dog (actually a 'luck' dragon), as well as the childlike Empress (hell, what kid could ever forget her?) and the fragments of Fantasia at the end.These images always stayed with me, because visually it is an incredible movie. But the truth is, when you put the images together you really don't have that much. The story is kind of simple and brief, not exactly epic, and there are plenty of cheesy moments ... and the less said about the soundtrack of the movie the better. In the eighties they had a tendency to ruin perfectly good fantasy movies with some kind of a weird techno/pop soundtrack. Never a good idea.But if you can just switch off, ignore those things and enjoy the great sets and characters and what could have been the ultimate children's fantasy story, you'll wish it really was neverending. "},{"Title":"To never die, unend, forever 1984!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  A movie is images on film, our imagination interprets it, and we catalog our experience from watching moving frames into memory.It stays with our soul forever.  Those warm-fuzzy-feelings we still get now from watching this picture, will be with us since the dawn of our first experience.For those of us who saw this movie in our youth, we will always remember what we did that day we watched it.  We are the elite, we saw this film when we were young, just as the makers of it envisioned.Let the book be read by us, now adults, and let the original movie stand as Wolfgang created it!  Fantasia will be whatever we want, a movie fashioned by a creative team, for our children to watch.A loyal following of kids with nothing else to do than to watch one of the greatest fantasy films ever produced...in GERMANY!  Those people are geniuses!The music, the wonder, the revolution, the chaos, the nothing, the endless...THE NEVERENDING STORY! "},{"Title":"Pure magic.","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Neverending Story is one of the most magical films I have ever seen. This film is pure magic from beginning to end. Every child should see this movie and realize that dreams can be reality, if you want them to be reality. The power of the imagination put on film. One of the greatest films of the last 20 years.  "},{"Title":"The best thing is the effects -  which are rotten.","Date":"2 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I can think of at least 2 things wrong with the title. If not actually neverending though, it is certainly sufficiently interminable that not many people will sit all the way through it. The effects were the main selling point of this movie, which is odd because they were lame even by the standards of 1984 and for movies aimed at children. Don't forget this is the same year Ghostbusters and Gremlins came out, so it can't really even be forgiven as just antiquated. In short if you really must have a dodgy 80's children's movie based around its own use of animatronics, go for Labyrinth, which would beat this turkey by a mile even if David Bowie wasn't in it. "},{"Title":"It couldn't be much worse","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  For anyone who read the book by Michael Ende, this movie is an insult, turning it into a kitschfest. All remarkable and poetic bits were left out, probably for the sake of mass compatibility. The masses should revolt for such bad judgment of them. For example, Ende described the force that lets pieces of the fantasy world disappear as something gentle and almost peaceful, to show that losing fantasy happens quietly and needs attention to be recognized. The movie lets it roar wild just as anyone might be depict it, who is being asked for something that lets an entire world disappear.Technically the movie is alright by Hollywood standards. FX are nicely done, actor performances are just about average. If you want to do yourself or in fact your children something good, go and get the book. "},{"Title":"One of the worst book adaptations in history","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Stemming from one of the very finest books ever written in the 20th century, The Neverending Story is an awful movie with terrible storytelling, useless acting and music that seems more appropriate for second-grade German synth videos. The essence of the book is there, somehow, but barely noticeable, buried beneath an avalanche of cheesy, American pop morals and a disregard for the original book that is almost offending. The effects are horrible, but that's not the makers' fault - back in 1984, Star Wars was still the benchmark for visual effects. What is truly embarrassing is the storytelling, leaving out so many important parts from Michael Ende's amazing book that it becomes jumpy and inconsequential. The author's enormous capacity for imagining things is almost lost here, rendering the movie quite inane and dull.The only hope is that some day, someone with a little more faith in the novel will make a new Neverending Story that is true to the book and a helluva lot more satisfying to watch. The film gets 2/10 only because it was actually made. "},{"Title":"Do what you Wish! Never stop Dreaming...or Believing!","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" What can I say about this masterpiece other than it not being even in the top 250 list on this site! That is so shocking to me!!! Should have been a best picture nominee for sure! The film score alone should have won best soundtrack. Limahl's theme is so moving and touching as an introduction and end tag. Wolfgang Petersen, one of my favorite Directors (Troy)did an amazing job with this material given the year that film was shot in (not as many green screen opportunities and technical aspects like Lord of the Rings. If there were there would have been more added to the film from the actual book, which is also a must read! The second Neverending Story Pt. II which is a bit lackluster, should have been part of this film making it a three movie thrill like Lord of the Rings) The concept for the story alone, about a boy who reads a book and is transported into the world, is genius (Jealous much!). The creatures of Fantasia are something to marvel at and the performance by a young Noah Hathaway leaves you on the edge of your seat.A must see for any aspiring filmmaker, writer or movie buff. A life changer. "},{"Title":"Family Fantasy Film","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie was quite a hit in 1984 and it's still good 30+ years later. It is a good epic fantasy film for the entire family - kids are sure to enjoy this magical classic.The most memorable character from the film is the iconic luckdragon named Falkor who aids Atreyu and Bastian on their adventure. I do not recall ever seeing a dragon like Falkor before or after this film. He looks more like a long haired shaggy dog than a dragon to me - but he is quite eye-catching and very lovable.This film will have you wishing your imagination or daydreams could come true just like Bastian's did.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"80's Childhood Classic!","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Noah Hathaway, Barret Oliver, Tami Stronach and Gerald McRaney star in Wolfgang Petersen's 1984 fantasy based on the book. This focuses on young, unhappy boy, Bastian (Oliver) who lives with his father (McRaney). He gets bullied everyday by kids from school and one day he hides in a bookstore where he finds a book, The Neverending Story. He decides to read it and discovers it's magical when he becomes part of the adventure with it's hero, Atreyu (Hathaway). Stronach plays the childlike Empress of the book's world, Fantasia who must be rescued. I grew up watching this and always liked it. It has a good cast, beautiful settings and excellent score. I recommend this 80's childhood classic. "},{"Title":"This is one of the all-time best family movies.","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The NeverEnding Story never gets old. It is a timeless joy. Through the years I have enjoyed it with my sons, my students, my elder grandsons, and my young granddaughter. It is such an achievement when you can have child actors carry an entire motion picture. They convey the best characteristics we want, not only in fiction, but in our own lives loyalty, determination, kindness, empathy, and honor. The direction by Wolfgang Petersen shows how superior a craftsman he is. The musical score, highlighted by the terrific title song, carries you into the flow of the unfolding tale. The gradual realization of what the fantastic book is proclaiming is phenomenal. It is a wonderful movie experience. "}{"Title":"Memorable creatures and fantastical adventures","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Bastian is a troubled boy who lost his mother and bullied by schoolmates. While running from school bullies, he escapes into a book store where the owner warns him about a book called 'The NeverEnding Story'. He get curious and takes the book. He hides in a storage room at school and starts reading.The book tells the story of the fantastical world of Fantasia. It is slowly being destroyed by a Nothing. The Empress is deathly ill. It's understood that a great warrior named Atreyu will come to save the day, but he turns out to be a Native American boy.After the award winning 'Das Boot', Wolfgang Petersen goes in a different direction with this interesting children's movie. It's filled with fantastical creatures, and wild adventures. It's a visually memorable film. The kids aren't really the best actors or the most memorable. That's probably the most obvious deficit. They are sufficiently average cute kids for the job. As for the conceit of the movie, it's trying for something very interesting but it's meanders. It probably works great for kids as they watch the movie. It's probably quite effective to be a kid being talked directly to. "},{"Title":"A film made even more nostalgic by making us aware of an entirely different era - a time where you can hear the phrase I like children without raising any red flags. LOL","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" As a movie, it may be lacking in action by today's standards, but for me, it's easily one of the best I've seen. Maybe I'm biased. But I don't think so. lol. It's not perfect, but watching it again 25 years later, I gotta say that it stood the test of time and it's a movie that's still relevant today as it was in 1984. Today's definition of fantasy or family movies involves mindless comedies or stunts with an overdose of CGI. If I'm gonna compare it to food, those are junk foods. TNES is one of the main course. It makes you full. You need to digest it to absorb the nutrients. It's not a momentary hunger fix, or sugar-spiker. Its impact is long-lasting. Like a lifetime in fact. Read my FULL REVIEW on Blogger, thanks!http//strangereview.blogspot.com/2013/12/starting-my-own-christmas- tradition.html "},{"Title":"OK kids' fantasy","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Bullied and missing his recently dead mother, Bastian hides himself away to read The Never-Ending Story, which tells of the quest of child warrior Atreyu to save the world of Fantasia from creeping evil The Nothing.This German-made US-based fantasy is a curiosity. There is considerable imagination evident in the sets, characters and visual design generally. The prosthetic makeup is mostly OK, the blending of oversize and undersize image elements is generally well done, but the travelling mattes (pre-CGI) are fairly shoddy. The music is not bad with the exception of a strident orchestral motif which, whenever it appears, shifts you bodily out of the story. The child actors are fine, but some of the adults are over the top. And the whole thing has a weird feel to it which, I think, comes from its German origin - one feels that Hollywood would have approached this rather differently (not necessarily better). And it looks very dated.But I think it continues to have appeal for a young audience. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I'm going to keep this short and unpretentious. This film is as great to watch today as an adult as it was when I was a little boy. The extremely imaginative special effects have withstood the test of time, even when held up against the modern effects wizardry of the 21st century. The original Neverending Story is timeless film and so is it's message (note the two piece-of-garbage sequels are being left out). It was great fun to re-watch this movie last night for the first time in over 20 years... I had forgotten just how amazing it was. (apparently I am supposed to have a minimum of 10 lines in my review, so to make that happen, I will close by saying it is high time for my 10 year old niece to see this film... and I'll watch it right along with her with the same cheeky grin on my face now as when I watched this movie for the first time at the age of 10 all those years ago). "},{"Title":"Classic Fantasy","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" My brother who is seventeen years older than me has always loved this movie from childhood, so I dug the old VHS tape out of his chest. Being sixteen at the time of watching this I wasn't really expecting much, but I have to say that it is indeed one of the most classic childhood fantasy movies. This movie is encompassed by a good plot and is full of good lessons for the younger audiences. The imagery and characters are a part of what makes this movie special in my eyes and I understand why my older brother likes it so much. I gave this movie an eight outta ten because it's truly one of the classics. Oh and I forgot that the music in this movie is sweet too. If you or your kids have time on a rainy day, watch this movie, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"The Neverending Story wins","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Well, the Golden Star Awards may not be the Academy Awards, but we felt that this film deserved some recognition for the hard work that went into making it! ) The Golden Star Awards is an amateur awards academy that awards movies for brilliant work. We are based in South Africa and have completed over thirty awards ceremonies. The winners do not actually receive a statue, but they will remain immortal online! Have a look http//thegoldenstarawards.blogspot.com/ The Neverending Story was at the 21st Golden Star Awards and won a total of 12 awards...that means it is one of the films that has won the most Golden Star Awards. A brilliant film that is well deserving of all the recognition that it has received! "},{"Title":"my story of why i watch it","Date":"7 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" My name is heather I'm 12 now in 2003 i watch this with my grandfather and in 2007 he died i watch this movie to remember he is with me all the time now i watching it with my grandmother and i started to cry this is me and my grandfather's favrotie movie no one can stop me from watching it over and over again i wish this was a 4th movie of this i love the never ending story and to me it will never end never! thats why who ever is reading this know's who i feel and thanks to the maker's who put this together i love to thank you and when i get older i will let my children watch it to because they will love just like me a maybe show i to they children. ~heather never ending story for ever THANKS FOR YOUR TIME TO READ THIS IT MEANS A LOT TO ME "},{"Title":"A children Classic film.","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Directed by Wolfgang Petersen, this is a film masterpiece! A fantasy and children Classics which has been viewed by many families for over 25 years due to its timeless Relevance, Innocence and Uniqueness. Coupled with a mesmerizing soundtrack by legendary Giorgio Moroder- Follow Bastian, an introverted kid, who lives a monotonous existence with his father, unchallenged by school curriculum and bullied by other children. Until he comes across a mysterious book and starts reading it- Unlike any other books he has ever read; This one has the uncanny property to link its readers to the characters and storyline within. And, that is where our story begins. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Racing snails, flying dogs ....manic depressive turtles!","Date":"23 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" In the magical land of Narnia ...ahem... Fantasia, buffalo are purple, snails race, dogs fly, turtles don't give a f*** and rock men eat rocks ...that's right, rock men eat rocks. This film's legacy is that it is considered to be a classic family movie. That's right, parents. This film that features giant bloodthirsty wolves, manic depressive turtles, statues that shoot lazers out of their eyes and plenty of scenes depicting a world being destroyed by natural disaster is a sheer joy to watch with your kids. It's quite appropriate that Fantasia is a world created from dreams and fantasy because your kids will have plenty to dream about after watching this. And when they're not dreaming about lumpy-headed wise men atop ivory towers, they will no doubt, be contemplating the many life lessons Neverending Story has to offer. Among the most powerful lessons this movie has to teach your young tikes is don't cry when your dog gets killed by a car because it was quick and painless and nowhere near the agonizing trauma that accompanies Artax as he sinks in a swamp. There are also profound lessons about mankind and human nature here. Witness the Magic Mirror Gate where kind men find out that they are a&#x97;holes and brave men find out that they are p*$$ies. This film will make your children's imaginations come alive ...with only a small amount of disturbing imagery. "},{"Title":"An excellent adaptation of a book, and very good movie.","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending Story besides being one of my favorite adaptations is a movie that does not lose adventure spirit and it's very well written, as this first movie is the best adapted from the book from the other two, I read the book and is exactly the same to the movie with minor exceptions, in my opinion should not change the actors for the other movies, this the first I especially liked Barret Oliver who played Bastian, I Don't watch the other two movies I'm also not interested because they are poorly adapted to the book. If you read the book I recommended to you to see this movie, you most liked.If you don't see this movie or read the book I recommended too it's very good. "}{"Title":"Terrific film for all ages!","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending Story is about a boy who is bullied at school. As an escape from the troubles of this world, he reads fantasy books (this kid would have loved Harry Potter, but 1984 was pre-HP days). The boy is chased into a dusty old bookshop, where the owner introduces him to a book called The Neverending Story. The boy borrows the book and returns to school, where he goes up to the attic (huh? I've never heard of a school with an attic) to read the story. As he becomes more and more engrossed in the story, he finds himself a part of its events.This a great movie. The storyline is very well done, and despite the lack of CGI imagery we take for granted in today's movies, the puppets were very well done. Wow... eight stars from me. "},{"Title":"Great Fantasy Movie","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending Story is a great fantasy movie with a lot of meaning to the real world. It's easily enjoyable for anyone with a vivid imagination.Bastian (Barret Oliver) is a lonely young boy who is coping with the death of his mother, struggling in school, and has to deal with bullies every day. His only solace is books, particularly fantasy books. While hiding from bullies in a used book store he sees an exciting looking book called The Neverending Story in the hands of the grouchy shopkeeper. Bastian becomes intrigued and steals the book when the shopkeeper is on the phone. He then escapes to his school's attic to read the book, and the film becomes a movie within a movie. The audience is then transported to Fantasia, a lush fantasy land being destroyed by The Nothing, and whose childlike Empress is dying. The Fantasians only hope is a boy warrior named Atreyu (Noah Hathaway), who must find a cure for the Empress' illness and stop the Nothing from destroying their world. Bastian then follows Atreyu on his quest, experiencing and feeling everything Atreyu feels, including the desperate hope they can save Fantasia.I love this movie. It's been one of my favorites for a long time for both the film itself, and the deeper meanings of it. The Neverending Story is also easily enjoyable for children and adults. Though parents be warned, children under seven may be very frightened by the G'mork, an evil wolf-like creature. The acting is good and the atmosphere of Fantasia is always with the audience. I must admit the special effects are pretty bad. But it was only the early 80's, and the film is good enough to ignore that. There was a lot of criticism for this movie on the fact it was not loyal to the book, and even the author himself hated it. Honestly, it IS fairly loyal to about half of the book, but this film ends where maybe Chapter 14 of the 26 chapter book starts. It is definitely the fantasy of every lonely bookworm, and a must for anyone who loves to read. Oh, and don't watch the other two sequels to this, it will just kill everything lovable about the first one. "},{"Title":"Because people who have no hopes are easy to control, and whoever has the control, has the power.","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A+Before The Chronicles of Narnia, Bridge to Terabithia, Pan's Labyrinth, before even Fellowship of the Ring, this film helped to give fantasy a wider audience and cement its popularity as a genre. Like many of those films, this one too is based on a book, by. Many probably don't know the film doesn't cover the entire length of the novel, due to time constraints as well as budget. However, the production team didn't allow this stop the movie from being as adventurous and memorable as it is.Where can one start other than the effects? The advent of CGI has expanded the world of fantasy, but one must always remember the roots. Epic long shots, some even taking advantage of very clever landscape matte shots, help to create the world of Fantasia. The well constructed sets are also a treat, and they fuse to make it all very convincing. Good old practical effects are used for the wide range of creatures, to make-up, animatronics and full-scale models. One can't help but marvel at the work put into it all.The score by Klaus Doldinger, and in the American cut cues being added by Giorgio Moroder, creates an energetic yet also dark tone for the movie. This brings me to the target audience. It is definitely a movie children will enjoy, but if you closely any one of any age can enjoy it. Note my favorite scene, the one where Atreyu (Noah Hathaway) and G'mork, superbly voice-acted by Alan Oppenheimer, have a very eerie exchange of dialogue. Pay attention to what the characters say and you'll get the full grasp of what the film is saying about humanity, most importantly the death of dreams.A classic and one of my personal favorite films. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the wonderful world of Fantasia.","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I can't deny that this is one of the greatest fantasy films of all time. Based on a book, it has a complex story, great effects, enchanting music, creative creature designs, and a charm that few can match. Forget the sequels! This is where the real magic happens.Running away from bullies, a boy named Bastion stumbles upon a book called The Neverending Story. Borrowing it from its serious librarian owner, Bastion reads of the tale of the young warrior Atreyu as he tries to find a way to stop a mysterious force known as The Nothing from destroying the magical world of Fantasia with the help of various creatures. As Bastion reads on, however, he soon learns that the fate of Fantasia and its inhabitants will lie in his very hands.This is a truly memorable classic. It has all the sense of adventure, fun, sorrow, and danger. Most of the characters are a spectacle to watch, like the Rockbiter and Falcor the luck dragon. This is worthy of being on top with Lord of the Rings and other great fantasy films. The Neverending Story is worth every penny. Check it out. "},{"Title":"A classic with many cliques","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I saw this movie recently and I must say I can understand why it is a classic. It was ahead of its time indefinitely but now when we are in the 21st century we can watch it again and pick up the flaws. I don't hesitate to say I didn't enjoy this movie but that is because I can't stand old movies that require pathetic visual effects. The reason I gave it was a second because I do have empathy towards the movie. I know it must have been like when Lord of the Rings The Return of the King came out. It was a revolution in film-making. These are the sort of movies that I can understand need to be remade! It has a good story and with the right visuals it could be something very special! "},{"Title":"Makes up in appearance for what it's lacking in plot and writing.","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending Story is a beautiful looking film, even today. Now the special effects are dated, but the puppets and animatronic creatures still look great.I remember loving this movie as a child, and unfortunately I didn't feel the same re-watching it. I enjoyed it, it was visually amazing, with some really neat looking creatures. But the plot was too thin for it's own good, and it makes very little sense, often getting caught up in itself. I still liked it, and the characters had their own certain charm. The music (not necessarily the 80s theme song) was beautiful, possibly one of my favorite film scores of the 80s. The main attraction of the film was how great it looked. The land of Fantasia is amazing, and it's nice to look back at a time when all creatures in movies were not computer animated. But with the good, comes the lack of plot and story, and some extremely goofy nonsensical moments.Overall this looks great, has a pretty mediocre story, but a nice message.My rating *** out of ****. 90 mins. PG for violence. "},{"Title":"THE NEVERENDING STORY is a  wonderful and breathtaking familiar film with adventures and imagination","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A lonely and grieving little boy named Bastian(Barret Oliver) is only living with his father(Gerard McRaney)but his mother has deceased.Bastian is being bullied by a trio of nasty group of scholars.He seeks refugee in the library where by bookkeeper is given a rare book .Thus, he enters the marvellous world of Fantasia through the ¨Neverending story¨book.There,a young warrior named Atreyu( Noah Hathaway) must to save the magic world of Fantasia and the princess(Tami)threatened for the destruction by the advance of Nothing that will eventually wipe out all the things.He's solely helped by a human being,Bastian.The story is an enjoyable fairy tale with great charm from the original novel by Michael Ende,trying to incorporate too much dreamland with fantastic beings like a rapid snail,a giant turtle,a large flying white dog ,among others weird and bizarre creatures .They have been made by big puppets and no by computer generator effects but at the time hadn't invented. The visual beauty of the impressive scenarios give the movie a real sense of wonder.The production design and sets are visually rousing and appealing.The film contains an agreeable moral message about reading books.It's followed by two sequels,the first titled¨The Neverending story  the next chapter(George Miller)¨starred by Jonathan Brandis(recently committed suicide) as Bastian and the third part titled ¨Escape from fantasia¨(directed by Peter McDonald)with Jason James Ritcher. Besides followed by a Television cartoon movies.The motion picture is wonderfully directed by Wolgang Petersen. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful, Though Dark Children's Fable.","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" AKA THE NEVERENDING STORYThis is a tale of imagination; an epic journey one boy makes in restoration of his hope, his heart, and his world.This is a small masterpiece of fantasy by Wolfgang Peterson, in which are found interesting and creative characters, artistic innovations found nowhere else, and no small amount of entertainment.This is suitable for all ages, regardless of the darkness within, as it is safe for younger children, but not so safe as to negate the perilous journey upon which Atrayu must embark.I found this wholly entertaining, and a lovely piece of fantasy, and as such, it rates a 7.3/10 on the Children's Scale from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Top-notch children's entertainment","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  One might guess that `Die Unendliche Geschichte' would have aged horrendously; after all, the fantasy genre is all too difficult, and the film relies heavily on puppets and effects, a New Wave pop score, and unknown child actors in key roles.  (In other words, it all too easily could have gone the way of `Labyrinth.')But the film turns out twenty years later to be a pleasant surprise, inspiring hardly any cringes at all.  Director Wolfgang Petersen approaches the material with a surprising seriousness--while the overall tone is definitely light, there are few jokes, and what whimsy there is is decidedly European in style (clowns, maskers, occasional dry wit, etc.).  In fact, the fantasy itself is perhaps uniquely German, reminiscent more than once of Mozart's `Zauberflöte.'  The unsentimental approach makes the film's overtly emotional moments (the Artax scene, for instance) genuinely affecting. The design is stylish, yet believable, and the puppet artifice of such characters as Falkor, the Rock-biter, Gmork, and Morla only adds to their liveliness.  As for the performances, Barret Oliver is occasionally over-the-top with his wide-eyed take on Bastian, but Noah Hathaway is impressive as the boy warrior Atreyu.  The score (by Petersen's pet composer Klaus Doldinger) and title song (by Kajagoogoo's Limahl) are not going to be to all tastes, but the Europop melodies and synth textures actually work surprisingly well for those with open minds.  It's too bad Michael Ende disapproved of the script; it truncates his novel, certainly, but retains its magic reasonably well.  The basic message--reading keeps your mind healthy, and is fun on top of that--is simple but evergreen, and if the ending is somewhat abrupt, the film is still a fine example of top-notch children's entertainment.  8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Happy childhood memories!","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I love this movie! The Neverending Story (I'm not sure why it's listed first in German here) is an awesome movie for children and those who are still children at heart. An excellent story of adventure, friendship, and above all the courage you must find inside yourself.Go ahead and make fun of me if you must, I know that for every movie I love someone else will hate it just as strongly. But this will always be to me one of my favorite movies. A few movies from my childhood will always have a special place in my heart... This one, The Princess Bride, and Goonies for example. Granted, not one of the best films ever made, but it will always bring me happy memories. "}{"Title":"Fantascia","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw the sequel dozens of times before I was old enough to remember seeing this original. My brother for some reason thought it was PG-13, and told me how it had a werewolf. I heard it was the scariest and most intense, and when I was 12, I decided to check out the book, and heard about Bastian going into Fantascia, after saving it, and his adventures through the city of the old emperors, his traveling companions like Hero Henrick, and the dragon, and their adventures. Xayide was in the book, and still had giants, and Bastian visits a city where a bunch of buildings are bent, and is really disfigured, and a city made out of baskets, to name a few I remember, and it was the longest book I ever read, and it seemed like a long feature film right when he saved Fantascia and first started his adventure. The book was 440 pages, I was like, It's amazing how could they combine this all in 94 minutes, I thought it would be the most vivid, exciting movie ever, after reading the book. The movie was great, and a classic that needs no introduction ,and looks wise this Bastian's the best (In My Opinion), but when I was almost 13, and watched it, I was dissapointed how it left out, after he saves Fantascia, and receives the tiny light to grow whatever he wishes in Fantascia from The Child-Like Empress> Now I've come to like this beter than the sequel. "},{"Title":"You can never be too old for this movie!","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"   I recently saw this movie again, inspired by New Found Glory's remix of the main theme song. Technically, first I caught snippets of it (usually the ending) on TV several times and finally decided to borrow it from the library. I watched it with my little sister, and I immediately fell in love with the movie all over again. I remembered seeing it as a kid, but could not remember very much. Now, after experiencing it again, the luckdragon, the Nothing (which my sister was so kind to point out was not really nothing, but smoke), Atreyu (who now has a hard rock band named after him), the child-like emperess, and Bastian, our hero. I loved it from beginning to end, complete with bad animatronic animals and fake flying scenes, and hardly cared that my sister thought it was the stupidest thing she had ever seen. In my opinion, 5 stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"The solution to a lazy day","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I adore this film, it is the perfect movie to watch on a lazy day, because soon, that small lame day is now interesting and truely makes you want to go to Fantasia.  Where I come from, it is called The NeverEnding Story, almost forever I've had a crush on Atreyu, and I'm dying to know what Bastian's mother's name was, or I guess the childlike empress.  I've seen all three movies, I disliked the second one and didn't mind the third, but trust me.  You haven't seen a movie about magic until you've seen the NeverEnding Story, or Unendliche Geschichte, Die. "},{"Title":"One of the only memories I had of my childhood!","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I watched this movie when It came out on video probably around 1986. I remember sitting in my cousins basement and we just saw the movie over and over again. My sister and my 3 cousins around my age (6 or so) with popcorn and then playing pool it was just a neat time. It's a very nostalgic movie for anyone who grew up with it simply because you know you used to watch with your old friends or family and its a nice movie for childhood memories. Basically one of those movies youll always correleate to a specific part of your childhood and remember fondly. Not to mention its a great family movie and all around cool fantasy one also. The characters and scenery and even adventure hails it as a classic kids movie that even as an adult Ill be glad to sit down and watch.Rent it and watch it with your kids or watch it again with your old buddies itll be a nice change of pace.  "},{"Title":"This was such a great movie!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I recommend this movie to anyone. I love movies like this where we can escape reality and go to a place of pure fantasy. This movie does just that everyone. The music was cool, (the theme song). The acting, story and everything else was so cool. This is such a good movie for families. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good fantasy movie, and a good family flick. I love it and I always will.  "},{"Title":"Great film, Great Soundtrack!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  When I saw this film for the first time I get blind of it's magical story. I watched it again, and again.. And I wished that I was Bastian who was reading the book.  The film is from my birth-year 1984. Cool.. ;) LOVE this film very much.  "},{"Title":"The boundless power of imagination","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  To see a World in a Grain of Sand/And a Heaven in a Wild Flower/Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand/And Eternity in an hour.These lines, from William Blake's Auguries of Innocence, capture (and, I expect, inspired) the essence of this movie. There are whole worlds to be had, as beautiful as one dares to imagine them, at the price of just a little imagination. This quite stirring message, however heavy-handed the presentation, makes this a must-see movie. For romantics, at least, it speaks to the heart.It is marred in part by less-than-superb graphics in places (this is 1984, after all), and there is the dubious suggestion, at the very end, that imagination can somehow right the wrongs of the real world. Despite these quibbles, an excellent film for viewers of all ages.   "},{"Title":"A nice fantasy which i will remember forever!","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I really love this movie! I saw it as a child, with Swedish voice-over. (I have also seen it in English) The story is good, and the nature looks very fantasy (where did they find it?), and all the beeings (or should i say personalities?) are just perfect.One of the best things in it is that he (Bastian) is the one they are searching for.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is really good.  It's about a young boy who finds a book that is more than what he expected.  This is a movie for the whole family, especially if you have kids.  This is the kind of movie that will get the whole family's imagination going.  If you haven't seen it, then go get it now! "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Unique","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Brilliant cinematic experience for all ages - the scenery, music and acting is excellent and a real pleasure. One is sorry when it ends all too soon. This movie has a dreamlike quality that remains with you long after the closing credits. "}{"Title":"NeverEnding Magic!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film is magical every time i watch it. I first saw this film when i was about 8, and was, of course charmed. 15 years later i watch this movie and i am still charmed.Maybe it's something to do with the fact that according to this film, dreams do come true, and the beautiful way in which it conveys this.Maybe it's the fantasy.Maybe it's magic!Whatever it is... 10/10 "},{"Title":"This is the real deal","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  You cannot beat this movie. It's soundtrack is matched only by such classics as Pumaman and The Pirate Movie. Especially the music at the ivory palace, in the beginning. And I have never been more emotionally drained than after the 'These look like strong hands' scene. And the flying dragon reminded me so much of Pat Goode, with his happy smile, in the final, perfect scene of this magical film. You have not seen a real movie, until you have seen 'The Never Ending Story'. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie that never gets old","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I don't know what it is about this movie, but I find myself watching it every now and then, and I never grow tired of it.I think the story is set up in a very interesting way, and the move takes on an odd shape, all it's own.  I would recommend it to anyone.  This is one of the good ones from the 80's generation of movies. "},{"Title":"Beautiful...","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Neverending Story is simply wonderful. I saw it in 1985 aged 11, and I have never forgotten the impact it had on me. I can't really explain how magical some of this film is. All I can say is, to anyone who sees this film and loves it, then don't, under any circumstances, watch either of the two far-inferior sequels. The second one (1990) is watchable, but the third is dire. Absolutely dire. The cast changes are just awful, too.The Neverending Story will one day earn a greater respect. Just as retrospect alone has made a classic of It's A Wonderful Life, so this film will eventually be re-evaluated. "},{"Title":"My childhood in one film","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is the first movie I can remember ever seeing, and it was the best. This really gives me a drive to make movies, and every time I see it or hear a song from it everything about my first five years of life moves from being in the past to becoming the present. "},{"Title":"A fantastical ride through the imagintion of us all.","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I don't know when I first discovered this movie but I only know it has been one of my favorites for a long, long time.  The story stands on its own, apart from all others as a journey of fantasy and reawakening the imagination. "},{"Title":"Vundebar","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film is a wonderful fantasy drama-adventure-suspense-decent special fx!! Unlike many films, it makes you want to read books!  The novel that it is based on is incredible - read it; the movie only covers about half of the book.  If you haven't seen The NeverEnding Story - see it.  It'll make you feel like a kid again.   "},{"Title":"I was afraid that I'd lost Fantasia","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I was afraid that I'd lost Fantasia so when my friend had a vege out night, I suggested we take a nostalgia trip and hire Neverending Story. I hadn't seen it since I was 5 or thereabouts (I'm now 18) and the whole movie was like a stroll down memory lane (the only thing that I could distinctly remember was Bastian going into the library and him waking up next to Falkor). It ended up being one of those movies at which you keep going I remember that It's all coming back now etc. This returns me to the good ol' days when a movie didn't need gratuitous violence or sex to appeal. Apart from the blue screen scenes which I notice now I am in adulthood, the film is a treat for everyone with a moral in it, ever applicable as time goes on. "},{"Title":"Classic 1980's fantasy...","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This wonderful movie can only fall in the category of my childhood favorites, between The Dark Crystal, Labyrinth, Legend, the short-lived Tolkien movies and perhaps Flight of the Navigator (all great 80's fantasies). I LOVE this movie and have to watch it at least every 6 months for fun. When I was small, how I longed to have Falcor be MY friend (sorry if that sounded a little sickly sweet), and to experience Fantasia for myself. It is directed toward a younger audience, so if you didn't see it before around 11 years old, it may be too late now (unless you don't care and love any fantasy movie). This is a movie that still gives me chills at the serious parts (but I'm also a sucker for 80's fantasies) and if I'm depressed, can sometimes make me cry. Personally, I never had the chance to read the book, but I've heard it's wonderful (it's just too bad the movie only made up the first half). I still want to make an Auryn symbol sometime in my metals class! It definitely deserves at least a 9  "},{"Title":"One of my favourite movies.","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I can remember getting this movie for Christmas when I was about four or five years old (the first movie, I believe, that my father ever actually bought and didn't rent and then tape).  I watched it so many times that I'm surprised the tape hasn't worn out.Recently, I've gone back and watched it again.  It's just as magical, if not more because I understand it better, than it ever was before.  If you have never seen this movie you don't know what you're missing.  If you have, go back and see it again.  You'll be surprised how much you'll enjoy it. "}{"Title":"The best fantasy movie for children ever made","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  You can't help loving it - there is everything for everyone in it joy and sorrow, great quest and battle between Good and Evil, sudden revelation - there is still a child in me, maybe too deep, but it is still there! Sadly, we tend to forget it too early and quickly... Beautifully shot, honestly and simply narrated - it surely will appeal to every member of your family. I enjoy it immensely every time I watch it with my 5-year old daughter. "},{"Title":"I am too old for this... film","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I always insist that in order to make a reasonable rating, I must watched a film twice. For this one, the story itself was so lame that I couldn't bother to have a second viewing.Well, let's see how the story goes. A child, who recently just lost her mother, facing difficulties in school, bullied by schoolmates, found a story book, or to be precise, stole a book from a bookshop after hiding there from his bullies. The story book started like a fairy tale / fantasy about the quest of a boyish warrior known as, OK, I forgot his name, since he looked like an Indian (the American one), let's just called him Chief, my favorite Red Indian (from One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest).The background was about a fictional world called Fantasia, yea, sound familiar right? So, this world of Fantasia was facing a threat called Nothing, a kind of very destructive storm which supposed to make 2012 (the movie) looked like a breeze. So, all the creatures around this fantasized world of Fantasia (no Mickey Mouse though), ran to the palace of the Empress (whom had no name) plead for help. Now, as the Empress of Fantasia was gravely ill (I am not very sure about that), she send her minister, well, it was just a Sam L Jackson look-alike tried very hard to be Confucius to tell her people that sorry bro, I have no idea what we can do to this 'Nothing' and let's just send a dumb enough warrior who was dumb enough to take the quest.Of course, no warriors in Fantasia was dumb enough, except a kid whom I called him Chief. Chief and his pony travel across Fantasia looking for a cure, to cure the suppose illness of the Empress. Finally, knowing that it he had been running like a headless chicken, the Chief traveled to a swarm (which remind me of Krull), and met a giant tortoise, which has mental problem obviously, called itself we and shown two different personality (Gollum?), and left him a hint, go and look for the Southern Oracle. The Chief, in great grief that he lost his pony earlier and may be realize that he won't achieve anything nearly succumbed to the swarm (which was said to have this magical power of consumed animals with depression issue). Just as he was about to be eaten by a black wolf or bear like creature, a dog head dragon called Falco rescued him.Falco took him to the South, and Chief was healed by a couple of minimen, okay, I am tired of all these. Let's move it on. Chief, riding on the dog / dragon hybrid, slain the big bad wolf, but still cannot help Fantasia consumed by Nothing. In great despair of loss, he flew back to the palace and found the Empress, who wasn't ill at all (seems to me). She again insist the point that a human child must gave her a name, which the Southern Oracle had mentioned earlier. Hey kiddo, only yr parent can gave you a name! Anyway, because the child who was reading the storybook, which was suppose to be never end, refused to do so initially, lack of faith I would said. So the palace, the only building left in Fantasia was hit by heavy meteor shower and was on the brink of total annihilation.Finally, before the last of Fantasia wiped out, the Child yelled a name for the queen and saved Fantasia from destruction. So the Empress reward her by giving her the doghead dragon and he used it to scare off his bullies. And since it was supposed to be neverending, the Child will have many more adventures to tell, which I called it THE SEQUEL.I just don't like the story, that's all. Other than that, it's a fine art. Stunning special effect, for a 90s German film, great presentation of a fantasized world, most of the points were given to all these features. I guess, at the end of the day, I am just too old for this... film. "},{"Title":"Cheasy, but creative!","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie came out in 1984, and the effects are so typical of this time. Super cheesy! BUT, there is a lot of creativity put into this movie. In fact, it is the most creative movie I have ever seen. Most fantasy movies use only Westernized themes and characters, like goblins and knights and fairies and what not. The NeverEnding Story uses a huge variety of creative characters; a rock biter,a racing snail, Atreyu the Indian brave,the Empress, etc. It also takes ideas from Eastern cultures, like Valcor the dragon is friendly and represents good luck. The visualizations used are very creative and original.I also like the message behind both Never Ending Story movies Instead of nothing there should be beauty, instead of emptiness there should be love.The Neverending Story is a must for adolescents and fantasy fans. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic And Magical Masterpiece.","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Imagine a world where luck dragons soar through the sky, where racing snails charge through the woods, and the only boundaries of what is possible is your imagination. Welcome to Fantasia, where everything is magical and nothing is impossible. However, this amazing world is being destroyed by 'the nothing' &#x96; the emptiness created by human beings who live in an industry driven world and no longer live their dreams. The Empress of Fantasia puts the trust of the entire World into one boy's hands and sends him off to fight the nothing and save them all. A favourite of many since 1984, any child that hasn't seen The NeverEnding Story has missed out. The wonderful mixture of stunning landscapes and images and a beautiful soundtrack make for a truly magical viewing experience. With an easy to understand linear narrative and basic dialogue throughout, this is a perfect film for any child to enjoy and take into their dreams. The creatures we meet along Atreyu's quest are what any child would picture when you say the word adventure, however the obstacles and challenges faced along the way are what makes this film so unique and special. Atreyu must look deep down into his soul if he is to defeat the nothing. To get to his goal he must have faith in himself and throw away all falsehoods of what he thinks he might be inside, and face his true self. Petersen isn't subtle about the messages he is trying to convey to children &#x96; be true to yourself, know who you are &#x96; and he achieves communication of these values due to the idolism the children will have for Atreyu, and they will strive to be like him. However, like any film, The NeverEnding Story isn't without flaws. The acting &#x96; particularly by Noah Hathaway who plays Atreyu, certainly could be better - although it's far from disappointing. The visual effects, although impressive for 1984 are far from what our kids of 2011 are used to, and this may be a detracting factor in initially putting this film in the DVD player. Some critics have also argued that the certificate of U is too generous &#x96; in the sense it should be higher. When a film is awarded a U it certifies that the film is appropriate for viewing for young children without their parents. However, throughout the film there are some mildly scary moments &#x96; one in particular towards the end, that somewhat makes you question whether children should be watching it alone on their first viewing. I remember watching this when I was about five, and although the fear adds to the adventure, I'm certainly glad my grandma was there with me! (And I was no chicken, even at five years old.) Fantasia is a culmination of all human's dreams and wishes, and the entire human race is represented by one boy &#x96; Bastian. He's the young version of 'the everyman' &#x96; someone every child can relate to. Through Bastian, every child watching this film can believe in the impossible; that it could happen to them. All in all, this film is everything you'd expect, and more, from a mid 80's family adventure movie. With cheesy, simple lines and mediocre acting, it may well initially get pushed to the back of the shelf of any average 2011 household, but give it a chance and you might be amazed, whatever age you are. There's no real surprises waiting for you in the storyline, apart from one subtle twist towards the end that may need explaining to your kids. A very comfortable and exciting viewing experience overall &#x96; and an ending that might leave you with tears in your eyes as the credits roll. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a great film! It is one of the best fantasy flicks from all the history, and it is an excellent film for the whole family.I it is also incredible underrated and misunderstood film, I just don't get why in the recent years this beautiful and memorable movie is receiving so much unfair criticism.Not only the visual aspect of this movie is beautiful and timeless, also the history is charming and unique, and it is possibly one of the best fantasy movie ever made since The Wizard of Oz.It really doesn't matter if it is not very faithful to the book in which it was inspired Don't misunderstood me, I'm not saying that the book was bad, I just I am saying not all the movie adaptations of a book have to be exactly as the source material Think about The Wizard of Oz which was quite different to the original book, and yet, it was an incredible, timeless film. "},{"Title":"1980's film making state of the art","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" You know this film is going to be good when you see names like Wolfgang Petersen and Jost Vacano in the opening credits. And it does not disappoint. Bastian is small for his age, desperately unhappy at losing his mother and very doubtful he can do anything useful at all. This is made even harder by the routine bullying by older boys on the way to school. But on this one occasion he manages to evade them by hiding in Mr Koreander's bookstore - and after smuggling the Neverending story book out he hides in the school attic to begin his journey into Fantasia . . . The realisation of the Fantasia world is stunning and beautiful, with Barret Oliver's measured narration a vital part which is often missed. Atreyu's mission is a desperate one from the start - fail and everything is destroyed !On first viewing, watching Atreyu's horse Artex sink into the swamp you think he'll get saved somehow. But he doesn't. There are persistent rumours that a horse really did die during filming so Noah Hathaway's grief may well have been real. It certainly makes for a very powerful scene. There are many other real shocks for the audience - it keeps you guessing right until the end.The highlight of all the creatures has to be the Luck Dragon - Falcor. A triumph of animatronics coupled with Alan Oppenheimer's beautiful narration. All the time, Bastian and the viewer are both slowly realising together that it's more than a story - he's a participant too as are all the audience because Fantasia is created by the dreams and wishes of mankind ! The tension of this slowly builds all the way through the film.The final 10 minutes is so emotional I still have difficulty watching, as the empress explains to Atreyou that Bastian holds the key to their survival. He simply can't believe that one small boy can be that important - and all he has to do is give the empress a new name ! Bastian then wishes Fantasia back into existence from a single grain of sand - and gets to terrify the bullies with the help of Falcor.Gripes ? Noah Hathaway wasn't the best choice for Atreyu, giving a rather workmanlike performance. One wonders what River Phoenix or Patrick Bach (of Jack Holborn fame) would have done with it. "},{"Title":"So wonderful you'll wish that it would never end","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The 1980s is known for a lot of things; legwarmers, the moonwalk, Reaganomics, and so much more. Some of it good, some of it people would rather forget about. But this was also a really creative period in our history because from this decade came some of the best in Science Fiction, Horror, and Fantasy films. We watched Indiana Jones narrowly escape deadly obstacles, Marty McFly travel back and forth threw time, and a spoiled teenage girl explore a labyrinth to try and save her baby brother. But before the latter, which is one of the most beloved of it's kind, came a film based on a popular German Fantasy novel of the same name that still has a following to this day. And after all these years it has held up really well.Pros Good acting all around. Fabulous score and cool theme song. Great story. Excellent special and visual effects. Beautiful production design. Good steady pace. Nice cinematography. Does a good job of conveying the message that reading is good. Memorable characters. Whimsical.Cons Some dated green screen work. Could have used some more complications.Final thoughts When you think about it, children of the 80s were pretty spoiled. There were so many amazing movies being made aimed at us, but in a lot of cases can be enjoyed by people of all ages. This is true of 'The Never Ending Story,' a magical journey that encourages us to use our imaginations. Sure effects have become more advanced since this film's time, but that doesn't diminish it one bit.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"German masterpiece","Date":"12 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is the one and only 'The Neverending Story'. Forget the awful sequels, this is the one to see and own. The original is a true classic and truly timeless. Like Port wine, gets better with time.Knowing it's a foreign movie (German in this case) only makes it feel even more special and distinguish than it already is. I am not even a fan of many fantasy movies, but this one is fantastic. More than just a movie, it's like a miracle come true and it takes us to a wonderful world of fantasy, a world of make-believe, a land of dreams and magic.Cinematography is spectacular, with dazzling landscapes and settings. Special effects are fascinating. Sounds are awesome. The movie is not purely artistic, there is a story behind the art of this creation. A very interesting and deep story, an emotional quest. This film is epic.For a fantasy tale it is surprisingly short. But hey, why do all fantasy movies have to be more than 2 hours or nearly 3 hours long anyway? During its short length it offers a lot more than most fantasy movies do in a much longer length. Its pace is flawless but fast... or maybe the film is just so good that it ends fast, way too fast, leaving the wish for more.This amazing film is a cinematic masterpiece and one of the finest ever, very worthy of belonging to any good movie collection.The soundtrack by Giorgio Moroder and Klaus Doldinger is pure genius. The entire score is instrumental aside Limahl's lovely song Never Ending Story. The rest of the soundtrack appeals to the senses. Some of it sounds so sad and emotional that it causes eyes to get teary. Some of it, such as the Southern Oracle's Theme and the Sphinxes's Theme, sounds and feels so deep, intense and creepy that it sends chills down the spine. Some of it sounds so happy that it puts a smile on your face.Atreyu is my hero. He is nice, cool, very brave and determined, has charisma and his long hair is phenomenal. Bastian is cute, nice, adorable, shy, innocent. The Childlike Empress is so expressive in every way despite her very short role. The luckdragon Falkor is a gentle giant, very friendly and endearing. And he is so cute, looks like a giant plush. Makes me wanna pet him and cuddle him. The gnomes Engywook and Urgl are hilarious. Their eccentric appearance and weird voices alone would be enough to make them comical, but it's whenever they argue with each other that they are really funny. Gmork is a fabulous villain, but very frightening. His terrifying figure combined with his powerful voice makes a scary combination.Noah Hathaway is super as the great little warrior Atreyu. Barret Oliver is amazing as Bastian. Tami Stronach is impeccable as the Childlike Empress. In other words, a perfect cast.This gem exists in two versions the English language version and the German dubbed version. Normally I can't stand dubbed versions but in this case I really like it. Even in German language, it still is perfect. It's the same movie anyway, just with some differences. And in certain scenes it improves even more the perfection of the version in English.As I was saying, there are a few differences between both versions. For example, some different names, some different music and some of the same music but not played in the same sequences, some additional scenes (which means slightly longer takes in certain sequences), completely different opening credits and opening music (in the German version it is entirely black screen, without those pink clouds and the music is instrumental and more intense), completely different music in the final credits (but not the same one as in the opening credits unlike the English version) and the soundtrack is entirely by Klaus Doldinger, without any by Giorgio Moroder. It is 7 minutes longer but it doesn't seem so. In fact, I hardly even notice the extra-length. Both versions are very worth owning! Surprisingly the German language and dubbing do not ruin its charm, even though (admittedly) it doesn't sound as authentic in German because it's the same people but not in their real voices. I don't know who dubbed the voices for the actors, but whoever they are they did a great job, regardless of the missing authenticness.Another surprise is that in some cases the voices are almost identical to the original actors's. For example, the voices of Falkor and Engywook sound almost the same. Kinda makes me wonder if they were dubbed by the same actors, but I don't think they were. Bastian's voice is somewhat similar to Barret Oliver's, only less baby-like. Atreyu's voice sounds clearly more childish (a contrast with Noah Hathaway's mature voice), but that's not a problem to me, it's no less charming for that matter.Even without English subtitles I don't mind. I know the English version so well that I practically know all the lines, plus I know and understand a bit of German (if very little).Title in Portugal 'História Interminável'. "},{"Title":"Grows Weaker With Age... Really For Kids Only","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A young boy borrows a book called The Neverending Story, the tale of Atreyu, a young boy who must save Fantasia from the nothing. But the two tales are intertwined, because if the boy stops reading, the fantasy world can never be saved.What is interesting to me is that Wolfgang Petersen directed Das Boot, then this... and went on to make Outbreak, Air Force One and Enemy Mine. One of the greatest films of our time, and then a slapdash movie for kids that even the original author disowned? You see, as much fun as this story is for kids, and as memorable as it is (enough that a band went and named themselves Atreyu)... the plot is so disjointed that even though you can follow it, there seem to be big chunks missing. And the script does not even include the second half of the book, which may annoy fans. (I'm unclear if the second movie picks up here or not.) I watched this film when I was younger, thinking it was okay, and again at age 29... and found it to be mildly nostalgic, but mostly just tedious. I would not recommend it to anyone unless you had a child that was too young to really care about the quality of their viewing experiences. "},{"Title":"A film for all ages -a good story is a good story!","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending Story is based on a novel by Michael Ende (ironic?) I watched this as a child and out of all the films I took in as a kid this is the one that i loved the most. Bastian is played by Barrett Oliver, whose mother has died recently, is a day dreamer and is being bullied. After a chance meeting with a strange old book store guy he steals a book called ... yep the neverending story and hides in the school attic to read it. We then see the story he is reading. The various strange creatures of a land called Fantasia are all flocking to see the child like empress as parts of the landscape are disappearing into nothing. It turns out the empress is also on her way out so a warrior is enlisted to go on a quest to find a cure for the nothing and the empress and save fantasia. This warrior is Atreyu, skilfully played by child star Noah Hathaway. The movie cleverly skips between Bastian reading the book and Atreyus various adventures in the book. What i loved as a kid was the fantasy element and the strange creatures. As an adult going back to visit this film I found I still loved it for different reasons. First of all the music. Not Giorgio Moroders hideous song but Doldingers themes which are stunning. Its a shame the English version does not have the option of having the original German music with it as it was so much better. In fact the German version is just better full stop with the sombre titles at the beginning, the different Ivory Tower theme and of course the removal of the limhal pop song at the beginning and end. As an adult i understand the story more than I did as a child and its a strong story. Its very well acted and is quite edgy for a children's film, with some scenes of a scary werewolf dog thing and some blood when Atreyu slays it. I found the neverending story just as magical as I did as a kid - maybe its just sentimentality but i would recommend it for people of all ages - after all a good story is a good story. "}{"Title":"A properly translated classic in fantasy literature.","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Before I was aware of Michael Ende's writing, I remember holding this movie very dearly. After reading the superior novel, I still find it amusing, but felt it could have been a tad better.While the effects seen today may not have been as surprising as back then, they still are great. The landscapes and surreal settings combined with the sweeping score make it quite an enjoyable experience. The film draws quite a lot from the source material, particularly the fascinating idea of a story within a story, turned upside down by Ende and competently adapted for the movie. Some scenes were quite eerie, such as Gmork's green eyes in the dark, and others very suspenseful, like Atreyu's glance at the mirror. The scene where Arthax sinks in the mud is by the far on of the saddest ever filmed. If it wasn't for his return appearance at the end, the movie would have probably destroyed your childhood.There are a number of flaws, mainly the rushed, though optimistic ending and some deviations from the novel, for example, the exclusion of the REAL Oracle of the South.Still, the spirit of the story remains the same, and it's a competent translation of the first third of the book. Ende wasn't very happy with the end result, but authors will never like an interpretation of their works coming from someone other than themselves.It's a great fantasy movie, with a great message not just for the kids, but for adults.But then, came the sequels... "},{"Title":"An old favorite","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a movie I have loved since I was a kid when it was still pretty new. I must have watched it a million times. I watched it again recently and of course noticed the special effects were that of the 80's but it doesn't matter. This is one of the better fantasy movies there is. Original ideas, and very interesting and vivid landscapes and characters. I would love to see it remade with today's technology, but I'm afraid that someone would mess it up somehow. This movie is magical and I consider it a classic. Of course, I was raised watching it. It's not very well-known but I recommend it for anyone, as long as you have an open mind. Hopefully you enjoy it like I always have. "},{"Title":"Epic","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Never Ending Story must be seen by everyone. Its a movie from my youth I'll never forget and takes the viewer's imagination and emotions deeper than most other children's films. The soundtrack is nothing short of magic, the film is visually stunning (scary at times) and the world of Fantasia very unique and beautiful. I don't think there's any children's fantasy film quite like this and it is very real, being made at a time when everything was made by puppetry. The film isn't entirely happy and takes the viewer through fear, sadness and exhilaration. Outstanding in every way! "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I first saw this film in 1985 on Betamax of all things. I was ten at the time and the world around me was changing so that kids weren't being kids anymore, they wanted to be hip and cool and mini-adults. This film took me into a world where it was OK to be a kid and enjoy using your imagination.It truly is an amazing film, I remember my parents really enjoyed it too, and I watched it practically every day because I loved it that much. I won't spoil the film because you need to watch it and take the journey with Bastian. The production of this film holds up against today's CGI obsessed plot lacking family films. The effects were done by Industrial Light and Magic which should tell you how good it is even by today's standards. The effects and puppets are believable to the point that you don't notice them as being puppets and effects, they pull you further into the story rather than have you sitting there thinking oh yeah that's a puppet.At 33 I have seen this film too many times to count, and I get upset when it has been on TV and I have missed it, because I will happily sit down and watch it time and time and time again.One thing I will say as a word of warning, watch this one and avoid the two sequels like the plague. The sequels are done by completely different people, and are nowhere near the standard of this one. The actors look nothing like the originals, and the effects are not up to the standard of ILM's. In the second one they reuse Falkor, but he looks very tatty and you can see his strings throughout the film.All I can say is just watch this film, it is good family entertainment, and is one of the best fantasy films ever made. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" One of the best films of this type ever made and one of the rare kid's film adults will probably get more out of (much like Lewis Carroll's masterpieces). Contains only half the great Michael Ende's original story (to his irritation) but definitely makes you want more.After twenty years still holds up magnificently in a way that films with fancier special effects and no emotion to speak of (read Star Wars prequels) do not after two months. Highlights Falkor's rescue of Atreyu from the Swamp of Sadness, the moment Bastian realizes he is an integral part of the book, Atreyu's adventure at the Southern Oracle, the Gmork's explanation of Fantasia and the Nothing, Atreyu's entrance into the Ivory Tower and the Empress's appearance and meeting with Bastian...I could go on and on. Absolutely enchanting stuff. "},{"Title":"NeverEnding Goodness","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is a classic in my world. I was every bit engrossed with Atreyu's journey as a viewer as Bastian was as a reader of the story. There is no coincidence that the movie The Never Ending Story was as excellent as it was because of the story. The story and plot were so good that very little effort was needed to make this a good movie, yet I could see that quite a bit of effort was put into making it an extraordinary movie. There were no wasted scenes nor wasted characters. Every scene and every character contributed to the overall movie. The Never Ending Story delivered like all movies should it kept me fixed and enthralled from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"This movie is the best","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The NeverEnding Story is by far the best fantasy film in the world (this is my opinion) and it will never be topped in the history of forever. I first saw this film at 10, and I liked it, except for the G'Mork. This hideous wolf-vampire scared me for a long time until only this summer, when I finally conquered my fear, and now I watch it every chance I can rent it. I'm only 15, and I still like it, even though people say it's for kids. I believe that's it for people of all ages, young and old. Hopefully, I'll get it for my birthday, and I'll watch it nonstop. The acting, scenery and the movie is just beautiful. That's all I have to say.NeverEnding Story forever. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This film is an excellent choice for any person who likes fantasy and dreams of wonderful places. Bastian is a lovable character who can reach the child in everyone. A must see for any age. Everyone will enjoy the storyline and characters. I will not tell you what happens, but the cast brings the film and the story to life. I hope that everyone will share the movie with family and friends. This was one of my favorite films as a child, and it still is today. The characters learn about themselves and each other in a valuable way. Please comment on the film. I would love to share my enthusiasm with other NeverEnding Story fans. There are not many films that can please all audiences young or old. I would suggest that you keep an open mind when viewing any fantasy flick. "},{"Title":"This is a Wizard of Oz for the 80's Gen X","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" There are several movies I remember growing up with that stay with me now, that I shared with my son at that age...Dark Crystal, Labyrinth...you remember, too if you're in your 30's. This is spectacular, always has been, hey I mean, it made us want to read (how many films do that now?). A few questions though, anyone who has an answer please update me at highpriestess9@yahooWhy was the second allowed to suck so much, and I recently heard there was a third? That can't be good. Why did Noah Hathaway stop acting, he robbed the world of much needed talent? What is he doing lately and can he be inspired (coerced?) into returning to the art?Okay, here's the review A little boy who's lost his mother finds solace in books. While being picked on by fat kids he hides in a book store and discovers The Neverending Story which sucks him into the world of Fantasia, the world of human imagination which needs to be rescued from The Nothing by a child warrior of the Amer-Indian tribes. Only catch is that the title is misleading; the story does end (sob) and the sequel is AWFUL.If you are a child, or have a child, or ever were a child, this movie is for you. No question about it. If you don't believe me, and the hundreds of others who've reviewed this for you here, go to the video store (ok, maybe it's too old to be there, but check online or the through-the-mail rentals) and WATCH THIS FILM!!!!!!!!!!!!! Personally, I recommend you just buy it, you'll want to own it anyway once you've seen it.If you don't like it, slit your wrists, because your heart is dead and you have no more reason to live. J/K o)Seriously though, this is a wonderful film, and the FX are still pretty believable. Few films from '84 are still believable, so you know that means something. "},{"Title":"you'r the winner","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Well, you are an ordinary person - like me, but you have dreams. You want to save the world as I would like to do, well this is the movie. An ordinary boy, sad over the loss of his mother, finds that he can save the world even if that world is confined within a book. Bastion reads the Neverending story, but he also lives the story and becomes the hero. He meets an endearing dragon who flies him through the air. He saves the world of Fantasia from dissolution. We all want to be heroes who save the world. We want to have value. In this movie, each of us ordinary persons who are still children at heart become one with Bastion and Atrayu who do save a world - a world with rock eating giants and sleepy bats and gigantic wise turtles. This is a movie for dreamers. Do you dream of flying at night. Of soaring through the air with powers. Well I do. In this movie you will be there with Bastion and his surrogate Atrayu to participate in this adventure. A wonderful movie for romantics who have secret dreams of being selfless altruistic heroes. More for adults who dream than kids who live from day to day. I enjoyed this movie. "}{"Title":"Pure fantasy&#133; pure neverending enchantment.","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" No spoilers.Nothing can be compared to the premise of 'Michael Ende's The neverending story. It truly is one of the greatest children's stories of all time. This story is about a young boy named Bastian that takes a book from an old bookstore. Though it sounds bad that he would steal the book you soon find out that it was meant to be. He returns to his old school and hides far up in the attic away from everyone. With little food and little light he is scared but the Neverending Ending Story book keeps calling his attention. Not realising what he is about to do, he opens the book and begins not only to read, but to create The Never Ending Story. From that moment on, Bastian's thoughts and dreams become a reality in a far away world called Fantasia.His vivid imagination takes him beyond the limits of the real world only to see his own self in another young boy called Atreyu. The adventure that unfolds will make your imagination run wild with joy, fantasy, happiness, fear, sadness, just to be followed by the hope of his understanding who and what role he plays in The Neverending Story. The movie captured a large amount of the extraordinary world of fantasia (fantastica) in a highly beautiful and creative fashion. Sadly, much of what made the book so amazing and a 'best seller' was cut out. Ende voiced his opinion on the movie saying I was sorely disappointed with the film. You can understand why he was so disappointed, but the magic was still there. To finish&#133; I highly recommend you add this to your DVD collection, as is it will add itself to your heart.D. L. Hunter "},{"Title":"This movie makes me feel good!","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" We want to get away, we want to find ourselves a world we can feel happy in. This movie does that very well! This bookish young boy get bullied and put in a dumpster, then he goes to this bookstore and he meets the owner he tells the book called The Neverending Story and he says This book is not for you. Though he loves to read, he should have taken heed of that warning. When he reads, he delves into that fantasy world where the young man who lost his horse meets this strange creature who looks like half-dog and half-dragon. Calling himself the Luck Dragon, he was pretty friendly all the way through. And when that young man finally succeed a trial, the short man shouted He did it!, He did it! and tumbles over. That's a big laugh there. When the reader realizes that he's the one to help the people, he gets his wish. The kid got not only his wish to ride the Luck Dragon and meet the people he read about, he got his exact revenge on those bullies who decide to put themselves in their places. That that Bullies! This movie can really set you free, it's a stress reliever, and it's fun for the whole family. I truly recommend The Neverending Story! 5 STARS! "},{"Title":"The NeverEnding Story- my thoughts","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I am now 30 yrs Old, i have just watched this movie last night with my wife since we both loved it when we were younger. I had first seen it when it was released and probably seen it at least a hundred times after when i was younger. This movies use of imagination, moral structure and ambiance i think is totally unique in the genre. Definitely a movie i want my kids to watch someday. Of all the hundreds of movies i rate only about 6 have gotten a rating of 10. I love this movie for what it represents, for making me remember how i felt and thought as a child and how i feel it helped shaped my mind in a very positive way. Its probably safe to say i have watched this movie more then any other in my life. Sincerely,FerbZs "},{"Title":"Never gets old","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Never Ending Story came out when I was 2 years old. I've never grown tired of it since! Even now when I watch it at almost 24, I'm completely lost in Atreyu's quest to stop the Nothing and save Fantasia, bringing along with him the human boy Bastian.It's a magical adventure, bringing weird and wonderful characters like Falkor the luck dragon, Night Hop, Teeny Weeny,Engywook and Urgl into the mix. A set of characters that you find yourself falling in love with.Funny and exciting, a tale of dreams, hope and faith. A lesson that only Never Ending Story could teach.You hafta adore this film! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever!","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending Story was one of my very favorite films as a child, and even now, 23 years old, I adore it. I love the book as well, and done ever since I read it - when I first got together with my first boyfriend we read it out loud together. ;) Falcor is my favorite character - when I was small I used to dream about having my own luckdragon. The childlike princess is a character I appreciate more and more - I love the beauty and true fantasy of this movie. The Ivory Tower, the Oracle, even the school attic in our world, are all wonderful scenes - and best of all, it is a movie with a sense of magic and also a exiting and believable plot. "},{"Title":"Keys to Imagination","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending Story is by far, my absolute favorite fantasy film of all time. Even though I know it has its flaws, that doesn't change the fact that this film had such an impact on me, that even after all these years, as I went from being a child to an adult, it still continues to astound me. The moment the opening credits roll, and the song starts playing, I'm fully under its spell.The boy Sebatian, is a character I can relate to, due to the fact that he loves reading books, making it his ultimate escape to deal with the loss of his mother, and the imagination it has given him that has him drawing unicorns on his school books for one thing. Unfortunately he also has to bear with three school bullies who love to throw him in the garbage bin because they think he's a weirdo. One one such morning, while running away from them, he enters a bookshop, where the owner at first tells the boy to go away, but then becomes intrigued when the boy tells him all the books he read. Sebastian notices the book that the owner is reading and asks him about it, where the owner states that the books he reads are safe, and that this book is not for him. So, naturally out of deep curiosity, he steals the book from the shop and takes it with him to school, going upstairs to the attic where he can read the book all to himself, since he's all alone up there. There, he starts reading, and the magic begins......The story takes place in a world called Fantasia, a place filled with beauty, wonder, and light. It's ruled by the Childlike Empress who lives at the Ivory Tower. But now, there is trouble brewing due to a mysterious and dark entity called The Nothing which is swiftly destroying the world of Fantasia, and causing the Empress herself to become fatally ill. So, she summons a warrior named Atreyu, who is issued the quest to find a cure for the empress, and save his world.The journey will not be an easy one for him, its full of danger and despair, but along the way he befriends some people, particularly a dog-like white dragon named Falcor, who helps him a great deal through this. Parents should be forewarned, this film, though released as a family film, is not intended for young viewers, since it truly has moments that will frighten and scare them, particularly the scenes that involve the wolf-like creature called The Gmork. Believe me, even now after all these years, those moments scare the hell out of me!!! Nevertheless, despite those small moments of terror, I love the movie with all my heart, and though it has spawned two sequels and its own animated film, this film, directed by Wolfgang Petersen, is definitely the best of them all. The boy Sebastian begins to realize that he himself is becoming a part of the story that he's reading, and that leads to an ending that personifies the true moral of the film.I believe, that we are all part of a Neverending story. We create the setting and world we choose to be a part of and live in it, We choose our paths and encounter the things that happen as a result, the people we come across, and the accomplishments that follow. Never mind that there is no such things as dragons, unicorns, or any other type of mythical creatures in the real world. It doesn't matter who we are, what we are, or where we come from. As long as we never let our imagination die or let our hopes and dreams fade away, we can still have our own great adventures, make new and amazing friends, and achieve things that are both magical and miraculous each and every day......But that's another story. "},{"Title":"What a beautiful wonder","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is not just any Fantasy film, it is one of the greatest films of all time. I loved, this film, Time Bandits, and Explorers were all great inspirations to me (shut up! I know that this isn't the first time I've said that) I have watched this film many times. And even though it's underrated, it SHOULDN'T BE! How could it be? Honestly, I think this film deserves more than what it got. And although this is a film with flaws, you must really watch it to truly understand it's beauty. I know people will now probably make fun of me for giving this film a GOOD review and BAND OF BROTHERS a BAD one; but frankly, I must tell you to watch this film because if you don't...well, then you'll be caught in your own never-ending story "},{"Title":"THE NEVERENDING STORY  A Classic That Stands Above It's Pathetic Sequels...","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" THE NEVERENDING STORY After the most disappointing closing of Oscar season I've ever experienced, I decided to bury my head in brilliant childhood fluff. What else other than THE NEVERENDING STORY? The film's quality may be tainted a bit by ridiculous sequels with terrible plots and acting... however, Wolfgang Peterson's original NEVERENDING STORY remains one of the most brilliant children's epics ever captured on film.THE NEVERENDING STORY manages to take a brilliantly paced adventure saga and tie it in seamlessly with a pro-reading message that miraculously never comes across as preachy. The human hero is Bastian, a young boy coping with his mother's death who uses books as a means of escape. One day, he takes a mysterious book from a local bookstore and reads it in the attic of his elementary school. While he reads, he discovers that he is a part of the story as well... the fictional land of Fantasia is not simply on the pages of this new book... it is a land that needs his determination, commitment, and bravery to finish the story.The brilliance of THE NEVERENDING STORY is that nothing is simplified for a young audience. The drama, the scope, the frightening aspects, and the message are all presented in the setting of a children's story... but with the artistry of an adult-minded filmmaker.THE NEVERENDING STORY manages to be a thrilling adventure despite the fact that there is virtually no action sequences. We never have overtly exciting sequences of thrills. The most exciting moments don't build up b/c of visual flash and spectacle... they build up because Peterson engrosses us in the story and when the stakes get high we feel it.In addition to all this quality story-telling... the visual imagery is still beautiful today. The land of Fantasia looks realistic at times, fantastical at others, and has a constantly changing cast of eccentric characters... and they all blend together perfectly in the visual world Peterson has created for us.Anyone who forgets how great this film is should re-watch it and forget the fact that the studio turned this into a cheap and ridiculous franchise. THE NEVERENDING STORY is a classic film for kids that gets across it's message about reading in an thrillingly paced adventure that never seems preachy. That's a quality too few message films have, and THE NEVERENDING STORY's success at doing so makes it a true classic for children and adults of all ages.... A- ... "},{"Title":"Endless entertainment","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I can't believe Director Wolfgang Peterson made Das Boot, The Neverending Story and Enemy Mine as three films from his career that he made back to back. Three entirely different films and each a gem. Most people commenting on this here saw this film as a child and have cherished memories from the eyes of a child. Many other cherished the book and have disappointed reactions to the the film's adaptation. I have neither. I had never heard of this film in it's theatrical release and never heard of the book. I saw it first as an adult about a year or two after it's release when it showed up one day on HBO or Showtime or one of the movie channels on TV. I found it absolutely charming and entertaining. The next day I had to see it again. I found it so intelligent and visual that I watched it for a third time a few days later. I've seen it a couple of times since then and have always liked this. When it's sequel NES II came on TV a some years later I checked it out but turned it off shortly after. I didn't want a bad sequel to sully my image of this fine film. I love the music in this too, especially it's title song. I would give this a 9.0 out of 10 and recommend it to young and old alike. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but the wolf is ugly -P","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" To me, The Neverending Story is a wonderful movie full of fantasy and amazing creatures. I saw this film in 1995 and what I mostly liked about it was the Ivory Tower. It was so big and beautiful, just like Tami Stonach. Noah Hathaway performed his role of Atréyu excellently. Although the music is sometimes creepy and gives me goosebumps, I simply love this film!Every time I watch the movie, I dive into a different world. When I was a kid, I used to squeal with joy every time Falcor showed up. And Ingywuck and Urgl (German) were the funniest things I had ever seen. I was particularly fascinated by Atréyu, who I always wanted to be like as a child. I would sit on my toy-horse and play Atréyu. I almost cried when Artax drowned in the Swamps of Sadness.But one character of the movie has become part of my worst nightmares. What I really don't like about the movie is Gmork. He is so big and ugly! Probably the ugliest monster ever to be in cinemas! When I was a child and watched TNES for the first time, I ran away when Gmork appeared on the screen. I ran up to my room and covered myself with my b l a n k y until my sister came up to me and said that the big bad ugly wolf was gone. Also today, aged 17, I refuse to look at Gmork. Every time these scenes come, I would turn the volume of my telly down and cover my eyes with my hands. Once, when I was 14 (I had watched it for the first time in 10 years), I even ran away when Gmork appeared! My mother was laughing her butt off while I almost wet my pants because of that wretched thing! -.- Can't even stay in a dark room alone, I just panic. And I'm so chicken that I sleep with the light on (childish, am I not?!?). In my opinion, I have a good reason for that -PFor scaring me, I give the movie a 9/10, really good! All in all, I can recommend this movie to everyone, it's really worth seeing! Give it to your children, so they learn more about THEIR world and how to look after it and protect it -) ! "}{"Title":"THE Most Inspirational Film EVER...","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" ***Contains Possible Spoilers*** Young minds need to grow and this movie helped my young mind grow...and also believe.When I say believe I mean that this film helped me (and still helps me) to believe in those head in the clouds hopes and dreams that tend to be lost within the process of growing up and taking on the expected and inevitable responsibilities of an adult's lifestyle; the same hopes and dreams that I had forgotten that I had when I was a child.The conflict in this movie is The Nothing which is an unidentifiable tempest/storm that is consuming the dream world of Fantasia. There is only one person that those who preside over Fantasia feels can do something to stop The Nothing and his name is Atreyu.Atreyu being nothing more than a boy, who is asked to leave all his weapons behind and face this quest alone with the company of Artex, his horse, is burdened with the fact that he has to find a way to stop that which no one in all of Fantasia can stop...The Nothing. A clue to this is that he is a boy...remember that while watching the film! The boy that is actually reading the book becomes part of the story, unbeknownst to him at the time he gets the book. Overall...the only thing that keeps Fantasia alive is the fact that Bastian sets aside what he knows as reality and has enough hope to believe that his dreams are real and that nothing is impossible...so long as you have that hope that is so often and tragically lost as we grow older and have to keep our feet on the ground.The real breaking point for me is when Atreyu confronts Gmork, a demon-like wolf who happens to be assisting The Nothing in consuming all of Fantasia. Gmork describes exactly what The Nothing is...and he explains it thoroughly to Atreyu. If you listen to the dialogue between Atreyu and Gmork and relate it to your adult life then you will hopefully understand what is being relayed during this scene.The most significant part of the film is when Atreyu finally talks to The Childlike Empress within her Ivory Tower after all the rest of Fantasia has been consumed by The Nothing. This is when Bastian finally realizes that he IS Atreyu...in the sense that he was reading and experiencing all of the adventures, trials and hardships of Atreyu just as Atreyu was in the world of Fantasia. This part of the film always makes me cry even to this day even though I am almost 26 years old.When you get wrapped up in a movie or a book and get so totally lost in it then you are taken to another world...a world far, FAR away from here and that is the PRECISE premise behind The NeverEnding Story. The Story is indeed NeverEnding because you ARE the character, the Atreyu, and so long as you still have dreams and hopes and are willing to reach for them and believe in things which people tell you are not tangible and achievable then The Nothing can and will never consume Fantasia!!! Mothers and fathers...I recommend this highly to you and your children. It helped me a great deal and hopefully it will help your children as well. "},{"Title":"Childhood Memories","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" When I was growing up, this was one of my favourite films. I could watch it over and over again, and I'd never get bored of it. I hadn't seen it for years and it was TV the other day. I'm at University, so it's not like I had anything better to do. Well, I couldn't believe it. It's exactly how I remember it. Sure, some of the dialogue and parts of the story are just plain bad and it has dated a bit. But not as much as you think it would. I still think the puppetry is great and the cheesy eighties soundtrack is great. All these years later I still think it's a brilliant kids film, with a lot beautifully executed ideas........what a pity about the sequels! "},{"Title":"A superior film with a unique message","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending Story is a classic film that has a very unique message that most films don't address - that reading and learning is good. This film really stuck with me in my childhood years because of this message, its superior production design, and a memorable title song The Neverending Story by Limahl. Director Wolfgang Peterson really knew what he was doing when he made this film - his genius would show in future films including Das Boot and the very fun In The Line of Fire. The best part of this film is Falkor, a dragon-like creature that helps Atreyu (and Bastian) to find the ChildLike Empress. This is a must-see film that all kids of our current generation should see if only to see that reading can be fun. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"a great film even 21 years on","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Just watching this film again for the first time in a while. Whilst some of the effects look a bit dated by modern standards, I still think it is a fantastic film. Whats more Jim Hensons workshop show that you really can create wonderful magic without using masses of computers. Falkor is fantastic Noah Hathaway is great as Atreyu as is Barret Oliver as Bastian.Somebody commented here that they did not really understand the meaning of the film. That may be partly because it draws to an end halfway through the book. Neverending story II tells the rest.For those of you who enjoy a good read find a copy of the book. though like the film its years since I read the book I am sure you will love it. "},{"Title":"Greatest Fantasy Movie Ever!!!","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I loved this movie as a child, and love it even more today. The settings, the characters, the plot, everything was brilliant. I know I use the word 'imaginative' a lot in my reviews, but this movie is the most imaginative movie of all time, (I really should read the novel it was based on.) The characters were genius. The rock biter was completely original. I can't think of any dragon in any other movie, novel, or fairy tale like Falkor, the luck dragon. He is wise, courageous, noble, and heroic. The little scientist and his wife were amusing, and not in a corny pop-culture sort of way like so many characters in part 3. The statues who shot beams from their eyes and the oracle sent chills down my spine as a child. Finally, the empress, was genuine and wise. Our hero, Atrayu (May have misspelled), was certainly a brave boy. Its a fantasy, so of course it doesn't have to be realistic.The moral of this story should evoke much thought on the part of fantasy fans like myself. If you remember, the wolf, who was sent to kill Atrayu, explained he was a servant. He also said that he wanted the 'nothing' to win because those without imaginations or hopes are easy to control. I have often speculated that he could be the result of the fantasies of corrupt big business leaders who are fed up with insubordination on the part of their workers, and blame imagination and fantasy for the workers' unwillingness to just accept whatever their employers try to do to them. Maybe I am reading too much into it though. I tend to do that.I give the movie a 10. I wish I could rate it even higher than the one or two other movies to which I have given 10s, but rest assured, I don't give 10s frivolously. "},{"Title":"As good as I remembered it","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I just bought the DVD, thinking that in the 12 years or so since I last saw this movie, I would have grown out of it. I was surprised to find that I loved it just as much as I did when I first saw it as a child, perhaps even more. It has a great story that children can follow, and adults can appreciate as well. The music fits it perfectly. I have the soundtrack as well, and the Swamps of Sadness always makes me cry, and the main theme always makes me smile. "},{"Title":"Impressive fantasy movie","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  One of the best fantasy movies made. I liked this film since i was very little. I think the genre Fantasy/adventure is the hardest category to make movie in. I require a very good story that does not get too unrealistic. If your going to make a good adventure you have to make the audience forget about the world we are living in. Remove the story to a book, other world, earlier or later era of time. It will always be unrealistic, but if it is in a other world or time it will become exiting instead of totally stupid.  I remember when i first heard that there was someone who was planning to make Lord of the ring. I told one of my friend that i hoped they made it as beautiful and exciting as Neverending story. I read the book of Lord of the ring so i very much doubt that it would make it any good. to get any of the Tolkins description from book to screen. But I was wrong. I gave LOTR 1,2,3 and neverending story vote 10. I gave NES 10 only because it was made for 20years ago. And has a very good story.P  "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A magical movie that determined me to seek the novel written by Michael Ende. The book is amazing, i have never read something like this, ever. Incredible. You should see the movie first and then read the book, otherwise you may conclude that the movie lacks the complexity and depth of the novel. Nevertheless, this wonderful movie will make any child happy and make him search for the book. I would also recommend reading Momo, as well as any book written by Michael Ende. Greatest romantic since Novalis... "},{"Title":"The best film ever","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  (I'm French excuse my bad English) The neverending story is the best film I've ever seen. That's a tale. Once you've seen it your life can change for ever. That's a lesson to help you in finding the good way in life. That's a way to keep your dreams alive and avoid that the gloom overtake you. Watch this film with the mind of a child an you'll realize it's a film for adult. It will change you for ever.  "},{"Title":"This is the Only movie that have SOUL","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie cannot be compared to anything else. This is the only movie that has a SOUL and a deep meaning to everyone. I was 11 years old when I saw this movie and still remember this movie as the best movie of all times. I'm sure everybody will agree with me that this is an exceptional movie and if you saw this movie first as a little kid then only now you can understand the true value of this masterpiece. There is nothing else like Neverending Story. This is the story. This is about us. About our dreams. About how we were as kids. About our fantasy. Abut our past children's life. A story that will never end. "}{"Title":"Classic","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is nearly twenty years old. However, when I saw it on Sci-Fi last weekend, it still moved me.  This is one of the greatest fantasy movies ever made.  It has a simple message that still applies to today's world.  Don't give up on your dreams. "},{"Title":"I first saw it at the age of 18....","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I first saw it at the age of 18 and today 18 years later I still well up at the emotions about the movie...It is truely a G rated NON animated movie with a lifetime of special viewings.And his revenge on his bullies is classic.  Every bullied kids ultimate revenge. "},{"Title":"the best family-film all time !","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie 10 years ago, and i got across it on this website and i remembered this film. I think it's one of the best family movies all time. it has excitement,sorrow,happiness, action. everything ! they don't make movies like this anymore. I also like labyrinth, with david bowie, But this one is the Best family movie all time !10/10 "},{"Title":"My favorite fantasy movie of all time","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie I just have to describe in one word the best, my fav, the greatest, etc fantasy film of all time. This movie has everything a good fantasy movie has fantasy. Also it has good acting (even though I shouldn't judge since its not in the dramatic category), good special effects (I loved the blue screen effect), and a great story which a certain movie called Lord of the Rings The Fellowship of the Ring didn't have. Please all who love fantasy watch this movie.10/10 "},{"Title":"A film for all times and all ages...","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater when I was four years old. There is an event near the end of it that absolutely terrified me, which I remember to this day. A couple of months later, my mother took me to a special screening of Return of the Jedi. I had to be dragged, kicking and screaming, to the car on the way to the movie. Nonetheless, this movie retains a special place in my heart it takes a story that is universal for children of all ages, fills it with unforgettable characters and images (particularly the glowing sentry gates) and will completely capture the imagination of any child or adult who sees it. "},{"Title":"The best film in the whole world ever","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I remember that we bought the film when I was 7 years old but I didn't like it because I thought all the fairytales were scary and I didn't understand the story. And after that I haven't look at it until now. I thought I didn't have to look at it because I thought that it was bad. But for a time ago I didn't have something to do and I took it and watched it. Now I understand the story and it's so wonderful! It's really the best movie ever! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest children films of all time!","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Neverending Story is one of the best movies I've ever seen. It's a magical piece of story about a daydreaming bookreading boy (Barrett Oliver) who decides to take a book from a library. He reads it in the attic of his school and it is the story of Atreyu (Noah Hathaway) trying to save Fantasia from The Nothing. Only Bastian doesn't realize what story he's really reading.The special effects and sets of this movie are amazing! I recommend this movie to everyone who loves fairy tales. Your kids will love it! "},{"Title":"Could this be the greatest fantasy movie ever made?","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film is a movie your could describe as being beautiful. Almost like Lord of the Rings if you ask me. The storyline is just as good too. This movie to me is a bit underrated but everyone who saw loved it. You would have to be a fool not to love it. This movie should be rated higher but unfortunately its not. I used to like this movie as a kid as well as many others. Even though i choose Willow and Labyrinth over this one i still love this movie. Noah Hathaway did an excellent job. Whatever happened to the guy...who knows. Last time i heard he worked on a film sometime in the nineties but he was only amongst the micellaneous crew. Ironically i knew someone who was first cousins with Noah but she had no idea what happened to him as well. here i am branching off but anyways this movie is fantastic. The sequel is all right but doesnt compare to this one and dont even bother to get the third one. That movie creates a whole new definition of shame. This one is the best of the trilogy. "},{"Title":"PURE PEARL AMONG OTHER MOVIES","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"   Ahhh, there are some things in live, which makes it richer & more beautiful. One of this is a movie, who suck you in and don't let you out, till you stop watching it. And the one who shakes your emotions, like an roller-coaster... Ladies and gentleman, welcome to Fantasia. If, you're my age (25&older) you'll discover again your inner child, and if you're younger, you'll probably say Books are cool!. And, please, never mind the technical effects, which are maybe a little out of date, but rather listen to the magnificent Giorgo Moroder's original music, and escort two great young leading actors (Noah Hathaway & Barret Oliver) on their quest for saving Fantasia and Moonchild princess, so brilliantly played by 12 year old Tami Stronach. What can I say for an end, except...Thank you Wolfgang Petersen for filming this movie after a great book. You've made my life richer.10 out of 10 (with a ticket to the best 10 movies ever made)  "},{"Title":"a movie every child of the '80s will get nostalgic over","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  When I was little, my favorite movies were The NeverEnding Story, the Princess Bride, Labyrinth, the Dark Crystal, and Ghostbusters.I used to make my daddy rent The NeverEnding Story at least twice a month for me. I was in love with Atreju... I cried when his horse died (and I still cry when I see it now). I was afraid of the Nothing... I wanted to be the Empress. The scene that always got me was the ending, when Bastian rides Falcor's back out of Fantasia and into the real world and they go after those bullies! I was always like Yeah! Show 'em who's boss!!!The NeverEnding Story will always stand out in my mind as being part of my childhood.  "}{"Title":"The Best Fantasy","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I think this is the best fantasy film I have ever seen. The visuals are simply astounding, while the score is a perfect enhancement to the imaginative story. Very few films have equalled it in terms of groundbreaking style and memorable characters. A classic of the genre! "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I must confess that this movie has been the one that really touched me in my childhood. I'm 18 years old now but I still watch it, because it reminds me when i was a little kid dreaming about flying on Falcor's back, or riding with arthax the horse. It's a beautiful story that all the people should see.  "},{"Title":"NEVER ENDING MAGICAL EXPERIENCE","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was a child and I got carried away with it. It's the best movie that I ever saw.The most fantastic ,colorful, wonderful film ever, that captures the imagination and fantasies of a child. But this movie is not only for children but also for grown ups. Try to watch this movie and surely it will bring out the child within you. I'm already 22 years old but still the impact that I experienced when I first saw it is still the same every time I watch it.I never get tired of watching it over and over again.WATCH IT AND FEEL THE MAGIC! "},{"Title":"This realy is THE NEVERENDING STORY !","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I remember the first time I saw this movie. I was 15 at the time ,back in 85 and I was totaly carried away by it. It was the first and the last time, that I went back to see a movie again right after the first session ended, and I would have watched it a third time in a row if I had more money that day.This movie was one the biggest influences in my life. It was because of it that I got into drawing , because I wanted to create worlds as beautiful as Fantasia. That first image of the Ivory Tower still is, my main source of inspiration. Never before I had seen an image in any movie that was so close to my own imagination style.I had read the book about three times, before I went to see the movie and it was my favorite book at that time and the first fantasy novel I read, so I was a bit disapointed when I found out that the movie only covered the first half of the book. I wanted to see more !Even today when I watch it, I want to see more, and I hate when it ends.This movie, even with his flaws is my favorite fantasy movie ever, because never a fantasy world was so better depicted in film,  with the exception of  LEGEND  , but the Neverending Story showed us much more of its geographic areas, making FANTASIA a much believable world.The fact that they altered some of the events in the book, didn´t bother me much, although I can see why the writer MICHAEL END, didn´t like it at all, because it really is true that compared to the book some parts in the movie are very disappointing. The Southern Oracle, The giants who create the winds ,( that don´t appear at all ) or the final scenes in the Ivory Tower are a good example of that. It´s very dificult to understand why didn´t they leave it as it was in the book. Maybe they had no budget for it.But if there is one thing that compensates this, is the amazing atmosphere that this movie has. The production design has to be the more creative and imaginative ever, with amazing creatures and locations that couldn´t better capture the atmosphere of the book. Because of this and despite the changes in the story, this movie really is THE NEVERENDING STORY. A perfect work of imagination.The soundtrack also couldn´t have been beter and creates a fabulous enchanted atmosphere throughout the film.The only bad thing in this movie is the kid who plays ATREIU. Physically it might be perfect, but sometimes it almost hurts to see him act. Others he´s just fine. It´s a bit strange to watch. Maybe it wasn´t his fault. Anyway, I still think that they should have used the Barret Oliver who plays BASTIAN, because he really can act. Im sure he would be great if he played both parts.So, if you like fantasy novels, first go read the book, because it´s a true masterpiece of imagination, only compared with the work of TOLKIEN, but completely diferent in style and very original. This is one book wich is perfect for all ages. Believe me. Then go and see this movie, because even if if it isn´t a perfect adaptation of the story, it´s perfect in capturing the atmosphere of the novel. The initial scenes in the woods of Fantasia are amazing. And don´t be afraid of watching this, thinking this is a kid's movie, because, if you like fantasy, you´ll never get bored. Kids here are treated like persons not like stupid clichés that are usual in movies.This is an excellent movie on itself, if you forget about the book. Excellent stuff. And probably the best commercial european movie EVER.NEVERENDING STORY I, is a magnificent fantasy movie. Forget the sequels.  "},{"Title":"An adventure I will never forget","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Never Ending Story is something really special. It has a wonderful story to tell, great characters and a depth that many adventures for the younger ones just do not have. It is almost that if you become a part of this film. Two other movies that can be compared to this one is The Dark Crystal (Jim Henson, Frank Oz) and Labyrinth (Jim Henson). I have seen the two sequels to The Never Ending Story, but those are not good at all. In fact, they are terrible. The first one is the best, and an adventure I will never forget. "},{"Title":"The BEST movie ever made, if ya ask me!","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I've seen this movie more times than any other movie I've ever seen. At one time, I watched it 15 times in a row. Seriously. The whole movie is great. it is so good. I recommend it to anyone anywhere. The movie teaches great values. I used to wish so much that I was Atreyu. The movie quite simply rocks. Period. Everyone should go and see it. "},{"Title":"all fantasy-loving geeks... this is your childhood!","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  i think a lot of people saw themselves in Bastian. A nerdy kid in life, but a hero in his fantasy world. the effects where cheesey, but i'm 21 and still dig this film. the music is great, and the movie still can get a little creepy at times. every kid should watch this film. keep your head on the ground? what for?!?  "},{"Title":"Believe in the dream!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This incredibly imaginative film brings to life the world that each and every one of us, at one time or another, has only dreamt of. 'The NeverEnding Story' finally makes this dream become real. Now we don't just have to be asleep to see it, we can come back and watch it again and again with our eyes open, and practically live it! Believe in the dream!  "},{"Title":"A dream brought to life","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Never Ending Story has an excellent story-line.  It's like a fantasy that has come to life.  Ever child's dream in visual form for all to see.  I have enjoyed this movie for years and still consider it to have great value as it tells us to never forget the child within our hearts.  That's why it's such a wonderful movie that should never be forgotten.... "},{"Title":"Always something new.","Date":"20 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie first time when I was nine and I have seen it eleven times since. I seem to find something new in it every time I see it and I consider it one of the best movies I've ever seen. Thank you everybody who was making this movie, it has inspired my childhood a great deal.  "}{"Title":"My childhood in one film","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  There is no 'why', just 'is'. This film IS beautiful. Everyone has dreams, everyone wants to see them come  true. This film teaches us that, through the eyes of someone else.  "},{"Title":"A never ending amount of re-watchability","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Neverending Story is top-notch fantasy.Atreyu, though not accurate to the book - is properly casted, as is Bastian. I'm a sucker for puppets and animatronics, so this movie is like Disneyland for me. The production value is huge, and the creations are extremely well done for the time that this film was made. I mean, some of the props/creations and makeup surpass any CGI that the industry can provide today.The sets are what I want to see out of fantasy-based movies today. If they could just take a step back and take the time to bring quality back to the fantasy genre, I would be a happy camper (noteable a happy customer to the production). It's not that I don't go out to see the Lord of the Rings and the Harry Potters of today, It's the fact that I don't take it to the level of buying merchandise (or even getting tattoos, if the obsession becomes that big). It's hard for me to become a super-fan of any of the newer movies/franchises of today. It's difficult for me to respect something that was created with a narrow vision with minimal technical challenges. I'd love to see the effects envelope pushed again. (We'll see what happens with Tron) Anyways, back to the review The music is simply amazing.Klaus Doldinger and Giorgio Moroder, both pioneers in electronic soundtracking, they have yet to outdo such an amazing accomplishment. I understand that the soundtrack was way different for the non-US release of this film. I've heard both soundtracks - and I can say completely bias-free that the electronic compositions exceed the rest.Fantasia, Bastian's Happy Flight, The Swamps of Sadness, etc. All great songs. I'm not too sure about the intro song by the Kajagoogoo dude. It's definitely a nostalgic song for me to hear, but I think the song clashes with the rest of the soundtrack. Maybe an instrumental version would've been better? There's a large amount of dramatic sequences that really separate this Kids movie from some of the other attempts on Fantasy. Notable scenes Atreyu's horse and only companion Artax sinking in the swamp, Rockbiter explaining his whole life being destroyed by The Nothingness, The interaction between Atreyu and Gmork the wolf , The Southern Oracles crumbling, etc.It doesn't help that Falcor looks exactly like my dog Buddy from when I was a child. Maybe nostalgia has tainted my opinion of this movie. As many times I've enjoyed this film, I would like to have the chance to hear a review from somebody who sees it for the first time TODAY. I wonder what their reaction would be? Anyways, The story is fantastic. The special effects and props are amazing, the music is top notch soundtracking, and the artwork/general style is unique even to this day.Please watch this movie if you haven't. "},{"Title":"Best Director 180 ever.","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" German director Wolfgang Peterson best known for his realist WW2 submarine drama Das Boot did the ultimate 180 and then directed The Neverending Story, in a wild adaptation of the German fantasy novel. The result is one of mine, and many's most treasured childhood classic. A fantasy film about, what else the imagination, and in particular reading and literacy. Great set and designs, and some of the most original characters to ever grace the fantasy genre. The same technical skill of visually a unique landscape that Peterson brought to Troy and Enemy Mine he brings here, and if nothing else it's an amazing landscape to view. A film whose visual excess had a big impact on how and why I watch movies. "},{"Title":"A Modern Day Classic!  May Be Scary to Kids, but Who Cares?","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" As of the date I'm writing this review, I have not read the book. However, this is one of the few adapted films I have seen multiple times before reading its basis where I actually want to read the novel now. I have heard that this movie ironically ends at the half point of the book. I just think anyone who can make such an epic feature on a small budget compared to today's films must have had a great book with intriguing characters to base this film upon.This movie could have been seen as controversial at its time, but it wasn't as far as I know. Yes, the movie promotes reading, but it also has a kid who plays hooky in order to read this book. The images in this movie were also scary at times, even to this 25-year-old viewer. The antagonist wolf was definitely scarier than I anticipated, and the final scenes when the Childlike Empress looks into the camera with tears in her eyes was a bit haunting. However, these scenes and characters were effective, and I don't remember being particularly disturbed when I saw this film recently, nor as a child. If anything, I kept watching this film again and again.The most appealing thing about this movie is its originality. The characters were very original, and the evil force many of them are attempting to avoid (Nothingness) was an impressively unique concept. There was definitely a creative pique when it came to children's movies in the early '80's, and this film was certainly no exception.I recently found this movie at a video store on sale as a double feature along with its sequel, The NeverEnding Story II The Next Chapter. The sequel was not as good as the original, but the DVD still remains a prized section of my DVD library. I highly recommend this film! Nearly twenty-five years after it was created, it still stands up to The Chronicles of Narnia and The Lord of the Rings series recently put on film.Given this Hollywood trend, there is the possibility that somewhere down the line, someone will decide this movie should be remade. Who knows what the result will be? Still, you can't deny the power of this classic movie. Ten stars! I highly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"Childhood Memories","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a terrific movie.  I still remember seeing it when I was just a little child.  Even today I love it.  I was flipping through the channels yesterday and it was on and I just had to watch it.  No matter what part it's on, it always gets me hooked.  And I still wish that I could take a ride on Falkor.  When I have kids, I will be sure to show them The Neverending Story and hope that they will love it as much as I do, and grow up with the same memories. "},{"Title":"The Neverending Story greatness will never be forgotten!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time.Some minor spoilersThis movie is a fantastic adventure.Great Special effects,characters,and story,and spirt flow with greatness.Most kids in movies are annoying but the ones in this movie arn`t.The Wolf is so neat. I love how he talks and Falcor,The Luck Dragon,he is so funny and cute and the big Bat and and racing Snailing,well they are cute and funny aswell and the huge rock man but MY favorite one of all is giant turtle.He is awesome.I just love the senery in this film.The sky with the stars and the land is just simply gorgous.The Orical Statues(gold ones)are really scary.Every time I watch that scene it sends chills down MY back and makes you very nervous.Its unbelieveable how that scene was made.This is truly a great movie.Its one of the best movies I have seen.If you love ultimate fantasy films with just about everything you can think about then this movie you gotta see. "},{"Title":"Philosophical and Beautiful","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The Neverending story is a very unusual film. It is a children's movie, with some extremely dark undertones. It deals with such complex concepts such as existentialism and the death of the imagination. Apart from its fantastic elements, it has a very powerful message that without our fantasies and dreams, we will no longer be quite alive, no longer quite human.The plot is an interesting story within a story. It is about a lonely little boy whose only joy in life is books. He stumbles across what he thinks must be the perfect book one that never ends. How can this be possible? We will find out by the end of the film. He starts to read it, and we see the tale unfold before his eyes. The story of the book concerns a fantasy world that is being destroyed by an insidious Nothing. The ruler of this great world, a childlike empress, is dying. A young warrior is sent on a mission to find a cure for her illness. The thing that sets this fable apart from other children's fantasy stories is this it is not a simplistic tale of good versus evil. Although there are some antagonistic characters, there are no villains. In the end we find that the enemy faced by the characters in the film is an enemy that effects all of us. It has far greater implications.Probably a great deal of my love for this film is for sentimental reasons. It was one of the first movies I ever saw on a big screen, and I loved it then as much as I love it now. The special effects certainly look cheesy these days, but the actual puppets and the cinematography are still beautiful. The child actors are very well cast. Wolfgang Peterson is an excellent director. The wide, sweeping landscapes are breathtaking.So, if you have an active imagination, and you are in the mood to take a trip to Fantasia, go out and rent this film. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"the best film ever made","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  not only is this the best movie ever made it is also only a small snippit taken from the book writen by german Michael Ende. The film takes the core aspects of the book and then closes when the book is only half way through. This was then up for the taking for a sequel which took years to come out but when it did was nothing like the book had depicted. Agreed that the book is a lot darker and indepth that the films and were aimed at kids but the first as it stays true to the book in many regards is emotionally entracing and remakabley adictive. At last count I had seen this film over 200 times! Sad I knowThe NeverEnding Story 3 on the other hand doesn't count as it was more of a tacky spin-off and should never have been made. Terry 26/02/00 "},{"Title":"The Neverending Story is magic for any child and your innerchild","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This was one of my favorite movies as a child - right next to Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, Herbie the Love Bug, Freaky Friday, Candleshoe, The Parent Trap, and Bedknobs and Broomsticks. The writing,direction and acting is superb. The costumes and make-up are very life like and believeable.It would be a wonderful film for any child, but especially for one who has bullies in real life, faced abuse or who has had a  severe loss or trauma like the main character Bastian.As an adult, I could identify with Bastian, feeling powerless to outside forces and running from my problems. By the end of the film I was reminded that keeping your hopes and dreams alive through everything your life is a very valuable thing to have.The music was a bit distracting now, but it really added to the drama of the film as a child. The title song is just inspirational now as it was then. Top recommendation. "},{"Title":"A wonderful fantasy","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Ever since I was a kid, I had watched The Neverending Story, which is an interesting title because the movie is only an hour and a half long. ) But I had always enjoyed the story and enchantment that the tale brought. The effects are corny by today's standards, but I think everyone could enjoy the film as well as I do.There is just something so special about this child's tale and it takes you back into when you wanted to be part of something so much more special and bigger when you were a kid. I wanted to have my own dragon and just have endless wishes like Sebastian did. I loved the story of Atrao and his struggling battle to save the princess and his land. His story is just so inspirational. I remember the wolf and when I was younger, man, did he give me nightmares. But it has the happy ending we all want in a fantasy film.They lived happily ever after. What a great movie and it should be shown to every child or family. It's just a feel good movie with some laughs and a good time of adventure. Save this classic in your movies, trust me, it's a good one! 8/10 "}{"Title":"THE NEVERENDING STORY (Wolfgang Petersen, 1984) ***","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" During the 1980s, my father used to have a part-time job in one of Malta's leading nightclubs every Saturday night so, to keep his four boys busy and off of their mum's back, he made sure of renting a bunch of movies on VHS every week. Therefore, child-like fantasies like this one &#150; and which, conveniently, were all the rage at the time &#150; basically proved the order of the day as I was growing up and, consequently, I still have a fondness for the genre and its 1980s entries in particular. In fact, I have enjoyed this one again so much that I might well decide to spend the Saturday nights of 2009 in the same nostalgic mood by revisiting contemporary movies from my childhood! Anyway, this West German/Hollywood co-production was quite popular in its day in the shorter international version (running for 94 minutes rather than the full 102 of the German cut) that produced a hit title song (composed by Giorgio Moroder) and two lesser sequels (which I don't think I've seen). The striking visuals (courtesy of cinematographer Jost Vacano), production design (Rolf Zehetbauer), make-up and special effects all deftly combine to vividly recreate the mythical land of Fantasia that is described in the titular book being read by put-upon student Barret Oliver who takes refuge in the school attic from the persecution of three bullying classmates.Although there have been many similar movies before or since, this more than holds its own thanks to well-rounded characters (the modern-day boy Bastian himself, warrior boy Atreyu, the lethargic giant turtle, the benign dragon Falkor, the gnomic astronomer Engywook, the villainous yet philosophical G'mork) and consistent inventiveness (the Swamp of Sadness, etc). Apparently, the source novel is much more elaborate (the film ends halfway through the book, Atreyu had a greenish skin, etc.) but, given my averse reaction to Peter Jackson's hopelessly overwhelming THE LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy of films, I'm grateful for the film-makers' decision here to tone it down where the introduction of characters and the preponderance of interminable action set-pieces are concerned.Wolfgang Petersen moved to Hollywood permanently after this one but, apart from a couple of interesting projects (ENEMY MINE 1985, TROY 2004; which happens to be the only official Maltese co-production in existence!) and good action flicks (IN THE LINE OF FIRE 1993, AIR FORCE ONE 1997), his career completely lost the momentum it had initially obtained with the art-house circuit hit, DAS BOOT (1981), which had even landed him an Oscar nomination. By the way, the executive producer of this one &#150; ex-movie star Mark Damon &#150; had spoken of his second career behind-the-camera while at the 2004 Venice Film Festival which my twin brother and I attended and where he had introduced one of his own favorite films as an actor, Vittorio Cottafavi's superb picaresque epic THE HUNDRED HORSEMEN (1964). "},{"Title":"A Must-See for Every Child (6+ years)","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Some people criticize the special effects in this movie. They are not up to par with the latest greatest. But I think this movie still stands the test of time and is perfect.Parts of the story are very dramatic and young children may be distressed. Parents of young children should watch it first without them to determine if their young child can handle the psychological aspects -- this story deals with the loss of a mother, bullying, skipping classes in school, and has graphic images such as skeletons in a dark, stormy, spooky attic. This is an important story that expresses the power, beauty, and significance of the human imagination. If you have a young writer budding in your home, this is one of the most inspirational stories you can find about the art of storytelling. It is delightful and unforgettable. One of my Top 5 movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Flawed at times, but a genuinely magical adventure.","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The NeverEnding Story has become a much loved children's classic. I wouldn't be surprised to see it on TV sometime this Christmas. For the most part its an engaging, involving and occasionally thrilling piece of entertainment. It's marred by a sometimes flawed execution, but it still beats most children's entertainment today by a mile. Because its that rare thing. A kids film with intelligence.Any film that celebrates the joy of reading gets a strong thumbs up from me. And one thing that's wonderful about TNS is the way it taps into a child's psyche. When you were at the age when you believed a story could take on a life of its own. And TNS takes this conceit to quite extraordinary heights.In a story that shifts between the world of the real and the world of the printed page, 11 year old Bastian (Barret Oliver) is still in mourning over his mother's death. Lost in a world of books, his grades are slipping, he gets picked on by bullies and berated by his father for hiding in a fantasy world.While browsing through a bookshop, he comes across The NeverEnding Story, a book about the mystical land of Fantasia. The land is slowly being swallowed up by The Nothing, a black void consuming everything. The only one with the power to combat it is The Childlike Empress, but The Nothing has made her deathly ill, so the Kingdom looks upon boy-warrior Atreyu for help. He sets off on a perilous journey to find a cure for the Empress, and along the way gets help from fantastical creatures, Oracles, scientists and even Bastian himself!The NeverEnding Story is a really quite wonderful film. The story is a fairly simple quest scenario, nothing we haven't seen in a dozen other fantasy films. But where it shines is in the delightful animatronic effects that bring to life the creatures of Fantasia.TNS has puppetry that wouldn't have looked out of place in a Jim Henson film. And there is no higher compliment than to be compared to the genius that was Jim Henson. Some of the puppetry is very obviously just puppetry. But some of the creations you see in Fantasia are astonishing in they're detail and realism.The giant size Rock Biter is absolutely stupendous. It almost resembles a living creature of rock. Perhaps they used optical effects to make it enormous, but its still quite a tour de force of animatronic wizardry. I had no problem believing it to be a living creature instead of an artificial construction. And although I didn't know who voiced it, it provides the Rock Biter with a warm, genial personality that shines through effortlessly.I also liked Morla, a gigantic turtle whose shell is an entire mountain. The facial expressions he pulls are unnerving in they're realism. Complete with dilating pupils, flaring nostrils and bulging cheekbones, I never doubted for a second that Morla was as real as his human co-stars.Of course the one creature everybody ends up talking about after watching TNS is Falkor, the Luck-Dragon. He almost looks like one of those dragons you see at Chinese festivals. But he's a good character. Alan Oppenheimer really imbues him with an engaging, friendly personality. And although the backgrounds are obvious matte work, the scenes of Atreyu riding Falkor across the sky are exhilarating.The NeverEnding Story also tackles some surprisingly heady material for a kids film. Not that that's a criticism. It means its a film with the utmost respect for its target audience. There's a whole layer of meta-fiction that surrounds the film. The more Bastian reads the book, the more involved in it he becomes (literally!).Bastian becomes an (initially) unwilling participant in the story, not just an observer. And there are even occasions when the story within the story involves us too. The Empress's comments about the people with Bastian throughout his adventure certainly seems to support that theory. There are times when TNS seems on the brink of breaking down all the barriers and emerging as something truly remarkable (even operatic too!).But although the film has many good points to recommend it, there are flaws it never quite surmounts. For one thing, I felt Barret Oliver should have played the role of Atreyu as well. Since most children envision themselves as the heroes of the books they read, I was a little surprised Oliver couldn't have pulled double-duty, especially with the film's themes of fiction and non-fiction converging.Also Noah Hathaway who plays Atreyu is a little on the precocious side. He has an admirably feisty, hard-headed quality, but there's a blandness to his acting that doesn't always serve to make him an appealing hero. Barret Oliver is a much more skilled child actor, and probably could have made Atreyu an even better character.The story is also on the slim side. The narrative sometimes seems like just an excuse for the FX technicians to show off. And while there are many grand things like the Ivory Tower and Oracles that look like resplendent statues, the thinness of the story does sometimes show through. Also I could have done without the jarringly anachronistic disco soundtrack.The ending is slightly unsatisfying too. The Nothing opens itself up to many fascinating deconstructions, like Bastian's own boyhood giving away to adulthood, thereby causing the destruction of Fantasia within his own imagination. I was a bit disappointed by it simply being Bastian's grief over his own mother upsetting the narrative. And I hated Falkor helping Bastian take revenge on the bullies who picked on him. Seeing Falkor in our world completely shatters the film's own plot logic.Still, The NeverEnding Story is superb at nearly all of the right moments. A great English language debut from Wolfgang Petersen. He's so adept at fantasy you wish he would revisit the genre more often. "},{"Title":"The defining film of my childhood","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Few films of my 80's childhood stirred my imagination as much as this one did. As I have yet to read the book (shameful, I know) I cannot say that the film is inferior or superior to the novel. However, as a stand-alone piece of work, this film is totally inspiring and I believe quite groundbreaking from a technical standpoint. A masterpiece of visual FX, puppetry, cinematography, acting and score. I still watch the film quite often whenever I want, appropriately enough, to escape. I'm anxiously awaiting a modern Golden Compass/Lord of the Rings level remake. This story is compelling enough to warrant a big-budget, epic picture. "},{"Title":"The Never-Ending story","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" There's nothing that beats a classic like the original 1984 version of The Never-ending story ( Die Unendliche Geschichte is the German title). The Never-ending story is a charming, and heart warming children's film accessible to people of all ages. It is the ideal in the standards of 1980s fantasy films with very surreal settings and strange yet lovable creatures.A boy reads a mysterious storybook to find everything he's reading is happening in a strange yet wonderful other world. The story teaches about friendship, love, compassion, the value of imagination and belief and of growing up. The Never-Ending story is such a part of my childhood and has such a powerful hold over my imagination that I still get choked up when I hear the original title track theme song from the film.I find it tragic that there are many children today who have not yet seen this enchanting classic film. The Never-ending story is based on the novel by Michael Ende and has inspired many film sequels as well as a remake (definitely not as good as the original) and an animated series that aired on HBO in the nineteen nineties.I think everyone should see this beautiful and fantastic film at least once. "},{"Title":"A World Named Fantasia","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" A while back, I used to hear about The NeverEnding Story, but I have never watched it. I used to see the ending once in a while when Falkor chased the three bullies and sometimes when Atreyu was riding on Falkor, but never the whole movie. Until now.I saw the movie on DVD and it was just magnificent! I never knew this movie would be as great as I had expected, but it was! I loved how the reader actually was the one warrior to save Fantasia and I loved how his imagination came to life! It was so wonderful to watch! It was so beautiful. Everything in this movie can bring a child's imagination to life. The world of Fantasia, Falkor, the empress, the Rock Eater, and so on.Bastian seems like a great reader having read over one hundred books. Also, I love how the empress screamed, Bastian! and Bastian was reading the book confused, then he finally shouted a name. It was just so exciting! I recommend this movie for everyone, except there are some things that I do not recommend for children. Or maybe actually just two. When Atreyu stabbed the wolf and he was bleeding, also when Atreyu entered the gate and the statues were showing their breasts. So that is some mild nudity and violence right there but everything else is great! "},{"Title":"The best fantasy movie...","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I have seen this great fantasy movie when I was only 5 years old and I still remember watching it over and over. No doubt, that this was the best fantasy movie of all times. After watching the Lord Of The Rings trilogy, I can tell that Peter Jackson was inspired by this movie to make some scenes of his piece of art. And it inspired many other movies. That's why this film is so important, cause it established an inflection point in the fantasy genre. It has many beautiful messages and it is a must see for every child. I was also lucky enough to visit the Bavaria Studios in Germany, where many of the scenes were done. Thanks Wolfgang Petersen! "},{"Title":"Beautiful Fantasy......","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I was lucky enough to see The Neverending Story on the cinema was i was 9 years old in April 1985. I remember to this day being completely over-awed by the sheer beauty of the film. From the gray and dull scenes of reality in comparison to the magic and splendor of the fantasy sequences, the first time we see The Ivory Tower is particularly breathtaking. A young boy, bullied at school and still coming to terms with the death of his mother finds a book called The Neverending Story, and upon reading it finds himself drawn into the story and penultimately becomes part of the story. As he reads the book in the solitude of the school attic, it reveals that the world of Fantasia, the place where dreams and stories exist is disappearing due to an unforeseen force known as The Nothing, a collective term for mankind's trend to lose hope and forget childhood dreams. As a result of this apparition, the keeper of the Ivory Tower, The Childlike Empress is dying. A warrior is summoned to find a cure for the Empress and therefore bring hope to Fantasia. The Neverending Story carries a beautiful message that its important to dream and to let your creative imagination run wild. All three lead actors, at the time of filming were under the age of 12,and are very good in their roles. Noah Hathaway had been previously seen in Battlestar Galactica as Boxey and Barret Oliver would go on to star in D.A.R.Y.L and Coccon. Tami Stronach would make her one and only film appearance in The Neverending Story but would go onto have her own Dance Company based in New York. "},{"Title":"Enchanting Fairy Tale!","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I am a big fan of 80's movie and have a special place in my heart for wonderful 80's sci-fi. Along with Legend, The Princess Bride, The Labrynth, and E.T. This is one of the best in my opinion.Poor Bastian is a picked on kid who is whisked away to the land of Fantasia, the land of human dreams. He encounters Atreyu the Native American type boy hero, the wonderful luck dragon falkor, a fast snail, a rock biter, even a stupid bat. A great fantasy film.I loved the whole movie. It had everything! Atreyu just a boy is sent on a journey to save Fantasia from the nothing. The nothing is disease type plague wiping away all of the wonderful inhabitants. Artex is the horse of Atreyu and I must say the scene when Artex is slowly sinking in the mud is one of the most powerful scenes out of any movie I have seen. I cried like a baby when I was a little girl and even more so now an adult. Falkor! What child did not want a luck dragon? He saves the days in many ways....Now being a girl my favorite scene was always the ending the extraordinary Ivory Tower with the almost unreal Moonchild...The Childlike Empress. I must agree with another comment this character is without a doubt in my mind one of the most beautiful to every grace the screen............sorry Halle Berry.Perhaps I like this movie because it reminds me so fondly of my childhood, but any child would love this movie. I really like it because it is before all that CGI which can look just as fake as some of the puppets use, though this movie is no Clash of the Titans, the special effects are of its time and still quite good. Overall a wonderful film 10 amazing stars. "},{"Title":"Still standing Strong","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie still is one of the most important ones in my life. Seeing it at the age of 10 and also being bullied at school, I recognized a lot in Sebastian at the time. The wish to disappear in books and other worlds. The movie touched me in every way a movie can. Not only the story, the visuals and the acting, the score for this movie deserves a special mentioning. It's probably one of the best scores ever made for a movie. Hear it, and you're back in Fantasia. Even though, in 1984, the special effects sometimes already looked old-fashioned and Falkor (the dragon like dog) looked to much like a puppet, you will accept every character watching it. As a kid, after seeing it the first time, I wished to see it every day. So when the DVD finally came, and me being 26 years, I expected to watch it in a sort of 'ahhh, how sweet', kind a mood. But no. The movie still touches me in every way it did then. This emphasizes the brilliance of it although the effects are way out of date, the movie still stands strong as an oak, as does the score. You will again fall in love with the child like empress and feel the urge to scream with Sebastian as he chases his bullies. So, wanna be a child again? Watch this movie! "}{"Title":"A story that is never ending.","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" As children's movies go, this one is a winner, and I have yet to know anyone who has seen this not to have liked it.At the heart of this story is a little boy named Bastian Bux who loves to read, and after avoiding some bullies on his way to school, decides to appropriate a new adventure from an old bookseller he discovers by accident. To reward himself, he plays hooky in the attic of his elementary school so he can go on another adventure. What he soon finds however is that he is an integral part of the story, as the links between perceiver and that which is being perceived are quickly sewn together, and like Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, he finds himself swimming in the petry dish with the rest of his control group.This film is pure joy.Sure, it has some flaws, which is why I gave it only 9 instead of 10 stars. But what it lacks due to cheesy animatronics and a few clunky blue screen effects, it makes up for in wonderful set designs, costumes, music (a dual score by composers Klaus Doldinger and disco Guru Gorgio Moroder), as well as the passion of the characters and their simple beauty, all brought together to tell a story that is truly magical.Brilliant! "},{"Title":"It's too bad that it had to end...","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The NeverEnding Story (1984) Barret Oliver, Noah Hathaway, Gerald McRaney, Tami Stronach, Alan Oppenheimer, Thomas Hill.Spoilers herein.The NeverEnding Story is a pleasing and often exciting children's story that is especially good for kids. I first watched it when I was about seven, it instantly became one of my favorite films. Of course, now that I've grown up I've found interest in much better movies, but I still consider The NeverEnding Story to be a very strong film, and I prefer it to the vastly overpraised Lord of the Rings or The Princess Bride any day. I can hardly believe it's been over twenty years since it released!Bastian is a young boy who is picked on and misunderstood for having a wild and visual imagination. While hiding from school bullies in a library, he comes across a book called The NeverEnding Story that the bookstore owner warns him about. Bastian ignores the warning and borrows the book. He decides to skip school to read it, so he hides in the attic. Bastian tunes into the story taking place in Fantasia, a fantasy land that is being consumed by a nothing, wiping out anything that it passes. The Childlike Empress, queen of Fantasia, is becoming sick and a warrior named Atreyu is on a quest to find what has caused the nothing and what he can do to stop it.What makes The NeverEnding Story succeed is the likable characters (aside of the villains) that you can always care for and root for. Bastian's character has the imagination and heart of a hero, but in reality he cannot face his fears, whereas Atreyu is the opposite in the story. Kids will enjoy the twists of the book as Fantasia falls apart more and more as time goes on.Wolfgang Petersen's direction is very good for this material where he adds in good humor and dark suspense, even for a children's movie. Oliver plays his part well about the cowardly side of the story, while Hathaway does good playing the character that Bastian would like to become. While I dislike most of his other work, Giorgio Moroder actually does quite well with the musical score. The special effects are obviously dated when compared to films like Terminator 2 or Lord of the Rings, but for an 80's film it is still enjoyable.This film spawned two terrible sequels that almost ruin the original's message about courage and standing up for what you believe. Overall, The NeverEnding Story has been dated in many ways and almost forgotten by now, since most children have started watching films like Toy Story or Finding Nemo now, but this movie is still one that I won't forget from my childhood and it's actually one of the only fantasy films that I actually enjoy. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Yes, another fan here!","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Neverending Story was one of the best family movies I saw as a little kid because not only are the special effects out-of-this-world, but the story is wonderful as well - a good blend of visual wonder with Disney-style storytelling. The Child-like Empress was beautiful, the Rock-Biter was done well, Atreyu was cool, the Gmork was totally wicked and Bastian was a cool kid. Best of all was Falkor - he was excellent! Also, this movie had some personal meaning for me because I also was the geek in school that everyone picked on, so it was very uplifting to see the bullied kid escape to a fantasy world and come back with a luck dragon and triumph over the bullies. "},{"Title":"A perfect film for a perfect era...","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This film is simply great. The story is superb and the visual effects are quite good for a film of the era. I can recall when I was younger, I'd watch this film quite a bit and enjoy it. I would be a bit shaken up by the demises of certain figures, but it would all be fabulous. The story was very good, whether or not some people would concede. The story centers on a boy who reads a book which has a story that is actually occurring within the book itself. The characters within the book face several ordeals and events which seem to affect the boy who reads the book. The story was very surreal and so powerful, and as it was mythical, could be fairly creepy. But in the end, it is fiction like this which children enjoy somewhat in the form of fairy tales and older stories. I feel that this film is powerful owing to the fact that it has a compelling feel to it and an even more powerful form of imagery. This film is thus unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Great film all around","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a great family film. It's a great anybody film though. I read a thread about Barret Oliver over-acting. Huh? Let me ask this of anyone who truly believes that Ever been bullied before? I think that he nailed it. He nailed it both as a victim of the bullies and as a kid who likes a good story. I guess what made this such a great movie for me (by the way, I had the pleasure of seeing it on the big screen) was that when I was that young, I had bullies to contend with. I must say that whatever subtle revenge I ever had pales beside flying at them on a luck-dragon. That's on my to-do list though. Then there's the story itself, it's been attempted since this one and the sequels to it I must admit are nowhere near as good. This was ahead of it's time, this hadn't really been done before. More to the point, it hadn't been done this well before. The sets, the creatures, the situations and the musical score just all fit really well. I highly recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"The NeverEnding Story","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" In my childhood this was one of my most favourite fantasy films, every time it was on I was happy to see it again, and this is still the case now, from director Wolfgang Petersen (Das Boot, In the Line of Fire, Air Force One). Basically Bastian Bux (Barret Oliver) is a lonely little school boy who is a constant victim of bullying, particularly from three older meaner kids, and to escape this he has a big imagination and a love for reading, this does concern his widowed father (Gerald McRaney) a little. One day while running from his bullies Bastian hides in a bookstore, owned by grumpy bookseller Mr. Koreander (Thomas Hill), and asking about one particular book, The NeverEnding Story, he warns him it is not safe, but without him looking he borrows the book, leaving a note to return it. So he starts reading the book, and in his imagination he is transported into the world of Fantasia, a land threatened by a destructive force known only as The Nothing, an unseen darkness that destroys everything in its path, so a Rock Biter (Alan Oppenheimer), messenger Teeny Weeny (Deep Roy) and his racing snail, and Nighthob (Tilo Prückner) with his narcoleptic bat seek help. The only hope for Fantasia everyone knows is the Empress (Tami Stronach) who lives in the Ivory Tower, but servant Cairon (Moses Gunn) tells everyone that she is sick and dying, so they have sent for the Plains People to send a warrior, and they get young Atreyu (Noah Hathaway), and he is given the medallion the AURYN to guide and protect him. While Atreyu starts his quest riding with beloved horse Artax, the Nothing sends its vicious wolf-like beast servant Gmork (also Oppenheimer) to kill the warrior, and the young hero ends up trudging through the Swamps of Sadness, where the poor horse is overcome by the sadness and sinks to his death beneath the swamp. Atreyu continues through the swamp to find the wise giant tortoise-like creature Morla, Bastian is heard by them screaming at her appearance that he can see, Morla does not answer his questions, she only tells him to go to the Southern Oracle, which is over ten thousand miles away. After narrowly escaping Gmork, Atreyu finds himself in the company of luck dragon Falkor, who has taken him most of the ten thousand miles to the home of two gnomes, one being scientist Engywook (Sydney Bromley), who is an expert on the Southern Oracle, including knowing about two gates to be passed before reaching the Oracle itself. After passing the two eyes that know if you believe in yourself and kill you if you have no faith, and a mirror that shows your true self, or in Atreyu's case he sees Bastian, he reaches the Oracle, that tell him that the Empress can only be saved if he can find a human child on the boundary of Fantasia that can give her a new name. Atreyu and Falkor fly to find the boundary, but they are caught in the powerful storm of the Nothing, Atreyu falls and wakes on a shore of an abandoned town, and it is there that he comes face to face with Gmork, who explains the power of the Nothing, and realising he is the warrior he was hunting he attempts to kill him, but the boy stabs him. After being saved by Falkor, the storm has destroyed all of the land, until only fragments of it remain, Atreyu asks the AURYN to guide them to the Ivory Tower if it still stands, they are happy to find it, and inside the young warrior is apologises to the alive and well Childlike Empress (Tami Stronach) that he failed in his quest. She reveals that he has not failed, the human child he seeked has been with him all the time, it is Bastian, and as Bastian realises it is more than a story the Nothing returns to start destroying the Ivory Tower, the Empress please to Bastian to save them and shout her new name, so he goes to the window and shouts Moonchild. After a few seconds of darkness, the Empress appears in front of Bastian in a black void, holding one grain of sand, what remains of Fantasia, she tells them that if he uses it to make wishes Fantasia will be restored, so he wishes for the land back and to ride Falkor, see Atreyu and all other characters revived, and also to fly Falkor into his city and scare his bullies away. The narrator (Oppenheimer again) says that Bastian made many more wishes and had many more adventures, before eventually returning to the real world, but that's another story. Oliver is likable as the child reading the story, and the supporting characters all add something to the tale, especially lovable Falkor the luck dragon and the funny Engywook, but obviously Hathaway as the young warrior is the one that you watch and root for the most. This was the English language debut for Petersen, and it is a great film because it is so simple, it has fantastical lands and imaginative creatures, the action and is exciting enough, the special effects and puppetry used are terrific, and even cheesy things like some of the dialogue and the title song by Limahl work well, it is a great fun family fantasy adventure. Very good! "},{"Title":"Great fantasy movie.","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Frist off, fairly decent acting by kids. Second, the fantastic creatures are not cartoonish in appearance. And thirdly, great plot. Some may say that the movie is horrible because it doesn't cover the whole book. But, in my humble opinion, it did an excellen job covering what was essentially the first half of the book, if my memory is right. So, watch and decide for yourself before passing judgement. "},{"Title":"Great Movie for kids","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is a great fantasy based movie that appealed to my 8 year old son. As did it to me 18 years ago. There is enough suspense to keep children glued to the tv, and enough comedy to make it not scary for them.Great Movie. "},{"Title":"Best FANTASY movie of all time","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie must be in the top 250. It's the best fantasy movie I have ever seen. Great soundtrack, great world, great idea, NOT computer things, only real things. I love the colors. The effects are good, even today!I saw this film for the first time when I was 9 years in 1984, I saw again now with 28 years old.. and I LOVE IT. It makes me forget all problems and preoccupations of my society life, it makes me a child again with a lot of dreams and wishes. Even today the main bad guy stills afraid me. A MUST SEEN. See it alone!.Also it's one of my TOP TEN movies of all time. This movie must NOT been remake. "},{"Title":"Fun Tale Of Overcoming Nothing","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Barret Oliver is Bastian whose mother has died leaving only his father. So Bastian likes to read books which is very unusual in today's standard of cd's, video's and computers. An old used book seller entices Bastian to read the book titled Neverending Story. This book has strange properties. When you read it, you become involved with the characters literally. The characters are wonderful. There is a huge Rockbiter, Night Hob w/bat, Teeny Weeny w/racing snail, Falkor the Luck Dragon and Atreyu, the warrior with his mighty horse. There is a great evil in the land, a Nothing that is eating away the land and the characters. There is no hope as even the Empress of the land cannot save her kingdom. Can Falkor the flying Dragon and Atreyu save the land? Can the other characters survive the Nothing? Just how can a little boy named Bastian just reading the book save the land? A really enjoyable story/film with a beautiful theme song and music. Don't miss this one.  "}{"Title":"It is your story.","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film has a habit of affecting people deeply in usually very positive ways.  I can say that it saved me in my darkest hour and distributed the very beautiful message to me that creativity is the most powerful force we have against becoming empty masses of men who lead lives of quiet desperation.  The idea of the film and book portrays that of what a true genius is a creator who if indulges too much in his creation loses himself in his work.  An unlikely genius... a young boy... who reads about another little boy who takes on a quest with no weapons, no help from anyone, with the anticipation of horrible danger... possible death, and with no chance for success.  No sensible adult would take on that quest.  I child would when there is no other choice. Tenaciousness and creativity in the realm of impossibilities...  Strange creatures and impressive beauty... this film portrays visually the never-ending framing device that is used in the book... When seen in widescreen, the artful German style can be savored.  Here is a fantasy like no other because... The NeverEnding Story is your story. "},{"Title":"Excellent children's fantasy...vaguely resembles the original book","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  With the opening of the second Harry Potter, it was interesting to see the same praises and criticisms echoed in the comments for the 'Neverending Story'.While Harry is accused of being overly faithful to Rowling,  Michael Ende was so unhappy with the final product he asked his name be removed from the end credits.  In the ballpark of 450 pages, Wolfgang Petersen did what Steve Kloves wants to do for 'Goblet of Fire' cut it in half.  This also gave him time to spell out in bold what was inferred and understated in the book (Bastian's home life, what binds him to Atreyu.)  Petersen also did that which annoyed so many fans of 'Chamber of Secrets'--he pasted on a Hollywood ending.I can see why fans of the books would be unhappy with all of this.  (For one thing, this means Bastian is little more than a cheerleader for 90% of the film.) But all in all it really was an excellent movie beautiful, well-acted and maintains the spirit of the book if not its complexity. And it is unfair I think to expect, particularly for a children's film, that the characters have all their nuances brought to the screen.  The ending gives a closure that I'm sure most 7-12s will be quite happy to see without feeling nearly so out of place as, for example, Hagrid's welcome home in 'Chamber of Secrets'.People have commented on the 80s effects and how dated they look...I couldn't disagree more.  I personally would prefer the exquisite models and puppets used here (caliber of Jim Henson's Storyteller) to the gaudy CG used in the newest Star Wars installments.  Never distracting from the plot, they give the movie an earthy feeling that allows both the actors and the viewers to believe in the non-human characters and alien settings much more readily...something Chris Columbus and, to and even greater extent, Peter Jackson both seem to have realized.  The soundtrack is *extremely* 80s and heavily synthesized, which was cool then and nostalgic for me now but may be distracting for others.To sum up, if your kids are looking for something to fill the void until Azkaban comes out, go find this DVD.  Just be warned there are scary and traumatic moments-this is back when PG really meant parental guidance. (If your child could handle Aragog and the Basilisk, they can probably handle Atreyu being stalked by and fighting the wolf Gmork or the death of his horse Artax.)This is a good adaptation, if not a literal translation...it made me want to seek out the original book as a child.  If you want to see what the source material looks like when completely *destroyed* by Hollywood check out the 1994 sequel 'The Next Chapter' and then compare it to this work of art. "},{"Title":"The Neverending Story","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I wouldn't say my life changed or anything after I saw it, but it is a good movie.  Young Bastian  swipes a book from his local bookshop and reads the day away in his schools attic. And reads the fantasy filled story of how young Atreyu must save Fantasia.Colorful characters and decent soundtrack take this one a notch above the rest. "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" well - i suppose we all know this one. and one should have read the book. a great story about the loss of phantasy and imagination in the modern world. about some dream creatures who attempt to prevent the humans from forgetting them.it is the most expensive german film project of its time. the whole production has a very high standard (especialy as a film for kids). i enjoyed watching this one, but i doubt it can hold the level of the book. and the film has a hollywoodian ending - this could have been better.but watch it anyway. watch it also if you're an adult.  "},{"Title":"The Neverending Story","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Wolfgang Petersen's wondrous children's fable about a magical book that transports the reader into the story in which a boy-warrior attempts to save the kingdom of Fantasia. Stunning visual design, incredible effects in sound and a cast of imaginative characters make this a real treat for all.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Adventure","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I remember loving this movie as a child and thought it would perhaps not be as magical and thrilling today. Was I wrong! I watched it with my 3 year old daughter and both she and I thoroughly enjoyed the experience. In fact, it's difficult to have her sit through an entire movie unless she is completely smitten, and this was certainly the case here.Neverending Story is a fantastic and light hearted tale for all ages. It has an interesting and unique fairy tale world, yet there is a force of impending doom that sits very heavily and acutely on the storyline. Somewhat unusually for a movie of this caliber, the heroes are all children, and endearing characters at that.The acting and dialog are very high quality for this type of movie. There are moments of laughter, tears, and high adventure. I really don't have any strong criticisms. Some of the effects were certainly dated, but did not really detract much from the movie. In my opinion, strong dialog and a good story will always make up for any substandard special effects, a lesson today's filmmakers would do well to take to heart.Transport yourself to a different world. Both kids and adults will enjoy this gem. "},{"Title":"Fun when you're young","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I was highly impressed with this picture when I was young. But when I recently saw it yet another time, there's a lot wrong with it.The biggest problem is that the story doesn't continuously move, it's one coincidental meeting after another. It's very fragmentaric so you don't really feel that you're into the movie.The acting by young Hathaway isn't too convincing either and the effects are so-and-so at best. But these are all problems you can live with when you are young I suppose.A great movie to show your kids, but if you keep fond memories of it from when you were young, leave it where it is as you might feel disappointed afterwards. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Don't let the title fool you...the story does end.","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  All in all when I saw this one as a kid it was rather good.  Not the best movie ever, but a fine film nonetheless.  I was disappointed with the movie when I first saw it, but learned to enjoy it quite a bit.  One thing that surprises me is that it was a foreign film.  I never knew this, though that explains why it is kind of a strange movie.  Not that I am insulting it, it is just it moves differently and looks differently than most movies in the U.S.  The story is about a boy who wanders into a bookstore (I won't go into the details to greatly) and finds a book titled The Neverending Story.  The guy who owns the shop does everything, it seems, in his power to get the kid curious about the book, but then says he can't read it.  So the boy borrows it when the storeowner isn't looking.  He begins reading it and the scenes cut to what he is reading kind of like The Princess Bride.  It seems in this fantasyland some force known simply as the nothing is destroying their world.  A boy is sent to save the world and must traverse many obstacles along the way.  All the while in the real world where the boy is reading this story things get strange, as the book almost seems to be real.  Interesting story, the reason I was disappointed as a kid is that I thought the boy reading the book would be trapped in the fantasy world, but he isn't.  All in all though it is a rather good tale and interesting story as there really is no villain aside from a wolf creature trailing the boy who was sent to stop the nothing.  Sequels were made, but the second one, which is the only one I have seen, is awful. "},{"Title":"A goddamn lie.","Date":"6 April 2008","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Neverending Story my ass. I'm sitting there. Somewhat entertained, you know. It's not that bad, I'm having fun. Hour and a half goes by, movies over. WHAT?! I was promised this story would not end under any circumstances. And then, bam, the dog and the band leave one another and it's over.I mean, I didn't come in expecting much. My honest assumption was that since the story was neverending, it would be somewhat bland. You know, just the every day routine of some kid and his magical flying dog. But what I got was quite interesting, which only makes it all the much more evil that they would suddenly end it.It gets one point for being an acceptable movie, but it loses nine for being a complete lie. "},{"Title":"Neverending Story, The - not Unendliche Geschichte, Die","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" IMDb.com should list this film as Neverending Story, The. Currently if you do a search for Neverending Story you come up with the sequels and this, Unendliche Geschichte, Die and some other foreign films. It takes extra searching to find Neverending Story. The Neverending Story is a wonderful children's film. Clean in language. Not a single scene of violence. Very appropriate for age 3 to any adult with children. It contains adventure, chivalry, emotion, fantasy characters and gigantic puppet characters. Let's see here, 1,000 word maximum but 10 line minimum. What else can I say to stretch this out to 10 lines, um, this original from 1984 is better than the sequels. "}{"Title":"Oh, how I wish I wouldn't have let my curiosity get the better of me","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I probably watched this film a thousand times when I was a kid, and I have been recalling moments from this film ever since. After at least ten years after having seen it last, I decided to rent it and visit Fantasia once again. I really wish I hadn't. When you're a kid, you're pretty easy to please. I remember the characters and situations of this film being so exciting when I was a kid. Now I found everything kind of lame. The weird creatures, from the Rockbiter to Falcor, seem fakey when I am an adult. I'm not the kind of guy who disdains old movies once I've seen new ones. In fact, I dislike computer animation in movies. I hated Star Wars Episode I The Phantom Menace. All the computer animated characters have this sheen. You know they are from a computer, so it's hard to like those characters much (at least when they are standing next to characters who do not have that computer animation sheen). But I imagine the special effects in the Neverending Story were a little weak when the film was first released. Look at the neat puppet character effects in the first three Star Wars movies. Heck, look at E.T., who was invented a couple of years before this film was released. Parts of the characters moved which shouldn't have, it seemed to me. The tip of the Rockbiter's head kept waving strangely from side to side.I'm sorry, but this movie disappointed me as an adult. I shouldn't have let my curiosity get the better of me. If I did not love this film so much as a child, I think I'd give it a 5. Instead, for my inner child's benefit, I'm giving it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"imaginative","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" 'The Neverending Story' is an imaginative children's film about a young boy who gets transported into the story that he finds in the attic and escapes into a better world where he can be respected as a warrior and saviour to the magical land he is transported into. This ultimately appeals to most children who have a difficult time at school with bullies or parents who do not understand them. The story is filled with all sorts of strange and unusual characters. It is an imaginative story, but it is a low-budget production, and it does go quite slow in a lot of places. It works well as a children's film, but adults will be bored. I quite liked it when I was younger, but I do remember that it was quite slow in places. I did think it was imaginative, so it gets points for that! "},{"Title":"A fantastic story brutally manhandled","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Michael Ende's story was incredible and noone should miss reading it. This movie, however, is awful. I know I saw it in the cinemas when first released but it obviously didn't leave much of an impression back then. Having just reexperienced it on TV I realize why. The story is a litany of events with no connection between them. Not much mystery. No surprises. The effects and costumes are amateurish compared to its contemporaries and the acting dilettante. "},{"Title":"How Uncute","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The worst movie I have ever seen in my life. It's just one of those common movies when something magical happens. One of those films that you know what is going to happen. Everybody lives a happily ever after because it's all magic and make believe and you're supposed to convince kids to start reading through this. Let me tell you something. My teachers showed us this movie as a child and thought it would convince us to start reading, then gave us reading assignments of big chapter books I didn't understand. You know what age I was? I was only eight.Okay, so there's this kid, right? He enjoys reading. In the beginning they attempt to have a normal start of the movie with him doing his normal routine. Eating peanut butter and jelly that came from the ground and his father going to work. Oh look at this. He's walking to school and gets attacked by bullies and doesn't even fight back. This movie encourages children not to defend themself and to just end up being beaten up by nerds you could have done to them.He sits in the attic you see crying and then opens up a book he stole. Look! Encouraging kids to steal. The old man just laughs at it knowing what's going to happen to the young boy. He is reading this book and in the end, he was supposed to end it. He starts flying on a magical dragon and chases his bullies. Happily ever after with a magical flying potatoe monster. Congratulations! "},{"Title":"First Hour Is Fun, But Then It Never Seems To End","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a wild fantasy with some excellent special-effects for its day (early-to-mid '80s). The only drawback to this kids' story is the final 15-20 minutes, which is really stupid.The first hour, however, is generally a lot of fun to watch with wild-looking characters and some beautiful color. It also has some good stereo. When the big stone character enters, you get some awesome booming sound.Barret Oliver is a likable kid in the lead, playing Bastian. Once the young girl, the child empress (Tammy Stronach) enters the story the film goes downhill and then you wish the neverending story would end! "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of the century!","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Forget Ed Wood's films and the thousands brainless teenage flicks. At least they were not that ambitious, expensive and with the potential of The Never Ending Story. No wonder why Michael Ende's name doesn't appear on the credits. His world has nothing to do with this mechanical, gaudy and utterly tasteless recreation. The film has no pace, the perfomances are inadequate, the structure feeble, the ideas imposed instead of being developed. What a terrible waste of money. Spielberg's films, despite their weaknesses, have a lot more warmth, imagination and cinematic strength. The electronic score by Giorgio Moroder is unsuitable for a classical style fantasy tale and it is just the tip of the iceberg in this horrendous misconception. "},{"Title":"Glad to say it wasn't...","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I cannot understand some of the other reviews. This film is not interesting. The plot's weakness could not be disguised by the animatronics. The puppets had a propensity to constantly twitch their noses as if they had been snorting cocaine all day. Not for a moment could they convince you that they were anything but puppets. The human characters had a tendency to ham up so much that you could open up a butcher's shop. The wishy-washy plot had to be explained in a long discourse by that beady-eyed black dog which was the token baddy in the film. Shouldn't a good film be able to reveal the story by itself ? Whenever the storyline started to drag the boy, Bastian, has to leap up and down to convince you that it was interesting. I expect a lot of people were convinced by that. I am not sure what age-group this film is being pitched at but its unlikely to be much higher than three.So why did I watch the film ?  Limahl's Neverending Story of course which was played at the start and the end, and the hope that it would entertain my 3 year old daughter (which it didn't). "},{"Title":"Unsubtle and over-rated","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I really, really don't understand the adoration this film gets. The message is clunky, unsubtle and insulting. The acting is generally unimpressive. The characters are, for the most part, under-developed and the story is just plain silly. I like fantasy films but I don't like to be patronised and I don't appreciate my seven year old son being preached to in the way this film preaches.Add to all that the dreadful score, the awful Limahl song at the beginning...AND at the end and an ending that is really unsatisfying. I felt cheated of the time I wasted watching this.Don't watch this rubbish. See The Princess Bride and see how a fantasy film can engross and challenge and excite. "},{"Title":"A movie that cannot be watched by anyone over 10 years old","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The movie deals with the quest of a young boy to realise his strength. It is set between real life and the mystical world of Fantansia. Though the plot has an interesting concept about Fantasia the rest of the movie fails miserably to generate any sort of interest. It was vapid. When it comes to fantasy movies this holds no water against present day movies like The Lord of the Rings or classic animated works by Miyazaki. The characters lacked any sort of depth and the movie ended with me having wished I could somehow get back those hours I had lost watching it. I would not recommend it to someone unless he is in the same situation as poor Alex in A Clockwork Orange! "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The Never Ending Story is supposed to be a great ride with decent acting, great action, and a great story line. That, it is not.The movie started out decent, with an interesting storyline and a mischievous character, but then it got into the fantasy world that came from a book. Then, the typical, boy has to save the world thing showed up. This almost forced me to stop watching. However, I continued watching the film, and I was harassed by the horrible acting. Further more, there were numerous amounts of horrible scenes.If you want to waste 2 hours of your life that you'll never get back, please watch The Never Ending Story and see how long you survive the inferno wrath of bad acting. "}{"Title":"a kid saves the day!","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  So the Ivory Tower is full of cowering helpless adults but luckily a kid who is far more skilled then any other adult in fantasia is available to come to the aid of these cowering worms. It is also incredably lucky that a kid who can not act worth beans is reading the book. Honestly Wolfgang Peterson is a great director and for that time period the effects were pretty good if you need proof simply watch willow or chronicles of narnia both of which were made in the same time however the idea that a little kid named Atreyu is the only warrior to save them is rediculous. Who trained him? However had I gotten caught up in the moment that would not have been so bad but the acting only reminded me that I was watching a bunch of kids in front of a camera. Again though I recognize how much goes into making a movie and I have respect for all the work they did so Ill hold Atreyu against Michael Ende and give Wolfgang Peterson the credit of a hard days work.  "}]