[{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Montgomery Brewster (Richard Pryor) is a down and out baseball player in the lower leagues along with his best friend Spike Nolan (John Candy). Out of the blue he inherits 30 Million Dollars that he must spend in 30 Days and have nothing to show for it, so he can get his real inheritance of 300 Million Dollars; oh yes and he he can't tell anyone why he has to waste all this money.This excellent and hilarious story is played out brilliantly by Pryor and Candy, and it takes us on a spending spree that has its up and downs for poor Mr Brewster. Because of the nature of the movies theme, Brewsters millions is quite firmly rooted in the 80's when it was made, but it still entertains with ease and is well worth watching.7/10 "},{"Title":"Pryor + Candy = Laughs","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You can imagine that any movie that stars Richard Pryor and John Candy must be a funny one, and this definitely qualifies.The plot is disarmingly (and misleadingly) simple. Montgomery Brewster (Pryor) stands to inherit a $300 million fortune from a long lost uncle (played by Hume Cronyn), whose will is videotaped. The catch? To get the money, Brewster must first spend $30 million in 30 days. An additional catch? After spending the $30 million in 30 days, Monty still isn't allowed to own anything. At first I still didn't think there would be that great a challenge, but in fact, as Monty discovers, it's hard to spend $30 million without actually purchasing anything of lasting value.The movie progresses through Monty's spending spree on hotel rooms, parties, employees, the minor league baseball team he played for and finally his campaign to NOT be elected mayor. Other candidates spend millions to get elected; why not spend millions to convince people not to elect you? It's also interesting to see the reactions of his friends (especially Candy) to his squanderings, because another condition to the will is that he can't tell anyone what's going on.It's really quite a lot of fun, and Pryor and Candy together make it worth watching.7/10 "},{"Title":"Critically acclaimed or not, this comedy hits the spot","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When people think of the long legacy of Richard Pryor as a comedian, this film may not be at the top of the list. He has achieved greater heights personally and professionally elsewhere. Many Pryor fans may have skipped over this one altogether with a catalog of films to choose from that include luminaries from Car Wash to Stir Crazy to Harlem Nights. That's unfortunate really, because as comedic performances go, Pryor strikes pure gold in this unheralded film. His manic energy, his sheer frustration with the impossibility of his dilemma (spend 30 million dollars until you are dead broke and not have a single penny or asset left at the end, in order to inherit three HUNDRED million) and the fact that he channels so much believability into what would otherwise be absurd are highly laudable. With an excellent supporting cast that included the likes of John Candy and Jerry Orbach, it's hard to imagine anyone too jaded to enjoy this film. It's ridiculous and over the top, to be sure, but it's also supremely funny in a way much more pretentious comedies can't touch. Pryor breathes life into the film and the film glows as a result. Whether it's on your personal best comedy list or not, it's not a film you can easily excuse not watching whether a Pryor fan or not. From third rate baseball playing bum, to toast of the town millionaire, back to a bum again before a highly rewarding ending comedically and emotionally, Brewster's Millions pulls off the best trick of all - it makes the viewer feel like a million bucks for having watched it. "},{"Title":"Comedy Gold","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I cant understand the low IMDb rating for what is a very funny film with two great stars in Richard Pryor and John Candy. Even though its a re-make and very much of its time (the 1980's) there is till plenty of entertainment to be had. Some of the areas of the film are still very relevant if you really could vote for none of the above isn't that a better vote than many of todays politicians? In tone this film is very similar to another 80's comedy - Trading Places, although this is the slightly lesser film it's still very enjoyable with plenty of comedy highlights. Pryor is outstanding and with the talented John Candy in support the film certainly doesn't lack laughs. There is even a message attached in places about the perils of greed and money but the ending feels quite abrupt and it would be nice to see the other characters re-action to the outcome.8/10 - A bright and breezy comedy. "},{"Title":"Good Production, Especially Considering the Substance.","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Richard Pryor stars as a minor-league baseball pitcher in New Jersey who gets an inheritance, but the inheritance has a large catch. Pryor will inherit $300 million in 30 days if he can spend $30 million in that time, but he must have nothing of value after that time period. A really smart idea that works due to the comedic talents of Pryor more than anything else. His uncanny ability to portray highly sympathetic characters is also very important here. John Candy shines as Pryor's best friend. A nice little film that toes the line on being something really special. It does not quite reach high levels, but it does come close and overall it is an entertaining and noble work. 3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Funny movie.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is consistent with it's humor throughout.  So many 80s films start out with an original idea but seem to lose site of it halfway through as it becomes a love story.  Not this film, Brewster is trying to spend that money right up until the clock chimes midnight.  One of my favorites by Richard Pryor.  John Candy only added to it's hilarity. "},{"Title":"Richard Pryor Is Hilarious Once Again","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In one of his all time best film performances, Richard Pryor portrays Montgomery Brewster, the pitcher for a minor league baseball team in New Jersey. His wealthy uncle dies and leaves him a $300 million inheritance....but there's a catch. In order to get it, he must spend $30 million in 30 days. It might sound simple enough but a position in the New York stock market as well as a phony election campaign for mayor sometimes keep bringing spent money back to him. Hilarious complications ensue as Pryor attempts to spend all of the money and keep it spent without getting any of it back. Pryor shines in a fine character role that's away from his usual con man typecasting. "},{"Title":"an enjoyable comedy","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The film is a comedy of how Brewster finds creative ways of spending the 30 million dollars and not always getting it right. He is unable to tell anyone of his real intentions of inheriting 300 million by successfully blowing 30 million dollars in 30 days. As soon as he receives news he goes on a wild spending spree and recruits lawyers, security guards, decorators  etc. all at very inflated salaries. Eventually the word goes around and soon everyone is jostling to benefit from his generosity. Some of the people close to him are unnerved by his spending prowess and tries to help him acquire more money through investments which is exactly the opposite of what he wants. This all adds up to a series of very comical events which is most enjoyable to watch. Look out for the upcoming remake of this movie. "},{"Title":"Can't go wrong with Pryor and Candy","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Brewster's Millions starring Jack Buchanan, Roscoe 'Fatty' Arbuckle, Edward Abeles, Dennis O'Keefe, and now, Richard Pryor. Yes, this is the 5th reincarnation of this story, and probably the funniest Richard Pryor movie out there, A simple story to inherit millions, Monty (Pryor) must spend a certain amount of money in a certain amount of time without ending up with anything he didn't originally own. The idea is to teach the value of a dollar. Oh, yes, he can't tell anyone what he is doing.So, of course, everyone thinks he's a nut. including the lovely Lonette McKee (ATL, Men of Honor), who is supposed to oversea his spending.The film features the late John Candy (Canadian Bacon) as his BFF. If you are not familiar with his work, this is an excellent choice. "},{"Title":"Very good work","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I genuinely liked this movie. Richard Pryor in 1985 and before is one of the finest comedians/actors. If you saw Blue Collar or Stir Crazy or that one with the blind kids on the bus, you will see what I mean. John Candy is without a doubt the funniest comedy actor after Don Knotts (my opinion of course, there are many great comedic actors). I only had one problem with this movie. For instance, when Brewsters rich uncle said that it was against the rules to buy a picasso and then turn it into firewood, how come he was able to buy a valuable stamp, and then have it canceled by mailing (in effect, devaluing it)? I guess it wouldn't matter since he could give some money away, but then why not just give it all to one person and save the time? "}{"Title":"Pryor's Funny","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a story about a minor league baseball player, Richard Pryor, who is well liked and comes into money!  He has to spend $30m in 30 days in order to inherit #300m; however he's not allowed to tell anyone about the $300m deal.  Pryor is very funny with all the excitement of spending a lot of money recklessly and trying not to receive any back, but he has to have receipts for all spent.  The casting of some great comedians like John Candy, Jerry Orbach, and Hume Cronyn are a great asset to this film.  There is a lot of excitement and the baseball game between Hackensack Bulls and the New York Yankees is especially fun!  The last scene straightens out the big complication of 'no receipts', just in time to win the big money.  So who said money buys everything!?  Well recommended! "},{"Title":"Good times a plenty with a spend happy Pryor","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just watched this film for this first time and I thought it was pretty good.  I have read several of the other reviews which are dismal to say the least but I am now a fan of Richard Pryor after this film.  For truly awesome Pryor watch  Stir Crazy  instead.  This is a revamp of an older film of the same name that came out even before  talkies  in fact Thomas Jefferson may have seen the original!  The 1919 version could only be an archaic dusty relic that should be examined by archaeologists.  That is exactly why this film needed a fresh new take, forget people that feel it is not close enough to the original; it was 1985 during the  me  era and people were spending their dough like it was going out of style.  Ronald Reagan was president and Michael J. Fox was Alex P. Keaton on  Family Ties  the Capitalist was the flavor of the week. Richard Pryor is Brewster a washed up baseball player who has been in the minors for 15 years, it seems as if his dreams are being washed up along with his game.  His friend Spike played by John Candy (not a super performance from him I might add) is his good friend and catcher on the minor league ball team.  Brewster discovers that his great uncle ( a  honky  in his own words) is giving his last surviving heir a chance to get $ 300,000,000 or play it safe and get $1,000,000.  The only stipulation to get a the big pay out he needs to play a little game, his great uncle was a crotchety tormented man (too much cigar smoke, watch the flick). Brewster has to spend 30 mill. in 30 days, with absolutely no assets. That is a tough situation if ever there was one. The movie is really fun, its fantastic to watch Pryor trying to spend every last penny.  I guess the movie's intention is to show how extravagance can be a real pain in the ass!!  I loved Pryor as Brewster, I wanted him to be successful, he is so damn funny and a truly likable guy.  Candy is the buddy role, and his character is unfortunately, two dimensional.  I love John Candy (Bless Him) but he cannot make much out of an under developed role.  Watch a hilarious performance of Seventh Heaven (TV Minister) as the conniving lawyer who seems like he has a rake up his ass and you really want to see him get his just desserts. The movie is a little slow at times but you will be cheering for Brewster along the way and see the hordes of regular people (those without 30 mill to blow) enjoying his riches.  The conclusion is a little bit weak as well but the many comic moments make up for it. Watch this flick, it might be a winner for you.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"A bundle of laughs.","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Good film. Monty Brewster was an old baseball player who had just inherited $30 mliion. Brewster's Millions is a copy of the old versions made in the 1910's, 20's and 40's. However, it was extremely inticing to see all that money sitting inthat safe. Brewster's Millions is an entertaining film and Richard Pryor was the perfect actor to play Brewster. "},{"Title":"Pryor and Candy go wild, while Larry Tate is a slimy executive yet again","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Believe it or not, Brewster's Millions, in which Richard Pryor plays a guy who has to spend $30 million in 30 days so that he can inherit $300 million from his late uncle (Hume Cronyn) but can't tell anyone the second part, is based on a 1902 novel. And a funny adaptation it is! Pryor plays a baseball player who prefers partying with his buddy (John Candy). Once it's time for him to start spending, he goes all out. I will say that this isn't the best work for either of them, but Walter Hill's movie definitely elicits its share of laughs. The best part is Brewster's mayoral campaign he's the most truthful candidate of all time (or at least the most realistic).The executives who formally give Brewster the money reminded me very much of the Dukes in Trading Places. As it is, one of them is played by a man who seems to have spent much of his career playing bombastic executives David White, aka Larry Tate on Bewitched. He went from playing an executive in The Apartment, to playing the boss of a man married to a witch, to playing an executive who gives $30 million to a rule-trashing cool dude. What a country indeed! Anyway, the movie is at once a parable about profligacy and also just a plain old fun comedy. Brewster is a guy who, quite simply, knows how to party. Like I said, it's not the funniest movie ever, but you definitely get some laughs out of it. "},{"Title":"The loss of two greats !","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Its hard to believe that both comedy actors from this 1985 film have both passed on in the last 20 years and its quite sad watching the film knowing this specially when you see the high energy performances from both Richard Pryor and John Candy. Brewster's Millions is a fun and engaging lightweight comedy from the summer of 1985 which tells the story of Monty Brewster a down on his luck baseball player that dreams of fame and fortune. He then unexpectedly receives an inheritance of 300 million but only if he can spend 30 million in 30 days and not show anything for it. This is the fifth film version of Monty Brewster, actually six if you count Miss Brewster's Millions, same story, different gender).Overall, the film is entertaining, nothing more, nothing less. It is also a nice introduction in allowing today's younger generation see the great man himself Richard Pryor and what a great talent he was. "},{"Title":"None of the Above! and he almost won the election!","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Brewster's Millions is a fun film starring the late Richard Pryor (See No Evil, Hear No Evil,Harlem Nights) as Monty Brewster and the late John Candy (The Great Outdoors, Delirious) as Spike Nolan. Monty Brewster has a chance to inherit over 300 million dollars from his late great uncle. However, Brewster has only 30 days to spend 30 million dollars without accumulating assets. He must also avoid telling those around him the underlying reasons for his behavior. The film hints at this difficulty shown through Spike Nolan doing what he can as a caring and true friend to help Brewster increase his financial fortune. Naturally, Nolan is shown being justifiably confused when he notices Brewster's discomfort when his income rises. The part where Brewster decides to go into politics is humorously entertaining.John Candy is actually youthful and exuberant in this too. Rick Moranis has a cameo too. Great to watch. Brewster's Millions is a lot better than so many other comedies today, and I wouldn't be surprised if it gets dusted from the vaults again by Hollywood... I actually think director Walter Hill (48 Hours) did a good job. This really holds up well through the years.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Twenty million -- and it's all up there on the screen!","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Brewster's Millions started life as a 1902 novel by George Barr McCutcheon. It was re-published in 1943. In 1906 a stage adaptation was presented at the New Amsterdam in New York and ran up an excellent 163 performances. Fatty Arbuckle starred in a silent version in 1921. In 1935, Jack Buchanan starred in a British movie version. In 1945, the project slipped back to Hollywood as a vehicle for Dennis O'Keefe and June Havoc. In 1961, another British version (entitled Three on a Spree) surfaced as a vehicle for Jack Watling and Carol Lesley. However, very little of the original scenario is used in the Richard Pryor re-make, just the basic idea. The characters have all been changed and so has much of the plot &#x96; but that's all for the better in this delightfully expansive and expensive version. Superb performances all around are a feature of this entry, especially from Prior himself, of course, as well as John Candy, Lonette McKee and Stephen Collins. "},{"Title":"Brewster's Millions","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was one of those early movies that kinda popped outta nowhere (for me). I think the earliest Pryor movies I remember seeing were double acts with Gene Wilder such as 'Stir Crazy'. As for Candy I believe I first saw him in 'National Lampoon's Vacation'. I remember this being a regular flick on TV back in the day, always on in the afternoon or early evening, easy going, fun for all but also very easily lost under the radar. Believe it or not but this story is actually based on a novel from 1902 and there have been many film adaptations (as well as theatre productions). The funny thing is these older films don't have quite the same impact, for example...the 1945 version sees Brewster having to spend a mere 1 million Dollars in 60 days or less to inherit 7 million (slight alteration from the original novel which has a full year to spend the 1 million). Now that feat would probably be relatively doable these days.The plot has always been one of much debate though it must be said. A rich old relation leaves Monty Brewster (Pryor) a tough decision in his will, he can either take 1 million Dollars no questions asked right away or he can take the challenge. The challenge being he has 30 days to spend 30 million Dollars and not have any assets (that he doesn't already own) at the end of it. Further to that he must receive value for services of anyone he hires, he cannot buy something expensive and just destroy it and he can't just give stuff away as gifts. He can only donate 5% to charity and gamble 5% away, plus he cannot tell anyone of the challenge. If he manages to do this by the 30 day limit he will inherit 300 million Dollars, if he fails he gets nothing, not even the 1 million.Now this has to be a real nail biter of a decision and one that is sure to draw discussion after you've seen it. Its like that age old question...what would you do if you won a vast amount on the lottery? Personally I'd be more inclined to take the 1 million and run because surely in this day and age (or even back then) it would be impossible to spend 1 million per day for 30 days. The fact you cannot own anything by the deadline is not only painful but just impractical. The main reason being if you had that kind of money the first things most folk would buy would probably be property, cars and gifts...all of which you can't do with this challenge. If you really really think about it, it would be incredibly hard to do. But of course the lure is the 300 million, money to literately burn, but failure results in zilch.A great concept for sure with added imagination and teamed up with some stellar 80's casting. This movie really can't go wrong, what better way to produce good comedic scenarios than having an everyday bum needing to spend spend spend on whatever he likes. The film practically writes itself, you know what to expect when you read about it and having the crazy unpredictable force of Richard Pryor in the lead is a surefire winner. Sure enough its enormous fun watching Pryor go from zero to hero with his fortune. He walks around New York like he owns the city, he's hiring people left and right on exorbitant salaries for menial tasks, he's allowing people to pitch wacky preposterous inventions and ideas to him for funding, making bad bets, throwing big bashes, running a protest campaign in the local elections for Mayor which would cost tonnes of money etc...The sequence where he buys a rare stamp (the Inverted Jenny) and then posts it is actually very clever indeed, I would have never thought to do that. Although I'm not sure if a stamp that's just over 70 years of age (in 1985) would be usable for actual postage, I could be wrong. Another clever idea (although part of the plot) was hosting an exhibition game between the local baseball team Brewster plays for and the Yankees, again I wouldn't of thought of that.Whilst watching questions do pop up in my little brain though. Even if he didn't manage to complete the challenge wouldn't he be able to stash amounts he earned through whatever venture in a bank account somewhere for later. If its not part of the 30 million I'm sure you could hide earnings, especially bet winnings or stocks and shares earnings. The other thing that hit me was his electoral campaign for Mayor which he was winning hands down, if he lost the challenge he could easily of kept that job. I don't think the company that was in charge of the challenge could take that away from him. Really I'm sure there could be ways of staying rich even if you did lose the challenge.I wouldn't really say I'm nitpicking but simply putting more thought into what I would have done if it was me, just like the lottery question. This is just one of those happy-go-lucky 80's productions that was extremely light-hearted and warm. As I said anyone can enjoy this with the ever dependable Candy in full flow with his funny fat faced expressions and mannerisms. Pryor shows he could do lovable easy comedy roles just as well as more edgy adult orientated ones and of course look out for an early Rick Moranis role. Not forgetting the great range of character actors and familiar faces supporting the main leads. A near perfect old classic underrated comedy with a fun story, fun performances and a happy ending.9/10 "},{"Title":"From the bush league to the big league &#x96; it's all about money","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Half a dozen versions of Brewster's Millions had been made, dating back into the silent era, before this 1985 film. The story is based on a 1902 novel by George B. McCutcheon. This movie, with Richard Pryor and John Candy stacks up well with the other films. It's updated ($30 million in 1985 versus $1 million in 1945), with prices, costs and other things being quite different. It has some novel twists and pokes fun at New York politics. So, it succeeds overall. Richard Pryor is very good as Monty Brewster, and most others of the cast give very good performances. But, John Candy stands out as Spike Nolan. He's a delight to watch with his frustration over Monty's not wanting to invest a little of his many millions for the future. The two have just come from nowheresville, and Spike remembers all too well that they could wind up back there. So, every time Monty hires someone for a ludicrous salary, Spike wants it to be half or less. Except for some sparse vulgar language, this film is generally clean. The baseball scenes with Monty on the pitcher's mound and Spike behind the plate are hilarious. "},{"Title":"likable but no big laughs","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Montgomery Brewster (Richard Pryor) pitches minor league ball in Hackensack, New Jersey with his loudmouthed catcher best friend Spike Nolan (John Candy). They get thrown in jail after a bar fight. Charley Pegler (Jerry Orbach) let the boys go from the team. J.B. Donaldo (Joe Grifasi) bails them out. Brewster thinks he's a scout calling them up to the big league but instead he brings them to a reading of a Will. Brewster is the sole heir. Rupert Horn (Hume Cronyn) has left him $300 million but only if he can spend $30 million in 30 days. He cannot own any assets at the end and he can't tell anybody. If he fails, the trustees' firm would gain control of the money. Angela Drake (Lonette McKee) is a paralegal from the firm assigned to keep track of the money. Warren Cox (Stephen Collins) is her boyfriend also from the firm. Drake doesn't know the real deal but Cox is eventually let in on the deal and convinced to sabotage Brewster's efforts. What seems easy at first turns out to be much harder to do.I love both John Candy and Richard Pryor. Pryor smooths out his rough edges to play in this PG movie. It's a bland comedy without any big laughs. Director Walter Hill just doesn't have the comedic skills to maximize his leading comedians. I still like the characters. Pryor is straight-jacketed here. John Candy is trying his best. It's a sweet movie. It's just not that funny. "}{"Title":"This is the second filmed version of the Brewster's Millions story I watched that I managed to enjoy","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A few days after seeing the 1945 Brewster's Millions, I finally watched the remake that was released 40 years later. It starred Richard Pryor as Monty Brewster, here a minor league baseball player who sees film of his late grandpa (Hume Cronyn) who tells him the conditions of his will. John Candy is Pryor's baseball buddy, Lonette McKee-who previously co-starred with him in Which Way is Up?-is his accountant, Candy's SCTV co-star Rick Moranis is someone who likes to repeat whatever someone next to him says, and David White-who I remember as Larry Tate on Bewitched-is one of the executers of the will. This wasn't as funny as the previous version I watched but I still had some good laughs watching Pryor, Candy, Moranis, and some of the changes in some scenes. So on that note, this version of Brewster's Millions is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Who Wants To Be A Millionaire.","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With a friend having greatly enjoyed a DVD of the 1988 Comedy film Dirty Rotten Scoundrels that I gave her for a Birthday present,I started searching around for Comedy movies with a similar feel,which she could enjoy watching on the upcoming May Bank Holiday.Frantically searching round online,I suddenly remembered a fun looking Comedy which I had seen 30 minutes of on TV around 10 or so years ago!,which led to me deciding that it was about time to fully witness Brewster count out his millions.The plotHeading out to a bar to celebrate their (minor league) baseball team the Hackensack Bull's latest win,star team mates Montgomery 'Monty' Brewster and Spike Nolan quickly get into a fight with fellow customers at the bar,and end up getting sent to jail.Being left completely speechless at their bail hearing (where the judge sets the bail amount at a level that they can never afford)by a stranger sitting in the court who announces that he will pay their full bail cost,the stranger tells Nolan and Brewster that they both must visit a law firm that he's working for called Granville & Baxter.Attending a private film screening at the law firm whilst Nolan is ordered to wait outside,Brewster discovers that he has a recently diseased great- uncle called Robert Horn who he never knew existed.On the film,Horn reveals that due to him being the only surviving relative,that Brewster has a chance to get his full savings.Not wanting to give Brewster an easy shot at the money,Horn tells Brewster that he has 2 options1-he can accept 1 million and allow the rest of Horn's $300 million estate to go to the law firm,or he can go for option 2,which is that he must spend 30 million over 30 days in order to get the 300,but must not tell anyone where the 30 came from,or buy any items that he can keep.Initially being tempted by the $1 million offer,Brewster decides that he is going to instead try and hit a home run,and go straight for the $300 million jackpot.View on the filmDespite the Universal full-frame DVD taking away some of its jazzy style,director Walter Hill and cinematographer Ric Waite (who had both earlier worked together on the movie 48 Hours) dazzling style is still able to shine,thanks to Waite and Hill showing the contrasting appearances between Brewster's faded and dusty Minor League Baseball lifestyle,with the high-end,crystal clear one that he finds himself suddenly forced in.For their adaptation of George Barr McCutcheon's novel,the screenplay by Timothy Harris and Herschel Weingrod takes some delicious swipes at the 'greed is good' attitude that was starting to strike at the time,with the writers brilliantly showing the insane amount of influence Brewster can get,just by chucking money at anything that moves. Smartly deciding not to make the film be a sheer display of excess,the writers keep the movie strongly rooted to Brewster's blue collar big ground,which despite stopping the movie from fully tipping into the over exaggeration that it delightfully seemed to be heading towards,does allow the viewer to feel the full force of what has landed on Brewster's shoulders.Entering the movie without a dime in his pockets,Richard Pryor gives a highly spirited performance as Brewster,with Pryor showing Brewster holding his working class background dearly,even as he's desperately trying to spend cash left,right and centre.Joining Pryor,John Candy gives an excellent performance as Nolan,with Candy giving the movie a shot of lightning every time he gleefully sets his sights on cash,as Brewster discover who really wants to be a millionaire. "},{"Title":"Very pleasant","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The down-on-luck baseball player Brewster (Richard Pryor) is about to have his life drastically changed after being the sole heir of a big fortune. But in order to get the millions of dollars he's forced to spend U$30 million in the period of a month without getting having any properties or certain things to himself or wasting money away, those are the rules given to him. AND he can't say to anybody what's he doing.Brewster's Millions is all about showing how difficult is Pryor's mission. So what does he do? He hires people of any kind paying them with a lot of money, buys an iceberg and the most expensive stamp of all, run as a mayor, among other things. He's closely followed by his best friend (John Candy), an accountant (Lonette McKee) from the bank, and also a colleague of her whose mission is to make Brewster lose this game and let the money stay in the bank.Despite the great premise, the problem is that Brewster's Millions is never so much funny like it could have been. Constantly talky, very noisy but with a great pace, the film's weakest attribute (but it can be viewed as its best, in a way) is making the small characters to have the funniest parts of the show while the comic giants are only allowed to exceed themselves, or to have just a bunch of punchlines. Examples Rick Moranis, playing the greatest impersonator of all and Joe Grifasi, playing Brewster's personal photographer, they both offer such an enjoyable good time for us, more rewarding than all the fuzzy events with Pryor's character. Treated like an Frank Capra's comedy, or even the humor of the Marx Brothers classic or dynamic as Trading Places (released on the same decade as this one) this could be far more impressive. Brewster's Millions deals with ethics, moral, the money's importance in people's lives and manages to be a little funny. The greatest thing is that it touched some poignant themes but it never got too serious or tacky (sure, Brewster understands even under contradictory circumstances, that even with all that money he gets he doesn't necessary feel better about it), it simply stick to the cheerful comedy with plenty of humor. New territory for action director Walter Hill (Warriors, Streets of Fire), exploring humored situations rather than explosions and fights, he stayed firm the rhythm presented in his works, very fast and well-constructed, with no time to waste. One moment changes to another without making us lose interest. Above anything it's a pleasant film for any moment. Low your expectations without finding the same Richard Pryor of classics like Stir Crazy or Silver Streak and you'll be greatly rewarded. At least, this is one of his good moments. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A ne'er do well must spend millions to inherit billions","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Montgomery Brewster (Richard Pryor) is a replacement pitcher for a New Jersey baseball team. He and his friend Spike Nolan (John Candy) have dreams of joining the big league, but the problem is that nobody is interested in them. Everything hits rock bottom when they are locked up in gaol for brawling and are not bailed out by their coach. But a strange guy pops up, bails them out and takes them to New York City where Monty is brought into an office alone where three lawyers sit. Here he learns that he has inherited a lot of money, but there is a catch. His great uncle doesn't want him to be taken for a ride, but rather he wants him to use the money wisely, so he says that he has thirty days to spend thirty million dollars. If he makes it then he gets three hundred million, but if he fails he gets nothing. At the end of the thirty days he is allowed no assets, he can only give 5% away to charity and can only loose 5% gambling. When hiring people he can only get his money's worth. Nor can he tell anybody about it. As such he has to get rid of all of the money while everybody else is trying to get him to save it.This movie is based on earlier movies and the critics did not like this one that much. I have not seen the earlier movies (though would like to) but I enjoyed this movie. Richard Pryor and John Candy are both good, clean actors and comedians and the jokes are seriously funny in this one. It is quite amusing watching his friends wonder why Monty gets upset when he earns money and is joyous when he looses money.The whole purpose of this is to force Monty to get so sick of spending money that he won't blow away the money that his great uncle has earned. The lawyers want the money because if Monty fails then they get the 300 million. They don't think Monty can do it though, but when it seems like he is succeeding, they get scared and try to defraud him out of $20,000 so that they still get the money. Thus it becomes a competition with very high stakes. Monty looses nothing if he fails, but if the lawyers fail then they can be up for fraud.The interesting thing about it also is how people all come to bludge off Monty for the money. People swarm around him wanting jobs and simply money, and others try to swindle him, but Monty doesn't care. The fortunate thing is that when he wins, everybody is going to think that he is broke and they are not going to bother him anymore, while Brewster sits on millions of dollars. His friend Spike and the security guard show their friendship by collecting money for him after, so we can see beyond the movie that Brewster will remember them for their generosity.The cleverest thing Brewster did was run for mayor and then withdrawal at the last minute. This was a very fortunate occurrence that there was a mayoral election on at that time, because it would have been very difficult to get rid of it otherwise. The clever thing though was buying a very expensive stamp and then mailing it. It was this action that worried the lawyers and made them act against him.The critics did not like this movie but I do. This is a clever movie and Pryor and Candy are decent actors. Candy plays a good friend who is always there for Brewster and we know that this friendship will last even though Brewster has become a millionaire.Favourite Quote Spike to Monty when they are in gaol I don't think this is a race thing because I'm in here too (its funny to me since having seen Hanging with the Homeboys a few days earlier). "},{"Title":"Cautionary Tale","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Prior is at his manic best in this simple comedy. His journey from zero to financial hero shows viewers that Herschel Weingrod's original material requires a honed performance to ensure that the narrative is not lost behind the highest of concepts. Prior allows his comic timing to be teased by director Hill while displaying far more emotion than had been allowed in Siver Streak or Superman III. With a supporting cast of America's finest comedians of the time one can not help but be drawn in to the duplicitous life of Montgomery Brewster's one shot at greatness. A must for any fan of the sort of farces responsible for shaping the cinema of the Cohens and Farrellys. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully entertaining","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the many adaptations of the famous novel and perhaps the best. Monty Brewster, played superbly by Richard Pryor, gets into a fight after pitching in a little league baseball game. When in court a man bails him out and takes him to a firm of accountants where he finds out a very rich relative has died. However, in order to inherit 300 million dollars he has to spend 30 million dollars in 30 days and have nothing to show for it. This is of course far more difficult than it looks. The fun really starts as he tries to spend it and finds it to be a lot harder than it sounds. The partners at the Accounting firm want him to fail so they can get their hands on the money and set a trap for him. I won't ruin the end but I always watch this when it is on and always laugh. Excellent entertainment. "},{"Title":"A bright and breezy comedy that has its heart in the right place","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" While Brewster's Millions is not a perfect movie by all means, but it is a bright and breezy film that does have its heart in the right place. Also, as far as comedies go it is not one of the most defining films of the genre, but to be a good movie Brewster's Millions didn't need to be that.As I have said already, Brewster's Millions is not a perfect film. The plot is on the predictable and simple side and I can understand why one might find it bizarre too with its concept and all though I did find it refreshing in a sense on the other side of the argument. The ending feels rather abrupt and could have been rounded off better, and also while others may be divided on whether to perceive this as a flaw, Brewster's Millions does have a theme that is firmly rooted in the 80s which may date it slightly.However, it is nicely filmed, with striking locations and nice cinematography and editing, while the soundtrack is nicely 80s without dating the film. The film does work in its humour, the script is funny without the need to be too sophisticated and smart, while the odd situation also made me chuckle. The direction is good enough, the film is paced well and it is a good length. And although the story is quite simple, there is enough material to engage throughout, and a lot of it is to do with the fun chemistry between Richard Pryor and John Candy. Pryor I can find loud and unfunny at times, and other times where he is a lot of fun, his performance here is the latter and it does help that his character and most of the characters here are likable, while Candy really does shine. There is also a hilarious cameo from Rick Moranis and Jerry Orbach is always good value.All in all, Brewster's Millions is a fun film with heart even if there are parts/aspects that could have done with more work. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A modern morality play for today","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What I love about this film is that it teaches us to avoid greed and excess while giving us a good laugh at the same time. Made in the context of Gordon Gecko's 'Greed is good' philosophy of the 1980's, its lessons are just as relevant today as we face the economic disaster caused by the selfishness and greed of many of our financial institutions. Brewster finds that friendship, loyalty, honesty and generosity of the heart are far more valuable than the promise of material riches. John Candy's flawed yet redeeming character reminds us that we are all vulnerable to temptation but we don't have to succumb to it. I see Richard Pryor's Brewster join Orson Wells' Charles Foster Kane in his search for Rosebud. Unlike Kane, Brewster's search is more successful. Like all good comedy this film not only entertains us with laughter but also offers us insight into the human condition. "},{"Title":"Brewster's Millions","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was apparently the seventh time the same story had been filmed, and I would guess this is probably the best effort of all of them, from director Walter Hill (48 Hours, Red Heat). Basically Montgomery 'Monty' Brewster (Richard Pryor) is a minor league baseball player, and after a fight ending up appearing before a court, and being cut from his team, a man who has been following him pays his bail. Monty assumes he is a baseball scout, but he takes him to an office to hear that his uncle Rupert Horn (Cocoon's Hume Cronyn) has died, and through his videotaped living will, Monty discovers he can inherit $300m! He has two choices Spend $30m within 30 days, telling no-one why you are, and if successful get the fortune, and if not, go broke; or, take $1m on the day; and bravely, Brewster decides to go for the $300m. So, now Brewster is doing every crazy thing he can think of to blow his $30m, with the help of his baseball friend Spike Nolan (John Candy) and personal accountant Angela Drake (Lonette McKee). He uses his money to hire hundreds of staff for high salary, buys a priceless stamp, the highest price hotel room, pays for his baseball to play against a major team, and when he sees his efforts aren't going as well as he thought, he pays for himself to run for the election for Mayor. So, day 30 arrives, and to his knowledge, Monty is completely broke, apart from a $30,000 deposit that a man he trusted held back, but thankfully, before the clock strikes 12, Monty manages to get rid of it, and Edward Roundfield (Pat Hingle) is proud to say he gets the $300m inheritance, and that's where it ends. Also starring Stephen Collins as Warren Cox, Dirty Dancing's Jerry Orbach as Charley Pegler, Tovah Feldshuh as Marilyn, Rick Moranis as Morty King and Reni Santoni as Vin Rapelito. You could see this as a satire on the power of money, both from the positive and negative sides, or you could just see it as Pryor going crazy spending and spending. A funny film that really makes you wonder what would you do in the situation, what would you spend $/£30m on, how fast would you spend it, and would you really want that amount? Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Credit Due","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" PLOT An amateur league baseball pitcher will inherit 300 million dollars from a distant relative on the proviso that he first spends 30 million dollars in 30 days. Various other conditions are also made painfully clear.REVIEW A well-constructed cast including Richard Pryor and John Candy, and decent character actors of yesteryear such as Lonette McKee, Stephen Collins, Jerry Orbach, Pat Hingle and Hume Cronyn, make the most of a great idea that is otherwise ill-served by a mediocre script and perfectly standard direction from the usually quite brilliant Walter Hill. Candy's chemistry with Pryor is first rate &#150; why Pryor instead chose Gene Wilder as his long-term comedic partner will forever remain a baffling mystery. While Brewster's Millions is not the funniest film of the 80s, certainly there are moments of hilarity here. Watch for a hilarious cameo from Rick Moranis.ELEPHANT STAMPS None. "}{"Title":"Has some truly hilarious moments","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've never been a fan of Richard Pryor... I don't know, he just seems like a foul-mouthed loud-mouth to me(and not a fun one at that, like Chris Rock is). But in this film, I have to admit, he does very good work. He and Candy(whom I've always rather liked) have great chemistry. The first scenes had me laughing quite a lot. The plot is pretty good, but it's(rather obviously) not original. This is the seventh and apparently(I've heard reports claiming it not to be) latest in the line of films based on the novel of the same name. The plot evolves at a fair pace and remains interesting through most of the film. The acting is very good, there was no performances that were overplayed or less than solid. The characters are well-rounded and credible, with both 'good' and 'bad' guys being equally interesting and human(though it's not exactly rocket science to distinguish them from each other). The writing is fair, but more laughs are derived from Pryor and Candy's performances than dialog and situations(though the film tries quite hard, sometimes too hard; basically throwing everything its got at the viewers at times). The humor is typical 80's, but much of it works, and like I point out in the one line summary, the film has some truly hilarious moments... it's such a pity that they are as few and far between as they are. I barely laughed at all in the latter half of the film. All in all, a pretty funny film. I recommend it to fans of 80's comedies, Richard Pryor and/or John Candy. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Good team work by Candy and Pryor!","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Brewster's Millions is a good comedy! I like the baseball subject! Richard Pryor and John Candy were really good in the film! Jerry Orbach, Pat Hingle, Rick Moranis and the rest of the cast were good! I don't want to tell to much about it but if you like comedies then check it out! This is a hard film to obtain and if you see it somewhere get it! You won't be disappointed!Movie Nuttball's note If you like John Candy and haven't see his other great and classic movies then I recommend that you see Summer Rental, Armed and Dangerous, Spaceballs, Who's Harry Crumb, Uncle Buck, and in an excellent cameo, Home Alone!  "},{"Title":"Fun flick","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Came out the same weekend as Fletch, and View to a Kill if I remember right, and another one from that summer that is very fun to watch if yer in the right kinda mood. You don't Really buy for a second that either Candy or Pryor are minor leaguers, but the rest is a fun kick if you just let it take ya with it. Some of the stuff isn't as well thought out as it should be-but watching these guys play off each other and the situation at hand is quite fun. I always like a harmless time-killer, and if you get some good laughs outta it-that is even better. Candy was great and this one added to his rep.**1/2 outta ****, you can do worse. "},{"Title":"Brewster's Millions and the Film Industry","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  We are all influenced in some way by the media, and it is often this body who are the main persecutors of films like Brewsters, and yet favour the deceptive roller coaster rides that litter cinemas every summer (Godzilla).  It is this reason why Brewsters Millions has not received the recognition it has so deserved.  It is longer than a decade since it's release and yet it still calls back to me from my video collection, whereas the pretty hologram is about the main point of focus on my ID4 video.John Candy's performance provides a stable background to the flick, and although he has been more intensively humorous, his mere presence provides a more than occasional chuckle.  Candy plays Brewsters agent / finance consultant, who is caught up in Brewsters attempts to use all of his temporary inheritance, in an aim to achieve the big prize, $300 million. Brewster represents all that society has boiled down to, has beens, who have gasped the clean air of success only to have the wind kicked out of him.A film which represents the scourge of society beautifully and hides it away in the sea of American comedy flicks.   "},{"Title":"Money!!!!!!!!!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Talk about a good movie.  This show was kind of intense especially at the end.  I can't believe somebody could spend so much money in a month.  It was funny and enjoyable.  I think if you had a chance to watch go ahead and watch it.  "},{"Title":"Look for Rick Moranis","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of Richard Pryor, but I really enjoyed this movie.  It's a fluffy comedy, but it isn't exactly predictable, and there are some hilarious moments.  My favorite is the cameo by Rick Moranis.  Plus, who doesn't enjoy imagining what they would do if they HAD to spend money? "},{"Title":"What About All Those Thirsty Arabs?  With Ice?","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Montgomery Brewster has been given the movie treatment more than once as the novel this is based upon dates back to nearly 1900. This is not cerebral stuff but good humor and laughs while ignoring reality. It is am homage to a couple of fine film comedians who are no longer with us.Richard Pryor & John Candy did not work together enough, and this movie makes up for that loss. This film allows Pryor to do his manic over the top behavior just perfectly. It allows Candy to do his humor well too. The support cast seems to be well fitted with the stars and the show goes smoothly and funny without going too long.Monte Brewster is a minor league pitcher for the Hackensack Bulls when the movie starts, who wins a game & promptly gets into trouble at a bar fight celebration after the game. He and Candy compliment each other well especially at the court hearing. Then they are amazed to be bailed out by a stranger who has been taking photos of Monty.From Jersey, the stranger takes them to a law office in New York City where Monte finds out he is rich from his Uncle Rupert Horne. The catch is, does he want to be $1 million dollars richer or $300 million richer? In order to get the $300, he has to waste $30 million dollars and not have anything tangible to show for it in 30 days. From this premise, the insanity of Pryor takes over and fits perfectly. He arranges for the Bulls to play the Yankees, hires a huge staff including his buddy Candy, & when his staff presents him with an unexpected $10 million dollar profit which puts him back where he started, he gets a desperate idea to spend the extra millions. With 2 shady characters running for mayor, Monty runs using Vote None of The Above as his campaign slogan. One reason I like this movie so much is my favorite political throw away line in any movieI'm asking people not to send any money to my campaign. I'm telling you to keep your money, your going to need your money after this election.I keep hoping those words needing your money aren't true after our election of Obama but he seems to be spending money fast than Monty. Maybe when he is done in office, he could star in a remake of this one? "},{"Title":"Not totally humourless, but I did feel that the writers could have explored more avenues in order to make it much funnier","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Spend $30,000,000 in 30 days in order to inherit $300,000,000. It's a pretty unlikely and totally ridiculous premise, and for me it resulted in a film that wasn't entirely successful.I think the main problem with this film is that it didn't focus on the right areas in order to generate humour; the whole premise of Monty Brewster being able to inherit the $300,000,000 is to spend $30,000,000 without telling anyone about the deal. I personally felt that this film would have been much funnier if that would have been the area where it had focused its attention. It would have been much funnier to see everyone trying to find out why Brewster has to spend so much money so quickly and more focus on Brewster struggling to keep it a secret - it seemed odd that no-one seemed to question where the money had come from? It would have also been a lot funnier if we saw Brewster struggling more to spend his money (he seems to manage to spend the money much more easily than I anticipated). Instead, we have 90 minutes of Brewster throwing his money around, buying everyone and everything and that's pretty much it. It's funny at first, but it's a premise that stretches itself rather thin and starts to become a bit tiresome after a while.Added to this, the film throws in a love triangle that went nowhere and wasn't particularly interesting - this also gave the film a heavy moody feel at times that it simply didn't need. They also had a pointless character who repeated everything that everyone said (thankfully he was only on screen for about 5 minutes, but it was long enough to make me mildly irritated). In many ways, this felt like a complete waste as the idea was a good one for a bit of goofy fun, but unfortunately the writers made it very much a one joke film that failed to exploit other avenues of potential that were most definitely there for the taking.On a positive note, there were some laughs to be found here and there - the funniest scene in the film was probably the scene where Brewster's uncle is reading his terms of the Will to Brewster. Pryor and Candy are both excellent comedy actors and they were both very good here (although I did think that they both 'overacted' at times). There was some good here, but not enough to justify investing 95 minutes of your life watching this. It's a film that I'd only recommend to die hard fans of either Pryor or Candy. "},{"Title":"None of the above....","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Brewster has an unknown distant, but wealthy relative who has just passed on. In order to test if Brewster knows the value of money, he is given the task of disposing of $30m in 30 days. Brewster isn't allowed to have any assets to show for the $30m or waste the money in any way. If successful, Brewster gets to inherit $300m. The biggest problem of all however, is that Brewster can't tell anyone what he's doing, so everyone thinks he's crazy. But I'd Brewster fails, two scheming trustees will get their hands on the money, so Brewster's task is not an easy one......It's the old story isn't it, little man overcoming the bigwigs. Everyone likes a long-shot, the poor man outsmarts the rich, its Robin Hood for the fat cats, and we have the profanity free Richard Pryor in the drivers seat.It's the most predictable type if comedy you can imagine. He's starts doing well, he silly but good spirited friend messes it up a bit, he gets back on track, the villains of the film mess it up big time for him, and just at the last minute, something wonderful happens.It's been done literally hundreds of times in these sort of family comedies, and in can understand that its a winning formula, but oh to see something different just for once, to see the hero of the piece fail, it would be so refreshing, but seeing that this is almost thirty years old, you can forgive its laziness.Pryor is as good as he always is, and Candy offers wonderful support, but one cannot help but think that if Trading Places wasn't such a hit two years 'Pryor' (he he), would this have been made?Worth watching... "},{"Title":"Not to be missed!","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm a huge fan of Richard Pryor and for non-concert movies, it works if the material is right for him. For this movie, IT DOES!! Pryor makes a bizarre plot work -- REALLY work -- especially making you BELIEVE he is a man who has a passion for baseball and trying to be a success. And John Candy does a great job portraying Brewster's best friend who has to be kept in the dark as to the real reason behind the outrageousness of his best friend's spending. There are social comments being made throughout the movie, and it shows normal and understandable outgrowths and conditions, consequences and results with each decision Brewster makes on where each dollar goes despite the feverish attempts to secure no assets anywhere. It's a fun movie, a feel-good movie, and a very FUNNY movie. Definitely not to be missed! This version of the story is well-written, well-produced, and well-made. And this movie should be among the very top of this list of Pryor's movies that displays his pure genius, and his ability to successfully range through the emotions, that you feel you're right there with him, and you feel what he feels, and you're rooting for him. "}{"Title":"Great comedy good story","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have watched this film twice in the last year I love this movie. Richard Prior has to spend 30 million dollars in thirty days to inherit 300 million dollars sounds easy, not.I won't tell you why not you'll have to watch it to figure that out. John Candy is great as the side kick best friend.I love the vote for none of the above thats great. It has a good story to as you slowly watch Prior begin to hate money,& the fact he can't tell anybody whats going on, you now why he's spending money like a mad man makes it even better. Great remake & I hate remakes now thats saying something.Prior & Candy will surely be missed in my mind. "},{"Title":"A couple of knee slaps away from a laugh riot.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Richard Pryor plays an aging minor league ball player that has always dreamed of pitching in a big league game. Pryor is in line to inherit $300 million dollars, but there is a slight catch. He is challenged to spend 30 million bucks in 30 days and have no monetary gains when he finishes. To pull this off he gets the help of John Candy. These two guys together can have you laughing your butt off.From nobody to someone. From dirt poor to filthy rich. What a horrible situation for a down on his luck guy to be in; yea, sure. A little dead pan humor teams up with silly situations.Along for the ride in this comedy are Jerry Orbach, Hume Cronyn, Rick Moranis, Conrad Janis, Stephen Collins and the bubbly Lonette McKee. "},{"Title":"10 million 10 million 10 million dollars! 10 million 10 million 10 million dollars!","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you catch this movie lazing on a Sunday afternoon - it's worth watching -- richard pryor and john candy are good and to hear john candy get all excited over gaining an extra 10 million dollars thru the stock market while pryor is trying to spend 30 million in 30 days makes you want to sing along with candy as he pumps his fists - 10 million 10 million 10 million dollars... now if only a relative would leave me 30 million to spend.. I'd give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Highly overrated","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think this is just a regular boring movie, however the main idea promises so much fun that it makes this film really bad.The movie is based on a very catching idea. Such situation captures imagination at the first glance. However that's all. This film fails terribly to make any use of this great situation. Nothing really happens in this film. Our hero tries to spend the money, that's it. No adventures, no catches. There are two twist in the plot. One is when some investment returns actual money making the things worse. Unfortunately that's just a moment, no implication is present at any later point in the movie. (To be honest, nothing really has an implication in the plot. Random events lead to no consequences, that's the guiding idea behind.) The other twist is one of the most cliché you could imagine. Someone hired by those who would like to see Brewster fail to acquire the 300 millions tricks him to still have money before the deadline to spend everything. The clock is dinging and there comes a quick solution. Whoa...If you try to imagine what would you do for just a minute with such opportunity, you'll certainly have hundreds of better and more exciting ideas than those in this movie. The plot is simply boring.Regardless of the performance of the actors, the characters are boring too. There is no interaction between the main characters and it is annoying how unrealistic their reaction to the events is. Everyone is in total apathy except for Brewster.If you can imagine what would you do in Brewster's shoes, keep it at that level, don't ruin it by watching this empty story. "},{"Title":"Almost a good film that just becomes frustrating to watch.","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie has a minor league pitcher who is down on his luck. He had made it to the big leagues once, but for all intense purposes his chances of returning are zero. Then one day fortune smiles upon him as a rich relative he knew nothing about has left him an inheritance and a little game. He can get 300 million dollars if he can spend 30 million in 30 days, of course he also had the option just to take one million if he did not want to try his luck spending all the money. Well the pitcher who is played by the late great Richard Pryor takes the challenge and begins a spending spree that on the surface would seem to be very easy. I could easily spend thirty million in 30 days, but there is a catch as at the end of the thirty days he must have only what he had at the beginning of the challenge which means he is basically going to have to rent not buy, throw lavish parties and come up with other ways to spend money without actually owning anything. That makes it a bit harder, it also does not help that he can not tell anyone about this game as it were. Hence it becomes increasingly frustrating as he gets this woman accountant to keep track of everything lecturing him about spending so much. I did not like her character at all, I would tell her mind your own business. John Candy is in this one too and he and Richard make a pretty good tandem, however they kind of leave John Candy's character out of the finale all together instead having the pain in the butt accountant. The film also suffers as this guy is getting so much unexpectedly and it is just depressing to watch someone else have that kind of good fortune knowing something like that would basically never happen to you. It has some funny moments though, but the film is just rather annoying in a lot of places too to be a good movie. "},{"Title":"Comedy is hard to do","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Comedy is hard to do.  This movies has its moments, but over stay away from this one.  It drags, and drags in spots.  Pryors carrier is ending in this film and Candys is beginning.  Too bad they did not give the lead to Candy. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Ho Hum","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of many Brewster's Millions.  It isn't as good as the 1940's version being too reliant on Richard Pryor in the lead role.  I can't wait for the Robin Williams version (not).In the 40's version Brewster has to spend a million dollars.  In 80's it is 30 million which even considering inflation is a different proposition.  This film is as much about Greed is Good  as another from the 80's.  Why any sane individual would prefer 300 million to 30 million is anybody's guess.... as if it makes a difference !  Why we should empathise with such a character is beyond me.John Candy's presence lends a warmth and humanity which is otherwise lacking.  Without him I would have given it less than the 4/10 it received.  "},{"Title":"Unaffecting seemingly pointless movie overall...","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 1st watched 6/2/2007 - 2 out of 10(Dir-Walter Hill) Unaffecting seemingly pointless movie overall for who at this point was pretty much the comic king of Hollywood until this. Richard Pryor is just plain not funny and I'm not really sure it was his fault. The story just doesn't seem to provide anything comic for him to do despite his ability to usually provide big laughs. The few laughs that there are come from his partner in the movie, John Candy, but those are even few and far between. The story is a remake of an earlier movie and based on a book about a minor league ball player given an inheritance by his uncle on the condition that he's able to spend 30 million dollars in 30 days and not have one asset to his name after those 30 days are up. Pryor's character is given an out clause and would have received 1 million dollars if he didn't take this challenge. If he takes the challenge and succeeds he gets 300 million, but if he loses he gets nothing. Of course, if he chooses the out option, the movies over -- so he doesn't. What then happens is Pryor's character doing a whirlwind of things to spend his money with an accountant close by to keep track of everything so they know when he's hit the magic number. I don't know what else to say about this movie except that there was no magic. The director, Walter Hill, usually is magic with his hard-hitting style, but this movie is just soft all over. I have no answers and apparently nobody else did as this movie was being made, but it definitely is one of the worst movies with some of the most talented people in the business involved. Nuff said -- I guess everyone is entitled a bad year and this one definitely one for Hill and Pryor. "},{"Title":"Why not put 30 million in the tax free savings account","Date":"29 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a good movie. You know if I had 30 million dollars to spend, I would put a million a day into a tax free savings account until I have 30 million in the tax free savings account. The challenges that Richard Pryor has to take because it is difficult and cannot be done. It is also a big problem for me to take such challenges. Now unless Richard Pryor spends 30 million on a homeless woman for that kind of challenge then that sounds like a terrific idea. Then he could help that homeless woman open up a tax free savings account and put a million a day for her. The homeless woman would now have 30 million dollars so she can afford apartment rent, college and university education. Like Richard Pryor should spend 30 million on Erin Brockovich. "},{"Title":"Richard Pryor sell out phase meets the Revenge of the 80's The remake.","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Brewster's Millions (1985) was another sell out role for Richard Pryor and another eighties remake. Still looking for mainstream acceptance and losing his hardcore fan base, Richrad Pryor stars in this remake of a classic tale.Mr. Pryor stars as a broken down minor league baseball player who learns about a distant relative. This relative is a wealthy man who will give him his entire fortune if he plays a game with him. He has to spend thirty million dollars within a month. If he can do that then he will receive three hundred million. But there's a catch (isn't there always). Can Richard spend millions of dollars without owning anything? Will his true friends stick with him? Who wants him to fail? Find out when you watch Brewster's Millions!Another time waster from Richard Pryor. Not a classic film. Just an old fashion time killer. "}{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Richard Pryor steals the show in this one as a minor league baseball player who must spend $30,000,000 in 30 days. He can't give it away. Whew! That's a lot of money! But if he can spend it, he inherits ten times that much. Pryor is hilarious as he tries to think of ways to spend this money. Half his plans go awry and he's forced to use Plan b, then C, then D on and on. This is a pretty funny film and you'll laugh hard! I did. "},{"Title":"Brewster's Millions is funny the first or even the second time you see it, but it's never outrageously funny or really worth strongly recommending.","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Brewster's Millions is funny the first or even the second time you see it, but it's never outrageously funny or really worth recommending. Richard Pryor's performance isn't extremely memorable; the actor to see this film for is John Candy, who steals the show as soon as we see him.Pryor plays Brewster, a man who is offered a strange proposition by some elderly men. If he can blow 30 million dollars in a month, he inherits 300 million left to him in a will. If he doesn't, he's left with the remainder of what they give him. And he can NOT tell anyone about their deal. So Brewster agrees, and starts wasting the cash. But soon this turns bad as his good pal John Candy innocently tries to make him money, and people begin to suspect something is wrong. Why is Brewster wasting away his money like it's paper with no value?Brewster's Millions has been done seven times before, apparently, but I could only trace down five a 1914 version, a 1921 version, a 1926 version, a 1935 version, and a 1945 remake with Dennis O'Keefe. That last version ranked in about a half hour shorter than the Richard Pryor film, and this 1985 version probably would have been better off with that length as well.Pryor doesn't really stand out as Brewster. I can think of others who would have fit the part better. But I guess it's good they chose him over Eddie Murphy. John Candy is really the one to keep an eye on during the film, and you can't help but keep an eye on him since he draws your attention from the start. His character is sweet, good-natured, but at the same time a businessman trying to make some dough for him and his pal Pryor. Candy really envelops his character, as always, and steals the show. It's nowhere near his best performance, but it's still great. This is the first comedy outing for director Walter Hill, who went on to film comedies such as Red Heat with Schwarzenegger and Belushi. He uses many of the same formulas as he did in Red Heat, as well. It's never that funny, but worth seeing once or twice. Herschel Weingrad & Timothy Harris, who both wrote the film Trading Places (*see below), use the same humor (see below) in this film as they did in Trading Places. Funny people in odd situations doing odd things. They use a simple theme and expand it. Unfortunately, it didn't expand here as much as it could--and should--have.The beginning of the movie is funny, I'll give it that. When Brewster first gets the money and is trying to blow it--those are the funny parts. It's a bit like films where the hero is learning to adapt to his new abilities (Spider-Man) or the movies where something is very original and funny but starts to get a tiny bit tiresome later on (Delirious). The same goes for Brewster's Millions it is funny in the beginning, but it starts to get a bit tiresome after a while. There are only so many gags available when you are talking about a man having to waste money in a certain amount of days.For some reason, the eighties comedies really sparked an interest in films with people in odd places doing odd things. *Trading Places, Delirious, just to name a few. They are fanciful, imaginative, and sometimes not that funny. Brewster's Millions is the half-way point between funny and average. It is one of those comedies from the eighties retreading familiar terrain. Its humor is that of many comedies from the eighties with famous comedians. I'll be more specific Trading Places with Dan Akyroyd and Eddie Murphy pops to mind--the film I mentioned above. Its humor is a bit like that. If you like Trading Places, and all those other campy comedies from the eighties where people are put in odd situations, see Brewster's Millions. The only other reason to see it would be if you are a fan of the actors. I'm a fan of one of them, and I think you can guess who.2.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Passable but seems as tired as the many remakes would suggest","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Monty Brewster is a minor league baseball player who finds himself with a rich relative who leaves him £300 million.  However to prove he knows the value of money Brewster must spend £30 million in 30 days and have no assets to show for it.  The catch is he can't tell anyone about this deal.A search for this title in the database will confirm that this is a very old idea that has been done for almost a century!  This means to me that perhaps we didn't need yet another remake of it.  I say this because it feels like nothing new has been added and that it has nothing really resembling invention or spark.  The story feels like it sags far too often and really only is relying on the lead of Pryor to get by.Pryor is a very funny man when I see him in stand up, however to me this didn't adequately come across in this film.  He still manages to be funny but it's the difference between seeing a lion in a zoo or in the wild &#150; Pryor seemed a little like he was hemmed in by the material here.  Candy manages to be funny alongside him however and it is reasonably enjoyable.It's worth a watch maybe once if you see it on TV or something.  But as you watch it you can't help but feel that Pryor deserved a better vehicle to show how funny he can be.  Still passable though! "},{"Title":"Go Brewster Go!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Luckily, this movie had a running time of just over one and a half hour. Longer than that, it would have been too much. This is not the comedy of the century but it's still enjoyable. You know the story, Brewster (played so-so by Richard Pryor) has 30 days to spend 30 millions. I which I would have that opportunity... John Candy is funny as the friend/manager who wants to make the money profitable.It's good for a 6 out 10. "},{"Title":"Brewster's Millions","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pryor and Candy generate few laughs in this comedy about a man who stands to inherit a vast fortune with one He must spend $30 million in thirty days and have no tangible assets at the end.  "},{"Title":"Overacting at its best..","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Yechh! Richard Pryor is funny? I think not. I almost stomped on the DVD when I was done watching. Then decided to use it as a coffee coaster to remind me not to buy before renting.Real comedy has got to consist of more than just gaping pop-eyed and gesticulating wildly. If not, it quickly deteriorates into boredom and irritation. I cannot understand what others found funny in Richard Pryor's performance. Give me one memorable quip of his from this movie. One memorable scene of his that makes you chuckle when you think back about it. I cannot think of even one. In this particular movie (at least) he is nothing more than an immortal bore, a hack trying too hard to amuse, an actor with zero histrionic ability, and a total lack of any consequence.John Candy on the other hand is a born comic. His body language, acting talents, and facial dexterity are truly cut out for hilarity. Unfortunately, even his presence does little to uplift this celluloid catastrophe.The storyline is absurd. Got to spend 30 million dollars in 30 days without gaining any assets or destroying any assets. OK, what is so hard about this? Lots of reviewers have already provided tons of possibilities. Rent an island or a theme park for 30 days, and bring your friends and family along. Oh come on, this is not even worth the exercise of thinking about. There are SO many possibilities.A movie with not a single redeeming factor. Bah! "},{"Title":"Pryor's Worst Movie By Far. More Like Brewster's Penny.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Pryor simply is not funny in this film. Plus the rags to riches story is for me too unreal with complications of paying back money you've inherited that is spending 300 million in 30 days to keep 30 million and get this you cannot own any assets how unreal! Please don't waste your time watching this film no matter how much the TV. cable networks show this movie. Pryor has much better comedic talent than this waste of a movie. "}]