[{"Title":"A Disney Departure","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"47 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Cauldron is not a typical Disney animated feature.  For one thing, it's not a G-rated musical.  In fact, it was the first-ever Disney feature to receive a PG rating.  The story comes from the works of Lloyd Alexander, in the spirit of J.R.R. Tolkien.  In it, Taran, a young pig-keeper must protect Henwen, a prophetic pig who can divine the whereabouts of a powerful weapon known as the Black Cauldron.  The demonic Horned King is after this bastion of black magic to create an invincible army of the undead.  This movie boasts impressive art shot in 70mm widescreen format, art which includes the contributions of a young Tim Burton.  Sadly, this feature did poorly in theaters, possibly being too frightening, or going over the heads of Disney's usual target audience.  Just the same, The Black Cauldron deserves a good look! "},{"Title":"worth seeing, not for children at all.  Really fun.","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"41 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Cauldron certainly doesn't fall into the genre of animated Disney family favorite, but instead feels much like the more grim and complicated fantasy films that were made in the eighties. Does it stack up to such films as Return To Oz and The Dark Crystal? Well, although not as complex as the aformentioned, this film is not without its charm.The story of Taran, the pig-keeper's journey from gawky boy to gawky boy-hero apparently works better as told through the course of five books, and indeed it is the plot that feels put together, with a lot cut out of it for it's slim 120 running time.  Also suffering because of the short time is any character development, or a reason why the charcter of Dallben (an old minstrel) are in the film at all. However, this film still has a lot going for it.The film has a wonderful pacing to it with some fantastic action scenes. It is adventurous and fun. An engaing film for any fantasy fan. What really makes the film though is it's terrifying and dastardly villain, The Horned King. He is basically a Skeletor knock off with absolutely no sense of humor. He looks like he stepped right out of an Iron Maden album cover, and that is a monumental good thing. The true threat felt by the presence of this decidedly un-Disney character keeps the tension of the film high.It is this contrast, between the unconventionally ghoulish villans (definatly enspirered by Bakshi's animated adaptation of Lord of the Rings) and the stock Disney characters makes the audience care more-so for the cutesy characters than usual. This is especially true for the cutsey character of Gurgi, who is much more tollerable than almost all other Disney sidekicks and especially more tollerable than a certain J*r J*r B*nks that we have all been over exposed to lately.So I would recommend The Black Cauldron, it's a fun and well animated adventure film. Compleatly scary and strange for Disney to make, but still very very good for other reasons nonetheless. "},{"Title":"It ain't half bad (ain't half good, neither)","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  There were many good things going on in the Black Cauldron.  First, there  were NO SONGS, which really helped move things along.  Second, the villain  was truly frightening, the supporting cast was a lot of fun, and the movie's  breakneck pace held my interest and entertained me throughout.  But,  there were some bad things as well.  Taran wasn't really a character at  all.  Every important thing that happened to him was by luck or accident.   And at the end of the story he's right back where he started.  Also, the  plot was little more than a succession of action sequences, with little  sense holding it together.  The heroes simply fell out of one situation  into the next, perhaps the result of squeezing two full-length novels into  one movie.  And don't get me started on the ending.  Our hero stumbles  through the picture so that -- his furball sidekick can become the true  hero of the piece.  Yech.  Still, I was entertained, and I'd see  it again.   But for those looking for the REAL Black Cauldron, read The Chronicles of  Prydain by Lloyd Alexander.  You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining for Kids and Adults Alike","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw The Black Cauldron when it first came out.  I was about six at the time, and ever since then, I had always wondered why I had never heard about it again.  I only had vague memories about it, but I remembered enjoying it. I had heard somewhere that Disney was so ashamed of the film that they had promised never to release it.  However, upon viewing it today, I have no idea what they were so ashamed of.  The movie is very entertaining in its own way; yes, it's very dark, and maybe not appropriate for young children, but I enjoyed it.  There is some excellent bits of animation in it, and it's a pleasure to see some vintage Disney before it started churning out the overblown, empty films it has made recently.  The movie is able to keep a quick pace so that you never get bored.  All in all, I would say that it is not one of Disney's best efforts, but it is certainly nothing to keep hidden away for 10+ years.  "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it.  I really did...","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"30 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  For years before I saw this film, I had been a fan of Lloyd Alexander's books.  To me, The Chronicles of Preydain rank alongside Tolkien's Middle Earth and Lewis' Narnia as one of the greatest fantasy worlds of all time.  Based deeply in Welsh legend and Mythology (many elements come directly from The Mabinogion, almost the bible of Welsh mythology) Preydain is easily one of the deepest, and most developed worlds out there.  So, needless to say, when I heard that Disney had a film in the pipeline, I got very excited.  Then I saw it...I can't say that I hated it.  More that I was disappointed.  This wasn't the Preydain I knew.  It was more a fairy tale kingdom than celtic Wales.  And what did they do with the characters?  Gurgi a cute fuzzy monster?  Elonwy turned into a typical damsel in distress?  And where were Coll, or Gwydon?  I'm sorry, but I didn't know these people.  The characters were all different?  And what about the rich sense of legend?  The books had been based deeply on mythology, but the movie took the first two books, sprinkled bits and pieces of them into a script, and added a ton of fairy tale and fantasy cliches.I've always wondered what it is with Disney writers that makes them feel it necessary to screw around with anything and everything (witness the amount of creative license taken with Pocahantas or Mulan.)  I'm sorry, but you don't have to have cute characters or happy endings on everything.  But Disney's writers think that you must.  And in this case, it cheapened the ending of the film.  One of the major plot points of The Black Cauldron is that the cauldron can only be destroyed by a living person sacrificing themselves by throwing themselves into it.  This was kept in the film.  Yet, when Disney did it, they still copped out to the happy ending by having the three Enchantresses, Ordu, Orwen, and Oregch bring him back to life...  Jeeze!It went on from there.  The absence of the true villan of the Preydain chronicles, Arawn, the lord of the dead, the turning of the fair folk (who in celtic mythology were more akin to elves and dwarves) into stock, albeit grouchy, faries....  The list goes on...  Disney ruined one of my favorite stories, and I can't ever forget that.  Even my love for Disney masterpieces like Beauty and the Beast or 101 Dalmations is tarnished by what they did to some of my favorite books of my youth... "},{"Title":"Ambitious and different!","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I must say first that my opinion on this film is slightly biased. I was one of the handful of people to have seen this film on its initial theatrical run. I was also 11 and a boy (a target audience of this film). I owned the Gurgi and Hen Wen plushes, got excited by the preview on the Pinocchio video, etc.,etc.After seeing the movie, I remember being entertained (maybe not enthralled) by the film and was saddened by Gurgi's sacrifice at the end.Years passed. And passed. And passed. And people seemed to have forgotten Black Cauldron in the wake of Little Mermaid and her successors.I must admit that I became somewhat obsessed with finding out why Disney thought of the film so poorly and why everyone gave me blank stares when I mentioned it. To say the least, I longed for a video release of the film.A year or two ago, I got my wish, and now that I'm older and wiser I'm able to make a better judgement of the film. Is it Disney's worst film ever? Absolutely not. Black Cauldron is probably the finest animated film of the 1980's (Little Mermaid not withstanding). It IS a scary film for young kids (hence the PG rating) but I think audiences today are able to deal with that more than they were back in 1985 (just look at Dinosaur, Road to El Dorado, and the upcoming Titan AE which are all rated PG). The story may not be up to Disney standards, but for a film of its genre (i.e fantasy) it has a very compelling and understandable story. The animation has its highs and lows. But this film was made by a large number of people over a long period of time, so it is inevitable that there should be some fluctuation in quality.Lastly, I too have read Lloyd Alexander's books, and I too adore them. No, Disney's film does not even begin to compare to the books, but what movie does?On its own terms, Black Cauldron stands as a remarkable achievement in animation, and a film for those people who don't just think cartoons are babysitters for kids. "},{"Title":"Shambolic film still worth seeing","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Cauldron provides us with Exhibit A of the disorganized nature of the Disney organization from the mid-1970s through the mid-80s. The company's feature films were attracting smaller and smaller audiences, and no real creative force had emerged since Walt Disney's death in 1966. By the mid- to late-70s, it was clear that new ideas needed to be tried. The phenomenal success of Star Wars appeared to offer a sure-fire way to box-office success sci-fi/fantasy movies. At the same time, Disney Studio's full-length animated features continued their descent from the heights scaled in 1959's Sleeping Beauty, at first downscaling the subject matter, then progressing to less and less impressive animation, and finally combining the first two trends with boring storytelling (see The Fox and the Hound - 1981).It was in this context that pre-production began on The Black Cauldron in the late 1970s. From an artistic standpoint, its goals were two-fold. First, the film was to recapture the lead in animation quality that Disney had traditionally held, while the second goal was to incorporate the advances in animation and subject matter made in the 1970s (i.e., playing catch up). Some early decisions were good the source material was top-notch. Lloyd Alexander's Chronicles of Prydain are fantastic works of fantasy for the young adult - I loved them as a middle-schooler in the mid-80s, and the choice to film the story in 70mm widescreen harkened back to the glory days of Sleeping Beauty. Unfortunately, not much else worked. The studio's writers did a terrible job of condensing the first two books of Alexander's series, and we end up caring little for the characters that emerge, or for the plot as it unfolds. Also, the movie's tone is uneven. Overall, the work is very dark and un-Disney, which would've been fine had it been executed better. Further, the grimness of the plot doesn't mesh with occasionally clumsy and earthy attempts at humor, and the character animation fluctuates between sober naturalism and exaggerated, cartoonish mannerisms (stretching ears, gaping mouths, etc.) Still, some of the shots are stunning and rank among the best in the history of hand-drawn animation (e.g., multiplaned exterior shot of the Horned King's castle, beautiful backgrounds within the same, Hen-Wen's capture by the Horned King's creatures). The result of this mish-mash was a box-office flop ($25 million to make, $5 million in ticket sales upon its 1985 release).In short, see this film for its often-impressive animation and intermittent charm. Be sure to get the newly-available widescreen version on DVD. Bemoan the end of the era of stunning hand-drawn animation (Disney has closed up its shop; Home on the Range was its penultimate hand-drawn feature). Don't expect a classic, but appreciate the vision of its artistry - even if the final product didn't quite mesh satisfactorily. The Black Cauldron is a noble failure. "},{"Title":"Excellent animated classic.","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was a kid (probably 7 or 8) and I loved it. After that I didn't know what happened to it. Then last year (or so) it appeared on video. Naturally I snapped it up.Well? Had the years been kind? Somewhat. Of course the build-up I had given it could never have been lived up to, but I enjoyed it. Watching it again, without the preconceptions, I thought it was wonderful. Maybe not as good as I thought as a kid, but still great.Sure, some of the animation isn't as polished and crisp as the likes of 'The Little Mermaid' or 'Beauty and the Beast' (2 of my favorites) but it still looks great (especially the cauldron scenes near the end). And the team didn't feel the need to squeeze songs in where they would have been unwelcome. There are NO songs in this movie.Overall, I can see why some people don't like it, but that's surely true of any movie. This is an atypical Disney release, but a classic. One of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Doesn't deserve to be dismissed as harshly as it has been","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Always curious about The Black Cauldron, I finally got around to it after seeing a DVD at the rental store. Despite a lot of grating elements, I ended up liking it overall.The movie starts off on the wrong foot. The voices come across as recorded at low fidelity, and when combined with the sometimes hard-to-understand British accents, can be somewhat off-putting. Issues with voice and script become even more pronounced with characters such as Gurgi and his Gollum-esquire speech patterns. Indeed, the second time I watched the DVD I threw the English subtitles on, and not just for Gurgi.Other problems with voicing include an exceedingly dull lead actor for Taran (he simply can't emote), and an overly chirpy female lead for Eilonwy.Most other elements of the film proved passable if predictable in the Disney mold of plot, hero design, sidekicks, etc. Where it branches out for the better is in avoiding any and all musical interludes and along the way offering some scenarios and graphic effects that are more mature than most other Disney animated feature films (though later in the '90s the likes of The Lion King, Hunchback, and Tarzan would also tangle with mature themes).Animation is also spectacularly mixed in quality, an odd distinction among Disney films but a distinction nonetheless. Usually solid, there are high points such as external shots of a dark castle or a visceral chase sequence. There are also low points such as unnatural shifts in hair color that overemphasize different environments, or obvious spots where animation was rushed (a rock slide sequence).Yet for all these lows and highs, as an animation fan I ended up siding with the high points. Many sequences are inviting to re-watch, even if the entirety of the movie may not be. For all the talk of failure that continues to surround this movie, one can see in the film itself elements of a more mature Disney that could have been extremely promising with a more seasoned batch of animators and a world less hostile to PG animated fare. "},{"Title":"One of Disney's best and most underrated","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a grade A Disney animated film from the so-called Dark Ages of the studio and I feel that is an unfair label overall but is especially unfair when it comes to this film which is one of the studio's darkest and most enjoyable.The plot concerns would-be warrior Taran who sets on a quest to stop the evil Horned Kig (voiced magnificently by John Hurt) from getting his hands on a mysterious object which could unleash all supernatural hell on Earth. Along the way, he acquires a traveling company that includes a beautiful princess, a bumbling minstrel and a cute creature named Gurgi.The film has it all. The voice work is first rate with a cast including Nigel Hawthorne, John Byner, Phil Fondacaro, Arthur Malet, and Freddie Jones who all turn in good performances. Special mention needs to go to the narrator John Huston who's wondrous voice sets up the story quite well.The animation is lush, the effects are impressive and a real sense of adventure is aroused. My only complaint would probably be the pace which is a little sluggish and the standard happy ending does seem a little forced in.But those mere cracks are not enough to damage or destroy what is ultimately one of Disney's best. I certainly rank it in my top five and if you haven't seen it, check it out. "}{"Title":"It didn't work...","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Of all Disney's failures, none are quite so infamous as The Black Cauldron. Based off material that was in the talks for decades, it was a property that was whispered about around the Disney studios for quite a few years before its conception (Ollie Johnston was an especially great fan of The Chonicles of Prydain). When Disney finally put the rights to use, they pumped oodles of cash into what they hoped would be the harbinger of a new age of Disney animation, one of darker, more mature storytelling. Not a single Nine Old Men put an ounce of work into this (okay...so Milt Kahl did some preliminary character designs...) and it seemed to be the consumation of the arrival of the new guard of Disney animators.What went wrong? Well the studio made the disastrous choice of handing off sections of the film to individual teams without giving them any interaction between each other, leading to some odd continuity and a total lack of a compelling throughline. Secondly, ambitions for a darker film were rather bipolar, leading to some odd inclusions like graphic gore and partial nudity and unfortunate omissions like a number of fascinating Tim Burton designs which were jettisoned for being too twisted. It doesn't help that the animation looks floaty and bland, some of the weakest in any Disney film up to then, and that heavy cuts under Michael Eisner removed said gore and nudity, only adding to the disconnected nature of this film. They made a few interesting choices, like reviving multi-planing (a very good idea) and using widescreen for the first time since Sleeping Beauty, but these don't make up for all the other blunders made by this film.The story is quite typical of Tolkien-inspired fantasy. An evil Sauron figure has returned to seek a magical item that will restore his power and send his armies across the land to conquer everything in existence. That item is a pig. I know, John Huston says he's seeking a cauldron, but he's actually trying to steal a magic pig from this film's Frodo Baggins, Taran, in order to find it. The one pig to rule them all. I'm not sure if that was in the book, and it's probably handled better in the book, but that's just a goofy sounding concept. Of course, our hero Taran, who's such a wimp that he's easily dispatched by the local goat (I know, that's what character development's for, right? right) loses the pig and has to go rescue him from the Horned King (who looks suspiciously like a demon from Night on Bald Mountain). Taran rescues the pig, but gets himself captured. With the help of a few fellow prisoners and a magic sword, he escapes, and it then becomes a quest to seek the Cauldron before the Horned King finds it.As animation, this is even more of a dark pit than The Fox and the Hound, which had a few real standout moments. There are no moments of excellence here, just floaty, weightless motion and an over-reliance on reaction shots that just looks awkward. Characters are thrown off-model in strange ways, and very little of the performances ring true. The backgrounds do have a nice atmosphere to them, but are also pretty smudgy. Design wise, very little stands out here, and I can't help but wish they'd incorporated things like Tim Burton's idea for flying hand monsters (not ripping off J.R. Tolkien enough?). The color design looks hollow and lacks any sort of warmth or emotion, as if drab colors were what was hip in the eighties (not that I blame them for thinking such). Lamentably, the best animation is Hendel Butoy and Andreas Deja's for Gurgie, a hapless character that they nevertheless lend some much needed life to. Otherwise, I can only point to The Secret of NIMH, made for less than half the money, and sigh at how the biggest animation studio in the world could have made a film that looked one-tenth as good. Not that Bluth hasn't made the mistake of failing to smell a bad concept, but even he must have gotten bad vibes from what Disney was about to do.One has to wonder how a studio with so much riding on this film could have gotten it so wrong. The failure very nearly drove Disney into folding its animation company, and so many potentially lucrative animators were driven into better careers elsewhere. It's a shame, but, thankfully, Disney did hold on to make a few more films. What's more, their very next project would be honest-to-god decent. It's a shame we didn't see a solid genre picture from this studio, though. We can only look at the disastrous final product and wonder what could have been. "},{"Title":"BLAH! And YUCK!","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  OY! Is this a stinker of a movie! I'm telling ya...I don't know how I missed  this movie in 1985 but I'm kind of glad I did! I had heard really great  things about it and was really looking forward to watching it. Well I  rented it... BLAH! It was a major disappointment! First I guess the Horn  King looks scary but then Maleficent from Sleeping Beauty was more so. And  I'm sorry but I felt no chemistry between the pig boy and the Princess.  I  have to say this is on of the few Disney movies where I think they totally  missed their mark.  "},{"Title":"Tragic spoiling of a classic tale (Includes spoiler)","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I must admit that I always feel those who praise this film haven't read the book. The story is told so much better there. The animation isn't up to Disney's usual standard, but far more importantly the entire story, including the noble and tragic ending, has been disneyfied, because we can't have people sacrificing their lives for their friends in a kiddie's movie. Oh no. It might upset people. They didn't want to tell the wonderful story which is there, and instead produced a drab, flat throwaway filler piece before their next big film. The only consolation is that there's no songs.Read the Chronicles of Prydain. Read Lloyd Alexander's 'The Black Cauldron'. Tell me I'm wrong.  "},{"Title":"Can't help but love....","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This was the first new Disney film I saw as a kid. I was 6 when it was released and absolutely loved it. I still love it to this day. I wasn't at all scared by it so why it got a bashing for being considered too dark I'll never know. I love it because it is so different compared to the other movies Disney did at that time, and the animation is lovely. The characters are wonderful too. I had this obsession with the film when I was a kid, and bought the story book with clips from the film and everything (which is sadly lost now) so it had a real impact on me. I think that is partly the reason I love it so now. The nostalgia of the old Disney. Compare Cauldron to something like 'Home on the Range' and Cauldron really becomes a classic. They don't make 'em like that anymore. I think The Black Cauldron is a little gem. Nothing for Disney to be ashamed of. "},{"Title":"Not you're typical, Run-of-the-mill animated Disney Movie....","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Cauldron, probably Disney's most interesting and worst grossing film, tells the story of Taran, a young pig keeper who dreams of fame and glory as a famous warrior. However, his caretaker, Dalben, tries to keep him grounded. But when danger strikes, he is urged into hiding, as his pig, Hen-Wen, possesses magical powers that could conjure the legendary black cauldron, which contains dark and mysterious powers. The evil Horned king (John Hurt) seeks it to create a skeleton army. Along with his comrades, The adventurous princess Eilonwy and the fickle and fatherly minstrel (who's lute has a mind of it's own) Fflewdur, and the 'help' of three ugly and manipulative witches, Taran embarks on a journey to find the cauldron.The Black Cauldron is a real exception to the G-rated musicals of the 1940's and 50's. As the first animated Disney film to receive a PG rating, it was the turning point for Disney's way of film-making.Although such films as The Little Mermaid and Aladdin held up the traditional Disney musical flavor, the film introduced the fearless heroine. Although Eilonwy is just a supporting character, she is adventurous and outspoken. Furthermore, it referred to the silent victory of the hero. Taran did indeed triumph, but he didn't receive some lavish prize afterward, he just returned to the home he had wanted to get away from. Finally, it introduced the adult aspect of the Disney film raw emotion and power. It was highlighted greatly in films released after that, especially in 1996's The Hunchback of Notre Dame, where the adult aspect became apparent.The Black Cauldron is a must for all those who wish to see another side of Disney. "},{"Title":"The Once Long-Lost, Disney Animated Feature.","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember first seeing this title on the back covers of the few Disney classics series books by Mouse Works Books that I had owned when I was little/younger. And every time I went to rent a movie or some movies, I used to wonder why it still had yet to be released on VHS. But I'd find out, learn more and see why years later, after reading about the history/back-story behind it.So after it finally first had a VHS release over a decade later as part of the Masterpiece Collection series, I continued showing interest and curiosity in it, bought a copy (except in my case, it was the edition that was part of the Gold Collection) and saw what I just had to see. Having gotten to view it for myself at last, I enjoyed it, although I never read the original books in the Prydain Chronicles series (nor did I know this was even another, full-on, Disney adaptation at the time). And despite what some nay-sayers here may have typed about it, I believe in and can take it for what it is, regardless of whatever changes are made and differences there are from the books, because it wouldn't really be much of an adaptation nor could one truly call it that if it followed the original source as it is, that's how I look at and think of it except for maybe depending on what was changed, and to what degree.Anyway, I like how it stood out from most other, Disney animated films that were the norm at the time and it was groundbreaking in a sense, but at the cost of being a win-lose situation On the one hand, it attracted some teen audiences as it was intended. But on the other hand, this decisive move caused it to tank at the box office, due to its somewhat controversial nature of the dark and violent content, which drove away parents and the very young/little kids, since that wasn't what they were expecting. That explained it all to me a lot and cleared things up for me as to the mystery behind the delay of its release on home media . Since I'm sure others have covered what it's about, I'll just say that one of my favorite parts is with the Fair Folk, who I love. It's no wonder The Black Cauldron has hardly ever been brought up by the studio/company and why it's one of the least referenced. It had more violent and graphic parts that didn't make the final cut. However, even though it was toned down somewhat, that apparently still wasn't enough nor satisfying for some. Having typed that, I'd recommend this for children as well as older viewers, solely if the parents believe that the youngsters are valiant and mature enough to handle those moments. There's nothing tedious or boring about TBC, as it's an action-packed fantasy/adventure/medieval times flick that should keep any of y'all on the edge of your seats. If it doesn't thrill y'all, then I'm sorry to say there must be something wrong if anybody can't feel it. And it's one of the few fantasies I ever got into trying. Not for anyone who is faint of heart. "},{"Title":"Worst Disney animated film ever!","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" What could be the reason this film scores so low for me. Well...Perhaps it's because it lost to the Care Bears movie in the box office. Or perhaps it scared off all the children for being too dark. Maybe it was the weak animation. I think it was lack of faith the film based its story from the book. I guess it was the waste of character development like Tarin, who makes Bubbles from the Powerpuff Girls look like Bruce Willis, or Gurgi, Jar Jar Binks'es more obnoxious grandpa, or a peasant girl who claims she is a princess but is missing all the elements Disney cashes in on Princesses. Probably the film could not make up its mined whether or not to take its self seriously with the undead of failed humor with frogs bouncing on fat wrinkly witch jubilees. It could even be the anti-climax with the lamest Disney villain flushed down the Black Toilet. You know what,... its all the above!Buy as many DVDs and Blue Rays of this scourge and run them all over with a Leopard 2 tank after shooting them to bits. "},{"Title":"Disney Disowned It, I Give it an A+","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is not your average Disney movie, which is full of happy characters and a long line of happy-go-lucky songs. For many years, Disney disowned this movie because it wasn't a box-office hit and was released on VHS/DVD only twice. One of few PG-rated Disney movies, this one contains no music, and truly scary characters (age-depending, of course). Although characters like the Horned King and his undead army, may frighten younger viewers, the movie's dark side may be appreciated by some children (we forget that they too may appreciate the darker sides of things).The story is slow-moving for a Disney movie, but involving nonetheless. Although it is not the best movie, it is different from their usual gooey-mess of a film, while still having a fantasy-theme and does not seem like a Disney movie whatsoever (in a good way!). "},{"Title":"Disney needs more films like this!","Date":"8 August 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I am sick of the marketing.  I am sick of the lame musical numbers.  I am  sick of talking animals. I am QUITE sick of insulting cultural inaccuracies  (think Pocahontas and Mulan).   THE BLACK CAULDRON sticks out like a sore thumb in a crop of happy,  whimsical garbage that has come out of the Disney studios in the last  decade.  I remember when a Disney film had real plot, real art, real  characters, and this may have been the last of the bunch.  In the pre -Eisner era, Disney films had some credibility.  Its no wonder that it took  so long for this one to make it to video.  But I am rather pleased with it.   --The SurgeBot "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Recently, my sister and I have taken it upon ourselves to rewatch all of our 'classic' Disney movies. While I admit to enjoying a fluffy light princess movie, I thoroughly enjoyed this one.THE BLACK CAULDRON was quite dark, and obviously not meant for children. The first scene alone was enough to give anyone the creeps, and would probably scare a child out of their mind.The main character is, to put it gently, somewhat of a wimp. This is a nice diversion from the regular 'have no fear' royal prince that most Disney movies feature. It also had a princess who actually helped *do* something, unlike many Disney movies where the prince does all the work and the princess sits and looks pretty.The villain, however, is what made this a truly unique Disney film. He was scary. I honestly got very creeped out upon first seeing him. Unlike many villains from Disney movies, he had no humorous qualities, no stupidity. He was just creepy and evil. If I were a child, he would give me nightmares.Of course it had the typical humorous sidekick on both the villain side and good side (what Disney movie doesn't have one?) and the happy ending.I can't say that I have ever read the books, and I am sure that had I read them, I might have been somewhat disappointed in the film. But as it is, I found it very enjoyable, albeit somewhat scary. "}{"Title":"Coolest Disney cell-animated film ever.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Lately, Disney had seemed to take a bit of a plunge in its quality of its movies.  (I'm not too fond of movies like Lion King or Little Mermaid, well until the Toy Story series, but that's another story.)  I first heard of the Black Cauldron when my younger brother got this on a book and tape, and I found that I loved the story so much, I memorized the book and sometimes snagged it.  When I heard it was coming out on video, I got really excited.The Black Cauldron does have a deliciously dark theme to it, which makes it so much better than a normal Disney light and happy film, and the cast of characters is much better than usual.  I especially like the Horned King, with his weird, Grim-Weeper sort of look.  The story is of Taran, a young pigkeeper, who dreams of being Prydain's finest warrior.  His pig, Hen Wen, has an ability to create visions, which is probably where the trouble starts.The Horned King learns of Hen Wen's ability, and longs to use her to find the Black Cauldron.  The Black Cauldron is an evil weapon made when a wicked king so cruel and so evil that no prison could hold him, was thrown alive into a crucible of molten iron.  The Black Cauldron can enable any man the power to rule the world--or destroy it.  Go figure.  No wonder it's so sought after.I love the animation.  I espescially love most of the scenes that show the Horned King's castle.  They look so real, that you can't help believing it really exists.  (Well, you probably know better, but hey.)  And the scenes were the Horned King is working the Cauldron's magic is always worth a view.  I also like many of the lines, like the Horned King's sarcasm. (My, such a brave and handsome crew a pigboy, a scullery maid, and a broken down minstrel.)  One other bonus is none of those annoying, stupid songs that Disney has invented over the past ten years (With the exception of Nightmare Before Christmas, which had some pretty cool hits.)This movie is definately one of Disney's finest.  Disney needs to do more films like this.  I've heard that Tim Burton has helped animate this. I'm not really surprised.  The movie has a touch of that Nightmare air to it, from the gothic scenes to the characters, which are just a tiny bit twisted.  There is this one scene at the end where the Horned King actually looks a lot like Jack Skellington. (The Horned King is looking over a balcony, and for one brief second, you'll see the connection between the two characters.) I give this a perfect 10/10. "},{"Title":"Pretty to look at, but so, so boring to watch","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Cauldron is a far cry from most films of Disney's dark period (1961-1988) in terms of aesthetics. It is a beautiful film to look at with its dark fantasy world, appealing character designs, good score and lush backgrounds that remind me of the detailed backgrounds for Sleeping Beauty. And that is about all the good I can say about this film, which is a dreadfully boring narrative mess.The plot has little direction to begin with. There is no focus or clear goal to propel the story forward. None of the characters are interesting. Taran might be the weakest of Disney's animated leading men, having virtually no personality traits other than his cockiness and desire to be a great warrior. Love interest Princess Eilonwy is the same. Fflewddur is mildly entertaining comic relief, but aside from that he serves little purpose and could have been cut from the film with no consequence. Gurgi is to this film what Jar Jar Binks was to the Star Wars prequels. There are pathetic attempts at character development, but Taran and Gurgi's arcs are so weak that they leave little impact. The Horned King could have been an awesome villain, but he barely DOES anything, leaving most of his work to the ever annoying Creeper, who manages to liposuction all the coolness from the Horned King's scenes.I doubt I'll be watching this again anytime soon. It's looks are nice, but the story and characters are not emotionally resonant enough to make the whole product memorable. It's sad, because I love it when Disney delves into dark territory. Such a shame. "},{"Title":"Still a piece of art in animation! To be seen despite bad critics!","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I recently spot into the Black Cauldron again after having seen it for the first and last time in the mid 80's. Two things to say First, this would have been a Don Bluth Studios production, nobody would have never shouted at it. The Black Cauldron do not follow the Disney philosophy at all and we almost all agree on that point. This movie is dark on its overall at a point that we can barely think it is targeting a very young audience. Dark movies were certainly a trend in the 80's, The Dark Crystal or Legend are very good examples of how this ambiance was present and used into the movie industry at that period of time.Second, the movie is not bad at all! Try to see it from a different perspective. Animation is just a piece of art and at first glance we can easily guess this is a Disney. Characters are nicely drawn, the princess is very cute, Taran is a teenager full of energy and willing to do well....the villain is freaking frightening, probably the most scary Disney villain of all times! But it is true something is weak in this movie  the plot and roles of some of the characters. What is the one of Helowny for example? Apart bringing the required cute female presence in the story what does she add? Giving advice or supporting Taran in his quest? More drama would have been created if she was the one to jump into the Cauldron! Taran and Helowny both feel attraction for each other...the movie is dark enough to let the cute princess die bringing the dramatization level a notch up (and bring her back to life for the happy ending). Just an idea but this makes more sense to me than Gurki sacrifice.There are also a lot of discontinuity in the animation reflecting production issues this movie ran into (team changes). I have the feeling sometimes that pieces of the storyboard have been stitched together without a proper transition.On the overall we feel something is missing in the story to be convincing but we can't judge it like a total garbage. This is a classic animation movie which used also new features for an outstanding result on the screen at that time!It is a controverted one for sure but still a classic to have in your Disney collection! "},{"Title":"Very underrated!","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I get tired of hearing people say that this is one of the worst Disney films ever. This film is energetic and action packed.Simply because the movie is on the bleak side it has gotten unjust criticism. Sure Disney was not at a high point during this time but this movie was better than many others made during the 80's. Oliver and Company is good and I like it more than this but that's because I have more memories from it than BC. The Great Mouse Detective was alright but not anywhere as remotely good as these two films.I haven't seen The Black Cauldron many times but it is a good Disney film. People who have a problem with the darkness of the film let me put it this way, Don't watch it and don't show it to your young children! If you think they can handle it later on than go ahead but don't knock the movie just because it's not what you think Disney should be.The Black Cauldron is geared more towards a male audience but I am sure some girls may enjoy it as well.If you haven't seen The Black Cauldron and your a big Disney fan at least give it a shot. "},{"Title":"I Love The 80's! One Of Disney's Most Unrecognized Classics.","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" i actually don't really love the eighties. don't hate it. but i'm pretty indifferent. it really wasn't much of a stand out decade aside from the possible notoriety of it's President.however, as far as Disney feature length, hand drawn animation goes, i have a real fond spot for the forgotten decade in their legacy. the eighties Disney films are very maligned and under-appreciated. and it's not very justified or fair. the eighties produced some of Disney's most memorable and endearing animated features. aside from 'The Little Mermaid', i've always thought the nineties animated features from Disney were somewhat over-rated. the nineties animated features always leave me a little cold and they feel over-blown and over-hyped and produced. the eighties animated films like 'Fox and the Hound', 'Great Mouse Dective', 'Oliver and Co.', had a sweeter, more endearing and modest quality that was lacking in the nineties. the nineties was cold. the eighties cartoon features are much cuter.'The Black Cauldron' is definitely the best from the eighties. what it lacks as an adaptation of Lloyd Alexander's 'Prydain' books (i miss the Raven on Taran's shoulder), it makes up for as a excellent Disney cartoon feature. the animation and styling are unmistakably Disney. and as with all Disney adaptations it owes more to Disney than the source it's adapted from. that's the way it should be. Disney films should be recognizable as Disney.even though there is much waxing about 'Cauldron' being too scary and intense for little kids and how it has no heart, most of that isn't all that valid. 'Cauldron' is a very 'G' rated experience and not 'PG'. there is no sex or swearing or even any real violence. it's a 'G'. it's also a very cute and adorable film. Lloyd Alexander's books were a little darker and not cute at all. Disney has managed to Disneyfy and cutesyfy the stories, but it all still works. Johnn Byner's Gurgi is a art drawing exercise in cuddly cuteness.'Cauldron' is one of Disney's most memorable of the later features. it boast startling hand drawn animation, handsome production design, and a wonderful film score by Elmer Bernstein.i know old school Disney. probably better than most. i spent most of my youth studying old school Disney and watching all the films. a lot of people can't always say that. i love 'The Black Cauldron' and think it's another one of those under-appreciated Disney gems. "},{"Title":"Forgotten Gem","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Without a doubt, The Black Cauldron has has got to be Disney's darkest movie yet. There are times that I didn't think I was even watching one. In addition to the movie's dark theme, there are no musical numbers. Of all the villains that the studio has put out, The Horned King has got to be the most menacing ever, thanks to the combined efforts of animator Andreas Deja (who also designed Lion King's Scar and Aladdin's Jafar) and John Hurt who provided his menacing voice.This is a movie that is without a doubt a forgotten gem. The animation is wonderful, and reminiscant to me of Snow White; no doubt the use of the multi-plane camera had a play in this.I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone looking for something out of the ordinary! "},{"Title":"At the Turning Point","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Following in the tradition of Star Wars, every studio during the 80s was looking for a fresh product to place before the movie-going public so it was not a surprise that there was such an interest in fantasy/sword and sorcery tales. It does not come as a surprise that the Disney Corporation would attempt such a film as 'The Black Cauldron. But the film also comes at a time of transition in the company. Months before the release, Michael Eisner and Jeffery Katzenburg joined the top brass, and the film was a training ground for a new generation of Disney animator like Tim Burton. The film itself has a grand epic feel, something that was very out of place in most Disney product of the time. But it was not completely different from other previous Disneyfied films. While it was based on the Chronicles of Prydain by Lloyd Alexander, the film carries some trademark Disneyisms. Cute cuddly sidekicks still abound in this feature---Gurgi and the cute clairvoyent pig. But it was far more risky than many of the previous products that the company had offered its public. And while the film became an embarrassment to the company (which is totally unfounded as it was quite good), the film can be seen as a very important point of departure for Disney. There could have been no Little Mermaid or a renaissence of Disney animation if this film had not been produced. The Black Cauldron had a more profound effect on the future of Disney's animation than we think "},{"Title":"Animation at its BEST!","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was 6 or 7 years old.  Now, maybe others believe it is not for kids, and they are probably right.  But I saw it and never had nightmares.  I'm 19 years old now.  I didn't remember much about it except for adorable Gurgi!  My brother and I had a Gurgi doll and used to pretend he would go around stealing apples saying crunchies and munchies.  I didn 't even remember the Horned King.  I watched it this weekend and fell in love with the movie again.  I recommend it for adults and older children.  The parents will have to be the judge of whether or not their children are mature enough to handle the evil people.  But it is definitely a GREAT animated movie. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" As a huge Disney fan I decided to relive my childhood by watching all the animation films in sequence. I had never seen The Black Cauldron before and decided to watch. Initially, I felt it had a lot of similarities to The Sword In The Stone, a film I really enjoyed, however as I continued to watch, the plot and characters grew more and more ridiculous. Knowing the story behind the film would lead me to believe that Disney's biggest mistake was condensing the plot line to an extent were it lost heart and depth, it unfolds too quickly so that character relationships aren't properly developed (especially between the Princess and Taran), I also felt no connection to the protagonist. There was no rich sense of legend or mythology just an oracle pig and a floating ball, cheap, ineffective efforts. The 'Horned King' also didn't live up to the usual terrifying standards of a Disney Villain, using a skull-faced, cloaked figure is a far too obvious move, other more successful figures such as Maleficent in Sleeping Beauty, evokes fear through her malevolent aura, and ability to charm others as opposed to the blatant attempt in this film to create an evil character by giving them the face of a skull, the most stereotypical imagery of fear and death. I understand that this kind of animation was ground breaking at its time but I feel that this film was merely Disney testing the water, a blemish in a collection of timeless classics, completely lacking the fluidity of animations such as The Little Mermaid or Aristocats. This is the Disney that should never have been released, from the psychic pig to the irritating voice of the Princess and emotionless voice of Taran (the two did not blend), it does not possess the quality and depth of a Disney. This film had so much potential, they had a great story and could have created a dark, twisted tale that audiences connected with as much as the books, looking now at the success of the Lord Of The Rings movies, it just shows how badly Disney missed the mark in this poor attempt to reach out to teenage fantasy fanatics. "},{"Title":"Great Tale wrecked up.....","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" A Dark version of Disney. They twisted a great work of LLoyd Alexanders and turned it into something even more evil than the books. Movie is actually a fuse of the Book of three and the black cauldron book....... One of the worst Disney box movies of all time.The Black Cauldron represented the Disney studio's attempt to reach out to teenage fans of fantasy novels, a popular genre at the time. However, the gamble proved unsuccessful as the film failed at the box-office. Some critics blamed the film's lack of appeal on the dark nature of the book (though some gave it a good review; Roger Ebert's review at the time of the film's release was mostly positive). (From Wikipedia) http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Black_Cauldron_(film)#Plot "}{"Title":"Well-done overlooked Disney film","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  1st watched 10/2/2004 - 7 out of 10(Dir- Ted Berman & Richard Rich) Well-done overlooked Disney film. This is one of the movies that came out before Little Mermaid in 1989 similar to The Great Mouse Detective that didn't get much attention but nevertheless was a well-done story & production. This may have been the first animated Disney film to be rated PG as well, which may have kept people away. The PG rating may have been given for a small blood being shown on the mouth of our hero or the very scary zombie-like Horn King who has to rate up there as one of the truly scary villains in the Disney films. The story revolves around the Horn King's reign and his attempt to have greater reign over the world by finding the Black Cauldron. An enchanted pig that is able to see the future is also much wanted by the Horn King in order to find out where the Black Cauldron is. What makes this movie good is the story, the animation, the music, and the overall presentation. I also like that it didn't follow other Disney films and became it's own entity. This may be another reason it's not associated with Disney often. Overall this is a very groundbreaking Disney film, but it was so forgotten that it's not had any impact on the future of Disney.  "},{"Title":"This is Disney?","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I had heard so much about 'The Black Cauldron' before I was able to finally pick it up on video when Disney released it, and when I sat down to watch it, one thought kept going through my head, Disney made this?  The movie was great, more than I expected.  But Disney's target audience is children, and 'The Black Cauldron' would be scary for any child under the age of 10 at least.  The Horned King is a sinister character, and if I was 5 or 6 years old I'd be having nightmares.  The music was incredibly beautiful, it captured the whole 'child' and  'darkness' elements in the movie.  One scene the characters would be playing happily somewhere and the music would reflect that, then switch to the Horned King and the music goes evil.  Bernstein did a terrific job with this.But 'The Black Cauldron' was definitely a Disney Masterpiece, and it's too bad it has taken 13 years to release it on video. "},{"Title":"cutesy rewrite shocks readers of the book","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  harmless enough, but it lets the cat out of the bag Hollywood scriptwriters only pretend to study literature on their way to the big bucks. Otherwise they'd have known the dollops of Disney cute that are larded over characters of ambiguous appeal could only choke the message. To Disney, the Ugly Duckling is a cuddly pet.An echo of some greater work is here, though, in the classical score.  "},{"Title":"Like Having Your Childhood Raped","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  In 1985 I was a prime candidate for watching this movie right age and having read the original books.Luckily I saw a promo before I got too excited and never did see it. Now I chose to watch the film for some reason, and I must say Don't.The animation has not withstood the test of time and the story is very poorly written.That's not even mentioning the fact that I want to maim and kill every last bastard on the writing team for so completely ruining the best piece of children's literature in the world.Read the books.  "},{"Title":"A bad idea from the get-go","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Lloyd Alexander's series of adventure books (Including The Book of Three, The Black Cauldron, The Castle of Llyr, Taran Wanderer and The High King) are a kind of introduction for younger people into larger and more adult and complex fantasy/adventure authors like Tolkien. However, even as books intended for a young audience, they contain a great deal of darkness, sadness and themes that older people will appreciate as well.They would make exceptional movies. However, Disney's lame attempt to condense the first two books into one movie (and completely ignore the last three), was doomed.The Black Cauldron can only appeal to a very small audience people who are both not fans of Disney movies and people who are unfamiliar with the book series. This film is far too dark and violent for most parents to want to rent it for their 5 year old, yet it is considerably too Disneyfied to appeal to anyone familiar with the original stories. The story is changed, contorted, strained, shook out and then hung up to dry to the point that Lloyd Alexander fans will be wondering what they are watching. Too many important characters have been bastardized or omitted entirely and the story is virtually re-written.What Disney attempted to do here was appeal to two different groups. They wanted a movie that people could take their kids to (which is why mush of the actual violence is toned down). Instead, they have alienated everyone. Probably why they were loath to release it in the first place.This could have been done wonderfully (As Lord of the Rings is currently being done), whether as live action or animated. The fact that this is such a miserable example makes it that much sadder that nobody has bothered to do so yet.Avoid The Black Cauldron. "},{"Title":"Not for Kids","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this movie expecting a movie for children but a while in I had to notice that it is not at all suitable for children under the age of 6 or even 10. Other than Bambi for example the unsuitable content isn't limited to one scene but is pulled through half of the movie beginning with the body and ending with the movie. The beginning is cute and the characters are nice and funny but now and then you feel a bit freaked out by some situations. The tension is built up in the body and explodes in the final leaving young minds exposed to the spooky action terror drama set up at the end. If I had seen this movie at primary school age I'd be traumatized and I would have the permanent fear of losing someone. To put it in a nutshell for me it was a big mistake and I am desperately disappointed in Disney. "},{"Title":"Poor pacing and execution","Date":"21 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" While others might single out the inconsistent animation, uninspired voice acting, or lack of classic Disney charm as the downfall of the Black Cauldron, I place my blame squarely on the pacing.At its core, the Black Cauldron is not a bad story. It's the classic monomyth, or Hero's Journey, which follows the young farmhand Taran on his quest to defeat the evil Horned King and destroy the Black Cauldron. Despite having a classic structure and reasonable premise, the story fails to click with the audience because it simply moves too fast. A key aspect of Taran's character, for example, is that he resents his life as a pig boy and dreams of becoming a gallant knight. However, too little time is given to this dream for the audience to really sympathize with this aspect of the character. As a result, when Taran is forced to give up his magic sword (representing his dream of knighthood) for the good of the land, the potentially poignant moment falls flat.Similarly, the progression of Gurgi's character comes across as unnatural. He is supposedly a cowardly character, who fails to help his only true friends in the earlier acts, but eventually finds the strength to make the ultimate sacrifice. All well and good, but the whole series of events unravels too quickly to feel organic. Taran meets Gurgi, five minutes later Taran is leaving and Gurgi is too afraid to help his friend. Five minutes is not enough time for that relationship to solidify, especially because Taran hates Gurgi initially. Moreover, Gurgi's internal conflict with his cowardice is not given enough screen time to progress naturally.Even the pacing of the dialog is too fast. Characters practically talk over each other, in a hurry to hit the myriad of plot points between the opening narration and the closing credits, 80 minutes later. Even pausing for a beat between lines to show characters reacting to each other would have done miracles.All in all, this movie just had too much inertia. From the onset, characters are swept along by the unrelenting pace of the story, and never have an opportunity to build real relationships with each other or grow through introspection. It would have been a much better movie had they extended it beyond it's 80 minute constraint, using any extra time to add lulls to constant action. "},{"Title":"Interesting...if you want to see Disney at its nadir.","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film is about a pig who apparently can help predict the future! Yep, and such an important porker is entrusted to a teen filled with hubris--but not much actual talent. And, if they are not successful, Skeletor will rule the world!!! The word 'nadir' is seldom used, but it's quite appropriate for this Disney film. It means the absolute lowest point--and in 1985 the Disney released this poor cartoon to almost universal disdain. After reportedly spending over a decade on the film, the end result was very poor for a full-length Disney film. And today, most would probably agree that it was their worst movie.So why is it a bad movie? Well, the most obvious is the poor animation which varies tremendously but is generally no better than a Saturday morning cartoon from the time. Second, the choice of stories was bizarre. I think Disney thought their old films were pass and tried using edgier material--but the story is really shallow and the characters completely uninteresting. In particular, Gurgi is sort of like a combination of Jar-Jar and Golem. As for the rest, they are one-dimensional and not particularly likable. The end result is dreadfully too dull--way too violent and confusing for kids and too dull and poorly made for adults. I can see why HUGE changes resulted at Disney as a result of this poor film. "},{"Title":"One of Disneys most underrated movies","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This may not be the classic Disney that kids are used to, but it has a much deeper and complex plot then the usual movies. From the animation, to the sound of the characters, everything is different, but in a good way. It's nice to see a movie that really keeps you in your chair, not knowing what is going to happen, when will it happen, the years that the company has spent in it's making really paid off.Having seen all of the classic movies of Disney and this one seen last, i believe that it has more to give to the audiences then all of the others, more depth. Although it has been edited many many times, in fact i believe that it is the first movies to be edited my Disney, the dark part is still there, but not to scare the kids away, just to make them aware of the kind of evil lingers there. Overrall i believe that the movie is a masterpiece and its worth seeing, even if your not a kid anymore. "},{"Title":"Lackluster storytelling; Lloyd Alexander fans will be disappointed","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Even if you don't know the books, this movie's plot delivers an incomplete and choppy story with characters that seem out of place. The character designers leaned heavily on prior Disney features for inspiration cross Jock and Peg in Lady and the Tramp to get Gurgi, imagine the hill-billy relatives of Flora, Fauna, and Meriwether to get the fair folk, cross Peter Pan and Arthur from Sword in the Stone to get Taran, and imagine a younger version of Sleeping Beauty to get Eilonwy.Some moments work as intended, but even when individual scenes work, they fail to form a coherent storyline. The movie also fails to adequately imagine character interactions and circumstance We're left to wonder why The Horned King would kidnap Eilonwy and then give her free reign of the castle, where Flewder Flam came from and why does he belong in the story, and even why does Gurgi care enough to climb into the Cauldron knowing it will kill him? Strictly as a movie, The Black Cauldron does not work as well as we expect from Disney, and would benefit from being a bit longer and better thought out.If you have read the books by Lloyd Alexander, you will be even more disappointed. Alexander's characters all had language patterns that defined them, Disney almost completely omits these, with only a brief nod to munchings and crunchings. Disney also eliminated the moral guideposts of the story.In the books, the destruction of the cauldron hinges on redemption we know Elidar to be strong and talented, but driven by ambition that has turned him to evil action. When he fights his way to the cauldron and climbs in, his sacrifice forms an appropriate counter to the evil he has done. In the movie, Gurgi takes the role of Elidar, climbing into the cauldron to destroy its power. This act becomes a pathetic act of self-destruction. In Gurgi's own words, Gurgi has no friends; Gurgi will do it. There is no battle to reach the cauldron, and there is no redemption in his action.This is just one example of how the movie's attempt to condense and simplify abandons the drama that makes the books powerful. Readers of the Chronicles of Prydain will likely find many more. They will also find a gaping hole where characters are missing or only partially formed Dallben has none of his mystery and power (apparently abandoned when Disney removed his beard), and gaping holes form in the story where we expect Achren, Arawn, Gwydeon, Coll, Smoit, the Huntsmen, and Adeon. Disney has used the story of Prydain as a crutch to prop up a crippled story line, rather than as the foundation of a magnificent new tower of fantasy. If you know the books, reread them instead of watching The Black Cauldron. The movie will disappoint. "}{"Title":"Bizarrely patchy, very dark -yet captivating","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The story of the black cauldron is essentially concerned with the very real threat of evil and this dark atmosphere makes for interesting viewing. Unlike most other Disney films this one offers few moments of light relief and thus begs the question is this a film suitable for children under five? However, its uncompromising, unsentimental darkness elevates it in my view above the more common fare usually dished out by those in the animation trade. The story itself is sometimes patchily told -too much has been compressed into too little time, and often it feels unfortunately cut. This aside the film is to be recommended, not least because it is so little known -compared to, for example, the incredibly rubbishy Lion King or the vomitous Pocahontas. "},{"Title":"A bit disappointing","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This was one of the few Disney flix I had yet to see. I read all 5 Lloyd  Alexander stories about Taryn, and I was a bit let-down by the movie  version. The plot was altered a lot, and some of the key elements that had  me riveted to the book were gone. The movie was a little intense for  younger viewers I felt, but the plot butchery aside, the movie can stand on  its own, albeit wobbly. I'd love to see more of the intense imagery shown  here (Hunchback of Notre Dame is my favorite Disney). Rent it? Yes Buy it? Ehh...rent it first. "},{"Title":"Not impressive","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Disney really did not do Lloyd Alexander's Prydain Chronicles justice. The movie is actually based on The Book of Three and The Black Caldron. But too much is changed and it sort of drags. I would like to see a better company do a much needed live action version like Narnia or Lord of the Rings. Perhaps Disney should have only stapled their name to it like they did Narnia. I understand you can't always fit a whole book in a movie exactly to its original version, but trying to tackle two of these books in one movie was a bad idea, even though they're about as short as A Series of Unfortunate Events. The Prydain Chronicles is a really wonderful series, someone should really think of taking that project on. "},{"Title":"Waiting for a Classic, getting a Clunker","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  In 1975, I flew to Orlando Florida to visit Disney World. While shopping in the stores, I bought a book about Disney animation. Included in it was some rough concept art for THE BLACK CAULDRON. I remember hoping that the movie would be released, soon. Being 14 at the time, I thought of Disney movies as pretty much lame kiddie movies, but this looked pretty cool.Fast forward a decade, to me as a graduating senior from college. I remember hearing that the movie was in theaters, then POOF!, gone. Never to be heard of again, or so we thought.In the early 1990's a wife of a friend of mine was a manager at a local Disney Store, and I asked her when BLACK CAULDRON might be available on VHS. She rolled her eyes up in her head, and said, 'Pretty much, never!'. Apparently a lot of folks asked that same question, and she told me that BC, is the movie that Disney chooses to forget. Then, a few years later, we all went to one of the theme parks at Disney and were looking in a store that sold movie posters for their `great' movies. In the huge stack of `Little Mermaid' and `Aladdin' posters was one for BLACK CAULDRON. My friend's wife seemed amazed at finding it, and she said that `Disney must be considering re-releasing the movie if this poster is here'. And surprise, in 1998, we found it on the shelves of our local video store.My wife and I decided to preview it before we let our young daughters see it. And man, am I glad we did. Truly NOT a movie for the under 7 or so set. Dark, deep, and troubled, is the best way to describe BC. I do like more `mature' animation, but this seemed a mish mash of past Disney style, fantasy art, and a move in a new direction of animation.The other disappointing part of the 1998 release was, that it's in Full Screen format. What a let down as the movie is one of only two, I believe, 70 MM format animated Disney movies. SLEEPING BEAUTY, being the other, and that WAS available in VHS wide screen format. The print that was used to make the tape, also appeared to be very poor, and it appeared to have been edited, as one or two scene transitions didn't seem smooth.I may rent the DVD, and give it another try, but as previous posters have stated, it's not for everyone. And definitely NOT for the wee ones, who are best suited for `LITTLE MERMAID'. "},{"Title":"Read the books instead","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't even understand what the film-makers were *trying* to do with this. As an adaptation of Lloyd Alexander's excellent series, it's almost unrecognizable. When Taran draws a generic 'magic sword' in Spiral Castle, when Gurgi sacrifices himself to destroy the Black Cauldron, when the three witches perform a resurrection spell, when Eilonwy is reduced to weak love interest and Fflewddur to comic relief, it's clear that the writers have missed the point entirely. Nor is it worthwhile considered simply as a film in its own right; it's Disney at its most self-parodying, filled with tired shtick and cheap emotional manipulation. The animation and music are dull and only a couple of the voice actors provide bright spots. Avoid. "},{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I heard of this movie for a while and read great reviews. I recently purchased this film to add to my collection and as I watched it I was amazed!!!!!! This was a Disney Movie????!!!!!!!! I couldn't believe it!!! This is totally not their style and it is sad how they never use this any more. I do realise, however, that this movie was made during the Dark Period where movies (especially animations) were based a lot on fantasy, serious, and were rather dark. Such movies can include The Last Unicorn, The Lord of the Rings ('78 version), Watership Down, and many others. These movies weren't your typical children's happy tales; they had no horrible unfunny singing (the only singing they had was good!), no stupid side-kicks, no love of first sight and getting happily married at the end, and no wimpy-pointless plots. These films were made with bitter-sweet endings that were made to help us learn more and recognise more things in life, they had powerful messages some of them. The Black Cauldron has no singing. This movie is quite evil at parts and has dark scenes. The characters are rather serious and the story progresses well. To-day this animation would be considered old animation but I like this style better! Too many things have been computerised these days. The old style which was very detailed with many shades was my favourite. The colours seem to come out better and add more affect this way. Overall I give this movie a 9.5/10. I just wish Disney could make movies like this again. But I still have my hopes and await the day when this type of genre returns. The Lord of the Rings (2001) is a start. "},{"Title":"The last good Disney film *sigh*","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"21 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Man, why can't Disney make more films like The Black Cauldron? When Disney is doing PG-rated animated features these days, why do they have to throw in some gross-out humor, that would make the creators of The Garbage Pail Kids blush? Or why are they STILL trying to do some sickening sweet swill films ever since The Little Mermaid? I really love this film and here is why1. NO BROADWAY-ESQUE SONGS!2. Dark, yet lovely animation.3. The hero and heroine are actually IMPERFECT children, unlike most Disney films, where the heroes are usually perfect teenagers or adults.4. Scary evil villains. The villains are not hammy or comical this time around, making a homage to the old films.5. John Hurt does the voice of the evil demon king, enough said there!I just pray that Disney learns to make more films like this and less like Lilo and Stitch and Treasure Planet.  "},{"Title":"Another overlooked cult classic.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Cauldron is given a bad name by even Disney itself for nearly destroying their animation studio (it was a major flop at the box office, comparable to their films in the 1940s) and for being a departure from the typical Disney format of either musical or just light-hearted joy (for the most part), but the truth is, it only recently got the warm cult reception it deserved back in 1985. Despite having some dull moments, the acting is top notch (especially John Hurt's Horned King), the horror scares, and there is enough action (including a shockingly crude joke that left my mouth wide open) to enjoy it as much as Lloyd Alexander's series. In fact, on Rotten Tomatoes it has a higher rating than Robin Hood or a few of Disney's early-mid 2000s films (55%), which I guess can be agreed with seeing how many critics didn't appreciate the new format, though its execution is not something to be glossed over. See it for yourself; I enjoyed it, but I can't guarantee, especially if you like older Disney films, that your rating will be just as or more favorable. "},{"Title":"OK but not one of my favorite Disney movies","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Now there are Disney fans who have grown up with this Disney film and this is 4 years before the start of the Disney renaissance era. Now this film is based on an old fairy tale book and it tells about this Black Cauldron which has the power to raise the dead and enslave the world. The only one who could use that kind of power was the Horned King. One boy, a princess and a little dog like creature were all that stood in his way. When the power of the Black Cauldron is reversed, the Horned King gets sucked into it along with his army of the dead. Then the boy, the princess and Gurgi lived happily ever after. Now one fact about this is that this is the first animated Disney film without any songs. Now this is an OK Disney film but the animation in this isn't all that great. I choose Frozen and the Lion King over this. "},{"Title":"Judge it as a Film","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I found this to be an excellent film!The voice acting was brilliant.The music was brilliant.The main characters (good and evil) were brilliant.The action was brilliant.Capable of making you feel emotion - happy, sad, baleful, hilarity, you name it.And I do love the fact that this is one of Disney's darkest.It's my favorite Disney film ever.And if you're gonna tell me Read the Books! don't bother. I tried the Books and they were horrible. "}{"Title":"fine Disney fantasy","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" In the land of Prydain, Taran is the young assistant to Dallben. He doesn't understand why the pig Hen Wen is pampered. The evil Horned King is searching for the Black Cauldron which can create an invincible army of undead warriors. Hen Wen turns out to be an oracular pig who can reveal the location of the Black Cauldron. Dallben sends Taran away to hide with Hen Wen but the Horned King captures the pig. Taran is joined by pesky creature Gurgi in his rescue mission. Only he is captured and thrown into the dungeons where he joins Princess Eilonwy. They escape with bumbling bard Fflewddur Fflam.This is an old fashion Disney fantasy adventure with a little bit of CGI. The characters aren't that charismatic. They are out of a standard script with a young man, a feisty princess, a bumbling old fool and an animal sidekick. The pig is the one that keeps me scratching my head. I appreciate something unusual but it strikes me as very wrong. The old bard isn't as funny as he needs to be. I like Gurgi but I don't necessarily love him. This is fine but it is inferior to other Disney animated movies. "},{"Title":"The film that Disney would like you to forget?","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Version I saw Amazon Instant Video streamActors 6/10Plot/script 5/10Photography/visual style 5/10Music/score 6/10Overall 6/10The Black Cauldron has a reputation as the film about which Disney are faintly embarrassed, and would rather people didn't know about. The film has never had the publicity of others in the Disney stable, taking a long time to reach home video and DVD release. It would seem to have been a ruinously expensive box office flop, and investigations into the background reveal board-level personality clashes and fractious internal politics. I don't know about you, but that sounds intriguing to me.The film has problems, certainly. It is generally agreed to be considerably darker in tone than almost any other Disney film, and rather darker then studio execs were comfortable with. What first struck me, though, was not the tonal darkness but physical darkness. Throughout the early part, it was irritatingly difficult to even see what was happening on screen, even with brightness and contrast turned up to maximum. Thereafter, too, there is an odd discrepancy between the sumptuous, subtly shaded, almost canvas painting style backgrounds, and the simplistic design of the foreground characters, all thick lines and blocks of colour.There is a comparison to be drawn between The Black Cauldron and The Sword in the Stone. Apart from the medieavalish period setting, there is a distinct similarity in character design, and indeed the art style of the film in general. Thematically, though, it has far less in common with Disney in general than it does with Brian Froud's faerie illustrations and Lord of the Rings. In terms of the latter, some of the similarities are a bit too close to comfort. We have a Sauron-clone with Nazgul-clones, other incompetent lackeys (less unique, but still something in common) and a Gollum-clone. Admittedly, it could be that these were inserted by Disney based on Tolkien's popularity, and even if they are in Lloyd Alexander's source text, The Chronicles of Prydain, he would not be the first or the last to copy the seminal master of fantasy fiction.The writing has other problems. I found it short on the honed wit that brightens Disney pieces both before and since. Some bemoan the American committee style of writing, claiming that it leads to a certain soullessness, but at least a room full of brains can be counted on to deliver the zingers. Also, the main character Taran has very little about him to incline me to root for him. He is not strong, which is fairly standard, but neither is he clever, or brave, or even witty. His only real virtue seems to be luck, and even this abandons him at times in the narrative. This is especially a problem given how long he spends alone before companions are introduced.At least when other characters appear, they include a strong female character. Or do they? Certainly, Princess Eilonwy has personality, and a more engaging screen presence than Taran, but for the most part she seems content to tag along behind, and be a bit sassy. Still, that's a step up from Sleeping Beauty.So why 6 out of 10 and not lower? Two factors Elmer Bernstein's excellent, strident orchestral score - exactly what one would expect from a cinematic legend of his pedigree - and the ending. I will try not to spoil it, but I found the deviation from the hero saves the day convention very refreshing. The virtues displayed in obtaining victory are not the sort to be usually found in this kind of film. That papered over a lot of cracks for me.In some ways, I was a little disappointed that it was not more repellent, or otherwise inappropriate, which would have been an entertainment in itself. I suppose that will have to wait until I can seek out and watch 'Song of the South'... "},{"Title":"Disney's failed attempt at changing direction","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The 80s is known for its dark films. And even Disney films of the time are no exception. Their art style is muted, using heavy shadows, stark contrasts and swaying away from the cartoony colours. Their story lines are rather adult and depressing. Well, in comparison at least. And the crowning achievement of this is none other than The Black Cauldron, the most peculiar of the Disney canon films.At the time Disney Animation Studios were not doing so well. In fact the company was seriously considering closing them down and focusing solely on theme parks and merchandise. This movie was originally meant to change that course, but it almost ended up being the sole thing to ruin the whole studio. It wanted to take Disney to a whole different direction, picking as its source material a dark fantasy novel and staying very faithful to its tone, earning the PG rating.And yes, before you ask, the pig is in the book as well. Disney didn't add that to give the movie a mascot. Gurgi is in the book as well. I'm never reading that book, no matter how much you'd pay me.So what went wrong? Well, what didn't. The Black Cauldron is a mess. It was a major flop upon its release, and I can definitely see why. It has since garnered a cult following, but the fact still remains that it simply isn't a Disney film. Families went in expecting a typical Disney experience with fairytale stories, kid friendly messages and all around merriment. Instead they were treated to a medieval fantasy story leaning heavily towards dark and horror.But, that could be forgiven. I actually somewhat like the idea in principle. Great heroics, one scary villain, myths and legends, sword and sorcery, all done by one of the greatest animation studios on Earth. What's not to like? How about the fact that the main character is an unlikable, lazy jerk, the side characters have no, you know, character, the plot wanders around worse than a drunken minstrel, the end twist is unimaginably disappointing, the MacGuffin pig is ludicrous, the villain while certainly scary has no charisma or presence beyond looking like the devil and as a whole I'm simply not feeling the epicness. It's clear Disney had never done anything like this, and had no idea how to adapt to a different kind of storytelling tone. A dark fantasy story differs greatly from fairy tales, though they both certainly utilize the same character tropes and source materials. But whereas fairy tales are about morals and simple lessons about good and evil, dark fantasy is more about the struggle against eternal darkness, the meaning of hope in the midst of despair and about guts and glory. I don't get that from The Black Cauldron.The movie has its upsides, definitely. It looks great, the villain is certainly the scariest Disney has ever done and about one third of the story is actually pretty captivating. But it has flaws, many many flaws. Not my personal favourite, but you should still check it out to see if it speaks to you. "},{"Title":"An unconventional Disney animated film.","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Cauldron is a Disney film that is not based on a well-known fairytale nor is it an original Disney story. Instead, it is based on a novel by Lloyd Alexander, a story about pig-keeper Taran who attempts to find his future-foretelling pig so that the evil Horned King would not capture and use her to pinpoint the whereabouts of the Black Cauldron. The Horned King plans to use the Black Cauldron to spread untold evil and power.The film has splendid hand-drawn animation and a catchy music score. Also, the plot has steady pacing to it with some adventurous and exciting action scenes, and the villainous Horned King is also one of the more scarier-looking Disney villains out there. However, I thought much of the characters lacked any development or chemistry, particular that of Taran. He wants to experience more in his life than just settling as a pig-keeper, but his purpose and goals were not fully developed throughout the rest of the film. He also didn't have any chemistry with the heroine, Princess Eilonwy, whose purpose in the movie was also very vague. She along with the wide range of characters including the flying trolls didn't contribute much to the plot; it was as if they were just placed in the movie for window dressing.But again, there are quite a few actions scenes that made the film at least somewhat exciting, and the sacrificing elements, lack of comedy, and dramatic characters made this a pretty dark and un-conventional Disney film. It's not one of my favorites, but is watchable at least once or twice.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Spicy and Stylish, But Very Thin - Why Was This Blackballed Again?","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" A notorious relic from Disney's back catalog that was censored and shunned internally for years due to its distressing content. In a modern light, it's tough to see what all the fuss was about. A few marching skeletons? A bit of swordplay? It all seems so quaint now, with the benefit of hindsight on our side. Not that the film should be mentioned in the same breath as the studio's calling cards, of course. It's short, shallow and more than a little murky, with a distinct lack of Disney charm, but it still has a lot going for it. The animation, for instance, is superb - a great blend of photo-reference and vivid exaggeration that looks and feels like a Don Bluth classic (though Bluth himself, having departed six years prior, was uninvolved with the production). It also enjoys a much more loyal fantasy tone than many of Disney's efforts, sharing many themes (and maybe a few characters) with the then-neglected Lord of the Rings trilogy. Fascinating for many reasons, most of which occur behind the scenes, it's too narrow-sighted and streamlined to be taken all that seriously. "},{"Title":"Another Magical Disney Animation","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I was 13 years old when this movie came out. I recall watching this in the theater and enjoyed every bit of it! I still love this film today. I will agree with over reviewers that the film is dark and mature but it is a film that kids CAN watch - there is nothing vulgar within the film - but it does have an adult feel to the movie.If you liked Disney's Sword in the Stone, Fantasia or Alice in Wonderland then you might enjoy this film.Live-action films similar to The Black Cauldron Eragon, The Brothers Grimm, The Sword and the Sorcerer, Maleficent and Dragonslayer.9/10 "},{"Title":"Barely true to the book...","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Even though the series of books that The Black Cauldron was based on, the Prydain series by Lloyd Alexander, is one of my favorite childrens series, I was disappointed with this movie.  The Black Caldron is the second book in the series, which has nothing to do with the Horned King, which is the villain in the first book, The Book of Three.  Also, Gurgi is not the one who ultimately destroys the cauldron, it is another character, Ellidyr. Also, he does die, for good, he isn't brought back to life by the three O's. In any case, if anyone is going to do a movie about those great adventure books, they should at least get the books straight, and do a series, as opposed to trying to cram the most interesting things into a disjointed jumble of animation, and leaving out such key figures as Coll and Gwydoin. "},{"Title":"A complete joke and TOTALLY UNLIKE the book","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I am currently reading The Chronicles of Prydain and thinking that it would be good to see the movie as I read, I picked up this movie.What A SHOCK!!!! All of the other main characters with the exception of Hen Wen, Taran, Princess Eilonwy, Girgy and F. Flam are missing and this movie starts off with Taran's mentor as a bumbling fool, as a opposed to a serious scholar and goes downhill from there.It goes on with tons of added ridiculous characters, scenes and characterizations of some of the people in the book.Overall, it wanders so far away from the book and with so many laughable, non-existent occurrences it becomes unwatchable as you watch in horror this train wreck of a movie! Don't bother with this mess, listen to the unabridged recordings from Listening Library and embrace this CLASSIC series of novels! "},{"Title":"The Balck Cauldron was Lloyd Alexander-less","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Using the delightfully witty contemporary work of art for a film was not the mistake--How it was executed, was. Condensing the story beyond recognition ripped the heart out of it, leaving the film feeling...empty. I was a die hard fan of the Lloyd Alexander series as a kid. I am sure I was not the only child to write to Disney and beg them to animate it. When I was a mother myself, my dream came true, the making of The Black Cauldron was announced. I had high hopes, that were dashed upon watching the movie. I sat there stunned as the credits rolled, my only comment being, That's it?.I had voraciously consumed the entire book series, yet never bothered to add this movie to my library. That was some serious disappointment. Without the sheer magic of the authors touch, the title alone was not enough to make this film a winner. Sadly,it felt more like a cheap knock-off.It is good to know that some production companies have learned since then to adhere to the approval of the author,such as the Harry Potter saga, bringing movie making to new heights. It is a shame they hadn't done it sooner. The written work of, The Black Cauldron, had such potential. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm not a big fan of this movie but when I saw it, I didn't think it was too bad. It's definitely not a kid friendly movie, so it's not one I'll be buying for my future kids so they're probably going to miss this one too. But for what it is, it's passable. There have been far worse Disney films. But there have definitely been better ones. The main problem with the movie is that it's forgettable. I don't remember much about it at all. I can say that the villain is great!! He's actually very creepy. So if you love Disney villains, this movie's for you! Unfortunately, the characters, with the exception of Gurgi, who I actually thought was pretty cute and looked like a relative of Stitch's, are also quite forgettable. As a whole, I'd suggest watching it if you're a big Disney fan but don't expect it to blow you away. "}{"Title":"Interesting, getting a bit scary there though!","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" For a Disney film, this is one of the first I've seen where the badguy isn't a comical human or something... it's an actual ghostly skull who we meet very quickly. The scenes with him start out very intense and scary (for a Disney movie mind you) and then start to get just more intense and more adventurous as the kids make their way through the castle and stuff.The idea of sacrifice is introduced and used in the movie. Not sure if that's the best thing to have considering that this is a Disney classic. However, the thing that gets sacrificed survives... but I found a flaw. I do believe the witches who made the trade said that only a HUMAN could sacrifice himself into it. While the thing which did wasn't human... yet it still stopped the curse in the end. -confused-But anyway, it was okay, and I have to give they some points for surprising me with the kiss near the end. Wasn't expecting it the way it was done.Anyway, I rate this 7/10. "},{"Title":"The forgotten Disney animated classic","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Cauldron can be best described as Disney's most enigmatic film. Based on The Chronicles of Prydain by Lloyd Alexander, this Disney animated fantasy attempted to adapt the first two books of the series (The Book of Three and The Black Cauldron) and make a grand film. The film has an infamous production history, as pre-production started as far back as 1971. The newly recruited Disney artists who were working on Robin Hood and The Rescuers (including Don Bluth) were hoping that this film would eventually become a Disney film that Walt would have never dreamed of, an epic fantasy. Unfortunately, the executives were very play it safe at the time, so the project was put on hold. Finally, in 1980, full production began on the project and it was aiming to be a very dark fantasy film aimed at teenagers. At the time, anything with the Disney name on it was avoided by teens and adults, and thus Disney hid their names on the theatrical posters for PG-rated films like Tron, Tex and Something Wicked this Way Comes.The resulting film is a mess, but it's not a horrible film. In fact, the ambition alone makes it worth watching. Seeing Disney at least try to do a dark fantasy film is a miracle. The first problem is the muddled storyline. The film takes many liberties with the books and takes various sections of the first two books and tries to make a plot out of them to fit an 80-minute film.The story, in the land of Prydain is a Black Cauldron. Whoever gets the Cauldron can rule the world or destroy it. A young boy named Taran on the farm of Caer Dallben dreams of being a warrior and getting respect, rather than being an assistant pig keeper. What the young boy doesn't know is that the pig, Hen Wen, is psychic and can read visions. She knows the location of The Black Cauldron. Unfortunately, a terrifying warlord known as The Horned King knows about the pig and is searching for the cauldron. The Horned King plans to resurrect an army of dead soldiers and destroy everything in the land of Prydain. The enchanter Taran is working for, Dallben, tells Taran to take Hen Wen and hide her in a hidden cottage in the forest. Taran begins his journey into the forest with the pig, but he daydreams of becoming a warrior. The pig runs off and is captured by The Horned King's flying beasts, the Gwythaints. Taran goes into The Horned King's castle to rescue Hen Wen. All goes wrong, Hen Wen escapes and Taran is locked in the dungeon. There he meets Princess Eilonwy (stolen by the Horned King) and an old bard named Fflewddur Fflam. Together, with the small creature Gurgi, the team go on a quest to get The Black Cauldron before The Horned King finds it.While the plot sounds alright, the way its executed is a mess. The first half is great, but once Taran meets Eilonwy and Fflewddur, all seems to get muddled. All leads up to a very exciting climax. On the bright side, it has some very good animation and impressive background artwork (Although some may disagree). It is also the first Disney animated film to use computer generated imagery (not The Great Mouse Detective).One big flaw is the editing, but don't blame the makers of this film, blame Jeffrey Katzenberg. He saw the completed film and being inexperienced and thinking that you can edit animated films, he edited out a lot of violent scenes that would've gotten the film a PG-13 or R rating. That was Disney's intention, to make a film for mature audiences and not having it being called just for kids. Katzenberg made the film an even bigger mess. Hopefully some day we can see the uncut version.Unfortunately, the film did not do very well. It grossed $21 million against a record $25 million budget. Because of this, Disney did not theatrically re-release the film in the U.S. (There was a re-release in Europe in 1990 under the title Taran and the Magic Cauldron).Why did it flop? Maybe because the film's dark content? Maybe because the film received mixed reviews? Or maybe it was because the film lacked heart? Anyway, they finally released it on home video in 1998 after fans asked for it and it sold $100 million in video sales, so it has a bit of a following.It's definitely worth a watch. You may love it or you may hate it. Not a bad film, it just could've been something grand, something to save animation from the state it was in at the time. But the good animation, the exciting action sequences and the score by Elmer Bernstein make up for the flaws.8.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Something for the darker children of the world","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I realise there are many who say that 'The Black Cauldron' is by far Disney's worst cartoon. I disagree.Although i have nothing per say against light princess stories or the animal fun Disney usually goes in for The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, The Fox and the Hound, The Jungle Book, Cinderella... etc. I say it's always nice to have a change, something for the less stereo typical, darker children to enjoy.I didn't know i was one of these children until i saw 'The black cauldron'. which quickly became my favourite Disney film.I'm sure I am not the only one who has watched many Disney films and not been fully satisfied, ending it and thinking 'yes but that wouldn't really happen would it' thought maybe it's a bit to happy. Thought that maybe we need a better villain.The first time i saw 'The Jungle Book' i was fine with Shear Carn but Ca the snake terrified me. You're never afraid of the people you're supposed to be afraid of in these films.In Lady and the Tramp you're supposed to be scared of the Rat and creatures like that but i was too busy being completely freaked by the cats. In Beauty and the Beast it wasn't Gaston i was afraid of or the beast but that machine her father had. In The Little Mermaid it wasn't Ursula but those 'unfortunate soul' things. In Snow White it wasn't the witch it was the trees. The same applied for all of these Disney films except the Black Cauldron.The villain is what makes this film. From the moment the film opens you see this terrifying black pot with this deep dark voice over which is then contrasted with the introduction of Taren, the central character and his pig, Hen.It turns out the horned king is searching for the black cauldron which will give him the power to raise an army from the dead and to find the black cauldron the king will come looking for Hen, a pig with strange divining powers so Taren (who dreams of adventure and the like) must take Hen to the cottage on the other side of the wood and keep her hidden there.On the way however Hen is stolen by some terrifying flying dragon monster things and Taren had to follow them to the horned kings castle and get hen back.The Horned King is as frightening as for once he should be and voiced by the immensely talented John Hurt. He is the most affective animated villain ever on screen and i say that with confidence. However to lighten the mood a little he is accompanied by a delightful but much abused little green goblin who is great fun as well as sweet and quite charming even if he is a little mischievous.Also along the way Taren comes across a sweet but strong minded princess, a highly dishonest but charming bard and the most irritating character ever put on screen. I can't remember his name but it's irritating. He is the one thing i am afraid the brings down the entire film in Disney's lame attempt to introduce comedy into the mix.The film closes with a dramatic and thrilling climax and does not disappoint. It was a welcome relief and change from every other Disney movie and a great success as far as i'm concerned. you might not like it but i always will.the Animation is poor and so is the script but the story and the characters shine though and will remain one of my favourite cartoons of all time whatever anyone else says about it. "},{"Title":"The most creepiest film I have ever seen","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Cauldron is a 1985 Disney movie based on a book and tells the tale about a boy named Taran who goes off to search for his pig who knows where the famous Black Cauldron is. So Taran goes off in search of his pig,where he meets a dog(well I dunno what this thing was suppose to be)called Gurgi who loves stealing stuff as he stole an apple of of Taran and Taran leaves Gurgi to find his pig only to meet the famous Horn King(who I swear is the most creepiest villains of all time)who sends him to the Dungeon. Meanwhile Taran meets the beautiful Princess Eilonwy and together the two escape alongside an old man called Fflewddur and try to save Taran's pig. But will the evil Horn King find The Black Cauldron,or will Taran and his new friends find it before the Horn King does?Overall the animation to its credit is nice and vivid. The voice cast is sorta bland to be honest especially the guy voicing Taran he sounds very boring and extremely bland. The whole story isn't that bad but GOD the charcther design for some of the charcthers are EXTREMELY creepy looking especially like I said before the design of the Horn King who looks like the Grimn Ripper. If you love your Tim Burton style movies well this is for you,as it reminds you of a film he would make.From the guy that gave you The Swan Princess,Thumbelina and Anastasia to name a few(Richard Rich who used to work for Disney but left after this movie was made),The Black Cauldron isn't a bad animated movie,not my favourite movie but I never seen this movie before so I decided to give it a shot and see whether I will like it or not.4/10 "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly, Disney's Worst Animated Film","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I never thought Disney could get it so wrong. But they did. The Black Cauldron is quite possibly, the worst film to come from the house of mouse. It's aggressively un-Disney, but unfortunately, that works against this shockingly awful fantasy film. The Black Cauldron is a story about a young boy named Taran who wants to be more than a pig-keeper. His wish comes true, though, when it turns out that his pig, Hen-Ren can predict the future and create visions. Taran is told by his master Dallben to go into hiding with Hen-Ren, in order to protect the location of the mystical Black Cauldron from the Horned King. On the way, Taran meets a young princess named Elionwy, an old musician named Fflewddur, and a cowardly ewok-like creature named Gurgi. I knew this film was doomed as soon as I learned the pig was psychic. The characters, unfortunately, are neither memorable, nor likable. Taran is always drowning himself in his sorrows, Elionwy is an obvious stereotype, Gurgi fails to evoke laughter, and The Horned King's tiny assistant is easily the most annoying cartoon character ever depicted. Had I not seen the Disney logo preceding the film, I would never have guessed The Black Cauldron was a Disney film. It's surprisingly dark, and there isn't much humor. In fact, the few times there are attempts at humor, they usually fall flat. I don't recall ever laughing during The Black Cauldron. Another typically uncharacteristic thing about The Black Cauldron, was how dull it is. I never found myself thrilled, but I was constantly bored. The Black Cauldron just cannot excite the audience in the slightest. Regardless, Elmer Bernstein provides a very good score, even if it takes a bit to warm up. But The Black Cauldron is, at least, a visual treat. Many effects are simply stunning. The animation is wonderful, especially for a film of it's age. It's just a shame that there wasn't a decent movie to accompany the visuals. Disney is usually reliable when it comes to their animated films, so it was certainly shocking to see a Disney film this bad. It's too dull, the characters are annoying, and the logic of the film is constantly changing. Outside of the lovely visuals (and an occasionally lively score), there isn't much to recommend in The Black Cauldron. "},{"Title":"Mature Disney classic.","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Although it was a flop, this film is very mature, hence the PG rating. Most Disney films are aimed at the whole family, but this film is for kids 7 and up in my opinion because of the frightening material. Other Disney films have frightening moments like Snow White, Pinocchio, Fantasia, Bambi, Lady and the Tramp, Sleeping Beauty, and The Fox and the Hound, this one remains the most frightening, but I am not afraid of it. The gwythaints in the film make it scary as well as the Horned King himself. The characters are okay, my favorite characters are Fflewdurr Flem and Gurgi. The film is worthy to animation and Disney fans, let it be part of your library. "},{"Title":"A breath of fresh air from the cookie cutter","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I must say that i am not a fan of disney movies.  They seem so cookie cutter-Fairy tale, good over evil, six r seven horrible songs from over paid composers, and wrap it up in less than nintey minutes.  This was their exception, a trying of new things, like walt set out to do in the first place.  The story is wonderful, the animation is out of this world, and the comic relief commits suicide in the end!!!! that's the best part!!!  The cuts fuzzy cuddly Gurgi Comits suicide to save his friends!!!! It's great!!! I must admit the hero at times reminded me of Davy jones from the Monkees but that's alright.   I'm a fan of Head also "},{"Title":"The most underrated Disney animated feature ever!","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Cauldron is, admittedly, a very unusual Disney movie. It is darker and scarier than The Lion King or Aladdin, and it does not feature any songs. Nevertheless, the story and animation are fantastic, among the best ever. Best of all the sidekick Gurgi is actually bearable and funny at times, very much unlike those seen in the recent movies. "},{"Title":"Good, but bad parts too","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This, I must say is one of Disney's better storylines. The thing is, though, it moves rather quickly. For the most part, I loved it; the villain was spooky and scary and fun characters filled in the story. However, the animation at parts was bad. Sometimes, it looked as though the characters were behind a blue screen because they animated the characters and sometimes used real video footage for the background. That can sometimes looks weird. However, I do highly recommend this to you, and I also recommend Lloyd Alexanders book series, from which this movie is based. "},{"Title":"An AWESOME! Disney Fantasy","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I disagree that is this film is in the Top Worst 5's on Keyframe and I was shocked and surprised by the negative reviews - I thought this film was AWESOME! and I have also read the Chronicles of Prydain book series too, from which this film is based on; which was book #2 with the same title.I love Princess Eilonwy, she is beautiful and cute as button and a brave little lady, and her kiss with Taran at the end knocked me for a loop. (*sigh*) You know, she and Taran do make a cute couple in my books.I also love Gurgi too, he is SO cute and talks funny too. So this film film is an Awesome Disney Fantasy. "}{"Title":"Enchanting...","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Cauldron is an enchanting as well as an exciting story about courage, self-sacrifice and love. With beautiful animation, a superb voice cast, and riveting story, this movie will keep your eyes glued to the screen from start to finish.*MILD Spoilers* Set in a land called Prydain, young and adventure hungry Taran finds himself becoming involved in a plot to stop the wicked Horned King from finding the legendary Black Cauldron - a dangerous pot that can create an army of the undead. Teaming up with a lovely young princess, a bumbling bard, and a pesky critter named Gurgi, Taran quickly decides to take up the quest to save all of Prydain, and get to the Cauldron before the Horned King does... *Spoilers end here*I won't give it all away for you though. Get it and see it for yourself.It's definitely not a movie for little tykes, but if you have older kids or teens who like fantasy, they'll most likely enjoy it... and I'm sure anyone will, if they give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is a great movie sure it has nothing to do with the book, but I think Disney was trying to combine the full 5 book series into one movie. I do wait for the day they make a true Prydain Chronicles series like Harry Potter and show all books Like the Prydain Chronicles Book of Three, Prydain Chronicles The Black Cauldron and so on. back to the movie - The animation in the film is some of the best ever produced to date by any animation crew. It's down fall was the time it was released and the editing they did to the film before the release, and the fact - they took small sections from the other stories and threw them in. I still love this movie and hope to see the original on edited movie some day. "},{"Title":"Off the Beaten Path for Disney","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Cauldron follows the quest of a young pigkeeper's apprentice to prevent the evil Horned King from unleashing the power of the black cauldron and effacing all life from the world. Surprisingly dark for a Disney movie, it offers more than the usual amount of frightening scenes, violence, and even some sexual innuendo (which is sure to pass over the head of young viewers). Luckily, it also features a cast of memorable characters -- the lovable, despicable, and comical -- that carry the magical Tolkien-esquire story through to the end. Imaginative animation, excellent voice work and a great orchestral score help to make The Black Cauldron a classic, albeit an under-appreciated one. Recommended, though it may be too scary for very young children. "},{"Title":"No gratuitous songs, no kid-friendly voices, and no pop-culture references. I love it!","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Beginning, as all films really should, with John Huston narration, which fills us in on the titular object, Disney's Black Cauldron was a noble experiment that mostly clicks. In the 1980's, there was a glut of films aimed for child audiences that were not patronizing, like Twice Upon a Time, Rock & Rule and Pogo for President, and Cauldron sought to do the same thing. Black Cauldron is a strange, paranoid film that's definitely unnerving at times. An almost unrecognizable John Hurt voices the Horned King, easily one of the greatest cinematic villains ever. I am familiar with the Chronicles of Prydain, and while some major characters don't appear, those that do stick closely to what Lloyd Alexander originally intended for them.As a stand-alone film, it's very entertaining and re-watchable. Go check out the DVD, which is unfortunately not the long dreamt-of director's cut of the film, which is still in the Disney vaults for the time being. "},{"Title":"At last on video and DVD.","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I first heard about The Black Cauldron in 1994, when I was shopping in Copenhagen for some Laserdiscs. I had the soundtrack from it on a second hand LP album, but it wasn't released on video yet, and the store clerk told me that the news from The Disney Studios was that the movie finally was to be released. I was looking forward to the coming of it, and when it got in the stores, I got my copy on VHS PAL. Unfortunately it wasn't presented in the original theatrical aspect ratio, but the newly released DVD edition on Regional 1 encoding is presented in the original WIDESCREEN presentation. I can't wait to get a hold of it to watch this wonderful movie in all it's glory. I can only recommend that you buy this movie, if you don't have it already in your collection of Disney Classics. "},{"Title":"A boy must save his country from an evil villain.","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Without any doubt the scariest of all Disney-features, this film has some remarkably obvious Disney-traits. Among them are the funny bad-guys and the disturbing comic-relief scenes. The script-writers have obviously had trouble squeezing Alexander's characters in. Hen Wen is initially the main character of the movie however, the cute little pig disappears half-way. Gurgi's role changes, and Eilonwy's bauble vanishes. The film is also cut in two there are two great climaxes, and they sadly stand apart with the disappearance of HenWen. It is a nasty blemish on an otherwise very entertaining classic no vexatious singing, but wonderful exiting background music. The animation on the dragons and landscapes is stunning, the looks of personae are well-designed, the suspense in some of the scenes is intense. It is definitely a film I enjoyed after the first time. A must for fantasy-lovers. "},{"Title":"Not suitable for small children but REALLY COOL","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie well, the Dutch version in the cinema when I was 4, and ran out crying. Quite at the beginning as well...Now, 15 years later, I've seen it again, and I loved it. As I like fantasy, this film was right up my street. I later read the books by Lloyd Alexander, and Disney messed things up a little bit, but that's okay, they did the best they could. Problem is that it's not suitable for little children. Something you'd not expect from Disney. The Horned King is, with his appearance and his frightful dragons, maybe a bit too frightening for little children, and the plot takes a unexpected? maybe.. turn and that might not be good for little children to see, as that's really scary.Don't expect Disney-sing-a-longs, but a cool story and a real villain. If you like fantasy, you'll like this! "},{"Title":"Should've stayed locked away in the vaults","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I had forgotten about this film when I first heard Disney was finally releasing it on video for the first time.  Having become quite a fan of Disney's work over the past few years (never was much of a fan as a kid; go fig), I was anxious to see why they had never released this on video before.Now I know.This film, from the limited research I have done on the subject, apparently nearly sank the animation department at Disney, it did so badly at the box office.  It's no wonder. The shoddy storyline, unlikeable characters, and dated animation make it a wonder how it ever saw the light of day at all. The animation looked as if it could have just as easily been done in 1955 as 1985!  My 9-year-old niece was bored out of her mind.  So was I.  There was very little frightening about it that was actually supposed to be, and I have to agree with the quote I heard from someone that it was the first animated Disney feature to be completely without heart.This movie is good for one thing, however  if you're really interested, watch this, then watch The Little Mermaid (again, I'm sure), and marvel at the fact that those two movies were made only a couple of years apart (Little Mermaid was apparently already in the production pipeline when Black Cauldron was released; otherwise, we might never have seen it!).  Not only would I not recommend this movie for children, I wouldn't recommend it for anyone other than those into animation history, Disney history, or intense boredom.  Watch The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, even Hercules, before pulling this clunker off the shelf.  That Disney can't be sued for calling it a Masterpiece is a travesty in itself. "},{"Title":"sad to say i had to hate it","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" i thought it was a good move-if you've never read the book!!!Disney has gone over the edge with this. i had seen the movie when i was little, and thought it was a good movie. and it is if you've never read the book. just a little while ago i heard about the books and decided i would read them. i was blown away by the books! they were so good. personally , i'm a big lotr movie fan, i liked them more the the lotr books.the lotr books were just a little to detailed for me, so this came in first.the animation was good, but the story was heartbreaking.they start off with a bad start, this little fat lively bald guy, who at first sight i thought this must be coll which i thought they didn't do to bad. THEN I HEAR IT'S DALLBEN!!! i was mortified, dallben was supposed to be an old enchanter who hardly ever got out of his seat. and the way henwen gave the prophicies was all wrong. but anyway they continued the bad going by cutting out lord gwydion. what the heck? so then it turns out that the enchantress's, ordu,orwen and ogroch, already have the black cauldron.so then eilyonwi comes in and one is some little girl who doesn't talk near enough. and the whole thing with the sword, it just wasn't right.anyway in conclusion i could not stand it. the books deserve so much more credit than they get. read the books if you think this movie is good. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time today, and was very disappointed. I had been told that it was notoriously scary for a Disney movie, and I can see how children would find it frightening. However, this was not the problem I had with it. I found it to be extremely boring. The plot and characters were both generic and underdeveloped, and I found little suspense, humour, or really anything positive about it. I can possibly see young boys being amused with the action and pure evil of the Horned King, but unlike most Disney movies, there is little appeal for older viewers looking for a decent story.I'm not going to say this is an absolutely horrible movie - it's not. But it is very bland, and very forgettable. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. "}{"Title":"unDisney-like, says I","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The 25th animated Disney classic isn't all that classic. The first time I saw this a few years ago I enjoyed it more than after watching it again now. Now I am a few years older, which might have partially influenced that.The film was a Disney attempt in doing something different, perhaps such a radical change for its time that people weren't prepared, resulting in a spectacular failure at the box office and critically. If this movie had been made today, it probably would have been more appreciated. Time was kinder to it and attracted some loyal fans, but it still is one of the lesser known and appreciated animated Disney movies.Apparently this movie took 7 years to be made. A very long time, even for an animated film. It pioneered computer-generated imagery on Disney animated movies and also had the honor of being the first animated Disney effort to be rated as PG because of its extreme darkness and violence.'The Black Cauldron' isn't such a bad movie, however it is not for everybody (including Disney's purists). And it's not one I would recommend for children because it isn't entirely appropriate for them. It is extremely dark and there is plenty of disturbing and scary content on this. The Horned King, for example, is the most sinister-looking Disney villain ever. He is an undead skeleton with demonic horns and eyes that glow red when he gets mad. And his voice is creepy. The Horned King can make more sensitive or nervous children wet their pants of fright. His appearance is repulsive.The Horned King's servant Creeper is gross and his henchmen are just as nauseating. They also have got 2 ferocious dragon-like creatures and the most vicious dogs ever (together with DeSoto and Roscoe from 'Oliver & Company').Horrible and disturbing things are seen in this film, including an army of skeletons coming to life. Things like this could make kids have horrible nightmares.The 3 witches are not only hideous but also irritating and grotesque.On the positive side, there are a few interesting characters. Princess Eilonwy and Gurgi were the best characters. Princess Eilonwy is very charming and very pretty and elegant and she's also got a pretty smile and a friendly personality. Gurgi, whatever that thing is, is cute and at the same hilarious and charming. His voice is so funny and cute and I like his manner of speech filled with rhymed pairs of words, especially crunchings and munchings. Although a fraidy cat during great part of the movie, he eventually becomes a hero.Taran is cool, but sometimes he overacts, such as one scene in particular which he is unfair towards Princess Eilonwy. Taran has a lot in common with Wart from 'The Sword in the Stone' both are similar-looking and both spend their days daydreaming, anxious to become great warriors. Taran doesn't like to be an assistant pig keeper.Hen Wen is a cute little pig. Fflewddur Fflam isn't a very appealing character. He is an exaggerated broken down minstrel, so much that, whenever he lies, one of his harp's strings breaks. He is boring.The little fairies are likable. Doli was my favorite of the fairies thanks to his strong personality and short temper which made him so funny.Surprisingly, this film has no songs except for one by Fflewddur Fflam. Aside that, there is only some instrumental soundtrack.The film's got some amazing special effects. Besides, the drawing style (or artwork, whatever) is somewhat different in comparison to traditional Disney films of the time, almost Don Bluth-like style.6 is my final vote. Although, considering all the bad things I mentioned, I'd even give it a lower rating. "},{"Title":"I liked it when I first saw it, but now I think it is only a sub-par film","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The Black Cauldron is a film loosely based on a book series known as The Chronicles of Prydain by Lloyd Alexander about a boy who dreams of adventure, but when a magical pig named Hen Wen is captured, he has to set off on an adventure to find her and bring her back before the evil Horned King uses her to find the Black Cauldron, a weapon used to make dead soldiers come alive. I was about, I would have to say, maybe 8 years old when I first saw it. And I liked it a lot. It was a thrilling adventure. Now, I was not scared of it, but it does have moments that could be frightening to little kids. But that goes for a lot of Disney films. They all have an element of horror in them. It was not until 9th grade when I learned that it was a book, and it was not until I was in my teenage years that I started to read The Chronicles of Prydain. Now I think that the film version of The Black Cauldron is only sub-par. And here is whyThis version is just the first two books, The Book of Three and The Black Cauldron rolled into one movie, with The Book of Three dominating the story of The Black Cauldron. In the film, Taran is an Assistant Pig-Keeper, but in the stories, he does not start out an Assistant Pig-Keeper. He starts off by making horseshoes. There is a character who is Taran's mentor named Dallben in the film version. But in the books, there are two characters, Dallben and Coll. What they did was have the characters of Dallben and Coll meshed as one. Dallben is an old enchanter. One might equate him to Gandalf or Merlin because of his wisdom and his appearance. Coll is the one with the bald crown. The Princess Eilonwy is an interesting character as well. In the books, she is a chatterbox. In the film, they cut the chatter down. But they keep her independent mind in the film, which is a good thing. Also, her bauble floats in the film. But it does not in the books, it only lights up at her command. The bard, Fflewddur Fflam, is not at all like he is in the books. In the film, they portray him as an old man, but in the books, he is quite young, and has spiky yellow hair. Gurgi is pretty much the same as he is in the books, except Taran meets him when Gurgi tries to strangle him. There are a ton of important characters left out of this film, and I was not pleased with that. One other part of the film that I did not care for was how they introduced the Fair Folk. They have them as fairies, but they are not like that at all. They are dwarfs, well, some of them are. Doli, the one who helps the companions to the place where the Black Cauldron resides, is not elderly. He is young as well. And the witches that live in the Marshes of Morva, Orddu, Orwen, and Orgoch, hardly match their descriptions in the stories. And the magic sword that Taran takes from the Horned King's castle, which is known as Dynrwyn, can only be handled by someone of noble worth, and Taran does not prove himself of that in The Book of Three, nor in The Black Cauldron, which only mentions Dyrnwyn once. The Horned King, now this was disappointing. In the film, they present him as an old emperor, but he is not like that at all. He is a warlord, and a young strong one at that. He does not speak at all in the stories, and he works for a higher power known as Arawn, Death-Lord of Annuvin, which they roll both Annuvin and Spiral Castle, the castle that the Horned King inhabits in the film, into one country. There is a character who works for the Horned King in the film called Creeper, which the makers of the cartoon created. Creeper does not exist in the books. There are tons of other changes made, but I will not list them, simply because although I do not care for The Black Cauldron, I do not want to spoil it for you. So, I say this to you because if you read the books, then you might be disappointed by the film. But if you have not read them, or if you have and you will appreciate it anyway, then feel free to see it. "},{"Title":"Great fantasy movie, terrible kids movie","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disneys initial plan for this movie was to gear it towards the older crowd.. and well.. it certainly is geared towards the older crowd, perhaps a little to much. I love this movie, the storyline is from one of my favorite books, the animation is good and its what I like, fantasy. Although halfway through the movie the story started to slip, it ended up being overall good. At the time this movie came out, Disney movies were classified by the older generations as 'childish', and since parents where told the movie wasn't good for their kids, it simply flopped. If you're interested in a serious animated film, see this one. "},{"Title":"The weakest Disney movie is still pot-boiling stuff","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This is definitely one of the weakest Disney movies, and it certainly didn't help that the Disney studios were on a low. It is worse than oliver and Company, which I liked. I liked this one too, but it is not for children. I haven't read the books, but even without reading them, you could tell the voice actors weren't given much to work with. The characters are likable but badly underdeveloped, especially Taran, who I thought was a little bland. There were some truly splendid animated sequences, but most of them were inside the castle, like the death of the Horned King(highlight of the film for me), as well as Morva, and the Fairy Kingdom. Creeper and Gurgi were a little annoying at first, but I definitely preferred Gurgi. The music by Elmer Bernstein was very dramatic, such a shame because the story didn't match that. However, on a positive note, the most impressive elements of the movie, were the scene of the cauldron destroying the Horned King, the wonderful sombre intonation of John Huston in the prologue and a sinister voice-over by John Hurt as the Horned King(who was really frightening). Speaking of John Hurt, I have an issue with Roger Ebert rating this film over The Elephant Man(Hurt's best film). In my opinion The elephant Man is much better than this, which is a 6.5/10 from me. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Tolerable, but the books are better","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The movie's okay, but as usual when Disney sets out to turn books into movies, something gets lost. rather than do the tale of one book out of the five (six, technically, counting the one of short stories), Disney attempts to cram two books into one movie, with a slight reference to the final book (the kiss). The characterization is off, plot points are missed, and what emerges is an okay movie, but is essentially trash for fans of the books. These fans, and I am one, must watch the movie without expectations, in order for it to be decent.  "},{"Title":"Not great, but gets more bad press than it deserves","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Okay. This isn't really great Disney. The characters are very dull and underdeveloped.  The story is also somewhat dry and very uneven. It occasionally dips into bad fantasy elements. But when the movie is looked at more closely, is The Black Cauldron really all that bad? It follows a pretty basic but likeable story pattern. You know. Good fighting evil. Friendship. Sacrifices. Even a little blood! That's the stuff of storybooks. Plus, it doesn't use that awful cookie cutter formula that modern Disney likes using. I even remember liking this movie as a kid. This isn't exactly great Disney, but it's not all that bad. "},{"Title":"Great film, but not appropriate for kids.","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I saw this film at 6 when it came out in the theatres. It scared the heck  out of me, but looking back, I realize that the quality of the animation is  what caused me to be so scared. Now that I'm older, and perhaps wiser, and  having read the books this movie is taken from, I realize how good this  movie really is. There is the standard Disney happy ending fare, but what surprised me is  the closeness that the movie kept to the story, which is amazing for a  Disney kiddie flick. The animation is almost anime and comporable to screen  shots of FF8. (FF8 is short for Final Fantasy 8, a playstaion game series  that is very popular.) Don't let kids younger than 7 or 8 watch it as it is very scary, but if you  liked the scenes in sleeping beauty where the knight fights the evil fairy  queen/dragon there is much to like about this film. I bought a copy the  first day it came out. "},{"Title":"Ten screenwriters = abomination","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  If you've read the books, this movie is a wretched butchering of Mr. Alexander's work.  If you haven't read the books, gently put this awful movie away and read the books instead.  They're by Lloyd Alexander and any library will have them.  Two of the five books received Newberry Awards (for excellence in children's literature)It is possible to change a book and still have a great movie - witness The Shining or The Lord of the Rings.  This film, with its TEN screenwriters, is a testament to just how awful an adaptation can be. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, but still worth a watch","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I find it quite ironic that this film was the one that was supposed to take the company away from the run of unjustly called lacklustre films like The Aristocats and The Rescuers. This movie ended up epitomising how dull the Disney movies had supposedly become by becoming a spectacular flop.That said it's a generally good movie. It's story is told very well despite the rather slow pacing and the artwork and animation is spectacular in some points such as the high energy dragon chase scene when Hen Wen is captured and the heavily edited Cauldron born sequence. One special note is that its very different from the other Disney movies as it is quite dark and has absolutely no songs. The musical score by Elmer Bernstein serves its purpose very well and frankly I'm surprised there was no Oscar nomination.The film is very ambitious and in trying to be dark, powerful and epic it sometimes fails. It also doesn't help that the final battle between Taran and The Horned King is very anti-climatic. The Cauldron Born scene is also too abrupt, its delightfully chilling but the army isn't given anything to do though this I blame more on Jeffery Katzenberg and him deleting the very graphic content from much of this scene as well as around 10 minutes of the whole film. Another problem is poorly written dialogue.The biggest problem here is that it's based on The chronicles of Prydain book series, these complex books can't be worked into 80 minutes, even though it only covers the first 2 books there's a lot of things which are left out The first problem is that many important characters from the books including Ellydir, Gwydion, Achren etc are left out of the movie as are explanations for items like the magic sword and Eilonwy's bauble.The characters that remain are also an issue. Taran is well animated but his personality and character are undermined by some hokey dialogue, Eilonwy is also well drawn and has far more personality but unfortunately she's wasted on this film as she isn't given anything to do. The Horned King is easily by design the most terrifying villain to come from the Disney Studio. This is what Sleeping Beauty's Maleficant should have been like, while she had no motivation The Horned King wants to be an overpowered god through unleashing an army of murderous skeletons that only obey him. He infuses fear into every screen appearance but again like Eilonwy it's a shame that he doesn't get to pick up a weapon and fight for himself rather than sitting in that chair. The comic side of the film works a bit better although I will say that while Flewddur has personality and does entertain he doesn't add anything to the story. Creeper (the Horned King's imp) also entertains whilst Gurgi while not overly funny is one of Disney's most endearing comic sidekicks.So overall it's not the garbage that many, including the people working at Disney have taken it for and its not the epic masterpiece that it could have been but its a good movie nonetheless. It's highly entertaining and holds it's dark tone better than the later dark Disney's (Hunchback & Atlantis). It's a shame it was a box office failure and it would be better for the film if Disney finally re insert the deleted footage. heck it would probably invoke more interest in the film if people saw the poster for a Disney cartoon with an R-rating on it.Critical grade 7/10, Personal enjoyment 9/10 "},{"Title":"Not the best, not the worst","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Plot in a nutshell Taran is an assistant pig keeper for the old wizard Dallben in the land of Prydain who dreams of being a great heroic leader of men. Then trouble starts brewing when the Evil Horned King embarks on a dark quest to unleash the power of the Black Cauldron and attempts to kidnap Taran's pig Hen Wen, who happens to be an Oracular Pig. When Taran is given the task of taking the pig to safety, he loses her to the Horned King's forces and must embark on a quest to reclaim her, which introduces him to the hyper-talkative Princess Eilonwy, the slightly untruthful bard Flewder Flam, and the goofy little man-dog creature Gurgi, and then they in turn must embark on a quest to find the Black Cauldron itself and destroy it somehow.Well meaning if unsuccessful adaptation of the first two books in Lloyd Alexander's The Chronicles of Prydain book series, combining the plots of the first two books, #1 The Book of 3 and #2 The Black Cauldron, with the second book's plot taking center stage primarily. Many important characters from the books such as Prince Gwydion, Coll, Adaon, Morgant, and Elydir among others were lost in the translation from book to film. It's not un-entertaining, just uneven. Good animation and good music by Elmer Bernstein helps. "}{"Title":"A good yet forgettable movie","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The Black Cauldron is about a young boy who must look after his magical pig. He loses it and must stop the black cauldron's evil.  Like my summary, this movie has many plot holes.  One of the more violent of the Disney movies, The Black Cauldron is a terrific yet forgettable movie.  It just can't stand against The Little Mermaid and Beauty and the Beast, which is sad because it is truly a work of art. "},{"Title":"The Black Cauldron","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw a short trailer for this cartoon from Walt Disney Pictures, and then I read the interesting trivia that Tim Burton worked as conceptual artist on this film before becoming a successful filmmaker, so I was definitely looking forward to watching it. Basically centuries ago in the land of Prydain, young man Taran (Grant Bardsley) one day dreams of becoming a great warrior, his enchanter master Dallben (Freddie Jones) tells him the secret of why he is assistant pig keeper, Hen Wen is an oracular pig, and holds the secret to the location of the Black Cauldron, which has the power to restore life to the dead, undead souls of course. The boy is forced to go on a journey to save Hen Wen when the pig is kidnapped by the evil skeletal lord The Horned King (John Hurt), who plans to use the power of the Black Cauldron to raise a large army of unstoppable undead slaves and soldiers to take over the world, and the fearsome lord has many minions to stop any intruders who try to get into the castle. Taran is joined in his quest by furry creature companion Gurgi (John Byner) who is small and pestering but reliable, comical middle-aged bard Fflewddur Fflam (Nigel Hawthorne) who tries to help with his poetry and harp playing occasionally, and of course the beautiful Princess Eilonwy (Susan Sheridan) who is his age and stubborn but has bravery. Taran finds a magical sword that helps him fight off the enemies, they encounter the small fairy-like beings called the Fair Folk who help them to locate where the Black Cauldron is, they find the cauldron in the clutches of three witches, Orddu (Eda Reiss Merin), Orgoch (Billie Hayes) and Orwen (Adele Malis-Morey) who will only trade it for the magical sword. They reveal before disappearing that the cauldron is indestructible, and the only way to break it's power it is if someone was to climb into it, but this will also kill whoever does it, none of the companions are willing to do this, so the young man feels hopeless and that the mission may have all been for nothing, and then the nasty soldiers interrupt. They seize the Black Cauldron and The Horned King uses it to raise his army who pour out into the world, the friends are released by Gurgi who jumps into the cauldron himself before Taran can do, the spell of the cauldron is broken and the army collapses, the cauldron goes out of control and eventually consumes and destroys the castle. In the end the three witches take back the now useless cauldron, Fflewddur convinces them to prove their abilities and allow a trade, the cauldron to revive Gurgi, they hand back the magical sword and Gurgi is alive and well, the young man, Eilonwy and the bard journey home together, and Dallben praises Taran as a hero. Also starring Arthur Malet as King Eidilleg, John Byner as Doli and John Huston as Narrator. The mostly British voice cast is well chosen, Bardsley as the young hero, Jones as an enchanter, Hawthorne as an eccentric entertainer, Hurt as a dark villain, Huston giving his narration, and especially Byner who sounds very similar to The Lord of the Ring's Smagol but is really lovable. You could argue that this cartoon film is like any standard story full of swords and sorcery, and you can tell the animation is perhaps not the same high quality as previous and of course later pictures, but there is no denying that it is a really enjoyable tale for all ages, a fun animated adventure. Good! "},{"Title":"While this Is  A Deviation From Disney's Typical Formula, And Is Not  For Children of All Ages, It Is Quite Enjoyable!","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" From time to time, Disney deviates from the typical formula, and generates something new...something fresh. Atlantis was one such movie, without the first usual musical-ish feeling or element. It was a grand movie, with a beautiful feeling about it. This is another of those deviations, but without the same final effect.Something was lost in this translation, as it lacks much of the same old Disney feeling we've come to expect. It was prevalent throughout the atmosphere, story, and execution, but what struck me most of all was the lousy and often cheap-looking animation. The animation found herein was more what one might expect to find in a Disney animated sequel in that the backgrounds were haphazardly done, the principals were cheaply done, and the effects bore no concern or care in their design or presentation.The story, however is still quite compelling, while the elements of the story are darker than usual Disney fare. This was far darker than most Disney animated features, and may not be suitable for younger children, as the atmosphere is rather dark and foreboding.All this said, because of the story itself, this is not only in my collection, it stands as one of my Disney favorites. I AM a horror fan, after all.It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Not awful, not great, and not what I expected","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The problem with THE BLACK CAULDRON is not that it's dark. It's that it tries to do dark and doesn't do it well. THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME managed to be more dark and evocative than this.From what I can tell, CAULDRON wouldn't have been better with the edited-out stuff left in, either. Some of that material would have just contrasted much too jarringly with the movie's inescapable, if diluted, Disney-ness. (Having learned about some of said edited-out material, I'm amazed at the tone-deafness of the people responsible. They may have thought they were pushing the envelope, but even had this movie been better it was not the place for those kinds of attempts.)The best part of this movie is that it doesn't have any songs. But some choices regarding characters just don't make sense. What is the Horned King supposed to be? Wouldn't he have been better as a deranged, power-hungry human in a creepy costume (which, as I've recently learned, is exactly what he was in the source book) than as some kind of unexplained skeleton-being? Gurgi is not only annoying and difficult to understand, but he seems entirely out of place in the ancient setting. The minstrel guy serves NO plot function whatsoever -- I hate Disney characters like that, even if they're funny!The plot, whatever its faults (including the fact that there's no background or context provided for most of it), was reasonably involving. And I was pretty much OK with it until it got to the end, and Gurgi was miraculously brought back to life. Sorry, but that put the nail in the plot's coffin as far as I was concerned. "},{"Title":"The only Disney film that was a real disappointment to me.","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  When I saw THE BLACK CAULDRON I didn't know the original story at all, and not later either have I read the book, although I don't find the story completely miserable. However, I must confess that in fact the legend at the very beginning was the best part of the film. Of course I liked Taran and the pig, and Princess Elena was beautiful, but I was quite shocked when I noticed that there was not a single song in the whole film! For very often it's just the music that makes the Disney films so lovable! "},{"Title":"bad!!","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" OK, so this film came out 5 years before i was born, but i got it on DVD when i was about 7/8 and remember never really liking it that much. I watched it, but was like OMG I HAVE TO WATCH IT OVER AND OVER AGAIN!!I watched it again recently, and realised, i was so right as a kid. The story itself is quite dark, which i like, but the acting (or voicing, whatever lol) is terrible, and i just thought the whole thing was boring. Something i noticed was, it was the magical world of Prydain... so as a welsh speaker, i realised Prydain meant Britain.. So i decided to look on IMDb to find out more. Turns out, it is set in wales, and OK, some of the names are welsh -WHY THE HECK DO THEY ALL SOUND LIKE POSH English SNOBS THEN!!! Welsh and English people have very different accents, so i just couldn't understand how if it was set in wales, why did none of them sound welsh!!Anyway, this film isn't very good, bit of a Disney flop. Watch it if you have nothing better to do, but if you have to pick from this and the lion king, pick the lion king! "},{"Title":"Forgettable Disney feature.","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Disney studios seemed to endure a lull of about 15 years, beginning in the early '70s with Robin Hood and lasting right through until (and beyond) 1985. The Black Cauldron is nowhere near vintage Disney, but it's not without certain merits. For one thing, the animation is mighty impressive and marked the beginning of dazzling technological advances in Disney's animated features. Also, the voice-overs are excellent (with John Hurt a particular stand-out, bringing real menace to The Horned King). However, the problem here is that the decidedly uninspired storytelling severely lets down the film.The story follows a young pig keeper as he tries to protect a magical pig from the forces of darkness. The pig has the power to tell the future when its face is dipped in a pool of water, and an evil Horned King seeks the creature in order to use its magical skill to locate a long-lost black cauldron. If the black cauldron ever falls into the hands of the Horned King, then he will become all-powerful and rule the land.You don't have to know much about the fantasy genre to realise that this is a thinly disguised retread of The Lord of the Rings. For the black cauldron, read the one true ring. For the Horned King, read Sauron, the dark lord. Indeed, it's no exaggeration to suggest that this film is a sort of Lord of the Rings substitute for those with only 80 minutes to spare. While the film is just about enjoyable enough (especially for kids) it doesn't aspire to the high quality of previous Disney classics. It also might seem mildly entertaining whilst on, but it fades out of the memory all too quickly afterwards. See The Black Cauldron if you're a Disney completist, but if you're looking for real quality stick with some of the old classics, like Dumbo and Lady and the Tramp.  "},{"Title":"Disney's best film ever","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Please. Spare me the lecture about The Little Mermaid or Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. Face it they were dull! They had no redeeming value! Why is it that Disney's best titles-- Robin Hood (1973) and Cauldron are always overlooked? So, yes, the movie butchered Lloyd Alexander's series. So what? The world of books is completely different from the world of movies. If you can't take that, I'm truly sorry. Go read a book. The Black Cauldron is the fascinating, stunning tale of a brave but foolish boy, a precognitive pig, and an evil Horned King who will stop at nothing to become immortal.I always include this with my Best of '80s Fantasy marathons-- Ladyhawke, Willow, Krull, and so forth, with no Excalibur or The Neverending Story-- because it was such an amazing, imaginative movie that it deserves recognition as such. From the clever Witches of Morva scene to Gurgi's laments about munchings and crunchings, The Black Cauldron is why, after all these years, we still put up with Disney. "},{"Title":"Not a Good Movie","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I am a hard core Disney fan. I have seen every Disney animated movie out there, and own a collection of over 20 on DVD and VHS. But I had never heard of this movie until it was rereleased in 2001. So, I immediately bought it, without having viewed it prior to purchasing it. BIG MISTAKE! I took it home and my husband, myself and our 2 year old son sat down to watch it. I never finished it, although my husband did, and I sold it online 3 days later. Not one of us liked it. At first it seemed like a Sword in the Stone kind of movie, which is a movie I like. But then, about 15 minutes into it, I (23 years old) started to get a little freaked out and scared by it. Not terrified, just uneasy. The main villian, whose name I do not remember (something I do NOT feel guilty about) is a scary, skeleton like creature. His lair (which seemed to be very simular to Maleficent's lair from Sleeping Beauty, another movie I like) was a dark, awful place. Within 45 minutes, my 2 year old and I were in his bedroom reading books that I hoped would get him to forget about the movie he had just seen. It was not easy considering he was still crying, but at least no longer holding on to me for dear life. To be honest, I could relate to my son, as I had felt like shielding my eyes for the short time I was watching the movie. This was NOT a kids movie. Now I understand why I had never heard of it before, and why Disney does not advertise about it a lot. It does NOT fit Disney's good movie mold. I give this movie a 0 out of 10 and a recommendation to all viewers not to waste your time or money on this movie, especially if you have small children. Disney has so many good movies out there, and I hope people will remember that and do not judge Disney based solely on the viewing of this one, awful film. Rent Cinderella, Beauty and the Beast or 101 Dalmations instead. Those will give you a pleasent evening with your children. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Effort, Though it Falls Short","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Disney's The Black Cauldron is an uneven film, with an anticlimactic ending. The protagonist confronts the villain too early in the film to lend their conflict gravity. The villain's demise is ultimately unsatisfying and the film's resolution seems rushed. It is fair to say that the protagonist does go through a change in his view of the world, particularly what it means to be a hero, which lends the film merit. The tone mixes light-hearted Disney humor with the darker tones of the sword and sorcery genre popular in the 1980s. The film is ultimately interesting, in large part due to the animation and mature themes imbued in the plot. I loved that Disney, prior to the Eisner era, was willing to explore a dark sword and sorcery fantasy concept in its animation. This movie is no fairy tale, like Cinderella or Sleeping Beauty. I doubt Walt would have green lit such a grim project, which has more in common with Lord of the Rings than Dopey and Grumpy. A few reviewers have complained that The Black Cauldron does not look or feel like a typical Disney animated movie; that's why I enjoy it!The cartoon is based on a book for older children and preteens written in the 1960s, which in turn was inspired by Welsh mythology. The aura of high fantasy pervades the animation, which lends it an element of coolness that no doubt would appeal to older viewers than is the case for Disney animated films. The characters' facial appearances have the look typical of 1960s to mid-1980s Disney cartoon movies, so expect that. The Horned King and Creeper look pretty cool; while not particularly vile when compared to the likes of the Wicked Queen in Snow White or Stromboli in Pinocchio, the Horned King is one the scariest-looking Disney villains designed. His skull-face and antlered cloak evoke a sense of the sinister supernatural not present in much of the Disney fare. His army of undead soldiers, the Cauldron Born, are especially creepy--again, preteens who feel too old for cute mice and who want an introduction to high fantasy may be drawn by the ghoulish villains. This film also has a bit more realistic violence than most Disney cartoons, which may also attract older kids the protagonist's cheek actually *bleeds* after a dragon attack, which is uncharacteristic for a Disney character! Granted, the plot and themes are pretty sloppy compared to Peter Jackson's Lord of the Ring films, but for any kid who wants a more mature fantasy-themed Disney movie may enjoy what The Black Cauldron has to offer. This film came out when high fantasy was en vogue, and films like The Dark Crystal, Conan the Barbarian and Willow were popular. Sadly, this movie was a flop, and marked a dead end for Disney's attempts to animate dark high fantasy cartoons for an older audience. I sometimes think of what could have been Disney might have released a slew of animated features based on adult fantasy novels, like Wheel of Time or Herbert's Dune; hell, they may have ended up producing the first R rated Disney animated film, perhaps an adaptation of Game of Thrones. Sadly, this film's ill-fated production precluded that possibility, and it would not be until The Lion King and the Pixar movies that Disney would market its cartoons to children and adults simultaneously. While not a classic, The Black Cauldron is worth a watch. Watch it to experience a truly unique Disney venture its first foray into high fantasy. "}{"Title":"Dark and Violent. The Black Cauldron Was Unseccesful","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" *May Contain UnHarmful Spoilers*Hidden by darkness. Guarded by witches. Discovered by a boy. Stolen by a king. Whoever owns it will rule the world. Or destroy it. The Black Cauldron was a well-attempted film full of excellent potential. Unfortunately, this film was a bomb, and it was disappointing to watch. The movie took seven years to make, that's a long time, even for animation. I can see every dollar was put into every frame, and I can tell that they believed money was not a problem. Disney certainly had the money, but they surely didn't want to throw it all away. The success was very little, and it wasn't that it was horrible horribly, it was a little too dark and it just missed something.This was Disney's first animated PG movie, okay, it was violent, but not much more frightening than other Disney films in my opinion. The Great Mouse Detective was just as creepy and Beauty and the Beast was just a scary. But that's of little importance because they were much better films. The thing about The Black Cauldron is that it was shown to be dark and scary, but I think they could've have given the Horned King (John Hurt) a better portrayal evil.I enjoyed the characters, mostly. Disney has always had its little annoying side characters to bring the comic relief, but as far as Gurgi&#133; Taran (Grant Bardsley) is a young man who dreams of one day becoming a great warrior. All he has learned is to be the best pig keeper assistant, what a sad life. Taran lives his with uncle Dallben (Freddie Jones) at a little farm along with their precious piggy, named Hen Wen. Hen Wen is a special pig for he has powers to see the future. Ounce the Horned King of the dead discovers of Hen Wen's powers he immediately summons his soldiers from the underworld to capture the bacon. The Horned King desires the dark Black Cauldron that can conjure an army of infinite numbers. Taran gets to fulfill his life long dream, to be sent on a grand expedition full of danger and a promise to keep the pig away from evils hands. Daydreaming, Taran inevitable loses Hen Wen and is in fear of breaking his promise. He calls out for him, but instead of a pig he finds a, ummm, something named Gurgi (John Byner). Gurgi is a very annoying furry creature that plays the best friend act on Taran to get his juicy apple. He gets the apple, but loses his new best friend.Hen Wen was captured and brought to the dark whereabouts of the Horned King. Taran sneaks in to get his pig, but ends up captured and thrown into the dungeon. I would like to point out that the attitude of the Horned King was unrealistic. They call him the definition of evil and the master of sin, yet he shows signs of kindness of sparing Taran's life to be locked up instead, and will only strangle his little troll sidekick for failure. For a Disney film this is acceptable, but I just don't like exaggerating a character. Anyway, when Taran is locked up he meets a young princess, named Eilonwy (Susan Sheridan), who has been captured before him because it was thought that her strange floating ball of light could tell the future. Pointlessly to say, I like the young teenage relationship, while their hormones is blooming and discovering attractiveness to the opposite sex. So they both argue time to time, but they like each other overall.One thing I didn't understand was the significance of the magical sword of the long dead king that Taran finds. An ancient sword with magic to cut through metal, and it fights with a mind of its own. I would have thought that it would have more of a purpose to the plot other than it making Taran feel like a warrior, and a bargain trade for the cauldron. He really loved that sword, and felt invincible wielding it.I'll leave the story at that, and let you decide the rest. The Black Cauldron was impressive for its looks, but disappointing for most everything else. The only characters that I cared for were Taran and Eilonwy, and the Horned King was pretty cool. Everybody else was just annoying and pointless. I've pointed out Gurgi, and there's Fflewddur Fflam (Nigel Hawthorne), weird name I know, who tags along with his very expressionist harp. I could see the film going on without these two characters, though on the other hand without having Gurgi&#133; Though there is one thing that I find highly interesting, and that's all the sh*t this movie went through. Just count the dollars and the days this movie had in the process. It was expensive and it took several years to accomplish. However, the numbers were low for the movies prophet and it took more than a decade to come to video. Fascinating really, and despite this film being rated PG it went through some major editing. The new chairman of Disney, Jeffrey Katzenberg, had ordered the filmmakers to redo and edit the more intense and dark themes that would draw away a family audience. Here's the link if interested.http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Black_Cauldron_%28film%29 I really truly wanted to like this film, really. This film isn't horrible, and I would watch it again if I get the chance. Though I have to give this one the cold slip for a project failed.**/**** Stars The Black Cauldron (1985) Rated PG for some violent images "},{"Title":"A dark and different Disney movie.","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" In the times of wizards and sorcery in a magical land called Prydain, there was a evil king called The Horned King ( voiced by John Hurt) who's spirit is captured in a powerful thing called The Black Cauldron which is a magical and evil cauldron that has been hidden for a thousand years knowing whoever possessed it can have the power to resurrect an army of undead warriors and rule the world. Taran ( voiced by Grant Bardsley)is an assistant pig-keeper who lives with his mentor Dallban ( voiced by Freddie Jones) with a magical pig who can create visions especially of the Horned King's desire for the mysterious Black Cauldron leads Taran to go on the adventure of a lifetime with new friends like a beautiful princess named Ellionwy ( voiced by Susan Sheridan), a lovable hairy critter named Gurgi ( Voiced by John Byner) and a broken down musician named Ffluder Flem ( voiced by Nigel Haththrone) as they search for the legendary Black Cauldron and must destroy it before the Horned King gets his hands on it.Considered the biggest flop in the history of Disney films, this movie was given a PG rating for dark content and themes and took 9 years in the making for a dark animated fantasy adventure flick. For me i thought this was a very entertaining and different kind of Disney movie that don't go into the musical routines but rather a straight Disney animated movie in the tradition of J.R.R. Tolkein. While it doesn't exactly follow the books well but it does have stunning animation, some early CGI for it's time and offers a lot of great fun for older viewers but not really for younger kids.Also recommended The Dark Crystal, Sleeping Beauty,  The Great Mouse Detective,  The Fox and The Hound, The Last Unicorn, The Secret of NIMH, Fire & Ice,  Bambi, Rock & Rule, Heavy Metal, Starchaser Legend of Orin,  Oliver & Company,  Pinocchio,  The Wizard of Oz, Return to Oz,  The Princess Bride, Willow, Wizards,  The Lord of the Rings ( 1978), Harry Potter movies, Willy Wonka and The Chocolate Factory, Charlie and The Chocolate Factory, Conan The Barbarian,  Mulan, Aladdin,  Beauty and The Beast,  The Aristocats,  The Emperor's New Groove,  Atlantis The Lost Empire,  The Hunchback of Norte Dame,  The Lion King,  Lord of the Rings Trilogy, The Chronicles of Narnia The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe, Vampire Hunter D, Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust, Princess Mononoke,  Spirited Away, Howl's Moving Castle, Castle in the Sky, Nausicca Valley of the Wind,  Hercules,  Army of Darkness,  The Hobbit, Return of the King,  Blade Master,  Conquest,  Legend,  Record of Lodoss Wars,  Excalibur, King Arthur,  The Fifth Element,  The Iron Giant, Transformers The Movie and The Prince of Egypt. "},{"Title":"Really Boring.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Unlikely and ill-prepared young hero going on a quest? Check. Couple of sidekicks, one of them a magician of some kind, the other an animal of some kind? Check. Evildoer who lives in a dark castle and has found some physical object that has the power to control the world? Check. Lovely girl to play the damsel? Check. And what am I forgetting... Oh yeah. All of them live in a quasi-Medieval fantasy world and have weird names? Check! Yes, all the staple elements are here, happy endings all around, no surprises. And my GOD... This movie is SO boring I could barely get through it. This is the first and only Disney movie that is genuinely boring. The script is dull, the animation lacks any style or originality, the characters remain clichd and undeveloped throughout, and the story is so plodding I was on the verge of fast forwarding... (And that's saying a lot, because I'm into animation in a big way.) Easily Disney's worst film, and it has nothing to do with the grave content- This could be pastel and singsong and it would still be totally awful- The script is totally devoid of anything meaningful or interesting. If you want a GOOD animated movie that is serious fantasy, get The Secret of NIMH. The Black Cauldron? Quite possibly the only Disney film that should have stayed in the Vault. My score 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Under rated","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm shocked by some of the ratings given to this movie. It is dark but so many of the great Disney classics are.I would have given this movie ten stars but it should of been longer to showcase the many amazing events that I cannot describe do to spoilers.If you like Ghibli I think you would enjoy this.I am writing this as I am watching the great mouse detective with my daughter. This movie Received a 9 star rating but is as dark as the black cauldron in my opinion. Although my 5 year old daughter disagrees. (But my 9 year old niece agrees.)I am writing as a father that has seen a lot of kids movies. "},{"Title":"Even more underrated than 'Oliver and Company' and darker but also weaker","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I remember this film being publicised as a trailer on certain Disney video tapes when I was about 10 and I remember how much I wanted to see it because I thought it would make a great change from the likes of 'Pocahontas' and 'Hercules.' Like 'Oliver and Company' (which is better but not quite as underrated as this one despite my original claim of Oliver being the most overlooked Disney film from the 80s), I also thought that it was originally released in the 90s but due to its obscurity, it was in fact released in 1985 and it was a box office failure. Unfortunately I didn't get to see 'The Black Cauldron' until I was 20 when I rented the DVD from my now-defunct local Blockbuster and I really quite enjoyed it then. Today I watched this for the first time in nearly seven years on Amazon Prime Instant Video and sadly I found my second viewing more underwhelming than my first viewing.The film's weak points include its somewhat slow pacing, the similarities between Dallben and Fflewddur Flam, the frog jumping from the cleavage of one of the witches being a bit too adult for this film, the dragons looking similar to Maleficent from 'Sleeping Beauty' in dragon form, the darker scenes lacking in detail, Eilownwy's line Use the sword and Taran using it being similar to something out of a Star Wars film and, as the Nostalgia Critic said in his Disneycember review for this film, the more powerful/dramatic parts of Elmer Bernstein's score sounding similar to that from 'Ghostbusters,' which came out the year before this film did. As another reviewer has said, I also found the demise of the Horned King very dark albeit its impressive scanimation effects.On a more positive note, the strongest points of this film include its engaging if somewhat complicated story, the animation being smooth with effective lighting and cel-shading in parts in spite of its sketchy, linear look, the backgrounds being intricately detailed, some funny moments, parts of Bernstein's score sounding different from that in 'Ghostbusters' by making them sound medieval, more upbeat and majestic and most of the characters being diverse. Taran is talkative yet heroic, Eilonwy is one of Disney's most underrated princesses although helpful and gentle, the Horned King is sinister and reminds me of Skeletor from He-Man while Gurgi, Hen-Wen and the Fairfolk (small fairy-like creatures) are cute. I also found the small green goblin character comical and he made me consider him an early basis of Pain and Panic from 'Hercules.' Although I would like to have had the characters to speak in Welsh accents, their voice acting was full of clarity, especially from Grant Bardsley as Taran and Susan Sheridan (also the voice of Moomin in the 1990 2D-animated adaptation of Tove Jansson's books and Noddy from my childhood favourite stop-motion show 'Noddy's Adventures in Toyland') as Eilonwy. All in all, this may be the weakest feature-length Disney film I have reviewed to date here on IMDb but it was worth watching for its special effects, story and range of characters. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Story does not connect","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" The DVD cost me 2 which was a bargain until I wasted 80 minutes of my life watching the black cauldron.I couldn't connect with this story. The characters are introduced but not explored, not like a typical Disney film. Its hard enough remembering their poorly created names let alone feel anything for them.The poorly conceived villain wants to wipe out all the living in his land.Usually this would be an admirable goal for your typical maniac villain but in this case it is laughable all but a handful of the living in this land are already under his control (either in his dungeon or they are his soldiers).The only things that aren't are an old guy (named whatever) who lives with a boy (the hero) and a prophetic piglet (Hen-Wen) and their pitiful farmyard animals. So basically the evil king is going to raise an army of the undead to wipe out a small farm oh and how could I forget the only other living thing that is the nauseating cuddly but cleptomaniac dog looking doowacky. The clepto dies, and in the final scene, his cuddly-wuddly body is returned to our hero and you think for just a moment this film might rescue itself if they live the thief dead, but no, they bring him back to life and remembering this means I am going to reduce the vote from 3 to 2 out of 10. The one good thing that I hope came from this film is Disney learned a few lessons in story-writing (which I thought that would have had down by the mid-80s). "},{"Title":"The Fifth Element","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film fell under three of my to-view-or-review lists Disney Phase II efforts, 80s fantasy, and 80s animation.  (Yes, I enjoy 80s culture.)  Fantasy films like this run on four theme elements good, evil, design and differentiations.  The fifth element is trickier, the public reception to the constructed universe.Spoilers exist...The first and second run on stereotypes--the page warrior, the virginal princess, the Dark Lord.  The Villian design is from 'Heavy Metal'-style TV cartoons.  The witches are French stereotypes how else do you explain the red hair, appetite for frogs, and power scheming?  The minstrel is the play-within element, the actor playing the actor.  Gurgi is the Jew/Russian stand-in.  Disney's images come from past work--'Fantasia', 'Beauty', 'Dalmatians'.  Interestingly, Disney tries to make everything appear normal in our distinct Western configuration while Scott wanted 'Legend' to be hyperreal and hyperbole--just look at Darkness.  By comparison, the Horned King is Emperor Palpatine, plain.'Conan' shifted our interpretation of the first element, 'Legend' mastered the third and 'Dragonslayer' emphasized the fourth (the most daring so far).  The biggest differentiations here come in lesser details.  The dragons, the skeletons, and the atmosphere we've seen before, but to lesser effect.  I noticed in 'Mulan' how Disney kept from showing war-dead, lest they spoil the happy mood they spent years perfecting.  According to IMDb trivia, Katzenberg censored this upon release, probably wrecking the more mature content.  He then decided to make his own version with 'Shrek' after defecting.  Meanwhile, Peter Jackson decided that since he has $300 million to blow, he wants everything.  So he turns elves and orcs into Aryans (either physically or philosophically) and all Gollum's mannerisms stem from Gurgi.  Some things don't change...Overall, this is not as complex as 'Wizards'.  Not as visual as 'Legend'.  Not as world-weary as 'Dragonslayer' (which had no comic relief).  We didn't want this foreign theme in our pop culture ideas--mostly sentimental--of what Disney movies are supposed to be (the same fate befell the 'Oz' sequel) so this has historical significance in charting Disney's retreat to Phase III formula.Bernstein copies his 'Ghostbusters' compilation for the score.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"Disney rewrite of The Lord of the Rings","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" So many striking similarities between Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings and The Black CauldronA magical item, the black cauldron/the ring, granting excessive power. A wise wizard initiating an unexperienced lad. Cute companions to follow the lad. Flying black dragons vs. dark riders. A prophetic pig vs. a crystal ball.But as that, a twisted copy of something much larger, it was not very exciting nor does it have much depth, and it's not cute and funny either.My wife and I turned off after 20 minutes although we were looking forward to this Disney movie. "},{"Title":"Is this Disney's worst animated feature?","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think not, but a strong case can be made.  SOMETHING sets it apart, and it's this it's not so much a Disney feature as a Saturday morning cartoon, part of the same world as He Man and the Masters of the Universe, with more than a passing resemblance to other backlot fantasies of the 1980s - I refer not to minor masterpieces like `Ladyhawk' or expensive fiascos like `Willow', but to things with titles like `Syzgar Sword of Destiny'.It's SO echt-80s fantasy that it almost works.  It's good to see Disney wandering over some new ground and bringing back the occasional luridly dark and lushly cheesy image.  In a fitful way they grabbed the unfamiliar genre and milked it for all it was worth.Unfortunately it's not worth very much.  You know the drill a hero from out in the sticks sets out on arbitrary Dungeons-and-Dragons type quest to recover the magic whatever it may be in order to defeat one of Sauron's distant cousins.  The hero here is Taran, and the quest ...  Well, there's this cauldron that can turn corpses into loyal undead servants, and a villain called the Horn King who is after the cauldron, and a magical pig - Taran's pig - who alone can tell the Horned King where the cauldron is.  If the Horned King finds the cauldron he will take over the world and make everyone into an undead slave.  The solution, clearly, is to kill the pig.  But Taran doesn't and moreover, he is willing at one point to let the Horned King know where the cauldron is in exchange for the pig's life.  This is surely carrying sentiment too far.  This is a deeply confused quest and it's usually unclear just what Taran hopes to achieve.Characters are weak the Horned King is a kind of rococo Skeletor, about as menacing as the average action figure; his henchmen are the kind that shout, `Catch them, you fools'; Taran is as shallow is a rain puddle; and the characters he picks up along the way follow him about like flies, with as much reason.  (It's not all Disney's fault the author of the books also had a tendency to substitute mannerism for character.)  And the dialogue is so baldly utilitarian it might have been better if the characters hadn't been allowed to speak at all.  I wonder why this is.  I'm sure if one scoured the five books one could have found at least 80 minutes' worth of decent speech, somewhere.All this is bad; but what makes it heartbreaking is the poor animation.  (It was a real shock reading the credits, because I recognised ALL the names.  Everyone involved has done much better work since.)  Many of the flaws are the kind you'd expect to see of a Saturday morning Gurgi suddenly growing an extra coat of skin whenever someone grabs him by the neck; Taran and Eilonwy running as if they want NOT to get away, away from pursuers who are giving chase as if to avoid catching up; weighty rocks made of chalk and geese with wings of rubber.  I can't capture the low quality by citing instances.  The animation is just not up to scratch, and some characters - such as Taran, who is on screen virtually all the time - NEVER move convincingly.In short a bad movie.  But I must admit I sort of enjoyed it, in a way I didn't enjoy, say, `Oliver and Company' (which IS Disney's worst animated feature).  I can't think of many objective grounds of recommendation.  One thing worth mentioning is Disney animation's only extended cleavage gag.  While it's not in the least erotic I'll bet the animator enjoyed himself. "},{"Title":"One of the main reasons why Disney is lacking.","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I was little I remember when they release the BLACK CAULDRON again on remaster video release I've been asking for it but I never got it and now that I went to get this movie I saw it and I understand why I never got it when it came out and I also understand why this movie did so poorly at the box office this movie wasn't good at all, at first I try to give a chance to like it but I just couldn't like it. The characters are not at all following like other Disney characters, with the whole pig boy who wants to become a hero who acts scared really and the princess I found most annoying with her flying ball and that old guy is the same way too. Disney can't think of anything new at all. "}]