[{"Title":"Helen Slater is Superb, Faye Dunaway is Delicious, and Warner Bros. are MIFFED!","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"124 out of 178 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all, I am sick of all the bad reviews people seem to say about this exceptional film. For starters, the film had over the top special effects, a GREAT cast, BEAUTIFUL heroine, breathtaking musical score, good direction, and all else that goes with it! I saw this film as a young child during the whole war in early 1990, and let me tell you it was an experience that I haven't yet forgotten! The film deals with young Kara, from Argo City, the survivors of krypton. She loses the omegahedron, a power source of importance to her argo city.  As she knows the consequences of the lost source, she travels to earth to retrieve it, but it has fallen into the hands of the world domination hungry Selina, who will consider nothing less. Supergirl arrives on earth and the battle begins between good and evil. Supergirl faces a demonic force made from pure energy of evil, travels to a dangerous phantom zone. The film was panned for no reason what so ever, it has intellect and gracefullness, which the ruthless money driven critics obviously chose to ignore. The real root to this film's problems is not the critics, but rather the studio and producers which finished this film. First, they didn't like Helen Slater. Ilya Salkind hath many a time mentioned the regret he feels that they didn't get some pretty girl who couldn't act (Brooke Sheilds) to do the part. Then, he and his father dumped the film for god knows why! Next in line, Warners hailed to the Salkinds for giving them a good Superman, and who could blame them, but in this case, because of their doubts, they just gave up on the film altogether. This film is piece by piece what superhero movie making is all about. It cost $50 million to make, and the crew are still proud of it! DON'T HINDER SOMEONE'S ART! Last but not least the cast are powerful and Helen Slater is the best choice, no one care's what Ilya Salkind thinks! Faye Dunaway, who is very much proud of this film, gives a tounge in cheek performance in a campy way! TRI-STAR, who picked this film up chopped the film up and distributed it horribly. Now, Warners are miffed and trying to speak up for it, but that's a different story. All in all, The film was a GREAT film from the start, and remains to this day thusly! Thank you to AnchorBay for recreating my innocence and happiness. Sad though, the irony of it is lost in today's generation. A 10/10! "},{"Title":"I am Kara of ARGO city, daughter of Alura and Zor-El, and I don't scare easily.","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"85 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am  surprised at the high percentage of very low votes for this movie, SUPERGIRL. While it is by no means a great movie, it IS a good film which makes a comic book story come to life. Helen Slater was only 19 when she played Supergirl and it is hard to imagine a better choice. She is pretty and innocent, but has a fine figure and very athletic legs, very believable as Superman's cousin, come to Earth to return the omegahedron to her society, while Superman is on self-imposed exile. For a 1984 film the production values are very high, not one wire is shown in the scenes where Supergirl flies, unlike Superman IV which is very poor in comparison. And, except for the drawn-out ending, is paced very nicely. I have the director's cut, which is 2 hours and 13 minutes of film, and another 5 or 6 minutes of credits.Faye Dunnaway is also excellent as the archrival, evil sorceress. To me that is the best type of role for her. The DVD has a remarkably good video transfer and is an altogther fun movie, for fans of the Super series of comic book characters. And, at 145 into the film, several newly-introduced Honda Sabre motorcycles were escorting Dunnaway's car.  "},{"Title":"The TRUE heart of a beautiful hero.","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"102 out of 148 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" In the depths of inner-space, we find a city called Argo City. The inhabitants are not unknown, for they come from Krypton, a world which has never been forgotten. These Argonians have barely escaped the dangers that ruined the Kryptonian existence, and now they have created Argo City as a new home. We all know Krypton is where Superman is from. Argo City is the home of his surviving family, including his cousin, Kara. Kara is Supergirl, and portrayed in the most wondrous, fabulous, ultimately fantastic performance by the beautiful Helen Slater, who put so much into the part, she deserved more than America gave her. Kara creates a problem, as she looses a power source by accident. This power source is part of what makes the glorious city operate. Thusly, she takes responsibility for her own actions and goes after it...and onto the best adventure in superhero history! The film focuses on Supergirls adventures when she arrives on earth, from her FANTASTIC ariel ballet entrance, to her final battle with the witch Selena, portrayed by a darn-good-fun-loving Faye Dunaway. Supergirl must retrieve the power source, and return it home, where her city shall live again. This film is simply, the best super-action film in the whole genre. We were given the ultimate superhero film six years earlier in Christopher Reeve, whom also portrayed a fantastic superhero. Helen Slater was the only actress to actually become the girl she displays for us. Faye Dunaway was extremely fun to watch, as she is in an on-going battle with another kind of superhero. Being a spin-off of the highly acclaimed '78 masterpiece, this film is gracefully linked with numerous references and a cameo by Marc McClure. What WB allowed Ilia Salkind and the director Jeannot Szwarc to do was awful, it was awful! But I feel we were still given a wonderful movie 20 years ago! What difference does it make if we cannot answer all the questions, so what if it wasn't the film this country wanted...it was NOT supposed to be an identical superhero movie with flying missiles and plots to destroy the world! SO WHAT? This is a fantasy, and more so as a superhero film would be like. Monsters and supernatural wonders beyond belief! Something tells me that if this film were NOT a film about Supermans' cousin, people would have accepted it better. It was written on a fantasy journey of familiarity just as Dark Crystal, Labyrinth and NeverEnding Story Could it be that people are not accepting of the female species? Just look at the awful ways that other female hero films are written! This film is far better and much more intelligent than that! The film Supergirl surpasses all that and goes even further than it seems. The title character is smart, strong, and constantly determined. The villain is witty, desperate, and viciously determined. In this, we have a dichotomous image of two sides in one world. What else do you need? We have a great film that has never been given the proper chance it deserves. Supergirl is so much more than one sees it to be. People who do see it for wonderful movie it is, are the real ones who know the true heart of a beautiful superhero, and will not cease to be satisfied by what a film of its kind has to offer. The acting is exquisite, and the direction is perfect. Slater and Dunaway draw a sensational picture of mental, and physical power, and Jerry Goldsmiths' score will send a vibrant thrill of emotion through your very heart. Bottum Line This film was great 20 years ago at 105 min., and it is great now at 140 min. I LOVE this movie, and I know it flies higher than most people know. Helen Slater, Faye Dunaway, Peter O'Toole, Brenda Vaccaro, Hart Bochner, and every one else on the film have every right to be proud of this masterpiece! Supergirl is a true Superhero. "},{"Title":"A Beautifully written archetype which has yet to face criticisms it deserves...","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"116 out of 178 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Archetypes are written in all kinds of stories. Comedies, Dramas, Suspenses, Horror films, even documentaries. This was such a film written at the best archetypal pace and yet, has validity and stands on it's own as a Superman film. Supergirl was one of the best ideas to hit the big screen. The Superman formula had been worn very thin by the egregious Superman III, and the world needed a new style and direction of the series. Alas, this film was conceived, with the best special effects crew and a cast that could take home the Oscars like Lord of the Rings Return of the King in a limousine on a gravel driveway. But the film was not well received, because many believed it to be a bad film and criticized it with out even seeing it. The film, a Superhero's story, is about Kara-El, Superman's cousin, who must go to earth and save mankind from a witch who is going to take over the world, to save millions and most importantly, to do what's right. Very major events take place and important life lessons are learned.The film is not only a great film of Superhero wonder and mystique, it is a completely written archetypal story with wit, charm, and heart to it. The story begins in the inner space where a city has been built to store all the citizens that survived the Krypton explosion. This is where not only the movie, but the archetype begins. With the biblical dressed people of ArgoCity, and the people whom inhabit the story. then, the magical symbol for eternity is introduced as an omegahedron. It is lost by a young Kara, who is introduced as the soon to be Supergirl. This is where our both heroin and initiate is introduced. She loses the omegahedron and must go to earth to retrieve it. From here we are taken on the famous dual journey The Journey of physical sanctity, but also the journey of self discovery. When Kara goes to earth and becomes Supergirl-Woman of steel, she is naive to all the ways of earth, and is new to all the ways of technology. This is buttressed by her bracelet she carries with her to help her track the omegahedron, which brings us to our next archetype. Selena is a power hungry witch who wants no more than to rule the world. This is not just your average villain, but with needs and clauses to be treated like a person, but knows not how to obtain these things. This gives Selena great depth to add to her fueling anger towards mankind for not getting her what she wants. There are characters all over the place symbolizing the archetype of the accomplice or friend who helps the heroin through the beautiful but difficult journey. Then you have the mentor of the story, zaltar, the founder of Argocity and the one who is paying for Kara's mistake by sending himself to the phantom zone. This is a powerful moment of truth and justice when he and Kara are in the archetypal moment in the movie where the heroin and the mentor are faced with death and crossroads and must come through new people-all done greatly and masterly in the frighteningly tense phantom zone scene which Kara displays great courage in the face of death. Finally the archetypal battle of the villain and hero ends with the villain in white and getting a comeuppance of great justice to the hero. Then the hero returns home knowing that she is a new person and has learned both lessons of life and lessons about herself. And in the perfect archetypal ending, she enters the inner space zone through water-symbolizing the cleansing of her soul and mind. So one sees, Supergirl has much to be praised about being a Superhero film with terrific acting and a great cast, but a script that seems to be dumped on the most. Everyone attacks the script but does anyone really think about it? IT is a very intelligently written script about finding out what you can do and looking inside yourself to see the beauty within. All attackers of the writing if this greatly done archetype masterpiece will one day have their comeuppance like the villain Selena does. And one day this film will, I believe, receive the best treatment for which is so rightly deserves. Helen Slater, Faye Dunaway, Peter O Toole, Jeannot Szwarc, Jerry Goldsmith, and Ilya Salkind all did their absolute best to make sure that this film is a thrilling experience, and I think they have done their job. Plus all the rest of the cast and crew which did their time and effort to make this works. It does. A Great Film. 9/10 "},{"Title":"If you know the facts, you will see how enjoyable this film is...","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"62 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Title SUPERGIRL Rating (Theatrical Version) *1/2 (out of 5) Rating (International Version) ***1/2 (out of 5) Rating (Extended Director's Cut) **** (out of 5)There have been many films that, when originally released, have been spit on and throughly trashed by the critics and audience; some of these films have developed into cult classics.  However, I have never seen a film that has had the first characteristic and then eventually go beyond all expectations, raising a few eyebrows and almost completely overcome all the negativity that had been thrown at it in the past. SUPERGIRL is the first film that I have given ever that respect to and it's a real shame that it wasn't released the way it should have been. Personally, I'm a huge fan of the first two SUPERMAN films, and yet I really don't like comics in general.  However, the original SUPERMAN film released in 1978, was respected by those who don't even care for superhero and comic book movies and it, to an extent, had started a phenomenon in terms of bringing more superheroes and comic book characters to the screen. When SUPERMAN III was released in 1983, however, it had practically ruined the concept and the audience had retreated back into their normal lives when Christopher Reeve, wisely, retired from the role.  One year later, SUPERGIRL was released by the same producers (Alexander and Ilya Salkind) and trashed almost twice as much as SUPERMAN III was.  Needless to say, when I saw it on television in the early 90's, I trashed it to and thought it was worse than SUPERMAN III, as well as PART IV, and looked at it nothing more than ridiculous and amateurish.  In 2000, however, my opinion of SUPERGIRL was completely changed. Being an avid DVD collector (and a particular fan of audio commentaries), I decided to give SUPERGIRL a second chance for curiosity's sake and, as a result, this movie actually made me realize not to never judge a film again for just for what it shows and presents.  The DVD version (by Anchor Bay) has two versions of the film...and neither one is the original 105 min. version!  They contain the international version (which runs 124 min.) and a never-before-seen Director's Cut that ran a whopping 138 min!  The latter version contained scenes that have not only never been released before, but have only recently surfaced in a London vault with the warning Do Not Use.  For the very first time, director Jeannot Szwarc has released his complete vision of the film, complete with a genuinely surprising audio commentary which touches base on his intentions before and during the making of the film from the very beginning. The facts (you can call them SPOILERS if you want) are simply these1.  Christopher Reeve was going to be in it and be a mentor of sorts to Supergirl in one scene where she arrives on Earth, as well as be in another scene when Supergirl eventually saves him upon losing all his powers.  Due to the failure of the third SUPERMAN movie, however, Reeve completely bowed out of the role due to his blaming of the Salkinds' for how they screwed up the entire franchise by making the third film campy and put more empahsis on comedy, which simply didn't work. Ironically, that's exactly how many critics and audiences in 1984 thought that SUPERGIRL was awful.2.  Director Jeannot Szwarc reveals that, from the beginning, that he wanted SUPERGIRL to stand on its own and be nothing more (or less) that what it was; in other words, he made it so it would pretend to be nothing else than itself.  He had to contend with many revisions of the script by David Odell, for not only production reasons, but for studio reasons Warner Bros declined to release it (again due to the failure of S. III) and it was then picked up by then-unknown Tri-Star pictures, who had chopped up the film to where, when it was released in the U.S., had a lot of incoherency and confusing development (in both plot and characters), and thus all but completely trashed Szwarc's vision and intentions.3. The result made SUPERGIRL virtually ignored by the U.S. audience, failing miserably at the box office and with every major critic promoting it as garbage; my favorite critic, Leonard Maltin called it a superdrag dull, long, and heavy-handed.  All the well-repected actors in it were condemned as being wasted and laughable; this is especially true of Faye Dunaway, as the villianess bent on obtaining world dominition.  As for its status today, hardly anyone remembers it, and a few people I've talked to maintain it doesn't even exist!  That all changed with the 2000 DVD release by Anchor Bay, which I had viewed only recently.I truly believe that when people watch either the International or Director's Cut, that they will agree with me that it would have been much better---and maybe even a success---if released that way in 1984. Presented in a digitally mastered version by THX, the film matures on almost every level, beginning with Jerry Goldsmith's score being nothing short of sensationsal, giving the film what John Williams gave to the original SUPERMAN, but what's different is that Goldsmith's actually complements the heroine's qualities by being lyrical and high-spirited.  Then there is Alan Hume's gorgeous cinematography, which reaches its zenith in a wonderful sequence where Supergirl does an aerial ballet when she discovers her powers; it supports the idea that her character is innocent and in utter awe with her discovery (may I also state that this sequence was cut entirely when first released). Finally, because of the director's commentary, my original opinions of the performances have been erased; he states that his cast chose to be in the film primarily because it was a change-of-pace for them and all they wanted was, as the director wanted as well, just to have fun.  That, combined with the additional footage bringing the full character development back into focus, the film goes beyond all expectations. The key to enjoying this film, bear in mind, is to not take it too seriously (which many critics tend to do when reviewing a movie).  Despite all the praise I've given to this new version, the film still does have flaws, particularly in the writing department, though you do come to realize that is not necessarily the fault of the screenwriter when considering the sequence of events that lead to the film being made.  I encourage anyone to take a chance to check this film out because it really is very enjoyable and a lot of fun; beware of the old video release and TV versions, however! E-mail me if you want to express your agreements (or disagreements) with me. "},{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"77 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sharply done, often pleasing effort from the Salkind/Warner Bros. troupe. Much of a relief after the disastrous Superman III, Supergirl is Kal-El's cousin from the inner space community of ArgoCity. After a mistake goes awry within the peaceful walls of the city of Argo, Kara(Helen Slater, in probably her best performance.) must go to earth and retrieve the omegahedron, a power source that ArgoCity needs to live. Thus she is transformed to Supergirl-Women of Steel! What she does not understand at first, is that the magical source fell into the hands of the chaos hungry sorceress Selena, who proceeds to filch it, and take over the small town of Midvale, Il. It's up to Supergirl to save the day and return the omegahedron to ArgoCity where it belongs. Can she do it? State of the art special effects, especially the wire work, and FABulous acting boost this to be one of Hollywood's best efforts. Urbane settings and Mundane characters increase this. Jerry Goldsmith's beautiful and imaginative score is felicitous and strong. Like Superman/Superman II, the greats were hired to take this film flight Faye Dunaway(Network), Peter O'Toole(Laurence of Arabia), Brenda Vaccaro(Midnight Cowboy-Once is Not Enough), Maureen Teefy(Fame), Mia Farrow(Rosemary's Baby), Peter Cook(Bedazzled), and of course, Helen Slater, turns in such good acting that one is right there in the front row shouting for her to win! win! win! All in all, an underrated film(After the Warner Bros. dropping it fiasco) and a true diamond in the blockbuster rough! ***** out of *****! "},{"Title":"A considerable improvement over the Superman movies","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"43 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The way some people see Supergirl is the perfect demonstration that feminists have been right all along a woman does have to work twice as hard just to earn half the pay and a tenth the respect of a man.The double standard is astounding; the same people who can watch Superman reverse time by reversing Earth's rotation without so much as blinking, are the same ones who complain that they never explained where Supergirl got her outfit. They see nothing wrong with a depowered Superman who walks all the way to the North Pole without food, water or so much as a scarf, where he recovers his powers without explanation. Then they turn around and complain that Supergirl wasn't wet when she came out of the lake. When the depowered Superman discovers the world has been taken over by a superpowered madman, he walks to the North Pole. He doesn't run, or jog, or ride a dogsled or anything; he walks there. When Supergirl arrives to Earth, she decides that having a base of operations, sleeping on a comfortable bed, and eating real food are better than sleeping in the woods eating crickets. Guess who is accused of not showing enough desperation in the face of adversity and who isn't.Most of the flaws that people see in Supergirl exist only in their imagination. For instance, Supergirl's costume. The movie clearly shows that Supergirl can change the shape of her outfit at will. She does it when you first see her in her Supergirl outfit, then when she changes to Linda, then when she flies out the window to confront the invisible monster, etc., etc. So why is it that people complain about the wrong thing (the first appearance of her Supergirl outfit) rather than the right one (her unexplained ability to change her clothes)? Because they were not interested in watching the movie, they were only interested in finding flaws in it. But how can she change her clothes anyway? Let's see, she's a superpowered being who can move at nearly the speed of light, who comes from a civilization several hundred years ahead of ours and who wasn't exactly wearing clothes bought at Kmart to begin with. Maybe she uses her speed. Maybe her clothes can chance their shape. Who knows? By the way, is there anyone over six years old who believes that Peter Parker could've made such a stunning costume by himself when it took a small army of designers and seamstresses to make the ones used in the movie? Of course not. Is there anyone who cares? Of course not, it's just a freaking costume. Oddly enough, this reasoning, though perfectly valid when applied to Spidey, is never used with Supergirl.Another complaint is that the movie never explains how Supergirl knows so much about Superman. Er, did anyone miss the fact that half the movie is spent with Selena chasing Supergirl all over the universe using a device from Argo City? Do I need to remind anyone that Kryptonians aren't exactly Amish?Some people claim the movie has bad dialogues. Like when Supergirl asks a thug why are you doing this? and he responds that's just the way we are. Let's assume for a moment the apparently preposterous notion that what characters say should be the result of their intelligence, knowledge, independent thought process, plus the context of the dialogue. So here's the scene two thugs confront Supergirl with the intention of having fun with her. She easily throws one of them away and asks him why he is doing this (this is the first time she's ever met a bad guy). And what exactly do people expect his response to be? Shakespeare? A 2-hour dissertation on the psychological origins of his motivations? A one-liner so full of charm and wit that would make Jon Stewart insane with envy? This guy is neither an English professor nor a rocket scientist and the only things in his mind were the curvier parts of Supergirl's anatomy. He's not interested in impressing anyone or sounding witty. He simply says the first thing that comes to his mind, and what he says is pretty much within the ballpark of what you'd expect from him given the circumstances. The problem is that people are too used to characters in other superhero movies who are nothing more than a mouth and an attitude, plus a collection of puns and one-liners waiting to happen, where the idea of characterization is to have a guy yell kneel before Zod! every ten minutes.But the silliest complaint is that she joins a school instead of going bananas trying to find the Omegahedron. Let's see, when you're looking for a needle in a haystack, what would be more productive to be smart and methodical or to run around like a headless chicken? Supergirl chooses the first option. She finds herself a comfortable base of operations (where she can easily find all the information she needs about Earth), where she hides during the day, using the night as a cover while she searches. But why would she hide? Because when you're searching for a dangerous weapon, the last thing you'd want to do is let its current owners know you're looking for them. They'll either hide or sneak up on you. Once again, people are so used to stupid superhero behavior (e.g., Superman struggling to pull the Kryptonite necklace over his head instead of just bending over) that they're unable to recognize the one time when someone uses her brain.In the end, there's nothing that Supergirl does wrong that Superman doesn't do ten times worse, yet all the disastrous flaws in Superman are either ignored or dismissed as nice little quirks that give the movie a lovely homemade feeling while every tiny detail in Supergirl is regarded as a crime against humanity. Is that sexism? You bet. "},{"Title":"Glad I'm not the only one","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"46 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I guess I was 7 or 8 when my parents took me to the cinema for the first time.  They picked Supergirl as something fun and unthreatening.  I have been hooked on film ever since!  Supergirl is a hugely under-rated movie, and while I can take on board some of the negative comments you read here, I also think they're a bit harsh.  Come on people (you know who you are), it's a fantasy film!  If it played the same as Superman (another great), there would be no point in making it in the first place.  Sure the magic angle is slightly odd, but what the hell, it's a fun film which doesn't take itself too seriously, but doesn't go in for over the top slapstick either (take heed Richard Lester!!).  And of course the effects are a little dated, it is 20 years old after all (though many still look great).  Jerry Goldsmith's score it beautiful and lyrical, as it should be, becoming triumphantly heroic when it needs to (The main theme is tremendous, even with the eighties electronic whooshes and eagle squarks).  Helen Slater is gorgeous in the lead role, and considering this was her first major role, she does a commendable job.  Then there's Miss Dunaway first rate as always-you can almost see the scenery going down her throat, but that's part of the charm of the character.  All the actors come off well, and if you ignore some bits and pieces (there's still some huge plot holes even in the Directors Cut!) you should have a great time.  It would be interesting to see a remake that perhaps didn't stray so far from the source mythology (was the omegahedron in the comics?), but on the other hand, the eighties was a different time, and perhaps today's climate (whether the world could use a super-hero or not) is not right to relaunch the poor girl to Earth. One of my all time favourites, and I'm glad to see so many other fans on the IMDB.  Let's lobby Anchor Bay for an official Region 2 version.  My TV can't broadcast NTSC signals, so have to watch it in black & white, or in jerky (but colour) vision on a slow laptop. Peace.  Out. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Classic Hard To Beat","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"43 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Apart from the witchcraft, I LOVE this movie!This was the first time I ever saw Helen Slater, and rightaway I knew she was the most beautiful lady in the world! (Sorry ladies!)I think there are some classic lines that have been overlooked I remember when the Tractor went wild in Midvale, and Linda/Supergirl was searching for a place to change into her costume, she spied the Ladies' Room, and dashed toward it at super-speed, plowing into a woman who was just coming out. Linda apologized, Sorry, I'm in a rush! and shot inside. The woman looked wry. I know what you mean!Perhaps Zaltar (Peter O'Toole) wasn't as important as he could have been. Although I thought Faye Dunaway was perfect as Selena (a little type-casting courtesy of Mommie Dearest), I prefer to wonder what would have happened if Zaltar had been just a little more complex (he's an artist, after all!) and a little more selfish, and actually followed through with his plans to see Outer Space with the assistance of the Omegahedron.Then he might have been the villain of the piece, and the most dangerous kind of villain the villain an audience can sympathize with. Then the audience would have been torn between wanting Zaltar to succeed, and wanting Kara/Supergirl to stop him before the loss of the Omegahedron destroys Argo City.Oh! And I would've liked to see how Argo City was torn away more or less whole from Krypton as the planet detonated, and wound up in Inner Space, trapped in a warp that only Kal-El's little spaceship was equipped to navigate and exit.I don't think it's over for Supergirl, her story could be REtold (a la Batman), but I'd only be interested in a remake if the filmmakers would remain true to the style of THIS movie (Supergirl (1984), rather than opting for a trendy, dark, angst-ridden hero (I use the term loosely) in a demented action adventure. I miss the bright, cheerful style of the old Superman comics, from the 50's, 60's and 70's, and I'd love to see that back on the big screen, like Superman The Movie and Superman II, and . . . naturally, Supergirl - The First Adventure.This is a beautiful, dream-like jewel of a movie, a real Pink Panther (I refer, of course, to the diamond).That breath-taking, emotional moment as Supergirl arrives on Earth, and discovers her powers and her new environment, in my humble opinion, is unmatched in all the Super-movies.Jerry Goldsmith's score, especially the Supergirl March and the Love Theme are stirring and moving respectively, and easily equal to John Williams' contributions to the Superman movies. I have Jerry's score on CD (thanks to Silva Screen Records) and the Supergirl Main Theme is my Favorite Movie Theme of all time.(Superman was and is my hero, Superman II (1980) was THE defining movie of my youth, and I can probably sing you the entire score to Superman III, but I love the Supergirl themes more.)And if a widescreen, remastered version of this movie ever becomes available Down Under , I want to see it! "},{"Title":"So boys it looks like you didn't know girls could fly","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"78 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only known heroes in the days were Superman, Batman, etc. It seemed like Superman was the only one fit to fly. Then man invented airplanes, then man has been in office as president for over a century. It seems like we have had enough of men thinking they could fly over tall buildings like twin towers. Well cruisin back to 1984 we have Supergirl and the woman who plays her role is outrageous and perfect for the role at that. No one shows such drama and character for the part. In fact I suggest we remake the movie and cast someone else to appeal to this new generation. The supergirl movie appealed to me cause I grew up as a child in the 80s. I think it was the most wonderful movie to escape to and to really believe in women as heroes, for example modern day police officers really do protect you and they are women, so supergirl was like my hero in the 80s and Faye Dunway did an excellent job as the wicked witch. I liked the part when she gave the construction worker a spell beer and he fell into her haunted house.The purity and essence of supergirl is almost unattainable by any other person fit to play her role. It is true and realistic that supergirl would save the world from some evil spell caster who wants to wreck the world.I think this movie is far underrated on IMDB and should get a perfect 10. "}{"Title":"Overlooked","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Supergirl is a fine film that has been unjustly overlooked in the years. For those expecting a straight Superman clone with a girl instead of a grown man, then it was probably a shock to have so many fantasy elements in the mix. Granted a man flying and stopping bullets is very fantastical, but his villains were always very grounded on earth. Lex Luthor anyone? So when it was announced that Superman's cousin would be getting her own movie, I'm sure everyone had their own preconceived notion of what it would be like. The fact that Supergirl is up against a witch and battles demons may have been too much of a stretch for most. Hopefully, the film finally gets its due now that it is out on DVD since it really isn't a bad movie. Helen Slater brings a wide eyed innocence to the role. Some have called Kara a half-wit but that is not true. She is merely a sheltered girl who has never seen the world and when she does get to she has trouble interacting with it. Peter O'Toole is his usual wonderful self as the founder of Argo City and Kara's mentor. Faye Dunaway does a fine job as well as the sorceress. Indeed most of the cast do just fine. The only real downer is Hart Bochner as love interest than. This guy should never have been let even near a movie set. Ouch! Still, Supergirl is good clean fun. Trivia buffs can watch for Matt Frewer in a small role as a lascivious truck driver. "},{"Title":"Only The Best.","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" You know what? It is usually the best kind of movies that get the worst reputations, but some of those unfortunate situations come to the fine judgment in latter days. I come to say that, for the most of my knowledge, this film is an example of such justice. I know that people think it is campy and over the top, but it really is not so. Even better, when the new Superman films is released, the original Reeve films will be reintroduced in society, and this film will too. You know what else? It deserves to be so. Helen Slater, and Faye Dunaway deserve the best type of recognition for their work on this film. They did it the old fashion way. The worked hard, and labored the circumstances, and had fun while doing it. They are proud of it, at least Faye Dunaway is, and I think that maybe Helen Slater is too, but because people always bash it, she will not say so. I hope she is involved in the new DVD. I love this movie. "},{"Title":"GREAT Picture","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"39 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As a child growing up in the 50s, there were very few female SuperHeroes. For some reason the comic publishers thought Girls were only interested in True Romance or Archie comic books. The only females I can remember were in Legion of Super-Heroes and finally Supergirl. The stories weren't great in the books but enjoyable anyway. Finally after all the Super-Hero Movies they brought out Supergirl. The plot is well put together and most of the questions answered. (It would have been nice if Superman had showed up for a bit part. In the comic books, He gave Kara the name Linda Danvers and set her up with a foster family. (They didn't know about her super-powers.) I agree that they should make another Movie or two. (How come all we get is Superboy series on TV?) I would go out of my way to watch it, but NOT a cartoon version. I HATE these new stylized cartoon. This Movie is definitely a keeper in my collection.Cheers "},{"Title":"The best movie of all time!!!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"69 out of 117 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have always LOVED this movie, because It follows the great adventures of KARA, SUPERMAN'S cousin, as she travels to earth to search for a power source vital to her home in inner space( where the survivors of KRYPTON have gone to). I grew up with this BEAUTIFUL film since the day I saw it. It is truely the best movie of all time. From the most breathtaking,unusually stunning, and outstading opening title sequence ever, to a spectacular of the most beautifully made special effects in film history,(i.e. THE FLYING BALLET) to the most happiest ending of all time!!! This film does it all, with style!!! In the midst of the gulf war, I was a youngster singing GOLDSMITH'S triumphant theme, on my school playground. The charecter of KARA is now, as was then, my childhood hero. I can NOT beleive that so many people have the guts to just spit on this wonderful classic of all time!NO sequels was indeed the right way to go, HELEN SLATER had a terrific career afterward which has since mid-ninties, dissapeared shall we say. All in all, I love this movie, the cast is magnificant, the story is so exquisite, and HELEN SLATER is so darling, and unbeleivably perfect as the title role!!! The most magical thing this movie has to offer is itself!!! One heck of a journey that will leave you wanting more!!! This is truely the most powerful fantasy film of all time! The acting, the filmmaking, what else can I say? The score by JERRY GOLDSMITH is so orchestral and powerful, the main theme alone will make your blood flow!!! From the beginning magical journey from inner space to a climactic battle of good vs. evil...SUPERGIRL will NOT stop til the final second of the end title!!! The greatest film of all time!!! "},{"Title":"A gentle tale worth watching with a relaxed mind.","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Watching Supergirl this week for the first time since childhood I see it with fresh eyes and a newfound appreciation of the movie. Supergirl must be considered separate and unrelated to the Superman movie foursome or it will fall short. There is not supposed to be a comparison. The Superman movies are action epics, Supergirl is the story of strength growing out of innocence.Watching Supergirl now with an understanding of focus that I did not have when younger, I truly enjoy it. Helen Slater, Peter O'Tool, Peter Cook and Maureen Teefy all put in superb performances. Mia Farrow tends to overact the part of Selena, but then the character believes herself larger than life. Brenda Vaccaro could use a little more self assertion, but does alright. Marc McClure is of course an undeniably talented actor, though his part in this film is minor. I am forced to scream at the screen however; Why the hell do you wear a camera if you aren't going to use it when a major news piece flies into your lap?I remember being dismissive of Supergirl when I was younger; due in part to the use of magic which has no part in the Superman films, but mainly I suspect due to the ludicrous man-eating excavator scene. This scene remains the major absurdity of the movie. Supposed to be terrifying it comes off as a rather poor imitation of the hundred Volkswagens from Herbie Rides Again. It isn't scary, its stupid.Apart from that scene, Supergirl is good gentle viewing and a nice counterpoint to Superman.It is hard to describe my exact feelings, but I do feel that standing on its own Supergirl should be considered a success and I deeply regret never having a chance to watch the sequels that were never made. "},{"Title":"EXCEPTIONAL FILM","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Before I review this film let me say that I think 1984 was the BEST EVER year for films. I wish it could be 1984 all over again. Just think of the awesome films we had in 1984-Police Academy, Gremlins, Beverly Hills Cop, Ghostbusters etc. Think back to all the brilliant TV series that we could watch in 1984-The A-Team, Street Hawk etc etc.Supergirl was just one of the many gems we were treated to in 1984. The beautiful Helen Slater did a marvellous job as Linda Lee and Supergirl. Faye Dunaway also performed really well as Selena-the wicked villain with no redeeming features whatsoever.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS)There are many great scenes in Supergirl. I enjoyed the scenes where she was coming to terms with her powers when she came to Earth. The scenes where Linda Lee started high school were just brilliant. One of my favourite scenes was where Supergirl was trapped in the Phantom Zone with Zaltar. Everything looked hopeless...and then Supergirl flew out with a bang to deal with the wicked Selena.This really was a great movie and I think it was such a shame that there were no sequels after this. I think this great movie warranted at least one sequel.Real good-I must buy this film on DVD soon. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have watched Supergirl quite a few times and simply love it.  I think Helen Slater acted brilliantly in it, and she comes over as very warm and comfortable in her role. "},{"Title":"A movie that I love as much today as I did 20 years ago.","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was seven-years-old when I saw 'Supergirl' in the theaters. Back then I thought it was a fantastic movie with a terrific heroine, a fun villain, and a great story. Recently I saw the film (probably for the first time in 10-15 years) and my opinion of 'Supergirl' has not changed one bit. 'Supergirl' is still a terrific picture that brings back the joy of a time when you truly did believe a person could fly. Yes, it is a little campier than the first 'Superman' movie, but that is what makes it such a fun movie-watching experience. After all, it was the 80's, and in comparison to other films offered up such as 'Ishtar,' 'The Pickup Artist,' and 'Teen Wolf Too,' 'Supergirl' is a masterpiece.Helen Slater did a stellar job playing the triple role of Kara/Linda Lee/Supergirl. She really made the role her own, and for her first big major motion picture, came off like a pro.Faye Dunaway and Brenda Vaccaro are a wonderfully paired duo as the witch and her accomplice respectively. The blend of comedy and quirky villainy is played up well, and maintains a great balance throughout the film.One of the best aspects of the film is Jerry Goldsmith's musical score. Like 'Superman' it comes at you hard and fast from the beginning, with a beautiful opening credits sequence, and never lets up. It is one of my all-time favorite movie themes.Having the opportunity to watch the limited edition DVD, which has both the international release version and the director's cut, made the film even better. Both versions add a new dimension to the film which round out the characters far better than was shown in the United States domestic release.All in all, if you are a fan of superhero movies, then this is one you don't want to miss. 'Hulk,' 'Dare Devil,' and 'Batman and Robin' don't hold up at all against 'Supergirl.' Suspend your disbelief and take 'Supergirl' for what it is, a fun roller-coaster-of-a-movie that delivers the goods. "},{"Title":"Underrated, rarely seen, yet condemned by the very people who should appreciate it.","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" By now, I think I'll just get to the point. Supergirl is a good movie. A good film, is a film that will tell a story, full of colorful characters, and a journey to be seen, and learned from. Some films are not like that at all, and they're still good, but films like Supergirl are like that, and they are all the same in the reality of it all. In this film, it's pretty simple a premise Supergirl accidentally sends a power tool to earth. She must retrieve it safely, and bring it back. That's pretty simple. The only obstacle she faces, is the witch who has the orb, believing it to be destined for her. Supergirl has to get it back. Not so hard is it? Apparently, it IS hard for some people to watch. If it's so hard to watch, then think about this The overrated Lord Of The Rings films have ten times more characters, and ten times more action, and a hell of a lot of things all happening at once! All this and a whole lot more...and just so a small ring can be melted? If you can follow three films all full of explosive, overdone stories, visuals, etc...than you can easily follow the story of Supergirl, as she comes to earth to collect a power source that will help her world survive. Much more simpler than a hobbit, who must take some ring with a whole history of life on its own, back to some cave and destroy it. Why does this hobbit need to do this? Well, why does Supergirl need to get the power source back to her home? What's the big deal? Actress Helen Slater herself foolishly said in an interview that she thought the story was hard to follow (it isn't)! If you think it is, than you might want to re-think how hard every fantasy action film was back then! Try The Last Unicorn or Willow, or maybe even Never Ending Story! Ah... even The Termonator has a MAJOR plot hole that still confuses much a people today! Yet it is praised to the highest Nth degree! That film and the others can give you a real reason to scratch your head! Gosh! This film is NOT hard to follow.Now, as for others stupid questions and frolicker kinks people believe this film to have...the costume topic is SO stupid. Where did Supergirl get her costume, and why does she change her appearance when she moves behind a tree? If your going to ask those questions continuously about this film, ask them for the SuperMAN films too, because there's no explanation for this ability in THOSE films either!Why can't Supergirl find the power ball? Thw witch who possesses it keeps it hidden in a LEAD container...you know what that means? Of course you don't! It means that Supergirl...or man for that matter, would NEVER be able to find it, because they CAN'T see through LEAD! DUH! It was all explained in the highly overrated Superman movie. In fact, a lot of plotholes were explained in that dumb movie! How does the witch Selena know about the Phantom Zone? Well, who wouldn't? In the big dumb action movie Superman, he gives Lois the exclusive details, anything and everything! Tells the world, and then some about his home planet, his weakness', and the Phantom Zone, not to mention how his kind can be harmed. Why do people not get this stuff when watching this film? They get it everywhere else for cryin' out loud!Also, how, and why does Supergirl fly out of a pond and be dry? Easy, when she was in the power shuttle, it kept her dry, and as she shot out of it, she was protected by a dry shield until she exited the liquid surrounding, and anyway, why does it matter? And one more thing...It is common knowledge that Inner Space can be reached through water. Scientists have preached this theory for decades! Sheesh!Anyway, this film is a wonderful film, full of beauty and gracefulness to charm your soul. Our heroine is strong, and brave, and she fights a diabolical villain. It's fun, it's heartwarming, it's touching. Do enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Very appropriate and not a flop","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have seen Supergirl(1984) in my home country, three times. I had just completed my 10th grade, but well into writing poetry, fiction, painting, photography and theatre and I objectively evaluated the movie. I liked the music, I liked the theme, I liked the acting and the cast.I think the theme is very appropriate and I am stunned to read the movie was a flop. I remember the publicity and the magazine articles displayed in theatres. I followed all the Superhero series and I think Supergirl is just as good, given that it was the first of a possible series of a super heroine. (Superman 1, the Movie was more of an instant hit because it was the first of the modern Superhero series with special effects and probably the male dominated world made it a hit. And then people wanted to use it as a benchmark to measure other films in the same category).Supergirl, not only promoted the delicate side of a super heroine (to say that she has all the good and faltering human feelings) it publicized Helen Slater's name and acting capability as well. I think she fit her role well (a demure, adopted girl from another world trying to adjust on Earth, as a young teenager and fighting against evil. So as a launchpad it is good). Peter O'Toole, nevertheless stole the show but he fit his role well. Peter Cook was good in dialogue but some of his actions were stupid, making it look like a women dominated fight. Hart Bochner, as Ethan, should have played a stronger role and worked on his dialogue delivery and expressions.If Helen chose to stay blond after the movie, I do not blame her because it enhances her natural beauty giving her a very delicate and graceful look. But her natural beauty shows with any hair color and she should step out into the world and work on more challenging assignments, which she did and should keep it going. I see hidden potential (as a Model and Actress) that should be displayed and leveraged.I wish Helen Slater and husband - Robert Watzke and daughter - Hannah Nika and any future children the very best in life. "}{"Title":"Different...","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When I was smaller, this film was released into theaters, and I realized it was different. It has such powerful motion and sentiment that sets it far apart from the other four Superman films. It can therefor, take this different kind, and make a whole entire story with itself, and spare the good message to boot! The fact that it is different may give other fans the notion that it stands alone, and is hard to dive into. It could also seem like trouble for people, not following the same Kryptonian formulas as the Donner film, and so for, it might seem all that different, but I am SO relieved that it is different, than be the same as the rest! Who do people think they are to criticize this film so, it's beautiful. It's not so bad that this movie is different. There are many others like me who will agree any day of the week. Helen Slater is the most beautiful woman on earth, and it shows as she portrays the title role with such balance and grace, and her arch nemesis, Selena, is played out real fine by a wicked Faye Dunaway! The rest of the cast is brilliant, and features Mia Farrow, Peter Cook, Brenda Vaccaro, Maureen Teefy, Hart Bochner, and Marc McClure from the original Superman films. My advice would be to watch this film as many times as you have to, until you finally see how great this film is. It is awesome, it has power, it is magical...you know what I mean. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable film","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  While not an epic like Superman The Movie, Supergirl is an enjoyable movie and it has a special place in my heart just like the first Superman movie.The beautiful Helen Slater is fantastic in the title role of Supergirl and she easily carries the film. Like Reeve, Slater looks like she just popped out of the comic books and she gives a great performance as both Linda Lee and Supergirl. It's a shame she doesn't have a bigger career than the one she does now.Faye Dunaway is miscast as Selena and is too campy in the role. The rest of the cast are fine in the movie, and I enjoyed Peter O'Toole's performance as Zaltar. Also, it was nice to see Marc McLure as Jimmy Olsen. However, my biggest disappointment with the film was that Christopher Reeve was not in it. It would have been fantastic to see Superman and Supergirl together.The script, while good, should have been better and the campiness of Selena thrown out. I've read the original script and that one should have been used as it was slightly better and had some more characterisation in it.The special effects are fantastic, especially in the flying scenes. I enjoy the Flying Ballet sequence a great deal, it's my favourite flying scene out of all the 'Super' films. This scene has always made me wish I could fly, a desire that was created when I saw the original Superman movie.The music, which was composed and conducted by the great Jerry Goldsmith, is also one of the film's best aspects and I love it very much. The music is beautiful to listen to and are easy on the ears -- it's very poetic and lyrical which suits the film well.Anchor Bay released Supergirl on DVD last year and they did a magnificent job, doing the film justice. The Director's Cut is the best version of the movie as it provides better characterisation and some explanations for plot holes that are present in the US theatrical and domestic cuts.Supergirl is one of my favourite movies despite it's flaws and I find it to be a much better film than Superman 3 and Superman 4 The Quest For Peace. "},{"Title":"Supergirl is a winner!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I feel this movie was really given a bad first impression. I personally love the movie,I have always liked it and still continue to watch it. I recently bought the re-release that has the extra scenes. I am a fan of the Superman series and I feel if the creators of the Superman movie ( which I feel are the same people) had given Supergirl a better release date it would of had been a box office smash. I know there are certain scenes that could of had been fine tuned, but overall it is a great movie, I know people say Faye Dunnaway was overacting(melodramatic) I still think that she did great, after all she was a witch. I was though a little stunned with the coloring of the movie, yes it was back in 1984 however you still see movies that had great clear coloring.I wish the people who edited the movie had kept all the scenes in , because I feel it would of made a huge difference! "},{"Title":"my opinion on the movie supergirl","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film is one of the best films i have ever seen.Helen slater at her best.She really inspired me as a little girl.I was only 8 years old when i watched this film and ever since then i have watched it once a week. I'm now 26 years old and still love it.She is a superb actress and i think one of the most beautiful ever.I think the storyline was very good shes seems so innocent when she arrives on to earth which is a completely different galaxy from where she is from.Still to this day i would love to meet her in person.Her costume is really great and her figure is fantastic,i love her blond hair and shes so pretty All i can say is very well done to Helen Slater your my heroLouise XXX "},{"Title":"Supergirl is one classic 80's film! One of the most wonderful and greatest films ever!","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the great movies of the 80's in MY collection that I think about all the time.Supergirl is an excellent film that in My opinion is one the greatest of all time. The film stars Faye Dunaway, Helen Slater, Peter O'Toole, Mia Farrow, Brenda Vaccaro, Peter Cook, Simon Ward, Marc McClure, Hart Bochner, Maureen Teefy, and David Healy. The acting by all of these actors is really great. Slater was just perfect for the role of Supergirl. I couldn't believe how much I liked her in this film. She is just so beautiful and her acting is just great. Dunaway was excellent, and O'Toole was good as always. Vaccaro was good and funny. McClure is the same as he was in the Superman films which is good. The action is great and some of it is really cool and the special effects is great. The movie is filmed really good. The music is so powerful and extraordinary by the late great Jerry Goldsmith. In My opinion this is just not one of his all-time greatest scores, its just not of the greatest scores but one of the greatest pieces of music of all time! Excellent directing by Jeannot Szwarc! The film is so exciting, wonderful, lovely, and the film keeps you watching until the very last end credit! This is such a great and wonderful film. If you like Faye Dunaway, Helen Slater, Peter O'Toole, Mia Farrow, Marc McClure, the rest of the cast in the film, Sci-Fi, Adventure, Fantasy, Action, Comic Book Feature Films, and interesting films then I strongly recommend that you do what I did and buy this astonishing film today! Movie Nuttball's NOTE The following is in My opinions. What the heck is wrong with this film? Why the bad and negative comments? Why the extremely low rating of only 4.3/10 stars? I really have no clue. As I said before in My opinion this is one the greatest films and its just as strong as the Superman films. What makes the Supergirl film as mighty is because of the great actress who played Supergirl and Jerry Goldsmith's epic score. I think its really a shame that this film is misunderstood and to think that there could have been Supergirl sequels which I would of loved! "},{"Title":"inventive, creative, HIGHLY underated, artistic","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I could make this very long, or I could make it strict. stricted? yes... This is a truely wonderfull movie that on a mainstreame level has never gotten the attention it deserves. Faye Dunaway is a excellant adversory to Helen Slater and almost everyone in this movie seems to have a great chemistry together wich is outputed highley during it. The special FX are wonderfull and were advanced for its time, many in the movie even to today's standards. It has its roots in artistic litrature, it has heart, because the movie is about a teenager there is a vulrability to it wich feels more humane and personal to a level of a teenager myself...unlike the Superman movies where you simply feel yes, he's super...he can do anything. good for him This movie suffered for many reasons wich isn't about its story. It was marketed purley as a Superman action sueprhero sort of movie. When the fact is there is a more gentile apraoch to this film, sourcery, love and lots of imaginative things wich make it very unique to the superhero genre. unfortunatley it doesn't do it much favours considering to many it is the worst superhero movie ever. Everything about this movie is very imaginative and creative. From Supergirl flying out of a lake without getting wet to her almost flawless flying ballet (THATS when u believe a person can fly. Unlike Supermans blue screen FX) and the highly inspireing fair ground scenes. This is purley fantasy. Not a Spiderman/Superman action superhero movie wich it was promoted to be. So its real targeted audience didn't want to see it as its trailer and promotion didn't look like their sorta thing and the people that did see it were dissapointed as it wasn't what it was said to be. so let me say...STUPID marketting team!simply...its like making American Pie SOUND LIKE the matrix. Many people saw Supergirl and did not expect to see many of the things they saw.If this film was marketed the way it should have been and released the way it should have been (some countries got a seriously bad edited version wich effected the charactors allot) then this would have been the success everyone thought at the time and still deserves to be This is a great movie and its one of my favourites. I don't think I could praise it enough. I think its not what many people wanted ot see back then though...they wanted explosions, action and they wanted Superman to fit into this film.I think the fact that Supergirl arrived on earth in the supercostume without no actual logic was bad. Because firstly you need rules, and even more so in fantasy movies. Because it may be fantasy but you still should believe it. I think it could have easily been written in for Supergirl to get her costume. Zaltar could have made her it because she is a big admirer of her cousin Superman. But no, unfortunatley it isn't once explained how and were she got her costume from. Also...the instant costume portrays that she is an instant hero and she wasn't wich let many people down. As she was still nieve, cute and girly and not the strong wilded heroine she turned out to be at the end.Also, this movie arguable did not fit into the superman mythology very well...But so be it. There is no flaw in this movie that could effect the enjoyment and believability of the movie. On its DVD release there are more visual flaws then I saw on its video release wich is surprising. Not many however but on her first ever flying shot there are...wich makes me cringe. HOWEVER, I am still to see better better flying in a movie that isn't from Supergirl. Highlights of this movie deffanitly are Supergirls flying ballet (you will never see anything as visually wonderfull and pretty as this in a film) and Supergirls scenes with Ethan. This movie is full of heart and art, with beautifull actors and its all acompanied by a wonderfull score wich captures allot of emotion and depth.I will end this review with that you WILL believe a girl can fly. Because most of the time...it is live flying and not against a screen (when will you learn Superman?)  "},{"Title":"A true example of Girl Power!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie! It was my favorite as a young girl! Don't be fooled by its cheesy appearance. This movie is a classic! Its a must if you have young daughters! So don't be afraid give it a shot. "},{"Title":"C'mon, why don't people give this film a break?","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I personally enjoy this film immensely. It is a fun, free, and at times, spooky fantasy/adventure. In other words, it's a different type of Superhero film, and that's a good thing. First off, it's about a female, so the interest is more enchanting, I think. Secondly, it keeps more true to the superhero fashion, because it has monsters and magical evils that put people in peril. In Superman, the villain was a human, who was indeed, putting many in peril, but even so, it could have been more along the lines of fighting the green-eyed monster or something. Anyway, this movie is very stunning, with powerful effects, and even better acting by Helen Slater as Supergirl. I just LOVE Faye Dunaway as the witch Selena. Peter O'Toole is great, and so is everybody else. I know it isn't Superman, but what else would be? This film is just a good ol' fashioned Superhero film, fun for all who should see it. Obviously, some may not like it, and that's okay. However, this film has a specialness to it that true adventurers will love! a 10/10! "},{"Title":"A Very Enjoyable Adventure","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have just bought this film, on DVD. I thought that the story was well written, and I really like Helen Slater. Faye Dunaway played a very Upset Selina. Who must understand that we cannot have everything that we want Now! you must accept what you have for the present. I thought that Supergirl was very much like Clark Kent in the fact that she was gentle to people. I have waited for this film to appear on DVD for ages now. If I had been in that city at the beginning of the film, I would of designed a shuttle service to Earth so that the residents could go there for a holiday. I would also of loved to of been Supergirl's close friend who would of helped her to fight Selina, It was also nice to see Jimmy the Photogragher from the Superman Films. This film to me, gets too many bad Reviews, I cannot fault it in any way, even the music that is composed by Johnny Goldsmith is beautiful I would not of minded a Supergirl 2,3 and 4 like my SuperMan DVD'S I have also in my collection. I am going to see Superman Returns on July the 14th Supergirl is one WOW Film to me. I would not mind a big Poster of Supergirl in full costume! "},{"Title":"Inspiring, luminous utopia","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Supergirl has been panned by many a movie critic for technical flaws and uninspired effectsWhat they have forgotten to mention however, is the brilliant acting portrayed in this piece of just that; brilliance.  Helen Slater could not be more perfect for the role, and Faye Dunaway, who received very bad reviews for her having left teeth marks all over the set, performs to the extent of which the role was written for her.  She is a witch, how more evil *CAN* she be?Watch this movie for the first 15 minutes; the portrayal of Argo City as a utopian fantasy is worth the rental fee thrice over.  Overall, destined for its status as a cult classic, hooray to the Japanese for having good taste in movies and making this the success that it is.  A nice dream. "}{"Title":"Such a great movie.","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Supergirl is as great a movie now as it was in 1984. No! It is even better! I remember I was six when I saw this in the theaters and it was the longer version. My big sister took me to this advance screening and it was the longer version of the film. When I saw it again I thought it was shorter but that did not change my thoughts of this movie. It has really cool special effects and all the actors seem to be having a great time. I adore Faye Dunaway, and Brenda Vaccaro because they were so cool as a team. And of course Helen Slater was terrific. She was so full of life. Peter O'Toole was dreamy as always, and I just loved the Jerry Goldsmith score. He was such a great composer. And this score was one of his best! I thought the story was really cool, very appropriate and comic book like, a new direction from the first 2 superman movies. It was cool to have a girl that could be so nice and sweet and then get justice and fight for truth. by the way, the longer version I saw in theaters, there was a line where Supergirl says, I bow only before truth and justice or something to that degree when she is battling off of Selena in the fairgrounds. I thought I made this up until I read recently the movie book of Supergirl and the line was there! I wonder where that one line of footage went? Anyway, this is such a great, under-appreciated movie. I hope all movie lovers out there give it a chance, and I know they'll like it. Deep down inside, everyone likes this film. "},{"Title":"perfect","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" When this film was 1st released i hated it no major action no real bad guy fights etc, i saw it again last week and wow i love it now. if you have not seen it in years give it 1 more go you may be surprised even if its 4 how much realistic the flight scenes are to the superman movies. Helen slater is perfectly cast she is Supergirl,OK some or the dialogue was lame but name a film that does not have any bad lines. I would like to have seen more scenes about Argo city and what they were going through while Kara was on earth but apart from that excellent So once again go see it i bet you will not be disappointed the directors cut is even better "},{"Title":"8/10 ****/5 ~ Super Science-Fantasy Entertainment.","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Although it never achieves the extraordinary level of Richard Donner's masterly Superman (1978) and Richard Lester's Superman II, Supergirl escapes relatively unscathed from the production troubles that damaged others in the Alexander and Ilya Salkind series. Screenwriter David O'Dell (The Dark Crystal) adapts the classic comic as an imaginative fairy tale. The film has the light, fanciful touch director Jeannot Szwarc brought to his memorable romantic fantasy Somewhere in Time. Szwarc had handled Jaws 2 well but his promising career in theatrical features was cut short by the mega-failure of the Salkinds' next would-be blockbuster, Santa Claus (1985). Helen Slater is an ideal Kara, aka Supergirl, and, as the wicked witch Selena, arch-diva Faye Dunaway spoofs her high-camp Mommie Dearest Joan Crawford persona. And the supporting cast, led by the wonderful Peter O'Toole, has class. Only Hart Bochner's insincere romantic lead misses the mark. The disastrous reception of Superman III led audiences to stay away and the film developed a bad reputation after the Salkinds' fall from grace in the Santa Claus debacle. The time is ripe for the rediscovery of this maligned popcorn dream as Anchor Bay's recent Director's Cut DVD brings Supergirl to new life. "},{"Title":"The director's cut could change minds.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The director's cut, with its additional 24 minutes of film may change minds. The story is clearer and there is more plot development.  The other banal criticisms of Dunaway and Slater are unworthy.  Supergirl is an archetypal heroine.  She's supposed to be naive and clueless when she comes to Earth. Dunaway sells what in a lesser actresses hands would truly be a hamhanded performance.  Give the director's cut a chance and see what could have been. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as the whiners would have you believe....","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not CITIZEN KANE, mind you, but is well made for what it is a comic book story; Seeing this new DVD print and an extended version makes it all the more palatable;  "},{"Title":"Awesome Power","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This film has two kinds of audiences. Thosse who love it, and those who, for whatever reason, loathe it very much so. I care not to discuss what most American viewers might fall under. I fall under the blanket of serenity with those who love it, and I also agree, quite fiercely, that a bias maybe a possible curse upon this film. What do people see wrong with it? Nothing that I can see. I find it to be an inspirational piece of storytelling, one that weaves into play a strong heroine, a diabolical villainess, and the struggle of magic, all to an all-out adventure! Truth The original Superman film has a bit more action, a longer list of characters, and a few more subplots than this one. Even so, that is neither a flaw, nor a justifiable reason to condemn this wonderful film. Also, some lashing has been thrown on this film by people who just can't seem to understand what it means to comprehend the obvious and/or visible. Our Supergirl is not a single step below her cousin. She is strong, free, cunning, beautiful, and ultimately an equal to what we have seen in the Reeves films proceeding. Her graceful sensitivity is not an element or a point to be used against her. It is merely what differentiates her, bringing her to a more, independent, and unique character. Audiences have never seemed to grasp the Awesome Powerwe get a privilege to see in this movie. There are levels in the film, of which one could dissect should they find the film to be the Award worthy creation it is. The Villain Selena is just as vindictive, rapacious, and ambitious as Lex Luthur in the other franchise films. Further more, Faye Dunaway is merely showing us an emotional sorceress, determined to take any measures necessary to rule the world. She is clearly defined as an impatient woman. That is NOT by any means, a passage to calling her campy or hammy. Are not women usually more emotional than men in most situations? Do not they have their reasons and angles? Why can't you people give this film a break? This is therefor, my way of explaining that this movie is just as good as Superman.Helen Slater is glorious and righteous, and her equal Faye Dunaway is a manipulative witch with a mega-force of a temper. This is a nice film, my friends, this is a high flying adventure. Never has flying been more real than this. "},{"Title":"DVD release makes this a brand new movie","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When this movie was released to audiences in the US and Canada, it was done a grave disservice because it was edited way too much. International audiences got extra scenes that added certain nuances, and subtly changed the overall enjoyment and understanding of the plot and characters.Anchor Bay deserves kudos for the excellent DVD Special Edition release, which includes the International version, as well as an un-cut Director's Edition, which has footage that has never been seen. Comparing the 'crapped-up' domestic version which is often edited further for pan-and-scan television audiences, it is clear why this movie is thought of as being a stinker. (Anchor Bay prudently ignored releasing the domestic version.)This movie was meant to be viewed in a widescreen format. I cannot emphasize this enough. One important scene is always lost due to pan-and-scan cropping, and it is a scene that establishes the diabolical forces that surround villainess Selena. This reviewer never before understood what Selena was referring to when shown a reflection of herself in a mirror stating What is that? Widescreen reveals that there is something else being reflected next to her. Supergirl's 'Flying Ballet' scenes are sublime (and extended) in this format.This movie, if anything for nostalgia's sake, ought to be revisited in all its un-cut widescreen glory. And let's not forget the top-notch score by soundtrack genius Jerry Goldsmith!The unfair treatment this movie got has been redeemed by this DVD release. Yes, the movie is dated, and maybe still a little hokey. But the un-cut edition is far superior to what Tri Star Pictures tried to pass off as a feature film for a super-heroine back in 1984. (Someone give Helen Slater a prize for all her dedication to this project! She deserved more attention than she got for this role.) "},{"Title":"Helen Slater is so cute!","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Have had a crush on her since seeing this (and is only a bit older than me).Very corny but still better than the appalling Superman III and Superman IV efforts (I barely survived Superman II).My Super collection is now complete - at least until the sequel to Superman Returns.The special effects are not bad and Supergirls costume is flattering. Faye Dunnaway is a great nemesis (never liked her much since Mommy Dearest to be honest - too scary an actress). Peter O'Toole appears briefly - just the other night I watched a movie with him in it - Joan of Arc - and he was especially good.Good fun especially for kids (and kids trapped in the body of an adult like me). "},{"Title":"While not as good as Superman I & II, far better than III & IV.  Definitely deserves a look!","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The formula was there. Slater like Reeve (Superman) before her was an excellent choice to play The Girl of Steel. While Dunaway isn't even close to Hackman, she is still quite good as the campy villain. I was stationed overseas when I first saw this film, so I saw the international version (japanese subtitles and all) which did a much better job of making the film cohesive. Most people rejecting Supergirl, saw the hacked up US release, which didn't do it justice. The Director's Cut is still available on DVD from Anchor Bay. Pick it up. This is most definitely worth a look! It's not the first time Warner Bros. has dropped the ball. Look at Batman & Robin. Clooney was bad enough. Arnold totally destroyed Mr. Freeze. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie Without a Hope of Surviving","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I loved Supergirl. Now there are many things that people have pointed out that can make you think this is a bad movie, it is not, for a bad movie check out X3. Supergirl shines as one of the best Superhero movies ever made. Helen Slater perfectly cast as the naive and courageous Kara Zor El consumes the screen and Faye Dunaway makes anyone afraid with her witch on acid Selena. The effects were wonderful for the time and while the Theatrical version had it's downfalls in plots the Director's cut more than takes care of those. Whatever your reasons for picking it up definitely watch this movie. Give this movie a try and I am sure you will be pleasantly surprised. "}{"Title":"A good-hearted clunker","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The main problem with SUPERGIRL is the terrible script. It's really bad. The basic idea is BRILLIANT (Supergirl gaining her powers on the go) but the execution is lamentable. Where does Supergirl get her costume? How does the space thingy follow the Omegahedron from inner space to outer space? Why does Supergirl decide to join a school when Argo City is dying? Why does she play field hockey? Why, why, why!!! The script is filled with so many assumptions and plot-holes that it was simply impossible to build a solid movie around it. The script also fails to give any sense of urgency to Supergirl's quest. Her quest is a matter of life and death. Instead of looking for the Omegahedron 24/7, she frolics around here and there while her world might be imploding. The pacing is lackadaisical when it needed to be frantic and urgent. Another problem with the script is that Supergirl doesn't do many super heroic feats. The producers and director were apparently unable to conceive the fact that a female could do heroic stuffs. There are simply not enough heroics going on in the film to be seen as a successful superhero film. As for the combination of magic and sci-fi elements, well, that was actually good  and preceded BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER and other current films and TV shows which have amalgamated both genres successfully.The other thing that drag this movie is the acting. Most of it is terrible. And what makes it worst is the cringe inducing dialogue. It's really bad. You can't really blame the actors for spouting their dialogue with zero conviction. And the special effects are really uneven. One second, they're impressive, the next second they're embarrassing.But as uneven as SUPERGIRL is, the film does have good things going for it. The film's spirit is right-on. It's good-hearted and light and never takes itself too seriously. Helen Slater is PERFECTLY cast as Supergirl. I'd say she's the best movie superhero ever. And some special effects are pretty good (the scene with the mountain is impressive. I still don't know how they did it). But the best thing in SUPERGIRL is the score by Jerry Goldsmith. It's one of my favorite scores ever. It's just amazing. I give the score a perfect 10. Without the score, Supergirl would probably be impossible to watch. It gives character, importance to the otherwise flimsy direction. Another good thing is the use of widescreen. This film has to be seen widescreen. It looks really terrible in pan and scan mode.I'm not a big fan of the whole SUPERMAN series but I have to say that I actually prefer SUPERGIRL over any of the bloated SUPERMAN movies. What's great about SUPERGIRL is that it's an orphaned movie there's only one SUPERGIRL flick and because they didn't make any sequels, the film has a timeless and cultish feel to it which makes it more fun to watch than the SUPERMAN films. Because of the lack of sequels, Helen Slater has, indirectly, become an ageless Supergirl. The Anchor Bay DVD is pretty good. The best version is the International Version. The director's version is even more lackadaisical than the I. V., if you can imagine that. Thankfully, the US theatrical version is not included in the DVD set. "},{"Title":"Supergirl is a good movie.","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Just wanted to say I like this film. Where else would we get the beautiful Helen Slater flying across the skies, beauty intact, with Jerry Goldsmith's triumphant score? Faye Dunaway too, with her great comic timing and salaciously evil glares. I saw it in theaters. You really should have seen the flying Ballet sequence on the big screen. It wasn't like the AMC and other multiplexes that plague the film industry today. I saw it on this really big screen of a movie theater with a 40 x 80 foot screen, and let me tell you, the audience was FLYING with Helen in that sequence. Also felt it when the action sequences too. Sad to see films will never be like this again. Oh well, I saw it the right way. That's all that matters. But others should still check it out. "},{"Title":"Underrated and ahead of it's time.","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Kara-Zorel, Superman's cousin, upon losing a power source for Argocity, new home to the survivors of Krypton, goes on a mission to earth to save her dying planet, but comes up against obstacles including a practicing witch, who takes the power source and attempts zenith human status with it. Kara becomes just as powerful as her cousin on her way to earth, setting up her status as a Superhero herself. Supergirl is one of those movies that you either really like, or really dislike. Most people, however, don't know what to think, so they go with their instinct, and reject the unfamiliar, and because of this, Supergirl is unfairly deemed a 'bad movie.' The goods that this film brings are rich and plentiful. We see a plethora of special effects, most of which still hold up to this day; we see Faye Dunaway, Brenda Vaccaro, Peter O Toole, Peter Cook, Mia Farrow, and Simon Ward have fun and play around with their acting chops; we see Helen Slater look beautiful, and prove she was worthy of working with her co-stars; we hear one of Jerry Goldsmith's finest marches; and we get Oscar worthy cinematography by Alan Hume. Those are undeniable. What is the big debate is the writing. The story was written with a much different style and structure, than the orthodox Superhero movie, defined by the film's predecessor, 'Superman The Movie.' But is STM could set the standard for a superhero film, being a story, then who's to say that SG couldn't do the same in order to establish a wider audience, seeing that the characters from the comic book original, though contrasted by a few devotees, are just as different? Through the film, Kara goes through many changes, learning how to cope away from home, use her powers, and ultimately defeat evil. There are so many metaphors and allegories in this film, it would be too loquacious to list them all, so I'll condense it. Supergirl, instead of setting a trend for the high flying Superhero, told more of a coming of age Superhero story, wherein our hero (heroin) must learn things about herself, about how to adapt *as* as superhero in a new place (LONG before that 'X-men' Crap.) Once she has done this, she is tested by the villain, and learns something more, and must gather herself for her next 'test.' Hmm...Something we only *assumed* Superman did in the opening scenes of STM. That's just the surface. There have been many comments on this site that list in detail, what other fine points this movie has, so I won't bother. I will say that the film is bright and colorful, like a comic book would be, and each shot is carefully planned out. Suffice to say that when people tend to dislike the film, it really is only a matter of either opinion, or just not getting it. Nothing wrong with that, but in ignorance they sound off and blast the film instead of trying to understand it more, where it's coming from, because in the end, we have a full blossomed, bona-fide Superhero who has learned as much as she has fought, and conquered. I see nothing wrong with this at all Because there isn't anything wrong. But we film people who know what makes films tick are the lucky ones, and this film gets the last laugh because no matter how underrated it is, no matter how many people try to list it as being a bad movie, it stands the test of time, and will continue to do so. So I urge all new fans to the franchise to see the film and take three steps to your left, and see this film in a different light. You may be surprised how much you like it. "},{"Title":"To stand by your work.","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Even if this film does have flaws, or plot holes, it's still an awesome film. I was so happy when they decided to make a Supergirl movie back in 1982 because I really enjoyed the comics. This film was a real experience to see. I remember seeing it a few times. I remember waiting for it to be on home video. Anyway, it's not too fun when you read about how Helen Slater doesn't like it that much. I love it! I think that Helen should stand by her work as an actress. She was so good, and people loved her, and do love her in this! She was awesome with Faye Dunaway, and all the rest of the cast. She certainly had fun filming, no question about it, but why can't she give a commentary. It's not like she lost an arm or a leg filming it. She got be Supergirl, and she got to battle evil monsters and wicked witches. She got to be the most wonderful woman on earth. I am happy she filmed this anyway, because I like Helen Slater, and I like her as Supergirl. I like Faye Dunaway too. I really like the fact that Peter Cook was in the film too. Well, be it flawed or not, it deserves the love it has, and from the looks of things, people do like this film a lot, I know I do. "},{"Title":"Nice movie","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I like this movie very much.It was hard to find a copy here but now that I got the Limited edition DVD im very glad. ( Nr 34078 out of 50000 ) "},{"Title":"the best movie ever made","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  SUPERGIRL is simply the funniest and the best movie every made. Completely underrated when it was released, it is the story of a mischevious girl who can't quite get it together, so she goes to EARTH to do so.  Faye Dunaway is perfect as Selena, the magical witch.  And, I don't believe I've ever seen a better on-screen team than Brenda Vaccaro as the well-meaning BIANCA as Selena's sidekick.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.  You will not stop laughing.Faye is ravishing as is Brenda Vaccaro.  have fun! "},{"Title":"A nice, safe film","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's obvious from many comments you see on IMDb that many would-be critics (such as myself) only comment on movies they either truly love or truly hate. There's no perceptible middle ground. After all, if you didn't have some sort of emotion towards a film, why would you even look it up in the first place? When I see user comments calling this the best film ever I wonder (especially considering other films out there.) That being said, I come around to Supergirl as a fan. I saw the movie as a child and loved it, as I did all the Superman movies. And I do mean all (even the now dreadful 3 and 4) simply because I was a child, and believability and good writing had no impact on me, so long as Superman was flying around kicking the crap out of bad guys.Supergirl was an altogether different kind of character for me. As a child, I knew she had basically the same costume as Superman, which put her in a good place for me, but I also knew she had some sort of sexy quality to her, which made me approach her differently. Superman was a guy you could hang out with, have a Coke with, and go fishing with. Supergirl was a character who you'd have to bring flowers and ask her Dad before taking her out to a movie. But still, there's something inherently...super...about her.So watching the movie was something different for me.I visited the Superman museum in Metropolis IL (and if you're a Super-fan, you must add this to your vacation trip list) and after seeing the Supergirl movie room, I was inspired to watch this movie again.It has aged okay...not great, but still the special effects managed to be better than later efforts such as Lois & Clark. Helen Slater was such a fox, and she wore that costume with such grace and style as to make it look effortless. She did all her own stunts, which helped, and to this day, I imagine Supergirl with her face. As for villains, Faye Dunaway was acceptable, but I think we could have asked for more.Storywise, I have difficulty with this movie. The concepts tend to lend more toward camp, which is what the Superman franchise did not need at that moment. The Omega Hedron as a plot device was over-used and ill-conceived. One could assume from watching this movie that the script called for quite a bit more than ever made it to screen, with the shortcomings possibly due to budgetary constraints and/or compressed production time.However, when the movie is taken as a whole, I found it enjoyable and entertaining. It's definitely not the worst of comic fend's movie outings (that title will forever and in perpetuity go to the godless debacle that is Batman & Robin.) I highly recommend this film for family viewing and for Saturdays that you get rained in.And if you're a Supergirl fan, maybe this movie will make more sense than the current convoluted comic book story lines. "},{"Title":"Great movie for 1984","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Kind of a funny story, falling way off from the origins of the comic book character and some pretty neat special effects for 1984.  Okay, it would probably be the worst movie of all time in today's spotlight, but I liked it okay, nonetheless. "},{"Title":"One of a kind","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this movie when i was still a kid, and I enjoyed it then, as would all other children. I have seen it again, and cannot in all honesty understand why it failed. Helen Slater played the role of Supergirl perfectly, and had a strong supporting cast. Perhaps it was not the right time for it, because the macho-male action hero sterotype was still very much prevalent in the 80's. Chances are that movies like G.I. Jane and Alien would also have flopped at the box-office if they was released in the early 80's.Supergirl was and still is a great film for people of all ages, despite what the critics may have said. "},{"Title":"You're believe a girl can fly... and if you don't Supergirl fans don't care!","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have loved this movie ever since I first laid eyes on it and have always thought it was far far better then Superman III & IV. Helen Slater was perfect as Supergirl (I had a major crush on her), Faye Dunaway was campy as the evil witch Selena and Peter Cook was rather amusing as her boyfriend Nigel.I first saw this movie in it's director's cut form when it aired on UK TV as a Premiere in the late 80's (yes, the director's cut was shown in the UK, regardless of what fans may have read on various websites. The only version shown after that was the International Version as it is known in the US which was missing various scenes from the director's cut but still had more footage in it then the cut-down US version. Jerry Goldsmith's score, while not as classic as John Williams Superman is still a great music score and I have never met anyone who did not name the main title music as either Superman or Supergirl to this day.The reason this movie flopped at the Box-Office in the US was mainly because of poor-marketing, cuts to the US version by it's second distributor Tri-Star (Warner Bros. originally were to release this movie), certain slackers from the company kept leaking the movie to pirates in the US and other countries before it was even released so they decided to sell the movie to Tri-Star who ruined any chance this movie had of being a US hit in 1984 due to their disastrous decisions involving everything to do with Supergirl... Warner Bros. didn't drop it because it was a bad movie for all of you think you know everything! people out there!. It's a shame because this is clearly the only reason this movie never had any sequels made.The movie actually did very well overseas which isn't a huge surprise to me at all because Supergirl had actual decent marketing there, they also got a different superior cut of the movie which was released in countries outside of the US, this being the international version which is now available in the US via both a separate DVD and a 2-disc DVD set which also includes the even longer director's cut.This movie is a fun, enjoyable movie that does not deserve the reputation it has received over the years, the DVD is also one of the best releases I know of, giving the movie the justice it deserved unlike the poor handing of Superman II by Warner Bros., Anchoy Bay are one of the best DVD handlers out there for Special Editions!7/10 "}{"Title":"To be perfectly honest...it was one of the worst movies I have ever seen!","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Just finished watching the director's cut of Supergirl. Horrbile stuff! Biggest problem with this movie is that it has absolutely no entertainment value. Nothing interesting or spectacular happens in this movie, mainly due to its poor imaginative-less story that is beyond ridicules and isn't even completely clear at times. Lots of things in the movie are taken for granted and are not explained or deepened out. The result of all of this is that halve of the time the movie doesn't make sense and the other halve of the time its just plain ridicules. For instance when Supergirl comes to Earth, she first discovers her amazing super powers and what does she decide to do next after that? She decides that she wants to go to an Earthly school! The movie is completely filled with ridicules and totally weird plot elements that are extremely lame and are even worser brought to the silver screen by director Jeannot Szwarc, who also directed Jaws 2. The movie is a 2 hour+ ridicules bore-fest, without even a good camp-value. The main villains of the movie, played by Faye Dunaway and Brenda Vaccaro, are supposed to be also the comical relief of the movie, just like Lex Luthor and Otis were in Superman. But their characters are completely not funny. Their dialog is painfully bad at times and their actions and motivations are just too ridicules for words.Not even other fine actors such as Mia Farrow, Peter O'Toole and Peter Cook can bring some life and/or credibility to this movie!The only real positive thing I can say about this movie concerns the musical score by Jerry Goldsmith. Unlike Ken Thorne and Alexander Courage who did the music for Superman II, III & IV, he actually comes up with some totally new themes and doesn't recycle the old classic John Williams musical score from Superman. It's a fine piece of work that is worth listening to outside of this movie.Like many other bad movies, it has build up a real solid fan base over the years, which is fine with me, as long as you're staying objective and give credit where it is due. Supergirl is a horrible movie that only deserves credit for its musical score and for some of the flying sequences that were better looking as in any of the Superman movies. I wished I liked this movie better but I just can't. It was barley watchable at times and just utterly boring and uninteresting. At least the Superman movies still had an (campy) entertainment value, this movie has absolutely zero story and style and is a complete mess to watch.1/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"What can you say about a film that is both brilliant and risible at the same time? Well...This...","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Here's the plot. Kara (Helen Slater) lives in a greenhouse-style contraption in innerspace founded by Zaltar (Peter O' Toole) who sculptures creations inspired from a visit to Earth. It is only fitting that he messes things up by stealing and losing the planet's energy source omega headron (sounds like the word Armageddon to me...hmmmm). It ends up in the hands of an opportunistic amateur witch called Selena (Faye Dunnaway) as she picnics with her partner-in-crime and computer science teacher friend called Nigel (Peter Cook). She turns her back on him and, with her sidekick Bianca (Brenda Vaccaro) tries to take over the world...sort of.In the meantime, Kara changes into schoolgirl Linda Lee (her influence being a poster of general Robert Lee) and befriends a lady called Lucy Lane (Maureen Teefy). This becomes her 'Clark Kent' style disguise.First of all, the bad points. Yep, there are some plot holes and some of the dialogue is pretty poor (a lot of it coming from Bianca). Plot holes include...* The main premise for all the saving the world stuff is because an artist needed inspiration which is pretty laughable. Apparently, it is declared during the film that Zaltar is a founder of the city so, if the city has 2 energy sources, why would he resort to stealing one when all he needed to do was use his influence as a founder and ask the guardians for permission to borrow it legitimately? This simple step would mean his trip to the Phantom Zone by the guardians wouldn't be necessary...of course, if he went down this road we would have no film, lol.* We ought to ask the question 'Why is Selena so unambitious'? She has all the power in the world at her disposal, why use it just to attract a random man called Ethan who she sees cutting down a tree? With all the power in the world why use a magical coconut to knock him unconscious? I guess at least Selena upgraded from that ghost train to live on a mountain inexplicably plonked in the middle of town...* At the end when Supergirl crosses the 'fiery floor of doom' why didn't she just fly over it instead of cross it gingerly on foot? If I did read a lot of DC comics on Supergirl I would probably be more than a bit miffed that the film didn't fit in with the comic. As I didn't read them, I don't care.As with most films, the key to being critical is asking yourself 'what do I expect to get out of it?' I believe that this film was only meant to be taken as a fun fantasy tale with a linear plot of good vs evil with effects that belonged to it's time (and some of them like the gargoyle is pretty interesting). It worked for Superman, why should Supergirl dare to be any different in it's approach? There is some odd casting (notably veteran British comedian Peter Cook of all people getting his shot in US cinema as 'Nigel') but most of it seems to work regardless. Peter O' Toole fits into the role of Zaltar pretty well and Helen Slater has never been better cast as Kara/Linda Lee/Supergirl. Unfortunately, Faye Dunnaway is left with very little to do despite be a cause for a multitude of special effects as her acting in this seemed unmotivated and formulaic. Brenda Vaccara comes off worst as Bianca, not necessarily because of her acting as a whole but because she was given most of the really awful lines.Some of the effects are rickety (the storms in the Phantom Zone spring to mind) but if you have a nostalgic nature you will most probably be charmed by them rather than repulsed - like looking at a Betamax video for the first time in 30 years, lol.All in all, a great camp absurd fantasy film providing you view it for what it is...a camp absurd fantasy film. "},{"Title":"Pure Escapism","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't see this at the cinema and when I saw it for the first time on UK TV I was pretty glad that I hadn't. Rubbish I thought - although Helen Slater in THAT costume never really completely left my mind. Despite the fact I thought it was garbage I had recorded it hoping it would be a fairly decent film. For some reason I never recorded over it. I'm on holiday at the moment and while looking for something to watch came across the tape and still having a video recorder thought what the hell and shoved the cassette in for the first time in over fifteen years... AND ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT!!! I don't know why my opinion of this film has changed so radically, I'm the same person as I was back then- older of course so that can't be the reason. What it could be is that on this viewing I wasn't holding any expectations except to just enjoy it for what it is and I think that if all the stuffy critics (myself to an extent) had looked at it with the same outlook then it wouldn't've got the flak back in 1984. I've got a few more days off before I go back to work and chances are I'm going to watch it again - in fact the tape's still in the recorder! As pure escapism it's a very very entertaining film and that's what cinemas all about. PS - Helen Slater in the costume...wow!! "},{"Title":"An over the top laugh fest...","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ...and that's just my review. (Just my little joke.) I had this movie on video originally, and then I managed to pick up the super-duper limited edition special DVD with two versions of the movie. (It was marked somewhere around fifty dollars, but I paid fifteen instead. SuperDiscount!) Oh, it was funnier on DVD. Digitally uproarious. I just want to start off by saying that Faye Dunaway is a blessed comedy genius. I laughed so hard my face hurt. More than once, even. So was so fabulous I'm just going to review her. Mostly.Our Lady of the Neurosis plays Selena, a witch bent on ruling the world. She's a bona fide witch, as in noun and not adjective. She has magical powers which she uses mostly to embarrass people, and she might be able to concentrate her talents if she finds the proper trinket. The movie details her tribulations with such a trinket, and Supergirl shows up every now and then. Mainly though, Selena seems preoccupied with nabbing a hunky landscaper she saw while driving around. (Seriously.) Her efforts in getting him and keeping him are so FREAKING funny it's painful. When he seems to be straying a coconut plummets out of the sky and hits him in the head. Is this what Selena does with her time? Yes, indeed--what do you expect from a woman that lives in a dilapidated funhouse? Later in the movie she mentions being able to make the sky rain coconuts with pinpoint accuracy but not being able to make people fall in love. Think for a moment about how funny the sky raining coconuts is. Then think about doing it with pinpoint accuracy. I'm giggling already. When the doorbell rings she mutters, If that's the goddamn Jehovah's Witnesses again... What an idiotic thing to say, but just enjoy it! She then has a devastating conversation with her ex-boyfriend, who ends up looking considerably different than he did when he first showed up.So basically we have a woman who wants to sleep with a gardener and rule the world, only she's a moron and can't seem to do either. See how funny that is? Witness her goofy exchange with Bianca, her henchwoman. You want me to find out who she is? earns a reply of I'M NOT ASKING YOU, I'M TELLING YOU. What?!? You can't help but feel sorry for poor Selena, who actually says things like Wet your whistle? Her demands are so laughable, not in what she's demanding but how she's asking for it. The movie starts going to heck when her incompetence starts to be replaced with competence. That's not the goofball we had grown accustomed to. In short, Selena is a evil woman that everyone would like to get to know. It doesn't seem possible, but it is. Now, THERE is somebody I would like to have a conversation with. Assuming of course she doesn't conk me on the cranium with a coconut. "},{"Title":"You will believe a woman can fly","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Despite critical and box office blows, I found this movie to be quiteenjoyable. This movie should have been the breakout role for HelenSlater who is fabulous as the girl of steel and the rest of the all starcast such as Peter O'Toole, Faye Dunaway, and Peter Cook who had thefunniest one liners. Unfortunately the movie tends to get cheesy at somepoints with instances of bad dialogue and special effects, but it hassome pretty good action sequences. Overall Supergirl does not rank upthere with such super hero movies as Spider-Man or Superman, or evenBatman, It still is a treat to watch. It's too bad it bombed in theatersas I would have liked to see a sequel. "},{"Title":"Unfairly maligned, better than Superman III & IV at least","Date":"16 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Haven't watched this movie for a LONG time. Put it off as well, because obviously being a bloke, it was never 'cool' to like SuperGirl when you're a kid.And do you know what? Its actually a lot better than I remembered it to be.I'm not going into the story, I'd rather just state what I do and don't like about the movie.Firstly, Helen Slater. Decidedly toned down as a schoolgirl as shes supposed to be, but when she turns into SuperGirl.... Damn she still looks great.Without wanting to sound like a fashion designer, her costume has aged really well. Skirt isn't too short but short enough, her hair isn't worn in a style other than long and down and to be honest, if you could transport the Helen Slater SuperGirl complete look into a modern movie, she really wouldn't look out of place, shes the one part that didn't look dated.Jerry Goldsmiths theme.... I remembered it well, but there's nothing like hearing it properly again for the first time in decades. Obviously its not as iconic as Supermans theme, but its still a damn fine composition.Put it this way, whilst I enjoyed Man of Steel.... I really couldn't begin to remember what the theme was.Even the titles at the start seem very modern, even the use of the font still looks modern.For the most part, the VFX are as good as Superman 1 & 2, I would say that the flying sequences in SuperGirl were better, probably because Helen Slater moves easier in the flying harness in comparison to the much larger Christopher Reeve, and there appeared to make a real effort to get her to mimic the flying conditions of whatever is projected behind her so that for the most part her movement matches the film, whereas in Superman it wasn't always the case.There's one scene where shes flying above some horses, and there's a massive flare from the sun appears on film, so they matched the flare onto her as well to just try and make it more believable shes there.However, it was a lot easier to spot the wires holding her up than in Superman, i'm not entirely sure why, not sure if its crappier film quality thats shown it up, or simply that the film makers hoped the shots would be fast enough that you simply don't see them, but we do, and quite often which is a shame, because a couple of her flying sequences are done really well.Faye Dunaway was alright, her comedic friend was OK, Peter Cooke I really didn't like in the role, constantly scowling and sneering. OK, I get it that its supposed to be his character, he just seemed out of place in this movie.The one thing the movie suffered from was exposition..... not enough of it. Sure, today we bitch and moan about movies that have too much with characters having convenient conversations so we can get some important plot details, but the movie was clever enough to have a radio announcement that Superman was travelling millions of light years away to investigate something so that gave useful account of why he wasn't around (hey, why couldn't Iron Man 3 be that clever?), but then there was the whole Argo City conundrum.Kara (SuperGirl) is related to Clark Kent, yet Krypton was destroyed. Was Argo City a part of Krypton or was it a separate entity of its own? Did Zaltar save them? Why let him go so readily to the Phantom Zone if he was their saviour? A couple of other issues. Its clear that Kara likes the male love interest in the movie, and yes she has to save Argo City first, but there's no acknowledgement that shes going to come back, just that she has to go, and that everyone keep quiet about it, and when you consider Jimmy Olsen from the Superman movies is there as well, its inconceivable to believe he'd keep quiet about meeting a member of his family.Kara was almost like a young teenager on Argo City, but all of a sudden becomes worldly wise (a world shes not from incidentally) virtually right away when she lands on Earth.I'll state right now, SuperGirl *IS* a better movie than either Superman III or IV. Other than the conflict between Superman and Clark Kent in III, there wasn't much to redeem that movie, and the less said about IV the better.I understand that for the most part, Americans got short changed on SuperGirl MASSIVELY, they had over 20minutes chopped out of the movie for seemingly no good reason, which affects lots of scenes, and makes certain things kind of what?, probably why this movie is more regarded this side of the pond.The storyline for the most part was so, so, I didn't really care too much for the sorcery and witch angle, though I'm lead to believe both are staple adversaries for Superman in the comics.A real shame then that we'll never see Helen Slater don the cape again, she was stunning in the role and captured the innocence of the character, and for the most part you can thank Superman III's performance at the Box Office for this one failing, it seemed people had started to tire of anything to do with Superman and anything associated with the character.By all accounts SuperGirl wasn't a flop, it just didn't perform anywhere near expectations.A shame, I really didn't mind this one at all. "},{"Title":"Supergirl - worthy of a super-remake!","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember seeing this movie in a theatre when it first came out.I don't envy US viewers being treated to the hacked up version they saw, as it would have made little sense at all!I have read 13 pages of reviews here on IMDb and I have to say, I can see almost every point of view expressed here I can see why some people adore it and why others, including those in the industry are critical of its faults.I will admit, I am a Super-Fan, and once I got over the shock of all the black magic and Demons of Shadow and spell-casting etc, I have to say this grown on me over the years (yes, like a wart!)I loved having the opportunity to see a slice of Krypton again, but at the same time, I despised seeing my favourite aliens dressed like dirty refugees and especially Zaltar in one of Bill Cosby's old sweaters.Might I suggest that a major plot flaw (that of Kara's costume transformation during the Binary Chute flight) would have been resolved if all the Kryptonians were colourfully dressed in smart clothes reminiscent of the comic book styles (in other words, like Superman's costume, with and without the cape!)I agree that more needed to be made of the Argo citizens' suffering as their world began to die (again!) and somehow that had to be communicated to Kara/Supergirl on Earth, forcing her to stop wasting time and get on with the urgent mission at hand.I would venture a guess that David Odell's original storyline (and I mean original as in fresh) was probably diluted by Supergirl Mythos concerns for example, you've gotta have Midvale, the school, the whole Linda Lee Danvers secret identity thing etc, etc. That's is probably what pulled the focus away from this new and potentially intriguing story idea.After all, if ONE Kryptonian could make it to Earth, what was there to stop ALL of them coming over?! She had to be constrained from opening the floodgates of what would no doubt become the WORST example of Illegal Alien Migration in the history of mankind! You know the law once they set foot on sovereign soil ... ... (can you imagine? - Kryptonians collecting welfare!) No, she definitely had to go back, unless ... ... the story became her loss of home, that just like in the comics, she was sent to Earth to escape Argo's gradual transformation into Kryptonite, and the whole city's terrible death from radiation poisoning.But David Odell, probably arrived at his story germ by asking what all audiences ask, Then what happened? Because straightaway you have problems with questions, like OK, what does she do when she gets to Earth? & OK, so there's the Omegahedron. What can Supergirl do with it once she's wrested it back from Selena? Ecch! I think there is only one major flaw in this movie and that is that the comic book Supergirl Mythos collided BADLY with David Odell's fresh new storyline someone said, You've gotta have all of THIS as well, and it was downhill from there.Having said that, I find Jerry Goldsmith's score, especially the March and the Love theme, inspired and very much in keeping with John Williams' tradition of great movie scores. The Monster theme seems familiar and cliched, that descending diminished 5th (the gravelly bass Uh-Oh sound) strikes me as corny. John Williams proved in the Superman movies that shimmering high strings and woodwinds against gluggy percussion can send evil tingles up your spine and also be a (new) sound for evil and terror.I'd like to end on a positive note I'm glad to read the Faye Dunaway is proud of her contribution to Supergirl and that film as a whole. For her sake there's nothing worse than being criticized over your work and thinking glumly, I know. I agree. You're right!I'm glad Helen Slater got her big break as Supergirl otherwise she would be just another beautiful actress struggling to make it out of off-off-off-Broadway plays. Have you seen her in Happy Together? This Super Girl can ACT!!!And my favourite part of the whole movie (they even managed to butcher THAT for the US version!) is the Flying Ballet! IT TOOK MY BREATH AWAY! Together with Jerry Goldsmith's exhilarating scoring (Love theme first on the oboe, then strings, THEN the March) it's probably my favourite scene in ANY movie, EVER. Can you understand MY point of view? Whenever I see that scene, I'm moved to tears. Every time! "},{"Title":"Watchable, if squishy companion version","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Does everything you'd expect really - including spending plenty of cash to do everything properly and thus lay real claim to being affiliated to Richard Donner's Superman. Interestingly, as Helen Slater's Supergirl has the same powers as her cousin she can afford to be more 'girly' than other female superheroes (such as Linda Carter's Wonder Woman). The sequence in which she discovers her superpowers is a delight and as applicable to the aspirations of the audience as the overt sense of duty and ethics brought to Superman by Reeve.Slater is a latter day Buffy though with that instant charm and narrow acting range. Faye Dunaway is also a pantomime villain but I was always a great fan of O'Toole in this film; avuncular, concerned but not panicked, rather like John Wood's Falken in War Games. Ultimately, Superman-lite. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Not a good movie, but personally enjoyable","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It could be because I was six the first time I saw it and had a crush on the girl that played supergirl for a long time thereafter, but I enjoy the movie. The special effects are horribly dated compared to what we have become use to in movies, and the acting is not much better. Unless you really like the superman movies, or are under the age of six, the movie would probably be utterly boring. The only good thing that I can say about the movie is that I like it, but I don't know why.  "},{"Title":"If you look up cult classic in the dictionary...","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" On Argo city, the last surviving city of Krypton, pushed into an alternate dimension known as inner space, Kara (Helen Slater) is given temporary access to the Omegahedron, Argo City's primary power source, by Zaltar (Peter O'Toole), founder of Argo City and Kara's mentor. Kara accidentally loses the Omegahedron and must go to Earth to find it. Unfortunately, it's landed in the hands of megalomaniac witch Selena (Faye Dunaway).That's not really important to the story. It's just a manner to get the ball rolling, a device similar to what screenwriter David Odell did in The Dark Crystal and Masters of the Universe. What really makes this movie special is what happens after this initial setup. First, this is a beautiful, poetic movie. The flying scenes are among the best of the movie, and it obviously took great skill to perform them correctly Helen Slater's grace, Jerry Goldsmith's music, and the photography and cinematography make these scenes a pleasure for the senses. Similarly, the bulldozer scene is a skillful and amazing scene. The bulldozer scene is actually quite similar to the slapstick opening of Superman III, only while the opening scene in Superman III was one of the worst scenes of that movie, the bulldozer scene in Supergirl is one of the best.There are other amazing visual touches throughout the movie, starting with Kara's trip to Earth. Supposedly, the hardest scene to film was the bulldozer scene, but the most amazing visual effects can be found in where Selena creates a monster and sends it to kill Linda (Kara's alter ego on Earth). It creates a storm, pulls trees out of the ground, tears through metal and bricks, and crushes cars. Supergirl's ultimate act to drive him away is another amazing part.With all this visual and auditory poetry, it's little surprise that some of the dialog is decidedly poetic. When Kara's mother, Alura (Mia Farrow), is giving the exposition why retrieving the Omegahedron is imperative, she says, Our lights will grow dim and the very air we breathe so thin. This kind of poetic dialog occurs throughout the film.The other thing that makes this movie special is the Kara/Linda/Supergirl character. She's a scared teenager who risks all to save the people she loves. Now, that's a role model. She's not perfect, like her cousin Superman; she's scared, she doesn't always know what to do, and she doesn't always do the right thing, but she keeps on going. She's more vulnerable and identifiable than her too perfect cousin. One of best examples of this is when she's sent to the Phantom Zone by Selena and meets Zaltar there. Zaltar is full of such self-loathing over one mistake that he selfishly and apathetically decides just to wallow in suffering rather than trying to escape and saving the people of both Earth and Argo City, but Kara convinces him to help her escape. Ironically, it's Zaltar's words that give Kara the strength to keep going and ultimately defeat Selena.I've already mentioned Helen Slater; she really gives all in her first feature film. Faye Dunaway is suitably over-the-top as raving mad villainess Selena. Brenda Vacarro as Selena's accomplice, Bianca, provides some of the biggest laughs. Unfortunately, Hart Bochner (as the hunky, gorgeous gardener Ethan) is only there for eye candy and Marc McClure (as Jimmy Olsen) and Maureen Teefy (as Lois Lane's younger sister, Lucy) are only there to create a tie to the Superman series, which this movie doesn't need (it stands quite well by itself).This movie isn't perfect (no movie is), but those of us who realize what a wonderful, awe-inspiring movie it is will continue to enjoy it for the decades to come. If Superman was the movie that made us believe that a man could fly, this is the movie that made us wish we could fly. "}{"Title":"Camp as Butlins and a great soundtrack to boot!","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is definitely one of my favorites of all time! Helen Slater is gorgeous as the titular superheroine - a great role model for a girl to have. Faye Dunaway chews the scenery as the gloriously camp Selena and thespian Peter O'Toole brings a touch of sophistication as Zaltar. The soundtrack to this movie is FANTASTIC - Jerry Goldsmith is a G-d and his CV has to be seen to be believed. I would recommend the Supergirl CD to any classical music lovers out there. My favourite scene is when Supergirl is flying over Chicago looking for the Omegahedron - the beautiful aerial scenery is just breathtaking, and paired with Goldsmith's score is nothing short of beautiful. Coming is a close second is the 'aerial ballet' scene where Supergirl lands on Earth and discovers her powers. Supergirl's transformation to her alter ego Linda Lee is amazing - much more effective than putting on a pair of glasses and slicking your hair back, like her cousin Superman. For a long time I thought they were played by 2 different actresses! (Well, I was only 5!) Unfortunately the special effects leave much to be desired, but it WAS the '80's I suppose. If you're willing to suspend your disbelief slightly then you will enjoy this movie as much as I do. The one scene I hate is when Supergirl meets two would be rapists. She soon has them lying in a crumpled heap on the floor, but it has a dark and disturbing tone that is out of joint and unsettling. In conclusion, this movie is brilliant and I love it! "},{"Title":"It's easy to forget what makes this movie worthwhile","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  People argue that this is a crappy, badly-done, Superman-wannabe movie--while one can't deny that it's certainly not up to the special-effects levels of today's movies, it's a good film in some basic senses. Supergirl is probably the first movie ever vaguely popularized that allows for women to be the protagonists and antagonists of a film. That alone makes it great. Sure, it doesn't seem like much when it goes up against Buffy or Xena, but in 1984 (remember people, 1984, when there were no CG graphics, or at least really tacky ones?), it was pretty damned good. It's not great, but it deserves consideration, not out and out dismissal. "},{"Title":"Good choice for Supergirl, but the plot is not good.","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is one painful movie to watch. The only character to cross over from Superman is the guy who played Jimmy Olsen and you can see why no one else would want to be seen in this one. They seem to change a lot of things around that were clearly established in the Superman series and then there is the horrible plot as well. Supergirl played by Helen Slater who is probably a good choice to play the role must retrieve a ball that keeps her people alive in inner space or something. All I know is that Supergirl somehow gets to earth by way of a lake. The ball falls into the hands of Faye Dunaway who somehow knows how to use it and she does all sorts of evil things as she is trying to get a younger guy to like her (kind of desperate, eh?). She somehow even sends Supergirl to the phantom zone...in Superman it was a mirror in space; here it is an entire world. All in all this one just suffers from a really bad script and very bad overacting as well. I have only seen the original theatrical release however, and not the 140 minute cut which may explain a few of my complaints. "},{"Title":"a great action movie","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This not as good as Superman. Superman II is also better. Superman III is also better. Superman IV the quest for pieces is also better. Superman returns is also better. Man of steel is also better. But still this is a great action. It has great acting. Great story line. Great special effects. This is spin off of the Superman movies. It as a lot of action If I was going to make movie about Super girl I would make Superman the main character. It's about time they made a movie with Superman and Super girl to gather. But still this is a good movie. I here a lot of c.r.i.t.c.i.s.e.m about this movie and I am sick of it. Because it is a great movie. This movie is a most see. Do not lesson to the c.r.i.t.c.i.s.e.m. Ignore it. This movie is underrated. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated and charming girl power movie","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Speaking as a guy I can say if you love vintage popcorn cinema this movie is in the superhero list. Is it cheesy? Oh God yes ;D Is the plot perhaps a little corny? Maybe. ) However if you allow yourself to absorb the cinematic quality of supergirl you come to appreciate it's superior production value. Jerry Goldsmith's score for the film is truly a standalone masterpiece that without would probably have left the film with a missing piece of foundation. The cinematography and wire stunts for the time were the best technology had to offer at the time and honestly it's refreshing to remember when all we had was bluescreen at the time and had to rely on mood then effects to tell a story. Helen Slater brings an innocence to the role that has long been forgotten in modern society now and sells the movie on true love instead of the teenage lust we now see in almost every teenage focused film today. Supergirl is honestly a part of our history if you want to see flashbacks of our culture during a more innocent time before social media, online dating, and free sex relationship. One of director Jan De Bonts greatest films along with Jaws 2. He delivers an unforgettable cinematic popcorn film. http//www.imdb.com/name/nm0000957/ "},{"Title":"Shoddy mistreatment","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Getting right down to it, Helen Slater is easily the reason to watch (endure) Supergirl - or at least her scenes. They clearly weren't going to cast an uggo for the title character, but even still, Slater's jaw-droppingly pretty and she's able to make that costume work. There's a nice innocence about her. If only the rest of the movie worked as well as she does.Honestly, you could pick this movie to shreds (goodness knows there's plenty of fodder). I guess if you're looking for a mid-'80s fantasy full of witches, a naive supernatural blonde and some weapons-grade awfulness from Peter O'Toole and Faye Dunaway, then you'll get something out of it. Just don't look for an honest treatment of the comics character (it isn't) and you'll be in for some trashy fluff. If the Salkinds weren't so intent on cheapness and playing fast and loose with the source material, Supergirl would've had a real shot on the big screen.4/10 "},{"Title":"Not worth the effort, just like Superman III, IV and Returns","Date":"17 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Set after the events of Superman III, but without Superman (whom is inexplicably off planet at an inter-galactic peace summit. despite there never having been a mention of non- Kryptonian aliens). Starring Helen Slater as Superman's magically existing cousin (from an entire colony of surviving Kryptonians, despite canon that after Superman II, Jor-El was the last living one). Honestly, I could go on listing continuity errors but I'm afraid at some point in the next few weeks, my keyboard is going to run out of batteries. So I'll just have to skip ahead to reviewing the film off of its own merits.Eventually, sorcery (Superman's other weakness) was eventually going to have to be brought into the series, so I can forgive that lameness, most certainly. That's not what makes this a bad film. It's a combination of probably the weakest romantic plot (not subplot, which it really should have been), a chronically unenthused (to put in nicely) Peter O'Toole (Lawrence of Arabia, Troy, The Tudors), an overabundance of non-practical effects (which technology of the time was just nut ready for), nearly unbearable banter, and the flimsiest plot built of character being inconceivably stupid that make the film so bad.But then, that's really the entire film.At least Supergirl's alter-ego had more thought put into it than adds/removes glasses and Selena was an... Acceptable, I suppose, villain. But ultimately Supergirl sits with aforementioned Superman III and Quest for Peace as entirely missable.20%-Gimly "},{"Title":"Helen Slater is Supergirl in a Very Strange Campy Movie","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Helen Slater, as Roger Ebert says, plays a great part in a very uneven film. It's campy like the TV Batman series yet has some decent special effects and a highly unique storyline. Originally 150 minutes, I was able to buy the 2006 WB DVD re-release which is 124 minutes. This film lost millions due to bad editing (U.S. version) and poor promotion by Tri-Star. Kal-El's cousin Kara is from inner-space and it isn't quite explained where that is but it appears to be underwater, for some reason. Fay Dunaway is great as the power-crazed sorceress Selena that lives in the spooky ride of an old abandoned amusement park. Brenda Vaccaro is terrible as Fay's sidekick and her character is totally unnecessary. Peter O'Toole is the mad genius from Argo City and looks old, tired, and weary. In fact, all of the men here in Midvale, Illinois are stupid and ineffective. Some cute touches Supergirl can change her wardrobe at will, or so it seems. She flies around an awful lot but the process shots look real. Shameless plugs for several foods & franchises. The town actually looks real not like the horrible small town set in Superman II. Helen Slater is a knockout but her muscles looks like they are built into the suit, like Michael Keaton's Batman. Otherwise she is gorgeous and incredibly young at age 19. What is not explained here and should be, is that, just like Superman, Supergirl is also vulnerable to magic, which comes into our world thru the Power Crystal from Argo City. Some of the sets are very cheap-looking. Argo City, with its flimsy windows, looks as bad as early Star Trek TV. The phantom zone has a painted back-drop like a stage set. This is a comic book adventure with an Alice through-the-looking-glass ending and doesn't take place in Metropolis at all. Why does it seem more like a TV movie than a 35 million dollar production? What did they spend the money on? The Shadow of Darkness monster that Fay summons reminds me of both the ID Monster from Forbidden Planet and the Demon comes from another old horror film. From the director who gave us Jaws II, Santa Claus and the haunting classic Somewhere in Time. Still, far more fun than both Superman III and IV put together, because Helen Slater plays her role with such conviction, just like Christopher Reeve. The ending actually works in spite of the uneven story which alternates between being both inane and brilliant. Look for Jimmy Olsen (Marc McClure) as the only crossover actor from the four Superman Movies. Superman is out of town, but he should have made a guest appearance. Almost out-of-print and worth owning if only as a cult classic. The fresh and new Supergirl TV series (2015-?) makes this film look even worse than before! "},{"Title":"Get the THX version ONLY!","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Supergirl is basically a poor movie. It does however have a shinning star in Helen Slater as Supergirl who even though overtly green at times manages to give the character not only an appealing presence, but a natural innocence. She overcomes the clumsy script and amplifies her alien persona. If your a comic book buff (especially of DC comics) you may have a natural inclination to want to like the film, but feelings can't save the awful reality of the movie. The shame is that they had a real Supergirl surrounded by a big mess. Childish antics which make you cringe even more than Superman's Otis abound. With a premise that has Supergirl traveling to Earth to re-obtain the Omegahedron that will save her city, can all be lost? Coming off the ridiculousness of Superman III, I can only figure that the filmmakers thought audiences wanted more buffoonery. Or, they just sank into their own selfish indulgences which were not all bad. The gaudiness remains pervasive throughout though. Hart Bochner's contrived romance is embarrassing, especially the poetry scenes. The villains to me are all clownish to the point of distraction. Had Faye Dunaway played her evil witch straight, we may have had something. Mia Farrow is bland and Peter O'Tool turns in an oh well the planet will blow up delivery. We also never got any bullets bouncing off Supergirl which made me, well, mad. On the plus side the Phantom Zone is well done and Supergirls perils within it bring a needed darkness that plays nicely. The flying scenes are quite good for the era, and playing the THX remastered DVD in a blu ray player adds beauty. The only way to watch this film IS the THX version as the print is surprisingly good compared to the grainy directors cut.The limited edition DVD which contains the THX version (and directors cut)is pricey now being that only' 50,000 were made. You may get lucky on ebay as I did. The extras are well worth it for Superman family DC fans. The lengthy making of the film featurette is a great watch as Slaters evolution is discussed. Multiple trailers, storyboards, and a cautious directors commentary fill out the disc. Supergirl fails in most ways, but strangely triumphs in giving us a memorable film heroine embodied by Slater that succeeds in it's own right. "},{"Title":"THE U.S VERSION IS AWFUL, THE DIRECTORS CUT IS GREAT!","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I agree, that the US version is terrible. But Its not fair to judge this movie based on that version. The original 138 Minute Directors Cut was released internationally as a cut down 124 minute film and eventually butchered down to a 105 min US release. Losing all of this footage which gives the characters depth and not to mention more explanation of things that are happening.All the characters are great in the directors cut, so is the story. Its a comic book brought to life, and if you see it thru that perspective you'll enjoy it. Don't expect it being Superman, because Supergirl herself is nothing like her cousin. She is innocent, naive about her new surroundings and those around her.Just get the 2 Disc DVD set and you'll have a fresh new chance to experience this movie. It may still have some minor flaws, but so does SupermanAnd if someone says This movie is awful, its nothing like Superman one more time, I'm going to yell! If you want to watch a movie thats like Superman hey, heres an Idea --- WATCH SUPERMAN! "}{"Title":"GLORY ANNEN LIVES!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  My fave rave B movie actress, Glory Annen, has a very small cameo as a protester in this 1980's movie bomb.  She's only on screen for a few moments but at least she got to do a scene with the great Oscar winning actress Faye Dunaway.  Faye must have been slumming when she did this flick.  This was one of Glory's last films before she retired, she will be missed in this dude's opinion! "},{"Title":"It's better than Superman IV...","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  AS Homer Simpson would say, ''Mmmmm - Supergirl''. It certainly proved the strength of the Superman franchise when Warner Brothers released this movie spin-off with, effectively, the Man Of Steel's sister. This came only a year after Superman III, but resembles the 1978 more than anything else, with it's epic sci-fi tone, but the inclusion of black magic into the plot is a little odd.Helen Slater is perfect casting for Supergirl, and she displays fine talent in showing the character's vulnerability and wonder at experiencing an entirely new world. She is also absolutely beautiful and looks extremely sexy in the Supergirl outfit. However, when it comes to the heroic scenes, Supergirl nearly always needs help, and, alarmingly for a superhero, gives up when trapped in the netherworld the Phantom Zone until Peter O'Toole comes along.Faye Dunaway is certainly nasty enough as the evil Selena, but she's not really enough of a threat for a Kryptonian. The fact that she uses magic is unusual for the Superman series, and some of the gothic fantasy imagery is very out-of-place here. In fact, there's more stuff out-of-place in this movie than not; a cameo from Marc CcClure (Jimmy Olsen) to make sure we know who's series this really is, Selena's partner in crime Brenda Vaccaro is just unecessary comic relief, while Peter Cook gets far too much screen time for absolutely no reason whatsoever.The script is a little too much like that of Superman to be comfortable. The superhero is sent to Earth, where the villain lives in an isolated hideout with their less-intelligent comic relief sidekick, and performs some amazing feats before falling for the first member of the opposite sex they save. Meanwhile, the villain hatches some sly plan, the hero flies off to stop them, whereby the villain puts the hero somewhere out of harms way while taking over the Earth. Just when it looks all over, somebody helps the hero to get free and they go back and save the love interest and the World and capture the bad guy. They both have that plot structure, but Superman carries it off far more effectively.The only reason to watch this movie is Slater, and her superhuman abilities are made to look less impressive when she is given so much trouble by a not very threatening villain. It could have been much better if the Supergirl character was stronger and the bad guy was another Kryptonian refuge who had stolen the omegahedron, allowing for some Superman II style action at the climax. Basically, Supergirl is great, but the movie she's in is poor. "},{"Title":"Good Try...But No Cigar","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed this film very much. But the story is kind of plain and many of the actors or actresses seem lost. What was the purpose of having Marc McClure in the film. It's not like in Superman 4 him and Lucy are together.  Peter O'Toole being in the film is obviously their own way of advertising the film, as well as to make it appear better than it really is. Helen Slater is good in her starring role, but at times seems dazed and confused.I haven't seen the Director's Cut or the International Cut, but I heard it makes the film make more sense. As a DC Comics fan I would say stay away, as it doesn't really stick to the comics story. If your a Superman fan avoid, Superman isn't even in the film(he was scripted to make an appearance, but Christopher Reeves wasn't available)he is only mentioned on a radio broadcast. If you like Helen Slater or just want to kick back and enjoy a couple of hours than come see this. If you already haven't than you must've just been born.... 3 OUT OF 5 STARS. "},{"Title":"I am not alone in this little, miserable planet","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" How relieved i am to see all these loving people in this service who see in this movie what I saw 16 years ago; a sweet natured fable about a sweet natured heroine. Aside from all the cheesiness and everything that is wrong with film, I never disliked it and always found it infectious and good fun. I have had an awful time trying to find the international version that I saw on a videotape from a foreing video distributor (as opposed to the shortened U.S. version that was released in theaters. Then I bought the U.S.A. home video release (yes, in that big old box), that had the 105 minute version; I have given that tape away; then avid home video released it in a cheap transfer that probably buried the movie more than it already was.Finally this version comes out, and triumphantly brings this movie back to life, a transfer that lets you appreciate Alan Hume's lovely cinematography (mainly during the flying ballet sequence) and more depth into the characters motivations. Helen Slater has never been more beautiful and endearing, and Faye Dunaway's campiness, wardrobe and dominance is the stuff drag queen's fashions and performances are made of, to be tons of fun.I wish director Jeannot Szwarc would have been more careful in hiding the cranes and cables that made Supergirl fly, they are all too visible in this clean, THX-certified transfer.Jerry Goldsmith's music score is delightful and invigorating, the same way he did it for 1993's Rudy.Thank you Anchor Bay for giving this movie, and its fans, the chance it deserves to be seen like this. "},{"Title":"Slater was perfect but Dunaway was a disaster as wicked witch Selena","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was a camp classic of 80s. From the same Superman producers it can be considered a female version of Christopher Reeve's adventures. We are in 1984 and we have the women absolute protagonists in a superhero-movie; this aspect was a great originality element. The script was pretty silly but the movie's mood was funny and amusing. Young and beginner Helen Slater in title-role was simply fabulous; she's really good because her acting had right mix of sweetness, naivety and force. It could not be another choice better in order to interpret the role of Supergirl Helen was most beautiful she has le physique du role...she's a real super-girl. Every adjective would be inadequate for describe the absolute pleasure for the eyes that feels in seeing wonderful Helen to flit in her short costume. If the lines and the history are kind of absurd and chump..these things they are pardoned forehead to marvelous Helen Slater. In a all-stars cast they shine humoristic performances of great Peter O'Toole as Slater's mentor Zaltar. Comedian English actor Peter Cook and witty Brenda Vaccaro are two agreeable blackguards, handsome Hart Bochner was Slater's love-interest Etahn while always fine Mia Farrow had a little cameo as Helen's mother Alura. The only great problem in this movie was the villain because main Supergirl adversary was a clumsy and unlikely witch named Selena. The character was unidimensional and apish Selena was a old second-rate witch that lives in a abandoned fan-house, reading taro-ks and the deep of the coffee but she had the dream of world-domination. This silly Bellamy recovering a magical object lost from Supergirl utterly becomes a dangerous criminal. This part of screenplay was full of holes and sure it leaves very to wish but many of blames about not overall movie's success are of miss Faye Dunaway as wicked witch Selena. All said how much of bond for Slater is worth to the opposite for Dunaway she was irritating in her camp mannerism. Dunaway acting was appalling type of hamming and she looks horrid with a kitsch outfit, a very bad make-up and laughable red curly wig. This self-assertive lady seems convinced of be much good and nice but in truth to beginning trying to be comic she was really nasty and beyond bearing while in finally wanting be menacing she falls in the ridicule. In the finale the witch was eaten alive from a Godzilla-type monster for miss Dunaway this horrendous ending is what it deserves. "},{"Title":"Supergirl can come rescue me any time!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, in all honesty&#133;this is a pretty lousy film! The plot is awful and contains more holes than a bowl of Swiss cheese, while the editing and pacing look pretty amateurish. And yet you don't really care about all these flaws! Supergirl is cheerful kitsch with a gorgeous lead-actress and a bunch of great stars overacting (Peter O'Toole, Faye Dunaway, Mia Farrow... ). Helen Slater is Kara, superman's niece from Krypton who goes to earth herself in order to recover the lost Omega Hedron which is a power source for the planet. The mad raving amateur witch Selena found the Omega Hedron and wants to use it to obtain world domination! Yihaa! Helen Slater looks yummy in her Supergirl outfit &#150; with miniskirt and tight top &#150; and that's about all I remembered about this film. It is never explained how exactly this Omega Hedron works&#133;or how Kara suddenly changes into Supergirl...or even who sewed that lovely costume. This is just colorful amusement with flamboyant visual effects and attractive stars. "},{"Title":"Not a superfilm","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only two good things I can say about this movie is that the music's really nice and Helen Slater makes a pretty Supergirl/Linda Lee. Unfortunately she came across as a real drip. The effects are boring and unoriginal and the storyline's dire. Peter Cook's irritating, Peter O Toole's underused and is that Mia Farrow? The first flying sequence, (when she just discovers she can defy the laws of gravity -how exciting for her), is really good and looks really fun but don't expect anything more than a quick cash in on the Superone, that's old Clarke Kent of course. Who, incidently cameos only as a mere picture on a poster in this. 5/10. "},{"Title":"You Will Believe That A Movie Can Stink","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"      There is an almost decent movie in all this, but you have to dig pretty deep to find it. The problem is that as popular as Supergirl is in the comic books, she can't carry a movie by herself. This should have been a sequel in the Superman series than a movie on it's own. Helen Slater is beautiful and talented but she is wasted in a bad script dragged down by an unrealistic plot and the over-acting of Faye Dunaway and her co-horts of Mia Farrow and Peter Cook. Peter O'Toole is a delight in everything he does as he is here, but the movie is just one big embarrassment. Slater was signed on to do two more sequels had this been a success, but the magic and sorcery angle was too ridiculous as was the concept of a bumbling witch playing with and somehow learning how to use a cosmic power source. Right there the movie loses gravity and coherence.Huge holes large enough for a train to go through sideways are throughout the script as in why does Supergirl waste time getting enrolled in school when her family's life is in the balance and how in the world did she know about her cousin as Superman. Superman, himself is conspicuously absent from the movie with a stupid excuse and it's never explained as to how Supergirl's family got in another dimension. Too much of the script strayed from the comic book, and in the process got lost. I can only really watch this for Slater in the costume, but much of her best scenes in the school have been edited out of the film. If they had centered it more on her acceptance by her peers, this may have been a better movie, but the fight scenes and sorcery is really bad. Jimmy Olsen and Lois's sister, Lucy, have been tacked on to connect the film to the Superman movies, but it really doesn't help. "},{"Title":"Oh dear! Such potential wasted","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The hardest thing to swallow about how bad this film really is, is the talent on hand such as Peter O'Toole and Faye Dunaway - what on earth possessed them to put their genius into this appalling production is beyond me.Helen Slater's acting is as cardboard as it gets.  The principal storyline just stinks and the plot is so full of holes it's untrue.  The special effects are just plain awful and everything in the movie looks like a bad prop from the 1930's version of Flash Gordon. But - enough about the good points. The one thing that really annoys me is the patronising but generally incorrect use of Sci-Fi description. Some of the words they dream up are just so lacking in imagination and condescending it's nauseating. Omegaheadron I ask you!In short, if you want to make history and tell everyone you have witnessed quite possibly the worst film ever made, then watch Supergirl.  If, however, you value the relatively short time we have on this planet, then please don't waste 2 hours of it watching this trite, worthless drivel. "},{"Title":"another step on the decline","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Kara Zor-El (Helen Slater) lives in an isolated community of Kryptonians. Zaltar (Peter O'Toole) lends the powerful Omegahedron for Kara to play with. It gets lost out in space and Kara chases after it. It lands on earth where Selena (Faye Dunaway) and Nigel are having a picnic. Selena uses it to power her witchcraft. Kara lands on earth and discovers her new powers. She takes on the identity of Linda Lee, cousin of Clark Kent, and attends a girls private school with Lucy Lane, younger sister of Lois Lane. She falls for grounds-keeper Ethan. Selena uses a love potion on Ethan.This came out between Superman III and IV. The quality is similarly somewhere between III and IV. There are a lot of silly things going on in this one. The addition of magic is a big hurdle when the movie is trying to make a flying girl believable. It becomes extremely campy. I'm fine with Helen Slater as Supergirl. The main problem for her is that she's forced to deal with a lot of silly girlie situations. She's on a world endangering quest. Yet she deals with mean girls and puppy love. It's another step on the inevitable decline of the early Superman franchise. "}{"Title":"Perfect choice for star, great music and shots let down by script","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Of all the line of Super movies made by Salkinds, people seem pretty universal in their praise for the first movie as a classic, fans of Superman II seem to get the urge to up-heave at Superman III, while people who love Superman III tend to dis Superman II, while everyone seems to regard Supergirl and Superman IV as dying gasps of a franchise.My own experience? Well, I was living in the area of Fenton, MI at the time, and somehow I ended up seeing, if I recall right, Supergirl four or five times. Why? Well, Helen Slater proved to be perfect casting for the role of Supergirl. While not quite as landmark as Williams' immortal Superman theme, the score of Supergirl is as memorable in its own right (curiously enough, it was reused for a Power Rangers movie a few years later). And scattered through the movie are some magnificent scenes,such as Supergirl first emerging on Earth, and your gang- bangers from Hollywood central casting who discover they picked the WRONG girl for their victim.Nonetheless I have to acknowledge the movie's weaknesses. It was in retrospect that I realized the movie's script essentially copied in color-by-the-numbers fashion the script of Superman I, this time done in a duller and less interesting manner. Even the very first Superman movie had its flaws, but it was really the sequels hurt by these flaws as the cynical and camp elements grew and became magnified with every passing movie.I thought DC Comics/Time-Warner missed an opportunity with Superman IV. If only they had just made a movie titled V (acknowledging both Superman I-III and Supergirl as prequels) and actually tried to find out what actually happened to Superman on one of those old chestnut out of the office while on a mission to another galaxy jaunts. They just might have made a great movie, if say, Superman were to show up on Earth with a character in tow by the name of Brainiac, supposedly on a diplomatic mission of peace. Meanwhile, Supergirl had already returned to earth in search of Superman's help because Argo City has mysteriously vanished, only for her overtures to be sabotaged by a mysterious enemy who steals her superpowers and labels her as a mental case. Meanwhile, as Clark Kent is enjoying a reunion with Lana Lang,Jimmy Olsen and Lucy Lane have dragged Lois Lane into taking a second look at that this mystery girl Linda, with the unexpected help of Nigel and Gorman (genuinely reformed, but still far from paragons of virtue, who form a comic odd-couple in trying to work together). Together, they turn up evidence that Brainiac may not have come in peace as claimed but has been duping Superman all along, but it's already too late as now Earth's cities are suddenly mysteriously vanishing...Oh well, we got Superman IV instead (*SIGH*). And we had to wait some years before another Superman movie would tackle the theme of Superman coming back to earth after a considerable time of exile, not to mention some years before the Supergirl character would literally come back from the grave (meaning no more Helen Slater as Kara Zor-El--*DOUBLE SIGH*--though apparently she made a great Lara later on). "},{"Title":"I wish I had my two hours back","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Wow. I really wanted to like this movie. I'm not sure what movie the positive reviewers watched, but I must have watched a different version. Thought that even if it wasn't a blockbuster it would be entertaining enough to sit and watch with the kids. I never saw it when it first came out. Wish I hadn't wasted the rental fee.This movie made so little sense and, I hate to be so blunt but honestly, was just dumb. The only good thing about it was Helen Slater. Supergirl's world is going to die within days, if not hours, if she doesn't find the lost power source, and she treats it like a field trip. She's kissing boys and playing field hockey when she should be getting in touch with her cousin Superman to help her out (and seriously, he always knows when people are in danger, why doesn't he show up? I realize Christopher Reeves didn't want to play Superman anymore, but couldn't they have gotten somebody? This woman Selena is taking over the earth and he doesn't show up?). It was just painful to watch. Young kids won't mind if it doesn't make sense, but some of the scenes might be scary. Anyone else, I recommend you only watch it if you get it for free or you've already seen it and you know you like it. There are just too many negatives to list, and not any positives. Wait, one positive You can get your kids using their brains by pointing out all of the things that don't make sense, the filming mistakes, or what the characters would be better off doing or not doing.I like kitschy movies and silly movies, and I don't like to knock movies, but this time I wish I had my two hours back. "},{"Title":"Underrated Comic Book Film!","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Helen Slater, Faye Dunaway, Peter O'Toole, Brenda Vaccaro, Hart Bochner, Maureen Teefy, Marc McClure and Peter Cook star in this 1984 action-fantasy based on the DC Comics. This begins in Argo City, a Kryptonian community located in another galaxy where we meet young girl, Kara-El (Slater) who is Superman/Clark Kent's (Christopher Reeve) cousin. Soon, she heads to Earth to retrieve a powerful orb that's their civilization's power source. She becomes Supergirl and secretly assumes the identity of high school student, Linda Lee. She also meets Lucy Lane (Teefy) who is reporter, Lois Lane's (Margot Kidder) sister. Soon, Supergirl faces evil sorceress, Selena (Dunaway) who finds the orb and tries to stop her from using it. The late, O'Toole (Lawrence of Arabia) plays Kryptonian scientist, Zaltar, Vaccaro plays Selena's dim-witted friend, Bianca, Bochner (Die Hard) plays landscaper, Ethan who finds romance with Supergirl, the late, Cook (The Princess Bride) plays Selena's boyfriend, Nigel who is a warlock and McClure (Back to the Future) reprises his role as photographer, Jimmy Olsen. This is an underrated film that's not bad and features a good cast, neat effects & great score by the late, Jerry Goldsmith as usual. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"It's a Bird, It's a Plane, it's a...","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Some big budget movies are bound to fail. At the same time, some failures could have been much better&#x85; SUPERGIRL begins much like its famous predecessor, SUPERMAN THE MOVIE. Instead of Marlon Brando, who was David Lean's original idea to play LAWRENCE OF ARABIA, we have the man himself, Peter O'Toole as Zaltar, the wizardly mentor of a beautiful young lady, Kara Zor-El.The location is inner-space where colonies of Krypton survivors exist within a colorful, dome-like, dreamy location, a cross between LOGAN'S RUN and XANADU. Zaltar is jovially playing with an orb as if pulling a coin from his ear at a children's party &#x96; he hands it to Kara and the orb flies off through the dome, headed straight for&#x85;The same place Kara ventures A planet where her cousin already made a name for himself &#x96; that being, Earth. As more bad luck would have it, the orb just happens to fly into the lap of a wannabe witch who needs only one thing to make all her powerful, villainous dreams come true. With this device, Faye Dunaway's Selena, along with her female Ned Beatty in the form of Bianca (Brenda Vaccaro), goes from a student sorceress to a powerful one&#x85; But that's skipping ahead&#x85;At the park where the orb landed has a newly transformed Kara, now donning a familiar blue spandex suit, becoming Supergirl although for a little while she's inconspicuous...These are the best scenes as our lovely super heroine, changing her blond hair brown, holes up at an All Girl's School that just happens to be semi-run by Selena's nefarious counterpart, Nigel, played by Peter Cook, and her best friend becomes Lois Lane's mousy sister, Lucy&#x85;Kara blends in with the other girls while at a fun house turned mansion/castle, Selena's powers start taking shape&#x85; Her initial target becomes Kara's future love interest and the main ingredient of what makes SUPERGIRL a complete howler.Square-jawed Hart Bochner, known for playing bully jerks in BREAKING AWAY and THE WILD LIFE, is terribly miscast as a construction working stud, Ethan, put under an intense love potion spell by Selena that winds up being accidentally unleashed on Kara &#x96; a Sleeping Beauty to Selena's Evil Queen with Ethan her dopey Huntsman.The bizarre romance between Ethan and Kara (he's much too old) slows the pace considerably. Worthy side-characters Lucy Lane and Marc McClure's Jimmy Olsen (the sole connection to the original) are completely forgotten... Meanwhile, the only action sequences are a few boring and prolonged battles between Supergirl against Selena's wind-gushing spells.Helen Slater is cute and beautiful, perfectly suited for the role but she deserved a much better vehicle. What began as an eclectic and creative adventure gets painted in a banal, colorless corner&#x85;Not even an 11th hour Phantom Zone meeting with Peter O'Toole can save us from the muddled mid-section that marred any potential. "},{"Title":"Adventure Does Run In the Family","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Following the tepid critical reception of Superman III, the Salkinds' decided to try their luck with a spin off series with Jeannot (Jaws 2) Szwarc hired to direct the spectacular production. A worldwide casting hunt led to Helen Slater winning the role of Supergirl. It's a remarkable debut brimming with charm and appeal. She brings Supergirl to life and holds her own against a stellar cast of Hollywood legends and a massive production loaded with exciting visual effects. Supergirl was crippled by scathing reviews and ignored by audiences who felt burned by Superman III and earned two insulting Golden Raspberry award nominations for both Faye Dunaway and Peter O'Toole whose acting ability really is beyond question. Dunaway is a wonderful, larger than life villain named Selena who runs afoul of the cousin of Superman when she steals the energy source which powers Argo City. The special effects are lavishly produced and look especially good on the big screen and Jerry Goldsmith's score is another orchestral feather in his cap. Supergirl may have flopped but all those bad reviews cannot change the quality of the work which stands head and shoulders above films like Superman III and IV. "},{"Title":"Comic Book Romantic Comedy Fantasy","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Supergirl is a wonderfully constructed movie. The castings of Helen Slater as Supergirl, Academy Award Winner Faye Dunaway as Selina, Peter O Toole, Peter Cooke, Marc McClure et all, is inspired. The Direction by Jeannot Swarzc is bouncy and bubbly and adds to the fun. The Special effects are th e best seen in any Alexander/Ilya Salkind produce movie and perhaps the best in any fantasy movie full stop. Alan Humes photography is simply stunning and Jerry Goldsmiths Themes are superb. The problem lies as with most Salkind produced movies And most blockbusters made by big studios todaywith the script. David Odell's Wizard of Oz style Rom-com is awful. Odell employs the most stupid of themes for a movie of this kind by making it alove story, and worse still is characters Linda Lee Ethan and Selina are poorly written and un-interesting. David and Leslie Newman showed with their work on Superman The Movie and Superman III, how this sort of ting should be handled.In favour of the movie, Helen Slater is very good and very attractive as the heroine. She is alittle more comfortable as the dorothy like Kara than Superman alike Supergirl. Faye Dunaway is suitable as the evilish Selina, and Peter O Toole impresses as Zaltar. Others like Peter Cooke and Brenda Vacaro are hillarious, but Maureen Teefy as Lucy and Hart Brochner as Ethan are awful.Overall thought, the sets, special effects, music and performances win through. This is an enjoyable movie but no Superman II or Superman III. And this is apety because it could easily have been just that. "},{"Title":"DVD deluxe release proves film has its fans...esp. Fans of FAYE!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The deluxe two-disc DVD (limited edition of 50,000) was just released this month and it's pretty swell. The film never looked this good before (I never saw it in theaters). Anchor Bay, which released the DVD, is obviously aware that the film has its audience, and they tend to unite on certain levels 1) Jerry Goldsmith's score; 2) Faye Dunaway's scene-chewing, which is about as good a Faye performance (in the spirit of Joan Crawford) as you're gonna get after Mommie Dearest; 3) a sweaty Hart Bochner with no shirt on (woof!!); and 4) effects buffs. I suppose there is a contingency of superhero fans out there as well, or men who like Helen Slater's legs or something, but they are perhaps in the minority.  Some other person who commented on this film here at IMDB (and who was rather hostile...and what's THAT all about???) said that by today's standards the effects are abysmal. Well that is as stupid a remark as anyone could every make. ANY pre-1990s effects are, by today's standards, going to seem shoddy, or at the very least on some level primitive, or even quaint. It's absurd to look at a film that is over fifteen years old and which didn't even have access to computer graphics and judge it against achievements made in a film like The Matrix. A 1950s Sci-fi epic like Forbidden Planet is going to seem particularly dated. Like...HELLO, they didn't have computers even just 15 years ago to do some of what is so commonplace today that you or I can go out and buy the software to do it on our home computers!!  People who watch a film from the early 80s and whine about how abysmal the effects are because they need to meet today's high standards should have their VCRs or DVD players taken away from them until they can be given a crash course in How To Recognize The Merits Of A Film In The Context Of It's Time Period.  Now, it's a fact that Supergirl didn't hit its mark commercially and the film has been raked over the coals for its flaws for years. And it is flawed. Even the director concedes that in the commentary; but *why* this film didn't quite gel properly is difficult to pinpoint, outside of the script, which has but a few choice moments (and I bet they were ad libs!). Aside from the script and obvious visual flaws because computer graphics weren't available yet (eyes roll) it is only fair to acknowledge the flying stunts in Supergirl are actually better than in the Superman films. Why? Simply because they had to be for the sake of character development (as the director explains this in the commentary). Even the person who called this film trash might have to concede that the aerial ballet that Helen Slater performs is a pretty nice achievement. Then again, I wouldn't hold my breath. Did you know that the town in Illinois where Supergirl was shot wasn't even a town in Illinois but a town built totally from scratch in England at the studio?? This all comes out, along with much more, in the fifty minute documentary on the making of the film which is sure to interest anyone who is into seeing behind the scenes stuff. Took 'em lots of time and manpower to pull that town off, apparently. And this is where I personally think maybe the film got bogged down (in recreating a small, midwestern town on an English backlot), as convincing as the town IS (I defy you to tell me you think it was a set).  Certainly, the film doesn't quite cut it, and it could also have to do with the overall approach. Again, the commentary under the film and the making of featurette provide more background so the viewer is able to ponder this with a better grasp of the film-making process. It really is interesting. If it weren't for the DVD being a superb package with two cuts of the film on separate discs as well as all the extras, I would hesitate to recommend the VHS at all. It's washed out, pan-N-scan, and that should be enough to end the discussion right there. As for the film itself....well, Helen came off a bit wooden (this was her first feature film). Faye, well...ya gotta cut HER some slack; she was still haunted by the ghost of Joan Crawford, and (thankfully!!!) it comes through in a number of scenes. The making of portion of the disc documents scenes being in the process of shooting which feature Faye hamming like crazy, and it's terrific! She also introduces the production with a brief monologue in close-up which is to die for.  Humor in Supergirl is frequently unintentional, but keep your tongue in your cheek and you'll enjoy it. Peter Cook and Brenda Vaccaro are actually quite funny (especially when  you get to see minutes on minutes of footage that was not in the US release of the picture -- that's right, there was an international version that was longer than the US release). Anyhow, the extras and the extra footage restored to the film make the package a good deal. Try searching online for the lowest price on DVDs and you'll get it for around $20.  No, this film isn't an award winner, but it has some good points, and is at least worth a look-see if you get a kick out of Faye, like the music of Jerry Goldsmith, and enjoy looking at how films are made (especially how they were flown in the old days with wires and the aid of optical effects). Expect less and you'll receive more. ;-) "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Although many critics disliked it when it came out, I found Supergirl to be a very enjoyable movie.  Helen Slater is a Superbabe; she is perfect as Supergirl.  The musical score is very good, but not as good as John William's score for Superman.Here is the story; Zaltar 'borrows' an Omegahedron, one of the main power sources of Argo City.  The Omegahedron is accidentally lost in space and Kara (Supergirl) goes to earth to find it.  The Omegahedron lands in the hands of a witch named Selina.  Plenty of action, a decent plot, good performances, and awesome special effects make this movie very entertaining.  Helen Slater is great and great-looking as Supergirl/Kara/Linda Lee.I give it 7/10 stars. "},{"Title":"I want everyone to know that I love Zaltar...","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was 2 when this film was released, but only saw it on TV last week. Being as I am, a total Peter O'Toole admirer, I only watched this coz he was in it. And I'm so glad I did, because I absolutely loved his Zaltar character!!!! I think Zaltar make come close to knocking Tiberius (Peter's Caligula role) off my fave O'Toole character list! I really wish this movie had been more about Zaltar and how he came to create Argo City rather than Supergirl. I'll even forgive the costume designers for forcing my beloved Peter to wear a rather frightful piece of knitwear in this film.Jerry Goldmsith's wonderful score really stuck in my head, especially the Flying Ballet sequence. I'm currently trawling eBay for a copy. Also the opening titles are pretty good, but that's about it. The film itself suffers from so many plot holes that it's impossible to grasp what's supposed to be happening. So many things left me puzzled. How does Supergirl suddenly acquire her powers while traveling to Earth? Why did Zaltar give her the Omegahedron in the first place knowing full well how important it was to the city's survival? And why does nobody on Earth ever notice Supergirl as she flies overhead? Faye Dunaway is gulity of chronic overacting. The opening shot of Argo City looks like it's made out of a milk carton. Some obvious back projection, and other naff SFX don't help either, and the ending is just ludicrous. Still it was a fun way to spend a rather dull Monday afternoon, and I give this film a far higher rating than it deserves because of Peter's superb performance. He really took this role seriously. "},{"Title":"A golden opportunity squandered....","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  If, like me, you were enchanted by Helen Slater, you probably look back and wonder why there wasn't a better film produced out of the hotchpotch that was SUPERGIRL.It clearly had the makings of being a great movie and is today merely saved by Slater in a reasonable debut and after this, she appeared in two good films, RUTHLESS PEOPLE (1986) and CITY SLICKERS (1991).As with SUPERMAN III, this is a movie that needed more work. The back projection and effects, especially with some of the wire work on show, doesn't do justice to the film and having the villain reside in a huge mountainous piece of rock in the Midwest is rather strange. "}{"Title":"Good to while away a slow afternoon","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" November 23, 1984, the night after Thanksgiving. I stood in line in the clear, pleasantly cool autumn evening. The event was the premiere of Supergirl. A year before, fans were disappointed when Christopher Reeve announced Superman III would be his last. So it was with some anticipation that fans went to watch the latest Super film from the Salkinds and Pierre Spengler, the men who had brought us three enjoyable if uneven Superman movies in '78, '81 and '83. That was my mistake.I shouldn't have gone in as a fan of the Superman movies. This was a whole different animal. There were similarities, to be sure, but mostly with Superman III. Faye Dunaway's Selena is an megalomaniacal archvillain of the same (hammy) school as Robert Vaughn's Ross Webster in III. Both harness formidable forces beyond their ken that eventually slip their control and turn on them. Both make for decent popcorn movies if you sit back, relax and don't think too much.The opening titles were somewhat of a letdown after the gold standard set by the original Superman movie. But the titles had been going downhill anyway. II's was not as good as The Movie's. Supergirl's was still better than III's eye-straining theatrical titles and IV's peerlessly cheesy, cartoonish titles.Jerry Goldsmith's score didn't appeal to me at first. Again, it was the Superman mindset. How could anything hope to compare with John Williams' masterwork in the first movie? As the years passed, I grew to like this score as I learned to judge it on its own merits, just as with the movie itself.Much has been said about Dunaway's over-the-top performance as Selena. Still, Mia Farrow's thankfully brief appearance as Kara's mother was worse, filled with breathy, weepy pronouncements. Compared with his role in Breaking Away, Hart Bochner had more lines but a weaker performance.In terms of scenery, this held its own. The rocky coast of the Scottish Highlands, made famous by Braveheart, stood in for the shores of Lake Michigan. Better technology made Supergirl's twilight and nighttime flying scenes over Chicago brighter and sharper than those in Superman, although with apologies to Chicagoans, the Windy City's skyline is not as breathtaking as the Big Apple's. The Midvale School is surprisingly convincing as an American campus, since it was all filmed in England's Pinewood Studio. The same could be said for Midvale itself, an All American small town that only existed for a few weeks on a British studio lot.David Odell's screenplay is best left uncritiqued. Once you start getting into the numerous and large plot holes, there's pretty much no stopping.Now Anchor Bay Entertainment has issued a limited edition DVD featuring both the International Cut and a Director's Cut. The International Cut was available on Japanese video at the time of the US theatrical release and was partially blamed for its poor box office. After 16 years, it was good to see this in its original Panavision aspect ratio - a welcome improvement as the movie suffered badly in pan & scan.Interestingly, neither cut is 100% complete. Director Jeannot Szwarc seems to have mellowed in his old age, as evidenced by some changes in the Director's Cut. A common swear word was dubbed with a G-rated shoot and Lucy calling a vicious Myra retarded was replaced with a politically correct rotten. Removed were a dig at the door-to-door proselytizing of Jehovah's Witnesses and a moment when Nigel calls Selena a bitch. All unchanged on the International Cut.The extras were a mixed bag. The Making of featurette was rather boring, as they usually tend to be. The audio commentary with Szwarc is dull and tedious, filled with banal or obvious observations, repetitive opinions, vague answers, frequent misunderstandings and awkward pauses. The most interesting part was the German language trailer. Unlike most dubbed films, the company had gone to great lengths to get German voice actors who sounded exactly like the originals. You can almost believe that Helen Slater and Faye Dunaway speak perfect German - if only the lip movements matched.Most of the restored scenes were superfluous, adding little to the story and often interrupting the flow of the plot. The exceptions are two scenes previously seen only during the network broadcasts. Now we see what happened to Nigel, Ethan, Lucy and Jimmy after Kara left. There's finally some closure, although Ethan broke his promise to explain about Linda and Lucy seems to have forgotten about her completely.The nicely restored DVD is perhaps more than this movie deserves, but that didn't stop me from buying it. "},{"Title":"Girl power!!!","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember seeing this film as a kid and loving it!  I don't remember the details, but I do remember one scene where she is walking, and a tree passes in the foreground, and then she is Supergirl!  (and I think I also remember a dorm room because it was the first time I saw one)  So, all I can tell you is that as a kid, I loved it.  I'd have to see it again to know if the quality was really so bad that everyone else wouldn't like it, but somehow, I doubt it's that bad. "},{"Title":"Supergirl -- Full of sound and fury, signifying nothing","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The amount of material on this DVD should rank Supergirl as a top-draw product. When considering that the two-disc treatment puts it on a format scale with The Abyss, T2, Gladiator, and Armageddon (blockbusters of varying artistic quality), it is a shock to realize that the film itself is only of the slightest entertainment value whatsoever.The film was released in 1984 in a highly truncated version, eliminating at least 10 minutes from the 124-minute international cut, and 10 additional minutes from the Director's Cut. Both the international and Director's versions are here, as are trailers, previews, interviews and commentaries. A deluxe treatment this, if only the film were of any value whatsoever.Jeannot Szwarc has had a middling career at best -- highs include the derivative Jaws 2 (1978) and the overlooked Somewhere in Time. (1980) It is unclear how Mr. Szwarc continues to find work, as there seems to be a vast disconnect between his aspirations and his reality. One cannot fault Mr. Szwarc for this, however, as other filmmakers have gotten farther with less. (Are you listening, Mr. Verhoeven?) The aspirations behind his film here are noble, attempting to set up a modern-day Wizard of Oz. There are moments (a few) where the film succeeds, most notably in the truly balletic scene where Kara/Supergirl first discovers her ability to fly. The aerial movement which follows is amazing in its tenderness -- it is a welcome contrast to the action which accompanied the Superman films.Unfortunately, the script fails to execute properly. When the most dramatic scene in the film is a tractor run amuck, we know something is wrong. While Superman saved the world from nuclear weapons, Supergirl is left to save a small town from fascistic rule by a homegrown witch? Why didn't she simply fly to the state capital and call down the National Guard? The character and the myth is too large for the film which holds it. The romance between Kara and Ethan is equally painful. While feminizing the hunk (he faints a LOT) paints an interesting picture of the first him-bo, the execution again is painful, as our complete lack of interest in the character renders him annoying (at least Lois Lane had some spunk).Playing into the witchcraft aspect could have provided us with an interesting supernatural/spiritual contest. (After all, Superman never had to face the devil, although the script for Superman IV must have had Faustian influence to have been made in the first place.) However, the payoff never comes. If Selena had truly tapped into ultimate power, again, why would she stay in East Podunkville? If her aspirations truly were for world domination (and again, we would have liked to have understood why), why don't we ever see her actually conquering the world?Overall, the package for this DVD is amazing, certainly ranking it among the top tier of DVDs. The set may be worth keeping only for documenting how admittedly noble ideals (long before there was the Slayer, there was the Supergirl) can conspire to make a truly horrible film. "},{"Title":"European version","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Supergirl, the movie (as opposed to the character), is fantastic, unbelievable, and relatively unexciting. Except for the absolutely, fabulously beautiful Helen Slater, her name-brand cast mates, the energetic score, and the high-flying photography, the movie is rather ho-hum, compared to other movies featuring DC superheroes.The movie's elements are wide-ranging in terms of quality, so here are some candidates for each possible score, from one to ten.Score / Element(s) 1. story / execution 2. script (dialog & plot holes) 3. direction (nonsensical visuals and transitions) 4. dated special effects 5. Peter O'Toole, in a supporting role 6. aerial and wide-screen photography 7. Faye Dunaway, for playing her part without smirking 8. director's audio commentary (on DVD) 9. Jerry Goldsmith's score 10. the stunning Helen Slater, a perfect ten (still beautiful today) Perhaps some day I'll get to see the director's cut and be able to rate this film more highly. "},{"Title":"Helen Slater is the only good part of this movie","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The Good Helen Slater is perfect for Supergirl. She plays the innocence and goodness aspects perfectly and looks great as the character. Also, for the time, the special effects for her flying were very good. Those are the only significant good parts of this movie. The Awful The writing is terrible. The story makes no sense, and that's not exaggerating. I could give example after example, but instead I'm just going to say please don't watch this movie. Most of the acting is bad or terrible. Other than the few people that like this movie probably because they saw it as a kid and have nostalgia this thing is pretty much unwatchable. "},{"Title":"The Salkind Tradition Continues","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Supergirl is a great movie with kick a** special effects, a heck of a screenplay, and a memorable ensemble cast including, Helen Slater, Faye Dunaway, Peter O' Toole, Brenda Vaccaro, Marc McClure, Peter Cook.Just when people thought that Kal-El was the only survivor of Krypton, they were wrong! Safely hidden in the inner space is the Kryptonian city of Argo where we first meet Kara. Kara is a young girl who doesn't like to study but is curious about a lot of things. In the opening scene, she is talking to Zaltar (Peter O' Toole) who is the founder of Argo city. After showing her the power source to the city, which is known as the Ommegahedron, Kara accidently loses it because it goes out the shield and into space. And so without the Ommegahedron, the city could not survive for more than 3 days. So she slips out of Argo, then out of inner space, into outer space. And she begins her quest to find the Ommegahedron.On earth, a witch known as Selena (Faye Dunaway) and her warlock boyfriend Nigel (Peter Cook) get a hold of the ommegahedron when it crashes to them. So now that Kara is out of space and onto earth, she's in no kryptonian clothes. She's in a shirt with the Kryptonian Symbol in front, a cape, and a skirt. She's now known as Supergirl. While on earth, she goes to a school for girls and goes by the identity Linda Lee. At the same time, she rescues a guy that Selena has cast a spell on. His name is Ethan (Hart Bochner); part of his spell is that he will fall in love with the first person he sees. And so he sees Linda and immediatley falls in love with her. At the same time, Selena is planning to conrol the earth by using the ommegahedron. As the story moves on, Selena casts her wicked spells, Ethan eventually is out of the spell and ends up in another spell which makes him want Selena and not Supergirl. That leads to Selena trapping Supergirl in the Phantom Zone. There is more, but I should leave the rest for suprise.From Alexander Salkind and Ilya Salkind (Superman), and directed by Jennot Szwarc (Somewhere in Time), Supergirl is high flying fun!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Everything considered...","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sci-fi..Flight of fancy .. Good vs Evil?  Not really a TERRIBLE movie if you think about it. The most violent scene involves Ethan getting bopped with a coconut.  Yes, the acting is sort of campy, but it's that way through the entire movie, and they establish that early in the screenplay. There's no gratuitous sex.  It is pleasingly devoid of expletives. And the musical score is superlative Jerry Goldsmith is a consummate composer, and this soundtrack score ranks right at the top along with his best.Given all this, Supergirl is NOT terrible, but then it may not fit everyone's cinematic tastes. But it IS a benign and, at times, pleasant diversion.  Thumbs up, and 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Girl power hardly super","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" * * (2 out of 5)SupergirlDirected by Jeannot Szwarc, 1984Tedious, hokey and bland superhero movie. Jeannott Szwarc is a bad director (Somewhere in Time, Jaws 2) and Supergirl lacks both passion and wonder. The pacing is dull and many scenes are badly scripted (and acted). Most action and suspense scenes are trite and silly and the story never really makes any sense (or takes off.) Despite all of this - Supergirl has moments that succeed.There's camp, there's inventive action and there's science fiction rubbishness to boot. Take for example the villainess witch Selena, a great Faye Dunaway, living large in an abandoned amusement park - naturally on the Ghost Train - and throwing Halloween parties constantly (complete with smoke-fizzling longdrinks). She is backed by her assistent Bianca, amusingly played by Brenda Vaccaro (a nice little homage to the pairing of Gene Hackman and Ned Beatty in the Superman series).And the scenes of Supergirl flying over the Chicago skyline at nighttime are crisp and breathtaking. Well done.Helen Slater is fitting as Supergirl/Kara and she put a lot of effort into her performance. It transcends. Then there's Maureen Teefy as Lucy Lane (yes, as in Lois Lane) - Kara's roommate at the boarding school for girls - and the two share some funny scenes together.Only Marc McClure (as photographer Jimmy Olsen from the Superman movies) sticks out - obviously only onboard for the continuity. He never rises above that. And Mia Farrow's brief appearance as Kara's mother is borderline awful.The special effects were better than any Superman movie when released, as more wires than bluescreens were used. Watch Supergirl's acrobatic dance in the sky above a forest as she learns to fly for the first time. Almost sublime.Jerry Goldsmith tried to match the original Superman theme (by John Williams) with some of his own. A nice, catchy 'super' march to match the visuals, but it doesn't come anywhere near Williams' monumental original theme. All in all - Supergirl is messy, boring and packed with goofs. The opening and end scenes (Supergirl's origins in Argo City and the final battle between Selena and Supergirl) are downright laughable and totally uninspiring.Still - Supergirl is not nearly as poor as the stinker Superman IV The Quest For Peace (1987). "},{"Title":"Good adaptation of the character","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I think that Supergirl deserved a better film, but I have loved this one since the first time I saw it.I admit that when I was a child I didn't understood it well, and it seemed to me a little long and boring, but I have recently re-discovered it and it is full of details of the Superman Universe Mythology.Helen Slater is just correct in her role, but Faye Dunaway is simply great, as also Peter O'Toole and Mia Farrow are.In my opinion, it reaches the quality of Superman II, and firmly surpasses Superman III and IV.Supergirl The Movie needs three times or more to be fully understood; maybe it is better for fanatics than the main audience...(Don't lose the OST, Jerry Goldsmith composed a great score, one of his best works ever) "},{"Title":"LOVE IT LOVE IT LOVE IT!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Well - I love this film. As I child I loved its comic book action, the colourful good vs evil story told this time through the eyes of a super girl. As an adult I equally respect the completely beautiful Helen Slater in her first movie role. Could she be the prettiest actress ever? Well, she is getting close. How ever, this film is not only good because of the costume (he he). It has a very good cast Faye Dunaway, Helen Slater, Peter O'Toole, Peter Cook and Mia Farrow all give good performances respectivley. The film encapsulates that 1980's fantasy element which seems to have dissappeared from movie's. A true pleasure to watch, 1 of my all time favorites. "}{"Title":"The best movie ever","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The people who have reviewed this movie must be all alone on this miserable little planet if they are going to be so negative!  This movie is a classic. Many have commented on the poor visual effects - of course they are not going to be as impressive as todays movies!  Do you no why?.... because it was made in the 80's!!!  Despite what has been said i personaly think the visual effects are quite impressive, the music great and the cast brilliant. According to many reviewers the story doesnt quite fit - for example How come superman and supergirl come from different dimensions?  Who cares??...GET A LIFE Sure i could sit and watch one of todays superior movies, over analyse the story line and rip it to shreds - but hey iv got better things to do! After all what are movies for??  They are there to provide entertainment! I think this movie does that and more! Stop comparing it to superman, its not superman (hence the name supergirl ).  Ok if the story line of supergirl doesnt quite fit then how come louise never realised that Clark Kent was actually superman?  I mean come on, the difference was the glasses!!  Anyone can tell its the same person!!!  I loved this movie as a kid, and after reading these awful reviews i watched it again and guess what?... i still love it.  Its fun, exciting, and funny- a true classic "},{"Title":"this film is....","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I love this film.I really do but it isn't good.Honestly there really are only 3 genuinely good things about it. 1-Helen Slater is Supergirl. 2-The flying sequences are really good (better than Supermans.) 3-good music score.The writing is terrible which is a shame because it's written by David Ordell who did Dark Crystal.The film makes no sense, didn't Krypton get destroyed? How come no-one cares that there's a flying woman about their town? Why doesn't Superman say hi (that does get explained, but blink and you'll miss it)?The end effects are terrible and I don't mean they have dated, they were bad for 1984 so nowadays it just embarrassing. Peter O' Toole seems to be acting in a different film, he's really hammy.Don't even get me started on the love interest.I mean he's not even in love it's Selenas potionDespite that it's still better than Spiderman.The ten out of ten score is true, I love this film to bits but i don't know why. "},{"Title":"A Poor Counterpart of Superman","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Supergirl is a film that is based on the DC Comics superhero of the same name who happens to be the cousin and female counterpart of Superman.It stars Helen Slater in the title role together with Faye Dunaway,Peter O'Toole,Hart Bochner and Mia Farrow.It was directed by Jeannot Szwarc.After Supergirl accidentally drops a ring another planet,she comes to earth and tries to recover it.In order avoid attention,she tries to act normally just like everybody else on planet Earth.She dresses up as an American high-school student. Unfortunately,a madman discovers the ring and tries to use it for evil means like taking over the planet.Despite the special effects and talented supporting actors and actresses in the cast,Supergirl the movie is simply a disaster.The direction was flat.The dialogues are cheesy.The superhero is uninteresting as Slater is simply a poor actress.Overall,it just remains a poor counterpart to Christopher Reeve Superman movies but only parts I and II and a good counterpart of parts III and IV. "},{"Title":"Not So Supergirl","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Well, what can you say about Supergirl?. Made after the first 3 successful Superman films, you would think it would also be a success. Sadly, that wasn't to. It made major losses. In fact the opening titles alone cost $1. Having said that, despite how poor this film is, it is still better than the awful Superman IV The Quest For Peace.Unfortunalty it doesn't explain itself to well to begin with. I have read theories that Argo City was a moon of the destructed Krypton. Hoever, this film places it in 'innerspace, an 'other' dimension. In fact there is many a mention of teaching the children of Argo about the sixth dimension. That is why a leap of faith is needed as to why the Omega Hedron and Supergirl come out of the lake. Now, I am all for having to come to your own conclusions but I believe that thus could have been explained better. Equally so, the argument for Argo City to be placed in an inner dimension is that in that in Spuerman, Kor-El's journey from Krytpton to Earth sees him age from being in nappies to being to being a pre-teen boy but in this Kara hardly ages on the journey.Cast wise, there are some big names in the film that just don't hit the mark. Faye Dunaway over does her part and to be honest, after a while, the limits of the script mean you even get tired of seeing Dunaway's face being especially lit. Helen Slater, just about pulls it off as Supergirl for one reason only. She plays the naivety to a tee. In fact the moment when she is first kissed and they way she reacts and is shown to feel these feeling for the first time is incredibly touching, albeit too brief. Visually she looks perfect but despite the naivety she just acts so wooden. I do understand her journey and that may account as to why she plays it so badly. The only time she fits the bill acting wise is near the conclusion for the film where she appears as a confident, hard edged and, briefly, excellently played Supergirl.Other cast members include Peter Cook, who I love, but is just reading the part to get paid at the end of the day. Mia Farrow is completely underused. Maureen Teefy is good as Lucy Lane, but pairing this films poor reception with her turn in the universally panned Grease 2 means she didn't really make any other films of note. Chrispher Reeve was due to reprise his role as Supernman but pulled out at the last minute. There is a nice touch when we see the picture of Reeve when the Superman theme briefly plays.Jeannot Szwarc directs. He directed one of the most underrated films of all time, Somewhere In Time. There is nothing spectacular here from him apart from a few scenes namely the runaway truck sequence and romantic journey of Supergirl.There is a monster which really is out of place and totally unexplained really and seems to leave a lot of the film empty and badly scripted. With a vast array of versions 124 min (international) | 105 min (theatrical) | 138 min (director's cut) | 150 min (original cut) | 89 min (Video Version) and this review bring about the international version, one can only wonder what the missing scenes could have added to the film.All in all, it is an acceptable film but it just lacking in so many ways. Theo only thing or notoriety coming from the film is Jerry Goldsmiths excellent theme. Worth a watch but only if you are a fan of the whole franchise. It really isn't that good at all. "},{"Title":"Supergirl review","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Holy cow, they made a Supergirl movie? When did this happen? Why did it happen? Sure, I've seen all four of the Salkinds' Superman films (I grew up on the first two; they've been with me my whole life), but for whatever reason, I never knew of this film's existence until recently.Well, there are reasons why some movies fall into obscurity Supergirl is pretty silly and stupid. It taps into all the same colorful, cartoony, and corny elements that made Superman III and Superman IV so ridiculous. What action and heroics Supergirl goes through is pretty lame, lacking in any major thrills or spectacle. Special effects are plentiful, but are quite gaudy at times. Above all, the entire film is overshadowed by its constant focus on a sappy romance and, for some odd reason, showcasing witches as the evil villains. Witches...really? The story for this film is as stupid as they come the opening scenes are loaded with some of the stupidest and nonsensical exposition ever written, and everything from then on is just one random thing after another. Supergirl herself can be an appealing character, but she comes across as a ditz at times. All the characters are pretty shallow and dumb.This film has okay, but rarely exceptional, photography and editing. Acting is extremely hammy and over-the-top Helen Slater is probably the only decent performance here; Faye Dunaway acts like she belongs in the movie Hocus Pocus, while Peter O'Toole acts like a slacker version of Lawrence of Arabia. Writing is nothing to scream about either. This production uses sets, props, costumes, and special effects that are extravagant, but also somewhat cheap and gaudy. Music is not bad though.Supergirl is to the Superman franchise what Red Sonja is to the Conan movies. Die-hard fans might want to give it a rental someday, but everybody else should avoid.2/5 (Entertainment Pretty Good | Story Awful | Film Poor) "},{"Title":"Oohhh&#x85; what a hell?","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After the success of the first three Superman films, the producers decided to present Supergirl on big screen. But, do they understand&#x85; the failure of the film. The story begins on some desolated rock in shiny, crystal castle, but the interior looks more like it was made from marble and they possibly disguised a train station or something to look more like&#x85; a shiny interior. There we have Kara&#x85; a supergirl who takes a space pod to earth to return a little light ball that creates stuff&#x85; mostly illusion. Kara is a cousin of Superman (and thank the f!!k Christ that Christopher Reeve did not appear in this film), she is played by Helen Slater. I don't remember when I last saw such horrible acting. She was so wooden, with some mumbling, dumb line delivery&#x85; lighten up girl! You are a Supergirl! But, she performed it badly.Now, the film has a pretty interesting supporting acting crew. Faye Dunaway plays a main villain Selena, she is a witch. And she is such a badly written character, I mean&#x85; they are all badly written. Each and everyone of them are there, saying these funny, campy lines and they have no purpose at all, just to stand there as the visions for our entertainment. Faye Dunaway is a great actress and this role was a waste of her talents. Selena is just power-hungry wannabe witch&#x85; her first scene did not even begin properly and she already yaks about ultimate power&#x85; dear me&#x85;We also have Mia Farrow as mother of Kara, a small part, but she did it again with her cute face (did she found a fountain of youth?) and adorable voice. We also have Peter Cook and Simon Ward&#x85; good actors, but such wasted talents. We also have Marc McClure as Jimmy Olsen. Why? Were you needed here? I guess not! And&#x85; Peter O'Toole&#x85; how come that he ended up here? The best actor in the film&#x85; another wasted talent. He only had two scenes, in the first one he gives us his usual, lively performance with unmistakable delivery, but in the next one&#x85; he was definitively drunk. Just look at him, he was drunk as f**k! It's no wonder at all&#x85; you're making a bad film. The film also contains&#x85; well why not&#x85; a love interest to Supergirl, played by Hart Bochner, the must dumbest character in the film&#x85; his performance was funny, and his characters has no purpose at all! A sexy retard he is! He is supposed to be a local porn actor if you ask me. Not Hart, but his handsome character.This film also have some weird magic monsters&#x85; some voodoo crap&#x85; what's that has to do with Supergirl? Why didn't they used some other villain for example? Some other, some typical, usual Superman villain and be done with it&#x85; this movie is waste of time and money&#x85; the only thing good is music. Jerry Goldsmith is a badass. "},{"Title":"At Least the Skirt is Cute","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Supergirl (1984) * 1/2 (out of 4) Superman's cousin Kara Zor-El (Helen Slater) comes to Earth after a powerful orb lands on the planet. She takes a new identity under the name of Linda Lee and soon learns that a wicked woman name Selena (Faye Dunaway) plans to use to orb for some pretty bad reasons. SUPERGIRL came to theaters shortly after SUPERMAN III and I think it proved that that producers were simply interested in trying to make money and not necessarily good films. SUPERGIRL is a pretty awful movie from start to finish with a laughable story and special effects that are anything but special. The only saving grace in this film is that Slater is pretty cute and she looks even better in that superhero outfit. I must admit that the short skirt is a real eye-catcher. The biggest problem with the film is that it never seems to know if it wants to take itself serious or if it just wants to be some sort of campy non-sense. This here is the fault of director Jeannot Szwarc who just doesn't handle the material very well. There are so many scenes that appears to be taking themselves way too serious yet at other times you have scenes of pure camp. A lot of the camp value comes from the Selena character who is one of the worst villains in the history of superhero movies and it's not any better because Dunaway just goes so over-the-top that this here would make a great double feature with MOMMIE DEAREST. As with SUPERMAN, this one here manages to get some impressive supporting players including Peter O'Toole and Mia Farrow but both are pretty much wasted. Slater's acting ability isn't the strongest but then again it's doubtful Meryl Streep could have done anything with this story. SUPERGIRL is a pretty embarrassing movie that might be made better with a higher blood alcohol level. "},{"Title":"Greatly suffers on a lot of different levels.","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Supergirl was an attempt at greatness that suffers from having an over-abundance of its sub-sub-plot mechanics go horribly awry. There are simply too many inconsistencies, inconceivability, and moments of general tom-foolery for this film to possibly be taken seriously. One could easily write a list longer than one's forearm in 6 pt. font, single-spaced of all the hokey and ill-thought-out moments in this film's script. For instance, the bracelet she carries somehow detects the lost orb - even though the friend that created it for her did so on a whim, apparently as a simple piece of jewelry. He couldn't possibly have foreseen that she would need an orb-tracking bracelet because she was about to lose the special artifact by it being blown out into space through the walls of their city (walls that are apparently made of CELLOPHANE). There is also the matter of Selena's containment of the orb inside a vessel that then begins to grow and change - changing according to it's original style and cryptic animal-like representation. How did the orb supposedly understand what it was contained within in order to make it grow and change and still look as it did? As petty as this point may seem, it is entirely preposterous, and therefore assumes the viewer's ignorance. Tons of other moments abound - zooming in on burning tires as if they posed some imminent threat - Selena insisting on calling upon the shadow powers, as if she understood what it was that she was wielding, and as if the orb would heed the call for its power by that name - Selena having knowledge of, or finding reference to the phantom zone in Earthly texts - It looks like a castle; No, more like a fortress. Hokey hokey hokey.I will admit that, overall, the idea of the movie could have made for an interesting story/film, but this rendition just seems to have gotten really, really screwed up. "},{"Title":"The ultimate Curate's Egg","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" If ever a film epitomised the Curate's Egg, it is Supergirl.Much of it stinks. Peter Cook tops the list, followed closely behind by Faye Dunaway (only marginally less in scenery-chewing mode than she was in Mommie Dearest), and Brenda Vacarro delivers poor value as an unnecessary sounding board. Even Peter O'Toole is less than his normal good value, and Simon Ward and Mia Farrow are wasted. And that's just the performers.The story is poor, the maguffin (some sort of glittering paperweight called the Omegahedron, which powers Argo City) is the most rubbish maguffin ever, the limp romantic subplot is - well, limp, the mooching around the Phantom Zone (which appears totally different from the Phantom Zone established in the in-continuity Christopher Reeve movies) is unconvincing, the photographic effects are poor, the climax is badly executed - the list goes on and on.Against that, there are some pluses. The physical effects in the town centre, culminating in Supergirl coming to the rescue, are well done. The theme music sparkles (although it could have done without the literal aural sparkles). And, above everything, Helen Slater's Supergirl a performance of charm, power, femininity and vulnerability, and as iconic in a gentle way as Chris Reeve's was.And it is good to see Marc McClure being the only performer to complete the set. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Only Exorcist 2 - The Heretic made me laugh so hard. As fascinating as a train wreck, Supergirl definitely beats Plan 9 from Outer Space. It has everything - great actors like Peter O'Toole and Faye Dunaway reciting incredibly stupid lines with a straight face, cheap special effects, very bad acting all around (you can't really blame them), bad outfits (Zaltar's sweaters are a blast), clichd futuristic sets, a ridiculous story-line, ludicrous sci-fi nonsense about inner-space, omega-hedrons and so on, you name it&#x85; The movie is a sublime mess and I love it. I give it 10 stars, mainly for the unbelievable scenes with Peter O'Toole, which are the epitome of ridiculous and consequently funny as hell. The lines delivered by the larger-than-life actor are priceless. She will be safe. Through the binary. Through the warp. Into another register. You gotta love this stuff. "}{"Title":"you gotta like Helen Slater in that costume!","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  brings back childhood memories ... 7/10 for Nostalgia and how nice Supergirl looked! Dlooking at some of the reviews on here its laughable, I bet most have only recently viewed it and compared it too todays work, also a lot seem to get worked up about the Superman series, this film is only a spinoff nothing more, dont take it so seriously ... my advice sit back and watched Helen Slater in that short skirt! "},{"Title":"A Supergirl from Krypton first appeared Action Comics #252 (May 1959)","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This Movie Supergirl in her first great adventure on Planet Earth seeking on a mission face to face with the villainess Selena in ruling Planet Earth's supernatural forces of magic. Supergirl came from argo city located from Inner Space a different dimension from outer space. She believe that her cousin Kal-El was the only The Last son of Krypton survived from the destruction of Krypton. Now, Argo City has a power source to the kryptonian radiation is The Omegahedron given by Zaltar. He's a Kryptonian Scientist discovering Planet Earth's atmosphere opening the door through the warp from inner space. The Omegahedron has been fall into the hands of Selena as herself The Witch wanted to rule the world domination.On Earth, Kara as herself Supergirl wearing red and blue launched from the binary chute toward's earth's atmosphere surrouned by a lake. On a strange environment, she discovers herself having great Super Powers from the yellow sun. She has heat vision, super-stregnth, ability to fly She didn't have time to meet her cousin. She has to get back home to find the omegahedron. She disguise herself as Linda Lee Cousin to Clark Kent as an orphan and went off to Midvale College (School for Girls) and living with her roommate Lucy Lane. "},{"Title":"Pitiful...","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not going to waste too much time writing about this one. Awful acting, awful plot, awful everything. This film makes the Superman series look classy in comparison! Everybody was miscast - Peter Cook, Faye Dunaway, Helen Slater.... A couple of words spring to mind .... boring and rubbish.  "},{"Title":"Not a work of art and not entertaining. Simply nothing.","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" First time I saw this movie was 2 days after the premier in Stockholm and I walked out after 40 minutes. With my first view in mind I tried really hard to find the good parts but to be honest. There is none. The cast list contains names as Helen Slater, Faye Dunaway, Peter O'Toole, Mia Farrow and Brenda Vaccaro etc, all amazing actors. To extinguish all their talent from the movie is an achievement of some sort. Story, script, direction and production is as bad as it could get. The lines are pompous. O'Toole almost reach a acceptable level but both Dunaway and Slater are put up to an impossible task. Bad lines and what it seem, non thought through direction, makes it just bad. Vaccaro as the villains side kick is probably the most intelligent casting in this movie. Her character, how ever, falls to pieces because the foundation for her character is wiped out by incompetent production. To give this movie 1/10 hurts though I respect the actors. This is not their fault. To me this movie seem like a good idea that has been realized for all the wrong reasons and in all the wrong ways one can imagine. "},{"Title":"SuperSlater must to deal with that ugly witch called Faye Dunaway","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Supergirl was a typical B-movie of 80s; taken by comic-book DC comic's, the movie was been the attempt from the producers for to put back the Superman series that was in crisis. This picture was a female version of her more famous predecessor. In 1984 Supergirl was a mega-flop but after years it's became a sort of cult for the camp-lovers; this movie was considered among he bad movies that for their exceptional ugliness belong to a limbo that trespasses on Cult movie's land. The plot is very simple the young Kara, Superman's cousin from Krypton goes down in the Earth for to recover a powerful sphere called Omegahedron that is indispensable for survival of her people. The magical object is ended for error in the clutches of a evil terrestrial witch of middling quality. Her name is Selena and she was crazy and megalomaniac, she plans to use the Omegahedron for nothing less than world domination. Blonde Kara becomes Supergirl in the Earth with many super-powers and she signs up at a girls' school, Midvale, passing herself off as brunette Linda Lee. The wicked Selena and Supergirl battles for the possession of Omegahedron but it's also a love-rivalry because both wants a pretty gardener Etahn. The witch casts a spell with love-potion over the hank-man but obviously he falls in love for her more pretty and young arch-nemesis. The picture has any merits French director Jeannot Szwarc gives to the movie the right atmosphere easy and free and the photography with bright colour makes the images such a really comic book, the music-theme from Jerry Goldsmith was wonderful and all this does to tolerate the absurd screenplay by David Odell and the banal dialogue. Also any interpretations are good in the title-role Helen Slater at her film-debut is really perfect; at the time of production she was 19 years old but she was able to make believable her character; alternating now a sweet kind of innocence now a resolute strength. Slater is the really star of the film and she's so lovely and sexy with the super-heroine costume and her wonderful blond hair that it's not possible to imagine another better Supergirl. This very guessed choice is a major merit of the movie but clashes noisily with the major blame of the movie that is the villainess played by the horrible Faye Dunaway. All about Selena is dreadful the character is super silly, Dunaway acting is the worst possible and the great potentiality of have a rivalry between two powerful women over the power was been dilapidated. Already the choice of a witch as adversary of Supergirl was inadequate but to have also a witch goofy and awkward ends for become the movie in a truly camp farce. In a good superhero movie must a villain even with irony but really menacing and dangerous, here it's the grotesque and clumsy Selena that don't represents never a problem for Supergirl. The narrowness of dull rival is testified from the fact that even if seems be part of her plan for world domination, the witch is more worried to be able to have a man more young than her. Really this undertaking for Dunaway looks very desperate and seems more difficult than the world conquest. The two lead characters are completely at the opposite side of female spectrum both for appearance and for nature. If Slater super-heroine is blond, has smooth hair and very fine features, she's young and athletic, on the contrary Dunaway is red, curly and her face features are very coarse, she's not spring-chicken and goofy. As much Slater is sexy, charming, sweet, simple and altruist as Dunaway is ugly, unattractive, bitchy, misleading and egoist. The camp lovers likes Dunaway performance but her acting is truly over-the-top and she's so hamming it up that her presence is really embarrassing and hard to tolerate. This enormous ham actress is so intentionally exaggerated in her expressions and she not restrains the grin never that finally I'm very glad for her horrid end as a feeding for a vulgar monster type-Godzilla. Dunaway seems very amusing for her performance thinking to be funny and deliciously malicious but really she looks very awful and ridiculous. Except the very bad witch Faye all the rest of rich cast gives a good job always great Peter O'Toole as a charismatic Zaltar, funny Brenda Vaccaro as Selena sidekick and Peter Cook as Dunaway's mentor, Hart Bochner is the love-interest for both lead women and the Woody Allen muse Mia Farrow has a little cameo as Slater's mother. "},{"Title":"This movie does one thing exceptionally well...","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Through its fan's rabid adoration it shows that women and girls (and some boys) are starving for a female hero who is not just a stand in for a man.Just about everything else this movie attempts comes off insipid and boring to anyone with a critical eye. The flight scenes are elegantly portrayed and Helen Slater is beautiful. The script is awful, Faye Dunaway comes off like a schizophrenic homeless woman with delusions of grandeur. Even as a product of it's time it was an insult to anyone over the intellectual age of 13 and that is why it flopped.Helen Slater's acting makes her appear she's on Valium half the time. The gee, shucks portrayal of Lucy Lane is grating not to mention the contrived love story subplot between her and Jimmy Olsen. Selena's bimbo sidekick seems to be a Salkind trademark, akin to Luthor's moll in the first Superman, inexplicably hooked up with an evil character without any actual sense that she possesses a cruel bone in her body.I can't imagine Uwe Boll could have made a more insipid lackluster film.If Helen Slater had not been so lovely and the Kryptonian ethic so endearing I don't imagine I could have sat through the whole thing. And actually, that's another thing. Supergirl has a birthright as a relative of Clark Kent and a daughter of Krypton that she never lives up to. She does almost nothing heroic the entire film and often she seems to sit back and watch as bad things escalate and get worse before she remembers Oh yeah! I can do something about this! It's actually frustrating to watch as she hesitates and does nothing again and again failing to live up to her powers and the nobility of her race.This movie is only entertaining as a look into the past and a peep show at Helen Slater in tights and a mini-skirt. It's girl power will hook some starving for a female hero that isn't just a dude with boobs (Tomb Raider) but really we could do much better. "},{"Title":"Tedious, boring and technically lacking in all aspects.","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  When I was little I remember seeing this film in the cinemas, the only reason I saw it was that on that particular day both Splash and Footloose were fully booked.  At the time, despite not being able to see my films of choice, I thought it was pretty good.  This was at the undiscriminating age of eight.  Having just watched it I can honestly say that this film is not very good.  There are some brief moments where there is nice cinematography, but the picture seems to commit the ultimate film evil- that it is boring. It appears as if the script writers thought that by blending elements of Superman and Superman 2 together and using a girl as a superhero that this would work.  It didn't.  Faye Dunaway is absolutely terrible, although I'm not sure whether that is due to her performance or because of the script. Helen Slater doesn't seem to know what to do in most scenes, although she is much better as Linda Lee than her alter ego Supergirl.  In short Supergirl was a wimp in all respects.  The saving grace was Peter O'Toole, although he is only in the beginning and somewhere near the end he was the best thing in the film.  All i can say is what were they thinking?, they could have made it so much better and much more coherent with a different storyline and stronger characters, especially the villans.  In addition by todays standards the special effects are absolutely abysmal.  If you have an urge to watch a superhero film, watch Superman and Superman 2, those films are miles ahead of this piece of trash. "},{"Title":"It's sucks.","Date":"15 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's sucks. Helen Slater's acting is as cardboard as it gets. The principal storyline just stinks and the plot is so full of holes it's untrue. The special effects are just plain awful and everything in the movie looks like a bad prop from the 1930's version of Flash Gordon. But - enough about the good points. The one thing that really annoys me is the patrons but generally incorrect use of Sci-Fi description. Some of the words they dream up are just so lacking in imagination and condescending it's nauseating. Omegaheadron I ask you!In short, if you want to make history and tell everyone you have witnessed quite possibly the worst film ever made, then watch Supergirl. If, however, you value the relatively short time we have on this planet, then please don't waste 2 hours of it watching this trite, worthless drivel. "},{"Title":"Terrible high school flick in a red cape...","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I received an Amazon gift card for Christmas this year and after browsing the site, stumbled across Supergirl for three dollars. Why not? I own the Superman anthology and I've never seen this particular film in the past. I'm not going to spoil anything, I'm not going to bash all over it, and I'm not going to attempt to turn people away. However, all I could ask myself after watching was why? Why was this movie made (other than the obvious, to cash in on the success of Supeman)? What's the point? Literally nothing happens until an incredibly slow, unexciting sequence with a tractor. I just don't get the positive reviews. Helen Slater was OK. Peter O'toole and Faye Dunaway should be ashamed of themselves. It's a terrible high school flick wrapped in a red cape. "},{"Title":"Spin off spirals downward...","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Lame attempt to cash in on the Superman series is this spin off from director Jeannot Szwarc and producer Alexander Salkind. A lot of fancy special effects and a frivolous plot cannot keep anybody over the age of eight entertained.Jerry Goldsmith did produce a reasonable score, and the cast was a strong one, yet neither really helped. Poor Helen Slater did not get the career boost she had hoped for here, while the immense talents of Faye Dunaway, Peter O'Toole and Mia Farrow are completely wasted.At least we were spared a glut of sequels thanks to this movie's failure to take off.Thursday, November 5, 1998 - Video "}{"Title":"what most awful Dunaway's acting or her aspect?","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Spin off of Superman's Series from same producers; this all-female version of most famous superhero was esteemed the worst comic-book movie ever. All seems most poor as regards the well-known predecessor and Supergirl can be considered a show fair-stall.The movie would like to adjourn Superman' saga with the women as the lead-characters but the specials effects are like B-movie, the script is dull and silly, direction anonymous and then it ends for be digestible only from an audience lower to twenty years-old.Also great actors like Peter O'Toole and Mia Farrow that appears in secondary roles, having very bad lines and parts poorly written don't will be enough for raise again the movie. Only the Slater's beauty as the title-character saves the film from be a disaster. The plot is very basic the young Kara (Slater) from city Argo, comes down on Earth for recover a magic sphere called Omegahedron. This powerful object was lost accidentally and it ended in the clutches of perfidious witch named Selena (Dunaway) the crazy sorceress cultivates the dream of world domination.If Helen Slater on movie-debut was really wonderful as Supergirl and for me she's a perfect choice for the role, Dunaway as the evil witch was utterly unbearable. Her character was the stupidest of movie history what people can think that a second-rate middle-age sorceress wins the challenger with Supergirl and goes to world-domination? Dunaway was grotesquely ridiculous; she has not much clear ideas about register to take playing the character in the first part she would be funny and amusing and she's instead irritating with her nauseating wry faces but the lower point they touches when Dunaway in the final would be menacing and dangerous. It's here that she does really laugh with her blazing eyes, the unproposable red curly wig and the bizarre dress. Dunaway's ham was a very bad exercise of campiness; she is always playing the villain and often she's unpleasant and nasty; this affected and narcissist actress seems be amusing from her role and seems sure of be funny and seductive but her villainess was been considered the worst in Superman movie's history.The camp-lovers can think that Dunaway was great as Selena and today it's always freedom of opinion but one thing is sure if as villain she's disappointed as witch was good then she looks really disgusting however she's ugly. Dunaway's look reminds me to two as much red coarse not spring-chicken like the Bette Midler of Hocus Pocus (it's not a case if her make-up artist of Midler in this movie is the same that has made-up Dunaway in Supergirl) but when she tries to seduce a pretty hunk called Etahn (Bochner) especially remember me the slut Kathy Baker in Tim Burton's Edward Scissorhands when tries to seduce Johnny Depp with as much ruinous results than Dunaway with Bochner.Supergirl was a unsuccessful movie that haves also very bad reviews but for her horrid acting and for her awful appearance, Dunaway ends for cut the worst figure among all the participating any sequences as when she would seduce Etahn (Bochner) or as when she prepares a spell-potion are really laughable. In the end when she's devoured from a horrible monster with the face shapeless from the screams and the wig to wind, they gives a sigh of relief  finally she leaves the stage definitively. Thanks Supergirl. "},{"Title":"Super Crap","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Salkinds are the ones who really killed the Superman franchise after the third installment which was a major insult to the fans of the first two. Insiders know Dick Donner was the real force behind the backbone of the first two Superman films. After the Salkinds fired him because of creative reasons, it was all downhill from there. The Salkinds were out for total control which in the end resulted in campy pieces of crap like Superman III, Supergirl, Santa Clause the Movie and the Superboy TV series. Of course Supergirl had potential. The cast had a group of reasonably competent actors and Helen Slater was a promising choice. The problem was a trainwreck of a script. There were various details of the story that made absolutely no sense going beyond the suspension of disbelief. The cheaper budget showed especially with a lot of the visual effects like Argo City.The scenes with the model miniatures looked very fake. I remember laughing during the one scene where the flying spaceship looks like a tennis ball. There were scenes such as Supergirl in the alley with the two men that were OK. If only the entire movie had more scenes like that and a story of substance instead of so much camp it might have been more watchable.Faye Dunaway was mildly entertaining as Selena, the sorceress.She was at her campy best uttering plain awful nonsensical lines in a performance almost as over the top as her camp classic Mommie Dearest. Brenda Viccaro was somewhat amusing as well. The other characters were window dressings and in some cases forgettable. Jimmy Olsen and Lucy Lane were thrown in for good measure but were hardly relevant to the story, but of course there so many problems with the story to begin with. This really was the final nail in the coffin for the Salkinds as far as their involvement with the Superman franchise. Christopher Reeve made a smart move by not making a cameo in such insulting drivel but who can blame him after what the Salkinds did with Superman III. It's no surprise how Supergirl bombed at the box office and it's unfortunate when it could've been treated and handled with so much better care by the right producers and director. The project needed a visionary like Dick Donner.  "},{"Title":"My analysis of some of the confusing plot points in the movie. . .","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I've been reading some of the comments about this movie and I have to say I'm not even sure that people commenting on the movie are actually talking about the same movie that I am. I was born in 1981 so when Supergirl first came out at the cinema I never saw it. It wasn't until several years after it's release that I saw it on video. I was impressed by the special effects and still being a child payed little attention to the acting. Overall I liked the movie as much as I liked all the Superman movies. I do admit that there were one or two plot points that I found confusing but I was still a child and a lot of things went over my head.As I was reading through the comments of others about this movie I found that apparently international audiences got treated to a longer version of Supergirl than people in the States with scenes left in that made the movie make more sense than the cut down version US citizens were treated to. Being an Australian I imagine I was treated to the longer version and have no idea what the cut down version was like so don't really know how much the plot was screwed with. One thing I do know is that a lot of the time there are little details and throwaway lines in movies that explain certain aspects of a movie that viewers miss and then are confused later by an apparent lack of logic or structure in a movie. Firstly I should say that I don't think it should be necessary for everything to be explained in a movie so long as the writer/producers have their own internal logic when working on it so that the plot doesn't contradict itself. The writer knows why someone's skin is green but doesn't feel the need to explain it to the viewer as it doesn't really matter to the story at hand. Secondly I believe that some things are implied in movies without being stated outright and thirdly that some things can be explained by logical deduction using the evidence the movie has presented to us.A lot of commenters had questions about Argo City, Supergirl emerging from a lake - one commenter believing that Argo City was in the lake and about the Omegahedron. For those commenters I'll attempt to explain these things as best I can based on my interpretations of the movie.Although I never really read the Supergirl comics I seem to recall that she was Kara  Zor-El and her father was the brother of Jor-El, Superman's biological father. Kara and her family lived in a city on the planet Krypton called Argo City. Somehow the city managed to survive the destruction of Krypton but apparently there was kryptonite beneath the city which killed the inhabitants over time until Kara's father sent her in a rocket to earth as Argo City exploded behind her. Some of the mythology was obviously changed for the movie. One thing we do know about the Krypton of the Silver age comics was that the Kryptonians were a highly intelligent and technologically advanced, peaceful society. My memory is a little vague but I believe it was mentioned in the movie that Peter O'Tooles character Zaltar was one of the saviours of Argo City, transporting it into the alternate dimension of Inner Space using the power of the Omegahedron which he had a part in constructing to escape the destruction of Krypton. Inner Space is not a friendly place and it is only the power of the Omegahedron the protects the inhabitants of Argo City.What exactly is Inner Space? Well my understanding of it was that it was a realm in some ways like Hyperspace that is connected to all points in normal space. Meaning that someone with the power, technology and knowhow could use travel through Inner Space to get anywhere in the universe virtually instantaneously. It is my belief that there was some reason that all the inhabitants of Argo City couldn't escape. Kara managed to leave you might say but it seemed to me that the vessel she used to leave was the only one they had and powerful as the Omegahedron was it was not powerful enough to transport all of Argo City's inhabitants to a more hospitable realm or perhaps the inhabitants of Argo City did not have the know-how to use it for that purpose. I also seem to recall that most considered the journey from Inner Space to Outer Space to be dangerous and too risky. The only other way out of Argo City was banishment to the Phantom Zone which most considered a punishment worse than death. Zaltar was sent there as punishment for taking the Omegahedron without permission and allowing Kara to use it and accidentally lose it.Now about the Omegahedron. How many remember Clarke's law that any technology sufficiently advanced is indistinguishable from magic. It is entirely conceivable that a superstitious woman from earth would see the Omegahedron as a magical power source rather than an advanced alien piece of technology. It is also entirely possible that there were some aspects of magic to the Omegahedron as magic exists in the Superman and Supergirl comics and is their only weakness apart from Kryptonite. Perhaps it might be better to think of Faye Dunaway's character as a wannabe sorceress who was to lazy and incompetent to succeed when a gift from the gods fell in her lap - the Omegahedron. While being for the most part incompetent she had sufficient ability to corrupt the Omegahedron with magic. Obviously it resisted her will and wouldn't obey her fully until she was given the magic rattle or whatever it was called by her sometime paramour Nigel. Why when Serena had nearly attained ultimate power did she set up shop in the hokey little town she lived in? Perhaps because it didn't occur to her to set up shop in Washington, DC or wherever most people think is the center of power. Her power had nothing to do with where she was. Once she had the Omegahedron in her grasp she was power incarnate and had no need to move to Washington as a symbol of her power. Plus it was the town she grew up in and perhaps she wanted the comfort of home.Finally Supergirl coming from the lake. One of the problems with movies is that producers often film scenes in a manner that looks good but has little internal logic. Nevertheless even if that was their intent given my perceived view that Inner Space is connected to all points in Outer Space then a person could conceivably emerge from Inner Space at any point in space and Supergirl just happened to emerge in the lake. That probably wasn't why the producers did it but it makes sense according to everything I've seen.On a last note I'd like to say I fell a little in love with Helen Slater's portrayal of Kara/Linda/Supergirl. In some ways I think the movie was about her growing up from a sweet, gentle and naive girl to a strong, caring, compassionate woman with a will of iron who still managed to hold on to some of that gentleness and sweetness. When Helen was playing the strong side of Supergirl's character I really saw it like this is Supergirl, this is who Supergirl is. You might not have liked the character Helen portrayed thinking she was too wimpy or somesuch but you cannot in fairness accuse Helen of poor acting. I think she did a great job and that the other actors were brilliant as well. If some bits were corny in your view just think of Otis from the Superman movies. There was a lot of corny comedy in the first Superman movie which in some ways detracted from it. Comedy has a place in every drama or action movie but in some parts of Superman I thought it was overdone.Lastly I'd like to say that not one single version of Supergirl has been released on DVD here in Australia but after readin about the two-disc set I seriously hope that it is released here so that I can get my grubby paws on it. Extra footage is always good even when it's crap. "},{"Title":"Pretty unsatisfying","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Despite a terrific and game cast, this movie is fairly lousy.  It doesn't help that Helen Slater's acting is awful, at best.  You don't hire vets like Bochner, Dunaway, Vaccaro, Peter Cook, etc., etc., unless you think you'll need something to keep the audience awake.  At least we did not have to suffer a sequel - you can tell the movie must be lousy or there would be an equally lousy PART II! "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Introducing a brand new superhero--the beautiful and mighty Girl of Steel in her very first adventure. Her name is Kara, and she's Superman's cousin from Krypton. Coming to Earth on a mission to save her dying city, Supergirl has to find and recover the Omegahedron, a source of almost unlimited power. But it's fallen into the hands of an amateur witch named Selena--who intends to use it to rule the world! To get it back, Supergirl has to fight not only evil humans, but the unimaginable forces of Black Magic (including a hundred-foot monster made of pure energy), and make a perilous journey into the forbidden depths of the Phantom Zone.This is a really dull movie. But it is good for what it is. It's better than Superman 3, it's worse than Superman 4. After a first good 30 minutes, the film drags.Awesomely Bad Scale * * out of 4. "},{"Title":"Superzero or Superhero","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this movie twice. While I agree Slater is Hot and all that. But It took Warners 4 years to recover from the critical and financial bomb that was SuperGirl. SuperMan was the final nail in the coffin for the reeves era Superman. IN 1989, Warners Realised rather late in the day that Rather than have a campy looking guy who wears his jocks outside his SuperSuit people wanted something darker and a hero who beat villains up.. Warners Re-invented a much darker hero called Batman.The Keaton/Burton combination together with Nicholsons demand that he get a gross percentage of the Merchandise of that plus subsequent sequels was a masterstroke and revived not only WB but his own financial clout. Batman Returns made even more money as did Batman Forever and yes even the much reviled Batman and robin. Batman Begins Changed everything.Because it made sense to bring Bruce back to his origins and the switch to Chicago made the film more real somehow. All filmmakers of Superhero movies are all going to do this. Superman Returns will be different in the sense that he returns to earth after being away for an unspecified period of time. They need to consider carefully about what story to give Supergirl.Maybe they may do Smallville on her, have her come to earth as a baby. In Smallville, jor el used someone called Kara to tempt Kal-el in coming home. I don't think there was a connection to supergirl there because she was never mentioned again. Look at how much slagging the aquaman debacle has got over the decision to replace one with another. People Will not go to another Mushy romantic film as SG. To fit into the modern time, they will have to make her tougher, harder and dark. Just like they did with Batman. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" i found this movie disappointing.to me,the story had very little depth,and the villain for Supergirl is pretty weak.there is too much mysticism for this type of movie,for my tastes.plus there are some scenes which just feel like filler.the movie is very slow at times,in fact it can be downright boring. Helen Slater is hot for sure,but that doesn't make the movie necessarily good.the Superman movies,at least the first 2,had an epic quality to them.this movie just seems like it was slapped together with very little thought.if you're not gonna have a villain worthy of the hero,then what's the point?that's an element that should be essential in this type of movie.the scope of the movie is just too small.at the end of the movie,there is no real lasting impact.while it wouldn't say this movie is abysmal,it certainly is not very good either.it won't likely be the worst movie you see, but it should have been so much better.the most i can squeeze out for this movie is 4/10 "},{"Title":"Who's afraid of a witch called Dunaway?","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Spin-off of Superman series from the same producers. The Salkind brothers wished to put the series after the failures of Superman III and IV but this in 1984 when he come out was a great box-office flop. The picture-idea is not bad it's a superhero-movie with the women lords it all the principal characters are females and the men are relegated to co-starring or to protagonist's love-interest role. It's the story of beautiful blond young girl Kara from Argo city; a fragment of Krypton planet where the survivals are take refuge after the planet's destruction. Here the live is founded by a powerful sphere called Omegahedron invented by charismatic scientist Zaltar but one day the magical object for error gets lost and was re-sucked in the deep space. Kara takes a spatial device and goes to find of Omegahedron but the powerful object falls in down in the clutches of a evil terrestrial witch called Selena with dreams of world domination. Kara arrives in the earth and becomes immediately Supergirl the maid of steal with super-costume red-blue with the big S in the chest and then assumes the secret identity of school-girl Linda Lee and takes lodging in the local college; her roommate is Lois Lane's sister Lucy. The rivalry between Linda Lee/Supergirl and Selena is as for the Omegahedron possess as for same love-interest the muscle-man gardener Etahn. This rivalry remands me to contrast between Snow White and the wicked stepmother because also here the witch hates her arch-nemesis because she's more young and more pretty. In the final climatic battle, the witch evokes the dark powers and stirs up a monster against Supergirl. The maid of steal frees oneself from monster's grasp and wraps Selena in a whirlwind pushing her versus the monster the witch screams desperately when is devoured by the voracious monster. The good triumphs, the peace returns in Earth and Supergirl takes finally the Omegahedron at Argo and saves her people. Director Jeannot Szworc gives a decent job the rhythm of the action is not particularly raging but he is able to render the mood, the atmosphere of comic-book perhaps also helped by the photography and the scenography that gives the right color to the images. The music-score by Jerry Goldsmith is really splendid and gives to movie that lot of adventure spirit that have. The real reason of failure is the poor screenplay of David Odell the history is silly, absurd and truly unbelievable. Sure the difficulty of production not must have helped Odell at the last minute Cristopher Reeve, that must have been Superman in a little cameo, leaved the project (perhaps because he their have realized the narrowness) and Dolly Parton that was the first choice for the villainies role disowned, judging truly grotesque and silly. Although the problems the screenwriter is guilty for dialogs among the worst in movie history, for a plot full of holes and nonsense but especially he's responsible for a villainess absolutely groundless and dull that represents the real movie's disappointment. The all-star cast is interesting; the 18-old year Helen Slater in the title-role is wonderful; she's very beautiful when she flies with the mini-super costume and she gives to character the right mix of naivety and courage; she's the real perfect choice for the role; it is a pity that the picture's failure have run over her and have ruined her carrier still after to start. Then Slater will have in future only supporting roles in a little not important movies. As Marlon Brando in Superman movie Peter O'Toole shines as Zaltar and is splendidly camp; his hamming was funny and entertaining although the character and the lines are very poor. Peter Cook as the acerbic Dunaway's flame Nigel and Brenda Vaccaro as Selena's sidekick Bianca are campy and sarcastically funny; Hart Bochner as Etahan was embarrassing; he's very attractive but his acting is appalling. Marc McClure as Lucy Lane's boy-friend represents the only character that connects this movie to Superman's series. The rich cast is completed by Mia Farrow and Simon Ward in a little cameo as the Kara's parents. A speech apart merits miss Faye Dunaway as the movie's villainess; she's the evil witch Selena and she's horrible in every sense her acting is so hammy and over-the-top than in few moments she's very unbearable; the character is unbelievably bad and silly but Dunaway seems to be pleased with herself, she speaks few of the most idiot lines of movie history with a unjustified fanatical gusto. Moreover her appearance is dreadful; it's true that she's a witch but the movie history was rich of witches funny or seductive or regaling or menacing; Dunaway is nothing of all this but she's grotesque, clumsy and with her make-up, with a big wig red-shocking and her bizarre look, she seems a man in drag. Dunaway is a witch and like the true witches, she's really ugly and wicked; in a movie almost all-female her face continually furrowed from grimaces and smirks is horrid to watch. She bears the palm of the worst actress in the movie but especially this time she wins also the award as the most ugly woman in the screen although the presence of the fat Vaccaro. In few scenes this enormous ham female falls in ridicule ruinously when Dunaway prepares the spell-love potion with a spider and a walnut she's really embarrassing or when tries to seduce Etahn painfully or still in the final battle when she screams clumsily before to become feeding for the monster.This picture was considered one of worst comic-book movies ever but his ugliness it's such as was a sort of cult movie among the bad movies and most of merits are due to the uncontested queen of the razzie awards Faye Dunaway. "},{"Title":"Smells like Teen Spirit","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" So very, very awful. You know how sometimes you rent a horrible movie because you expect to be amused by it's awfulness? This movie is the dreaded, actually bad bad movie.After naif space-blonde Kara (Helen Slater) caresses her orb with something out of the Xandria Collection and ruins her space-city, she takes to the sky in super-crappy looking bowling ball to retrieve it. And lucky earth gets her.The big problem here is they strenuously avoided answering the question What does a female superhero do in a movie-going culture that prefers it's women inactive, neutral and pretty? It would be difficult to create anything this numbing without having used a lot of drugs in the 70s. Nearly every strange, insipid frame of this inspires the thought, This is a profoundly weird movie. The utilitarian script delivers functional scene after scene without regard to logic, human psychology, plot or intelligence. It does however excel at placing loud, stupid moments one after another until there's over two hours of crap on the screen; damned if you could offer a reason why.Every frame of this is just objectionable. Slater's voice is weird. Everyone's hair is fried. Kara's dad looks like a lesbian. The Utopian Argo city looks as limp as utopias have looked since Lost Horizon. i.e. We're all mellow wussbags, and we all lay around in pajamas. The city looks like a mall made out of macram. Total hippy B.S. The cast is a weird, weird mix. The story is elaborate and incoherent. There are easily 5 characters too many. Everything learned about movie-making in the previous 50 years is forgotten.They didn't get away with it here. But schlock like this paved the way for similarly bloated, stupid movies like Pirates of the Caribbean.Horrid, misshapen... insipid. "},{"Title":"As an amateur, I can write better...","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm sorry, but this just really sucked Willamette River Bilgewater. This movie was a disaster beyond belief. I mean, there's so much that could have been done to make it better...and who knows, I may end up trying to do a project like this myself. Why? Just so that Supergirl's reputation can be restored to pre-crap film (the one I'm reviewing) status. "}{"Title":"Damn her eyes!","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"11 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Outside of this film's seemingly devoted fanbase (not counting the IMDb user obsessed with Siouxsie Sioux who keeps creating new identities and entering positive 10 star reviews in an effort to convince the casual visitor that Supergirl is a film loved by everybody), Supergirl seems to have been box-office Kryptonite. Clearly the magic was gone in the franchise after the first two films, and perhaps Supergirl was seen as a means of taking the same idea in a new direction. It was a branch of the family tree that would have been better left unexplored.Just about the only novel thing about this film is having a female superheroine as its central character, and I suspect it was this identification with young girls that gave Supergirl most of its audience. Wonder Woman's TV show had already come and gone, and a big-screen female contender was the next logical step. In 1984, it was an idea whose time had come. Unfortunately, it came in the form of this movie.Part of the problem is that it's not very easy to understand exactly what's going on in the film. It's one thing to make the audience think and imagine, but it's quite another to make the audience confused; there are some serious blanks that should have been filled in if the movie were to truly connect. The version I first saw was the original American theatrical print, although even the extended cuts of the film don't help explain much. As the movie opens, we see what appears to be a large crystal shopping mall surrounded by bleak nothingness. We learn this is Argo City, a fragment of the planet Krypton. Somehow it has survived the massive explosion that obliterated the original planet, and furthermore we learn that it exists in inner space instead of outer space. This is more than a little vague, especially when Kara makes her voyage to Earth in a spaceship, and emerges in a lake.She has come in search of the Omegahedron, a whirling, glowing tennis ball that happens to be one of Argo City's main power sources. Kara has helped lose it, so she must reclaim it before everyone in her city presumably dies. Even with this kind of crucial time constraint, she still has time to do a flying ballet when she arrives on Earth (already in costume). She also feels the need to adopt a secret identity as a student at a local girls school and waste time going to classes.Meanwhile, the Omegahedron has fallen into the wrong hands Faye Dunaway's. She is an amateur witch named Selena who immediately senses the Omegahedron's power when it literally lands in her soup at a picnic. No, really. Selena intends to use the Omegahedron to achieve all sorts of lofty goals, like making a landscaper fall in love with her. She also wants to take over the world.It doesn't really make a whole lot of sense, but neither did the Superman movies if you think about them too much. The problem with Supergirl is that she doesn't exactly have a whole lot to do. There's a dull action sequence involving a runaway backhoe, as well as a scene where Supergirl uses a lightning-charged streetlamp to ward off an invisible monster that's after her. In the backhoe sequence, we're asked to believe that the entranced landscaper could wander around the crowded town without actually looking at anybody, because Selena's spell dictates he'll fall in love with the first person he sees. Of course the first person he sees is Supergirl. This infuriates Selena to no end, and she forces Supergirl to take on a supernaturally powered Tilt-A-Whirl.Perhaps the biggest liability with Supergirl is the special effects. Putting it bluntly, they are awful. They may look alright on home video, but I just had the pleasure of catching Supergirl at a midnight showing on the big screen, and the audience was definitely not buying it. The matte visuals look fuzzy blown up on the screen, and an unwise sequence shows Supergirl changing clothes several times in a series of jumpy cuts as she walks behind trees. Argo City itself is a goofy concept. It's wrapped in what appears to be a clear plastic tarp that, when punctured, exposes Supergirl to the vacuum of...what? Inner space? Or the vacuum of this movie? It's never really clear. One tedious sequence takes place in the Phantom Zone, which has morphed from the flying plane of glass in the first films to a desolate terrain where it's possible to set up a roughly-hewn home, and they even give you controlled substances. Where IS Argo City, anyway? Why do Supergirl and the Omegahedron reach Earth by surfacing in a lake? Dunaway's performance, as well as a co-starring Brenda Vaccaro, helps the camp factor a great deal, but what is Peter O'Toole doing in this movie? It seems to me the producers wanted to lend some big-star weight to the cast a la Marlon Brando, but O'Toole's character winds up being mostly silly. Also note how Mia Farrow's credit appears early in the cast list, yet she has about four lines. Aside from Dunaway, whose scenery-chewing performance seems like a continuation of her Mommie Dearest routine, nobody really shines. Helen Slater actually does a great job as Supergirl, but the story is so confusing and dull that it doesn't really matter.A very big help would have been a cameo appearance from Christopher Reeve as Superman, who is nowhere to be seen. Don't drop your guard, or you might miss the explanation for his absence, which zooms by when Selena's car radio suddenly comes on.Apparently the international and directors cuts of the film helped to flesh out the ideas a little bit better, but the damage was done for this film once it hit theaters. It was generally considered a disaster, and watching it, it is easy to see why. "},{"Title":"'Supergirl' vs. Mommie Dearest?","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In her film debut, Helen Slater is mis-casted as the woman of steel sent down to Earth to battle Faye Dunaway who wants to rule the world.  Dunaway once again hams it up as a campy villainess just as she did in Mommie Dearest back in 1981.  The difference is she's not convincing but almost laughable in this silly romp.  What really blows about this film is that there's no real connection with the Superman films aside from Supergirl claiming to be Superman's cousin.  Weak plot and some decent special effects may not gel, but at least it's better than Superman III.  My evaluation ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"I think I watched perhaps the worst movie ever made...","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is so bad, I couldn't help stop laughing. If you're in a awful mood, watching this movie will lift your spirits. It's so bad, Alan Smithee wouldn't even credit his name as director. I mean, even Supermans III and IV are better than this. The script is awful. The acting is horrible. Faye Dunaway, Peter O'Toole, Helen Slater... what were they thinking? I hope they fired their agents. "},{"Title":"?????????????","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Never have I seen such piffle, but then Jeannot Szwarc isn't exactly high on my list of admired directors. Jaws 2 was okay, Santa Claus was schmaltz in overdrive, but this is complete and utter rubbish.First of all, Kal El (or Superman) came from Krypton in outer space. Kara comes from Argo City - in inner space. How can they possibly be cousins when they're from two different dimensions ?Secondly, when she arrives on Earth, she shares a room with an annoying little creature called Lucy Lane. Anyone who saw the Superman film in 78 would have remembered Lois (annoying being a familiar trait in the Lane household), commenting on her sister having two kids and a mortgage - major continuity problem here. How did Lucy suddenly go back to being 16 years old just 6 years on.Thirdly, and finally. Supergirl must have an amazing bottle of hair bleach hidden somewhere - how can she possibly change from a soppy brunette in school uniform to a sappy buxom blonde in a red cape and blue leotard - and back again.Peter Cook just looks completely uncomfortable, and Hart Bochner ? - he's even more soppy than his intergalactic girlfriend. He was a prat in Die Hard and he's a total idiot here. Even Jerry Goldsmith's score can't match John Williams' legendary march.Bring back Supergirl of course, but please give her a plot to work through.Personally, I'd choose Sarah Michelle Gellar or Mena Suvari, but that's just my choice. "},{"Title":"Started out liking it","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I started out liking  this film, with its fine cast and hippy-dippy Argo City, but the film eventually gets so boring and goes on and on and on..  Especially on the director's cut DVD - it has 30 minutes of extra stuff that should have stayed out.  If this film were skillfully edited down to about 1.5 hours it would be bearable, but some of the lines are pretty stupid, and the Dunaway character is no more than a cardborad cutout villain, with a pointless Brenda Vaccarro running around squawking about nothing.  Watch this and you will enter a Phantom Zone - of boredom... "},{"Title":"Plastic heroics, too mushy.","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Fay Dunaway and Brenda Vaccaro are the only real reasons to watch this movie. Those two women steal the show. Helen Slater as Supergirl was an okay choice, but it was her first film. She's come a long way (acting wise) since then. Still, it isn't her fault. The story is trite and the action sequences are muddled with silly attempts at comedy. The romance subplot was mind-numbingly ridiculous. Even Jimmy Olsen from the Superman films (Marc McClure) had a few schmaltzy scenes. This is so-not a good movie. Enough said... "},{"Title":"It's a Bird, It's a Plane,It's a Turkey!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A misfire from start to finish,after the dismal failure of Superman III,Chris Reeve vowed to never play Supes again,the Salkinds who owned the rights to the Superman characters,embarked on a spinoff instead,starring Superman's cousin,the Maid of Might,given the star power & big budget however,Supergirl is still a disapointment.The fault lies with director Jeannot Szwarc,who unlike Richard Donner,plays the story for high camp,which just doesn't work with this material & Faye Dunaway,who gives such an over the top performance she'd make Gloria Swanson proud.Granted there are some high points,the photography by Alan Hume is beautiful(check out the widescreen DVD),the Jerry Goldsmith score is fantastic,& the special effects are pretty decent,considering this was made in 1984 & before CGI,but somehow,the bad points outweigh the good,it just never comes together,& the whole project seems rushed & forced.The film was a box office disaster & today is seen as some sort of cult classic,mostly due to Dunaway. As respected film critic icon Roger Ebert said at the time of it's release;Why even go to the trouble of making a film that feels like it's laughing at itself? Director Jeannot Szwarc went on to direct an even bigger bomb for the Salkinds,the infamous Santa Claus(1985). "},{"Title":"Remarkably Bad","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The DC comic book heroes are so naturally interesting that it seems it would be very easy to make a good film here. However, they failed terribly. I found the film a little painful to watch. If I had another DVD on the coffee table I would have ended this one early.If you had to look for good things about this movie you can find a few. The actress paying Supergirl was very good. She really came across as a teenager with super powers &#150; a little awkward at times, not always very self-assured. She was really good and had great schoolgirl good looks.However, it ends there. The dialog was strained. The story drug on, almost endlessly, with lack of action. The special effects were terrible even by 1984 standards (I often felt like I was watching the old Batman TV show). Someone else commented that they thought Faye Dunnaway was good. Sorry, I have to disagree. I felt the villains were just average, everyday, bad people &#150; not the scheming, diabolical, evil but fascinating, super-villains typical in DC comics.If you want a good super-hero movie you need a great villain and a riveting plot that moves at a fast pace. You won't find that here. If someone would have warned me off seeing this they would have done me a favor. Hopefully I am doing that for you. "},{"Title":"the girl of steal against Faye Dunaway the worst witch never made","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" From the Salkinds brothers, the same producers of Superman saga, comes the first and, for the moment, last adventure of the new heroine coming from DC comics was Supergirl the Superman's cousin. The movie is one of the worst superhero's pictures never made; director Jeannot Szwarc give very bad work, as on the hand we would expect from a subscriber to the flop like he. The screenplay by David Odell is really silly and campy; the history is absurd and full of holes. The plot Kara(Helen Slater)is a blond young girl from Argo city. Argo is a fragment of the planet Krypton in innerspace; the survivor Community is powered by the Omega Hedron, a spherical powerful object invented by city's founder Zaltar(Peter O'Toole). Superman's cousin Kara is shown by Zaltar how to use Omegahedron to help inspire her art. But an insect she animates causes chaos and accidentally sucks the Omegahedron down a warp vortex. The magical sphere end up on Earth and falls into the clutches of a evil witch Faye Dunaway....sorry Selena(played by Faye Dunaway). Selena is a second-rate sorceress that lives in a converted amusement park with her sidekick Bianca(Brenda Vaccaro); the witch is studying black magic with the aid of her old boyfriend Nigel(Peter Cook); Nigel is a local math teacher and warlock. The eccentric Selena really is little more than a clumsy charlatan but she is really crazy and megalomaniac; her dream is nothing less than world domination! While Selena plans to use the sphere's powers to rule the world; Kara steals an experimental spaceship and on Earth, becoming Supergirl the girl of steal; now the long-blond-tressed Kara enrolls in a girl-school as a brunette using the name Linda Lee, while searching for the Omegahedron in her spare time wearing the familiar costume of her cousin Superman. Selena is at that age where she's not the spring chicken; she develops lust for the handsome school gardener Ethan and spikes his beer with a potion that will make him fall for the first woman he sees and of course this women is Supergirl; she and Selena come into conflict. In the final crash the witch invoking the Burundi wand, she screams Power of Shadow... Appear! and she summons a huge demon. Power of Shadow... Destroy her! Flying up to confront the demon, Supergirl is captured in its grasp and it starts crushing her. Using her amazing strength, Supergirl frees herself from the demon and using her super-speed, Supergirl circles Selena and the wind she creates lifts Selena before the demon; Supergirl summons her inner strength to turn the tables and make the demon eat witch. Magically, the demon with her bore food and Bianca all fade away through the mirror to the Phantom Zone. Of course good triumphs over evil and Kara returns to Argo City with the Omegahedron. The movie's special effects aren't bad and the Jerry Goldsmith's score is wonderful. The majors guilty of this box office flop are Szwarc and Odell but the acting is another problem for this movie although the all-star cast. Nineteen year-old Helen Slater in her first film appearance is a perfect choice as Supergirl; she looked like she had jumped right out of the pages of the comic books for Supergirl, she's charming rather than sexy, graceful and convincing in the flying scenes with her little costume and her nice blonde hair. Supporting cast members include the completely wasted Peter Cook, the annoying Brenda Vacarro, a embarrassed Mia Farrow, as Kara's mother, the very attractive Hart Bochner that was quite good under trying circumstances and Peter O'Toole, who's always fun to watch when he overacts. All obviously were phoning it in for the paycheck. Faye Dunaway's acting is the worst in the movie. She is mostly dreadful as the wicked would-be witch Selena, it certainly wasn't all Faye Dunaway's fault, since she just got stuck with a terribly written character, but she was over-the-top hamming and overplays outrageously. Her character is idiot, boring and silly and Dunaway chews her ridiculous lines with unjustified gusto because her Selena remains the lamest and worst of all the villains from the Superman-related movies. Selena was the baddest evil witch of all time, with scenery-chewing of unimaginable proportions notwithstanding this Dunaway vamps like a enormous peacock but one thing is sure that she is not a charming and imperious witch like the glamorous Anjelica Huston in movie The Witches. Dunaway is really ungraceful and unattractive as a grotesquely middle-aged women that know some magic, gesture wildly, utter some made-up 'abracadabra' bullshit. She looks awful like a true classic witch from tales; with horrid red curly wig and a make-up that make her features coarse and more vulgar she seems a man in drag . But really Dunaway is the only reason for watch this movie because her camping is so over-the-top and her appearance is so bad than she becomes fascinating to watch in its terribleness. She likes herself in a way very narcissistic; I kept waiting for her performance to finally says -I ready for my close-up Mr. Demille-. But truly even cheeky Brenda Vaccaro as her accomplice Bianca reacts with comically exaggerated expressions over Faye's plans for world domination and her defines a horrid human being. There are few moments where Dunaway is really really ridiculous when she was trying painfully to seduce the muscle-man Etahn; when she was prepare a love-potion with a spider and a hazel's shell but especially in the final when she rolls one's eyes and make terrible smirks and laughs. After her tour-de-force of overacting, her irritating wry faces and ways affected poor Dunaway end up really badly a horrid monster bites evil Faye's head off. It's a just punishment for Dunaway's crimes against humanity, acting and fashion and it's a great relief for the audience. "},{"Title":"Not so great","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I felt the script let this down, the story seemed somewhat pathetic. It would have made a good comic book, but surely there was something better to translate into a movie!It is sad to see how the Superman franchise simply evaporated after the first 2 films. Thankfully rumours of a joint Superman - Supergirl film never materialised, and were possibly idol Hollywood gossip. "}{"Title":"A supermess, but still intriguing.","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The Salkinds poured a lot of money into this spin-off of the successful Superman series.  They built an entire town from the ground up, bought a name cast, spent tons of time and money on pre-production and created many special effects.  Unfortunately, it's pretty much all for naught because of a tremendously bad script.  Rewrite after rewrite failed to bring forth a coherent, logical, enjoyable script--even in the 138 minute director's cut.  Adding to the failure of this film was the fact that audiences had just gotten burned by the stupendously idiotic and horrible Superman III which totally trashed the goodwill of the first two films.  People were wary of anything else by the Salkinds and this film took the heat for that.  Even though this is not a well-written film, it's many virtues were buried under criticism and backlash.  Slater is the title character, self-projected to earth to retrieve her city's primary power source which she accidentally lost.  Slater perfectly conveys the character's naivete and, later, her conviction.  She is charming and exceedingly lovely--especially in full supergear with that mane of golden hair flowing.  However, the film makers do not properly convey the fact that she is a lamb in a new world who must grow and become strong.  Audiences expected an instant heroine and were disappointed in her.  (This is most likely do to the insistence that she be in costume immediately!)  Her adversary is Dunaway, a would-be witch who's using the power source to her own evil ends.  The character is poorly conceived and underdeveloped, leaving Dunaway to fall back on Mommie Dearest-esque line readings.  Her hammy, through-the-roof performance will either delight camp followers or offend everyone else.  So the two primary characters are badly scripted, leaving the actresses in unplayable roles.  One underplays and is accused of woodenness and the other overplays and is accused of scenery-chewing.  Also on hand are O'Toole (slumming as Slater's mentor back home, but doing a decent job), Bochner (achingly gorgeous, but vapid as required by the script) and Vaccaro (mugging, but still tossing off a few funny lines.)  Others include Cook (adding much-needed sarcasm), Ward and Farrow (barely visible as Slater's neo-hippie parents) and Teefy (effectively tomboyish as Lois Lane's little sister and roommate to Slater in her alter ego, Linda Lee.)  No one was admired for their work in this film, but the two leading ladies suffered the most.  Slater was allowed to headline only one other major film and when that tanked, she was relegated to support from then on.  Dunaway was forcibly thrown from the top of the A-list and, despite much hard work on her part and some great supporting parts, has never gotten back to where she was and never will.  The film has several great set pieces of various mayhem and decent special effects for its time.  There's also some great cinematography and a pretty score by Jerry Goldsmith.  However, sadly, it has an obscene degree of product placement.  There's a jarring, obnoxious amount of A & W Root Beer logos present all over the place.  Like many other big flops, it's like watching an accident unfold.  It's fascinating because of it's ineptness. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably bad!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie at a free screening and was so disgusted I wanted my money back! It was one of the worst movies I've ever seen--boring, poorly written and acted, and woodenly directed--and that is saying something. Please do yourself the favor and never pay money to see this, ok? "},{"Title":"One of the worst superhero movies out there","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I can probably go on for days telling what is wrong with this movie. The movie starts out with the descendats of the planet Krypton living undersea. The movie does not explain how come Krypton people,who call themselves Argonanians, are living undersea. The next thing you know Supergirl loses the Argonanian power source (a crystal ball) and chases the crystal ball to Earth. Meanwhile Selena(Faye Dunway) using black magic and the power source tries to take over the world.  Now Supergirl posing as college student Linda Lee makes friend with Jimmy Olson, and Lucy Lane, niece of Lois Lane. I lost track during the movie why Selena needed the power source to take over the world, but frankly towards the end of the movie I couldn't care. I was upset that producers did not have the decency to bring Superman or Lois Lane. Faye Dunway's acting in this movie is terrible, the only part of the villian Selena, Ms. Dunway got correct is the appearance. Dunway looks awful in this movie i.m.h.o. The only good part is 10 minute scene with Helen Slater and Peter O'Toole towards the conclusion, but even O'Toole acting skills can't save this film. My recommendation is that this movie is a cure for insomnia. "},{"Title":"Super Mess.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Three successful Superman films starring Christopher Reeve led to this uninspired mess that has Helen Slater starring as the boring title character. She comes down to Earth basically the same way as her predecessor and has to stop a mad-woman (Faye Dunaway) from taking over the world. Hart Bochner is dull as the love interest. Peter O'Toole (what is he doing in this film?) and Brenda Vaccaro are wasted in supporting turns. By-the-numbers film to generate box office revenue. Failed in most all it wanted to do. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"An endearingly bad film","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of those wasted opportunities in Hollywood. After Alexander and Ilya Salkind made a bomb out of Superman III they decided to go and drag Superman's cousin Supergirl's good name through the mud with this well made but poorly written film.The plot, as it were, has Kara of Argo City, which got blown off of Krypton and somehow endured in an alternate dimension, accidentally losing the device that keeps her city alive and then goes to retrieve it from Earth. She then emerges from a lake in her Supergirl costume and starts testing a few of her powers (namely flight) but then for some reason she takes up at an all girl school and unfortunately, we meet the villainess of the film a crazy witch played by Faye Dunaway who's conflict with Supergirl boils down to battling over a muscular gardener, played by Hart Bochner (in not so smarmy mode, long before he played the coke snorting executive in Die Hard). Why Supergirl stops to live at the girl's school when she should be on a mad cap search for the thing-a-ma-jig is a mystery. I mean, Masters of the Universe is only slightly better than this film, but the director knew well enough to keep He-Man and co moving to find the Cosmic Key in that film.Helen Slater is a beautiful and under-rated actress and her innocent, easygoing performance, coupled with her strapping frame in the Supergirl costume, is a pleasure to watch (her best sequence is probably the scene where she discovers flight for the very first time) but the film's script just doesn't do her efforts justice. And why couldn't she have had a boyfriend back at Argo city? And why is Christopher Reeve's Superman nowhere to be found? Well, I'll tell you why after Superman III the usually affable Reeve had grown tired and angry at the Salkinds for their treatment of Superman and tried to abandon the role (at least prior to Golan and Globus taking over for Superman 4). As you can imagine, being type cast as Superman was one thing, but having Superman treated as a joke was just too much, so naturally he was reluctant to cameo here, which is sad because his presence would have given it the legitimacy it so desperately needed. But Reeve did offer up some advice to Helen Slater on how to play a super person. I remember watching the making of documentary on the DVD and it made me feel sad because everyone involved felt that Helen Slater was set to have a career of Nicole Kidmanian proportions and then it didn't happen. Poor girl, but maybe she likes it better this way, as she can spend more time with her family.Faye Dunaway's witch and her smart alec partner, while amusing, don't really belong in this film. They should have stuck with science fiction instead of turning to magic. Peter O'Toole does what he can with Zaltar, and there are some good special effects, like seeing the Phantom Zone, but overall, this good natured film never takes off like it should. But if nothing else, it will make you laugh at least once. "},{"Title":"Yeah, she's a girl, but there's nothing freakin' super about her.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"8 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" An all over the place movie based on the early incarnation of Supergirl. The only good thing about it, that the later Steel failed to do, is that it was tied into the Superman films. Still it didn't matter. I sat through this dung at the theaters as a kid, and I immediately hated it. Helen Slater looks like a damn lost puppy trying to find her home. While she sure wasn't cut out to be Super-anything, she did fill out that uniform pretty nicely. RRROWR! Oh, yeah, Ugh, Faye Dunaway should should *go away* (Ha! Am I witty!) as a weak Cruella DeVille wannabe, and take her friggin deep voiced sidekick Brenda Vaccaro with her. There was a lot of good potential totally wasted. It's as if everyone involved in it's production was so inconsiderate, as if to say, Hey, Let's take Supergirl, a strong supporting character from icon Superman's universe, then let's put her in a convoluted movie that will appeal to neither the target female audience nor comic book fans! With a weak plot, lame acting, and sketchy FX, this movie should be in a $.99 store aside Batman and Robin.If you want to see the true Supergirl in motion, then look for her appearances in Justice League Unlimited and the 90s Superman where she even teams up with Batgirl. But avoid this movie like you were Superman seeing Kryptonite. "},{"Title":"Pretty awful.","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This awful, seemingly low-budget knock-off of Superman features Helen Slater as the titular character, fighting off evil Faye Dunaway and Peter O'Toole. The movie is about as fun as a root canal, which will give you a good indication of just how enjoyable it is. It was definitely a cash-in on Superman's success in 1978, and the success of its sequels. However it lacks the solid style of Superman and is really, really low budget-y and cheap looking.I suppose this is just ample proof that there needed to be no Supergirl movie--at least not one like this. The scenes with the witch still make me cringe.Please, this deserves to be on the low 100. I absolutely hate it. It's even worse than Superman IV. Yes, I know that's saying a lot, but it is--quite unfortunately--true.P.S. I originally submitted this about two years ago but decided I'd revise a few of my sentences. I've gotten angry letters from the Supergirl Cult of IMDb giving me death threats telling me that it's an under-appreciated slice of epic film-making on par with The Lord of the Rings and The Godfather. I didn't like Lord of the Rings too much.Supergirl makes it look like the best film ever made.So, don't send me letters, and don't threaten me. If you think I'm wrong, write your own review. "}]