[{"Title":"Girls definitely want to have fun","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Girls Just Want to Have Fun is the ultimate movie of the 80s. I was 8 years old when this came out and my friends and I would hold our own Dance TV, of course everyone wanted to be Janey but I wanted to be Helen Hunt's character Lynne.Even though Sarah Jessica Parker had the title role and the hunky Lee Montgomery as her dance partner and boyfriend, this film belonged to Helen Hunt. She was absolutely wonderful as the best friend who helped Janey with her dream of being on Dance TV.Jonathan Silverman was funny as Drew, Jeff's best friend that in fact the best friends were the one who made this movie more enjoyable.Shannen Doherty was also impressive as Jeff's little sister Maggie, but a little too old to be playing a 12 year old.The music is brilliant, though a little dated and every time I see this movie it brings back all the nostaglia of growing up in the 80s.A definite must see no matter how many times you've watched it. "},{"Title":"I still love this movie!","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I just rewatched it on the comedy channel.  It's  such a feelgood movie.  It makes you want to dance.   I always wished for a sequel.  I would love to see  how the characters turned out years later.  Sarah  and Helen are great in this movie.  And I think  Sarah did alot of her own stunts because she was  doing gymnastics at the time.  The dancing is great  and the music is pure 80's fun.  The movie has a  good storyline that moves along with just the right  amount of suspense and timing.  This is a fun,  feelgood dance movie.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Great movie if you're a dancer - inspiring.","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Again I watched this movie a long time ago when i was just thinking about starting dance classes. As with all movies with a heavy soundtrack from the 80's - it has aged. But I still love it and watch it at least once a year with my best friend, if not only just to remind us of high school. It was great watching Sarah, Helen and (to a lesser degree) Shannon's careers move on from here. It was a pity that Lee's career never surfaced again (unless we take into account Models Inc.If you have ever been an aspiring dancer, someone in their 30's reminiscing about the 80's or just someone that loves a stereotypical Hollywood climax - you will love this too. "},{"Title":"Nice Popcorn Session","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Janey Glenn (Sarah Jessica Parker) is a teenager newcomer in Chicago, who loves the TV show Dancing in TV. In the Catholic school, she becomes friend of Lynne Stone (Helen Hunt), who also loves to dance and invites her to an audition to be part of the show. However, her tough father, who raises Janey in a military environment, does not accept her participation in the audition, and she has lots of trouble to escape for the competition. The rich Natalie Sands (Holly Gagnier) tries to use the influence and power of her wealthy father to win the competition. This silly movie is crowded of teenager starlets. It is funny to see names such as Sarah Jessica Parker, Helen Hunt, Jonathan Silverman, Shannen Doherty, in the beginning of their careers, playing very goofy and foolish roles. However, the story is nice, there are good songs from the 80´s and in the end, it is an attractive and forgettable entertainment. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) `Dançando na TV' (`Dancing in TV')  "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Loved it- why had I not heard about this movie?! (my mate picked it up randomly in a sale!)Big hair, leotards and leg warmers- dirty dancing meets fame, meets flash dance, meets many other cheesy 80s movies! I am now seeing SJP and Helen Hunt in a whole new light- they can dance! And Sarah Jessica Parker is HOT! Also, the soundtrack is brilliant... Perfect for a night in with the girls with a bottle of wine!If you haven't already BUY THIS MOVIE- you'll wanna see it more than once, and make sure all your friends see it too!-D "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I have a soft spot for cheesy 80's comedies, and this is DEFINITELY near the top of my list!  With awesome music, 80's-clever dialogue, and the amazing Sarah Jessica Parker, it just can't be beat.  Also starring a young and oh-too-cute Shannen Doherty, this movie is what I watch when I need a quick pick-me-up.  It's fabulous! "},{"Title":"The best of cheesy 80's flics!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie - I've seen it probably a hundred times. Besides the all-star cast of Sarah Jessica Parker, Helen Hunt, Shannen Doherty and Jonathan Silverman - it's just a fun movie! The dancing is good - the music is fun! I just love it!!! "},{"Title":"Cute, girly fun, a bit dated but, overall, quite nice","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Jane (Sarah Jessica Parker) is the daughter of a stern Air Force officer. They have moved around so much that she has gone to at least a dozen different schools. However, the family has just settled in Chicago, with an intention to stay awhile. This is good news for Janie, for she dearly loves a national television show that is shot in Chicago, Dance TV and she hopes to catch a live viewing. After Janie makes her first close friend at school, Lynn (Helen Hunt), they both discover that Dance TV is looking for a new dance couple to be featured on the show and that the executives are holding a tryout very shortly. Lynn encourages Janie to audition, even though it will mean cutting a few classes and sneaking out to practice, as Jane's father must not know about it. Making it to the finals, Janie is paired with handsome Jeff (Lee Montgomery) and they begin to rehearse every night. But, will Janie's father find out? And, can they really win the darn thing when another contestant, rich and spoiled, is trying to get her father to rig the event? This is a cute movie with a big heart. Parker, in one of her first major roles, is enchanting as the strong-willed but soft-hearted Janie, who doesn't wait for boys to kiss her, she kisses them first! Hunt provides great support, as does Montgomery, Shannen Doherty (very young), and especially Jonathan Silverman as a money-scheming friend of Jeff's. Yes, the film looks a bit dated, with its 80's costumes and pedestrian camera work. But, the dance scenes are quite energetic while gal-themed movies with good values and strong-female roles are always welcome for young viewers everywhere. If you and your daughters want to share an upbeat, follow-your-heart movie, with humor and sweetness, this is a wonderful choice. All who do will just have fun, indeed. "},{"Title":"The best eighties film u should see at least once","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  this is one of the best films i even seen. this is a feel good film for all those who love having fun and giggles. it is one of my fave films and watch it at least 3 times a week since finally finding it on DVD after many years of not seeing it. it is packed with comedy and romance and had my sides splitting with some classic quotes. the cast is great and there is a definite chemistry between them all. if u r gonna see an eighties movie just once in ur life then make it Girls Just Want To Have Fun. Get ur girlie mates round for a gossip and stick this film on and munch on the popcorn while laughing at Helen Hunt as Lynn, Sarah Jessica Parker as Janey and drool over the really nice looking guy Lee Montgomery aka Jeff with his dorky friend Drew.  "},{"Title":"Dancing in Heaven","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  If you didn't first see this movie between the ages of 8 and 15, you probably won't experience the same joy and nostalgia as those of us lucky enough to have seen it in those golden years of our lives.Today I found out that two girls in my office also love this movie, and it was like finding two kindred spirits.  My sister and I used to watch this movie over and over again on cable.  Yes, it's predictable and cheesy, but that's what's so fun about it!  And was 80s pop culture (cheeseball pop music, teased hair, Velcro, loud clothes and dance TV programs--think Solid Gold) ever so well documented on film?Yes, you can watch Helen Hunt in her Oscar-winning performance in As Good As it Gets...but wouldn't you rather watch her become Miss D-TV?Ah, the memories... "}{"Title":"Agreeable Fluff","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  A fun teen comedy inspired by Cindy Lauper's hit song of the same title. The always appealing Sarah Jessica Parker is showcased and, for once in this genre, the parents are portrayed as neither monsters nor morons, which was very refreshing at the time.  This film is a slight bit of diverting fun, especially good for the younger set.  The film does have one delicious sequence  Snubbed by the rich, snotty teen queen, the two heroines purloin an invitation to her exclusive debutante party.  They take it to Kinkos, have dozens of copies made, and proceed to distribute them to every thug, lowlife, and street person in Chicago.  Priceless! "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite 80's movies!  There are a lot of funny one liners, great dancing and a really good soundtrack! I like this version of the Girls Just wanna have fun song than Cyndi Lauper's original.  My favorite scene is when Janey, Lynne, and Maggie get even with Natalie)  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful 80s film - the best of the bunch if you ask me - beats breakfast club anyway. Great dancing, great suspense - will she make it to the competition or won't she? And then, the wonderful Lee Montgomery (what every happened to him?). A feel good film to remind you of your teenage years. "},{"Title":"AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is the perfect movie for a slumber party or for just hanging out with your friends after school or on a Friday night. It's lots of fun, lots of laughs and you're guaranteed to be humming at least one tune from the movie when it's over. Helen Hunt is extremely young in this movie, and really funny. If you're looking for a romantic movie or a comedy or both, you've gotta see this! I'm 17 and my friends and I love watching this movie whenever we can. "},{"Title":"Girls just want to have fun makes you want to dance, or be a dancer","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I remember seeing this film in the cinemas when I was 10 years old.  At the end of the film all the audience clapped and cheered, I had never seen that phenomenon before and have not experienced it since.  The film may be slightly predictable, but it is a must see for any pre-teen or teenage girl. Before my after school dance lessons me and my friends would always watch this film to put us in a dancing mood.  Just like Top Gun encouraged people to be pilots, Girls Just Want to have Fun makes you want to dance, or be a dancer.  Sarah Jessica Parker and Helen Hunt are terrific in their roles, a sign of things to come perhaps?  While lee Montgomery was ever so cute!. I have to say though my favorite scene(s) are the I Can Fly routine, the audition process and the dance off at the end.  In summary this film may be lightweight but it sure is a lot of fun-even almost 15 years later. "},{"Title":"Boys like to have fun too.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is hands down one of the best cheesy teen movies to come out of the 80's. Watching Sarah Jessica Parker dance alongside Lee Montgomery just gives me flashbacks of the days when I dreamed of being a Solid Gold dancer! The acting is horrendous, the characters are cardboard cut-outs, and the plot is just way too predictable. I should hate this movie. BUT I LOVED IT!!! And the soundtrack is extreme cheese! LOVED IT!! And who says that only Girls Just To Have Fun??? Boys want to have fun too.... "},{"Title":"A Silly Little Film","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Janey is new in town, and soon meets Lynne, who shares her passion for dancing in general, and Dance TV in particular. When a competition is announced to find a new Dance TV regular couple, Janey and Lynne are determined to audition. The only problem is that Janey's father doesn't approve of that kind of thing.This is just 1980s cheese at its finest. There is very little plot, nothing unexpected and it could probably have been written over a weekend. It probably was. The only thing about it that really makes it worth watching is that the stars have gone on to bigger and better careers. We even have a young Shannon Doherty.If nothing else, we learn that Sarah Jessica Parker has always been a hideous creature and how she ever got hired on a movie -- or many -- or a TV show is mystery. And it calls into question Matthew Broderick's good sense. "},{"Title":"Girls Just Wanna Have Fun","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Somehow this one completely slipped my radar. Recently, I don't even remember if I googled Sarah Jessica Parker and found the title on Wikipedia or whatever, but when I saw the DVD box cover it was enough to hook me. And young Sarah Jessica Parker and young Helen Hunt and extra-young Shannen Doherty sounded like a treat.Well, just watched it, and wow, Sarah Jessica Parker in the absolute flower of youth! The scene stealer though is Shannen. Every time.I had the music on loud, and it was 80s again. If you are a fan of the era, I would advise this movie. To all the nasty old spoilsports out there (lots of the negative reviews) this is the way it was. It was done back then, you can't fault the movie for being a mirror of the times. Hindsight would make many a whole lot wiser. Then again, as long as there was fun. Nothing else counts.Addendum, 1 Sept. 2015. Upon viewing it again, I found my heart swelling with pride. I originally gave only six stars, that is now changed.My favorite bit, 'Look at me, I can fly', Scene 8 on the DVD. Sarah is absolutely breathtakingly heartbreakingly gorgeous, and then there is the swan-lift as well, beating out DIRTY DANCING by several years. Charming to the extreme.All the enthusing about Helen Hunt? She has almost a minor part in the movie? And Shannen's credited at the end only, while she is the second-most memorable actress. Good thing they had that casual barefoot photo of the trio for the box cover.I wholeheartedly agree with the reviewer who mentioned that the actresses must have been thankful for their parts, but now, thirty years later, people only wanna see the movie because they are in it. They owed their initial success to it, but now the DVD release of the movie owes it to them.Hey, if only Brenda Walsh was this cute, hey Shann? "},{"Title":"Fun 80's teen/dance flick","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Released in 1985, Girls Just Want to Have Fun mixes the 80's teen/school genre with the 80's dance genre. The story revolves around a Catholic school girl (Sarah Jessica Parker) who hooks up with a cool guy from public school (Lee Montgomery) to enter a TV dance competition. A young Helen Hunt is on hand as the protagonist's best friend while cutie Holly Gagnier plays her spoiled nemesis. A 12 year-old Shannen Doherty appears as Montgomery's little sister.To be expected, Girls Just Want to Have Fun is a fun, energetic flick, sort of like Heavenly Bodies, but more teen-oriented; and lighter than Footloose. Although these 1984 films are leagues better, Girls is a great movie for when you're in the mood for a lighthearted fun 80's flick. Sarah was 19 years-old during filming and never looked better; same thing with Holly Gagnier, except she was 26 at the time. And Montgomery plays a great hip male protagonist; it's a wonder his career never took off. If you like him, be sure to catch him in his final movie, 1988's Into the Fire, aka The Legend of Wolf Lodge (although he plays the same type of character as in Girls, the movie's an adult-oriented tragedy).Interestingly, the producers didn't use Cyndi Lauper's version of the title song for licensing reasons, but the cover version is acceptable.The film runs 90 minutes and was shot in L.A. and Chicago.GRADE B "},{"Title":"There's an audience for this... but I'm not among it","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" With a title like Girls Just Want To Have Fun, I didn't think that this would be my kind of movie when I sat down to watch it, even though I grew up during the '80s. But I have to admit that the experience was better than I thought it would be. First, unlike many teen movies (from the 80s or later), the movie's tone is anything but crude. It is instead bouncy and likable. The two leads played by Sarah Jessica Parker and Shannen Doherty have some good chemistry together and are appealing. And it's always nice to see Ed Lauter in a movie.Still, while my experience with the movie was better than I thought it would be, this isn't a movie that I'll probably watch again. While the movie never looks seriously cheap, it is pretty obvious that the budget was somewhat tight, seeing that we seldom get to see wide shots (among other clues, one of them being that the few recognizable songs in the movie are performed by no-names rather than the original artists.) Also, while Parker and Doherty are appealing, they were clearly beyond their teen years when they made this movie. But the biggest problem I had was the utter predictability of the script. There is no plot turn in the movie that you haven't seen dozens of times in other movies.I do think that there are some people who will like this movie - probably women who grew up during the '80s who are nostalgic for the era. But if you aren't one of those women, I would strongly caution you. "}{"Title":"A delightful 80's teen comedy treat","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Shy, but sweet teenager Janey Glenn (an endearingly sunny and dynamic performance by the adorable Sarah Jessica Parker) enters a contest for the local Chicago television show Dance TV. Janey gets partnered with hunky nice guy Jeff Malene (likable Lee Montgomery), faces stiff competition from spoiled rotten rich snob Natalie Sands (marvelously played to bitchy perfection by Holly Gragnier), and receives help from her perky rocker chick best gal pal Lynne Stone (a wonderfully spunky portrayal by Helen Hunt). Director Alan Metter and writer Amy Spies craft an refreshingly upbeat, pleasant and innocuous teen comedy romp that eschews the usual crude'n'crass raunchy adolescent sex antics in favor of relating a charming tale about realizing your potential and following your dreams. There's a wholesome and tasteful quality evident throughout which in turn greatly adds to the film's overall irresistibly good-natured appeal. This picture further benefits from engaging acting from a winningly sincere cast Parker positively shines in the lead (you'll find yourself totally rooting for her character right from the start), Montgomery likewise does well as Jeff, Hunt is a complete brash hoot, plus there are nice supporting turns from Shannon Doherty as Jeff's bratty younger sister Maggie, Morgan Woodard as stuffy wealthy jerk J.P. Sands, Jonathan Silverman as Jeff's brainiac opportunist best friend Drew Boreman, Ed Lauter as Janey's hard-nosed killjoy ex-army officer father Colonel Glenn, Kristi Somers as conceited hipster Riki, and Bill Yeager as Jeff's chipper pop Mr. Malene. Thomas E. Ackerman's crisp cinematography makes nifty use of wipes and dissolves. Thomas Newman's bouncy score, the zingy dialogue (Don't throw a mental, dad!), lots of great funky dancing, several inspired moments of gut-busting lunacy (the sequence with a bunch of rowdy punkers crashing a posh débutante's ball is absolutely hilarious), and the terrifically catchy soundtrack of bubbly rock tunes all keep the movie humming throughout. A totally awesome blast from the gnarly 80's past. "},{"Title":"Vintage Cheese and Lovin' It!","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Girls Just Want to Have Fun is that sort of film that probably wasn't all that popular when it was made but can come into its own, say, 25 years after it was made. If you are a fan of the 80s this film is a must-see. A wonderful snapshot of 80s pop culture in all its glory the music, the costumes, the dancing! And in the end this is what makes the film most entertaining. It's also a great chance to see three young actors heading for fame in one of their first films, Shannon Doherty, Helen Hunt and Sarah Jessica Parker are fabulously cast in what shows an enormous amount of foresight considering where their careers have led them. Yes, the plot seems a little formulaic to us now but the genre had only just been developed. The 80s, with its fitness craze and sports themed fashions (shellsuits anyone?) brought a wealth of dance films from 'Fame' to 'Dirty Dancing'. (Do note, however, this was made before Dirty Dancing so the swan-lift scene is NOT copied.) But it's the details that make this film a delight (Hunt's line that Velcro 'next to the Walkman and Tab is the coolest invention of the 20th Century'! and Doherty's line 'You really think I'm punk?!... it's not as cool as nu-wave but it's a lot better than pre-teen'!) as well as the cringe-worthy moments (nuns shouting 'stay away from him, he's a boy!'). All in all it's a bundle of fun that should appeal to a wide range of people; the portrayal of an awkward teenage romance and everyday (but hilarious) comedy are outstanding. It's a piece of genuine vintage 80s, beautifully preserved! "},{"Title":"pervert moments in Girls...","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Did anyone else notice that Janey's little brother totally checks out her breasts and crotch..the most obvious was when she comes out in her underwear- it's hysterical. This movie brings me so much joy, especially when the girls pass out fliers in the gay district of Chicago..and they end up at that bizarre gay daytime dance club. I'm rolling on the floor laughing at that point. My friends and I play drinking games to this film. Whenever Shannon Doherty appears and says something really dumb, you have to take a drink. ten minutes into the film we are trashed. There is also another scene where Janey is grounded and lying in bed with the sheets pulled over her.. and there's a buzzing noise. Yes, i think it's a vibrator. This movie oozes sexual energy. i love the black lesbian twins and their amazing man-like costumes. pure joy. My friend Micheal and I learned their dance routine and perform it at parties. I remember watching this movie when i was a kid, when i was 5 and all-female slumber party, and it made me love Cindy Lauper more than i already do. Shannon Doherty owes her career to this film. another Shannon Doherty gem is Heathers. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I think that this movie is great!! The first time that I saw it was in the 80's and the music was fantastic and as a girl Janie and Lynne were so easy to relate to. Every little girl in the 80's wished that she could dance like Janie Glenn!! I think that there probably could have been a better story line for the movie, but the fact is that it is simply still a good movie that girls love even today! I am still watching it, in fact I own a copy and have started looking for a DVD version to replace my VHS copy so that I can watch it all the time without worrying that I am going to wear it out.Also it was a great start for Helen Hunt, Sarah Jessica Parker, Shannon Doherty, and Jonathan Silverman. Although I do ofter wonder what happened to Lee Montgomery, I thought that he was a fairly good actor and I sure had a crush on him in this movie - and he's Canadian!! "},{"Title":"Not the greatest, but...","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a very funny movie, and this movie ment more to some people than Dirty Dancing or Fame.After watching this movie, one really feel kinda more happier.Sure, some of the mistakes are just too silly, like when Jeff have another colour on his shirt than in the previous scene, but hey.Helen Hunt is, according to me, the star of this movie. When she rides in as the new Rikki in the end you can really feel their happiness. "},{"Title":"pervert moments in Girls...","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Did anyone else notice that Janey's little brother totally checks out her breasts and crotch..the most obvious was when she comes out in her underwear- it's hysterical. This movie brings me so much joy, especially when the girls pass out fliers in the gay district of Chicago..and they end up at that bizarre gay daytime dance club. I'm rolling on the floor laughing at that point. My friends and I play drinking games to this film. Whenever Shannon Doherty appears and says something really dumb, you have to take a drink. ten minutes into the film we are trashed. There is also another scene where Janey is grounded and lying in bed with the sheets pulled over her.. and there's a buzzing noise. Yes, i think it's a vibrator. This movie oozes sexual energy. i love the black lesbian twins and their amazing man-like costumes. pure joy. My friend Micheal and I learned their dance routine and perform it at parties. I remember watching this movie when i was a kid, when i was 5 and all-female slumber party, and it made me love Cindy Lauper more than i already do. Shannon Doherty owes her career to this film. another Shannon Doherty gem is Heathers. "},{"Title":"80's Teen Strikes Back","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Sarah Jessica Parker, Helen Hunt and Shannen Doherty headline this movie about a schoolgirl's dream to dance on the TV show Dance TV. A goofy teen comedy that while I didn't laugh, isn't all that bad. Parker is the new girl at the private girlschool who is instantly befriended by Helen Hunt and together they set off on a series of scams designed to get Parker a chance to win a spot on Dance TV as a new regular. Doherty is the 12 year old sister of the guy that Parker ends up matched with for the final contest. It's a 80's teen comedy, an acting workshop it's not, and while there is really nothing overly wrong with the film, it's not like you have to run out and see it either. "},{"Title":"Excellent 80's movie","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I have seen many 80's teenage movies and this is my favorite. It really captures all the wonderful music and great t.v. show's they had back then. I love the songs on it, i've even put them on my I Pod!! LOL -) The movie makes me want to go back in time and be a teen in the 80's. I love Sara Jessica Parker and Helen Hunt in this, they're Excellent!!! I suggest people see this movie if they love upbeat music, great dancing, a little excitement, and over all if they love the eighties. I'm 21, I saw this movie when I was about 15 and I still love it. It's not a movie that you get tired of seeing over and over again. My favorite songs from the movie are Dancing In Heaven, Technique, and I Can Fly. I love to work out to them...hahahaha....watch this movie with a group of friends. Trust me.....you'll love it!!! -) "},{"Title":"SJP in GJW to HF - A S is B (A Star is Born)","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Sarah Jessica Parker in Girls Just Want to Have Fun is an instant sensation as she easily is destined to become a big time star. Same goes for Helen Hunt. Both of these cute young women jump off and leap out of the screen in this cool and hip '80s teen dance classic. Sarah Jessica Parker looks so cute and so flirty and so bright and so sweet and so perfect. She really can steal a guy's heart with one simple smile. SJP is beautiful. SJP appears in her P.J.S. as GJWHF surprises us with a good long glance at sexy young Parker in her blue and red undies. I mention this only because it's so important. SJP's so adorable, still is. Helen Hunt is dancing and living it up in GJWHF. I have a big crush on Helen, right away. Hunt makes just as an unforgettable first impression as Parker does, and she looks just as cute and all too sweet. I wanna see Helen Hunt in more teen dance flicks, is that possible? I wonder if Helen and SJP stayed good friends through the years. It's great seeing Lee Montgomery and Shannen Doherty and Jonathan Silverman as kids. Montgomery makes a handsome-haired rebel with his role and he made it big by landing it. I know a good star when I see one, and Lee Montgomery is a movie star, though I'm unsure why he never did anymore movies. Doherty makes a punky preteen little sister as a bright future lies ahead of her just like it does for Sarah Jessica and Helen. Shannen's really good. Silverman makes for a slick talking sidekick as he talks himself with this part into the Weekend at Bernie's movies. Ed Lauter does fine work for strict military dads, but his son's a total pervert. Girls Just Want to Have Fun is a very fun and very popular movie. It's a great dance flick for girls especially and a little bit underrated. It would have had an added fun dimension if it had the original 'Girls Just Want to Have Fun' song sung by Cnydi Lauper herself, but it worked out well since it made way for the other memorable '80s dance songs we get to hear, like 'Shout', 'Dancing in the Street', and 'I Can Fly', especially 'Dancing in the Street'! The big dance-off with that theme hit song is like the movie's best part. SJP and HH both show off their sizzling hot dance skills and both look really good doing it too in those moments. They can really dance and they both make it big on to dance T.V.! There aren't enough good 'inspiring to make it big by becoming a dancer' movies like this; there's Hairspray, and Girls Just Want to Have Fun. GJWHF is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Awesome 80's dance movie","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" The main plot is about a girl who loves to dance and auditions for a dance TV show even though her strict military father doesn't approve. Only problem is that Sarah Jessica Parker is cast in this role and she's a TERRIBLE dancer. I think at times they have a body double dancing for her but in the scenes where she is dancing she looks like she's having a spasm.One of the most amazing things about this movie is the wardrobe. I actually think that of all the 1980s movies this one has some of the worst clothes. When I am out in public and see kids under 30 wearing 1980s fashion, I have this overwhelming urge to reenact that scene from Clockwork Orange by tying them down and forcing them to watch this movie. Hopefully that will cure them from thinking that era of fashion should ever be replicated.Best line in the movie Velcro it's the best invention since the Walkman and Tab. "}{"Title":"Perfect Girlie film for the Ultimate Girls Night In ...","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I think I was 8 when this film came out, my friends from junior school and I watched it all the time over and over ( along with Grease and Dirty Dancing later on). Such a great feel good and fun girlie film-it makes you want to get up and dance....perfect for all ages.I'm actually buying it for a girls old time reunion next week to surprise everyone-Woo Hoo )You can't beat this so watch it, perfect 80's film with a bit of everything, laughter, dancing, singing along, romance-what more could we ask for ) "},{"Title":"where can i get this soundtrack?","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" i love this movie so much! but i can't seem to find the soundtrack anywhere... i have tried downloading but the songs are kind of rare and i can't find the right versions I've tried best buy and target but this movie is from 1985 and the songs on it aren't very well known like some other movies. if you know where i could find this soundtrack id really appreciate it...i love this movie & the dancing is awesomeeeeee. wow this ones a classic...--i hate him --whats to hate? he's a boy and he's alive --he's just UGH! UGH! you know? --i like those qualities in a man. is he going to call you tonight? --(janie smiles) yeah i think! "},{"Title":"Too Short!","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  What can I say this film is way too short! I wanted it to go on for so much longer! - This film is just FUN FUN FUN! SJP is wonderful and I can imagine what Carrie would say about the outfits and Helen Hunt is so funny and fresh. The dinosaur and animal hair pieces where fantastic! The DVD is really cheap to buy and I urge you to get it and then watch it on a dull Sunday afternoon. Have the expectations that this is a fun 80's movie and it can do no wrong x "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  ok, i saw the movie on the shelf at a blockbuster. I rented it and fell in love! Me and my friends Mal And Em have our girls night out and we always watch it when we get home. From the funny lines of That's the saftest thing you will have inbetween ur legs, u move u bleed, and u don't do everything u are told...oh g-d u do, and stay away from him he is a boy... we have a great time. who evers says this movie is bad doesn't have any clue what they are talking about. this movie is my favorite movie. It makes me want to dance, sing, and have a good time! It makes me feel better when i am sad. This is one of the greatest 80's movies out there!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the best 80's films","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie!! I watched it for the first time when I was 13,which was back in 1993. I used to watch it, and then I'd rewind it and watch it again. It's just one of those movies you never get bored with! Definitely a girl's movie! They picked a great cast(Shannen Doherty-Brenda,the 90210 brat, The future Mrs. Broderick-Sarah Jessica Parker, Helen Hunt, and Jonathan Silverman-The single guy.  "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!!!","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is quite possibly the greatest teen comedy to come out of the 80s.  The irrepressible Sarah Jessica Parker stars as Janie, a Dance-TV wannabe. Helen Hunt co-stars (in one of her few likeable roles) as Janie's wild and wacky best friend, who is determined to make Janie's D-TV dreams a reality. While the acting is typical of its genre, the movie doesn't suffer for it. Two enthusiastic thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Cheese gone bad","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie because I found the DVD on sale. I never heard about the movie and seeing Helen Hunt, Sarah Jessica Parket and Shannon Doherty on the cover made me curious. I find it ironic this three actresses owe it to the the movie that they became famous (this were the first leading roles for both SJP and Helen Hunt) and now this movie owes it to them that people still want to see it.The movie is simply bad. Really bad. Very unexciting, predictable, acting and lines make one cringe sometimes, plot that we saw 100 times and very shallow characters.Let's look at itThere is this shy, good girl Janey whose dream is to dance. To get to this dream she has to overcome obstacles like her very strict dad who didn't realize that his daughter isn't 7 anymore and a concurrence which is a spoiled, rich girl Natalie. All this time she has her friend on her side Lynne, who was described on the DVD cover as a cool rock chick. seriously? This is what teens in 80's saw as a cool rock chick? She came over more like a little preppy brat who thought that wearing a fun hat would make her a cool rock chick. And then there is of course a bad boy. Well, he is a bad boy because he wears a tank top....Horrible, just horrible. The only thing good about it are the fun clothes. And to see the actresses when they were young. Sarah Jessica Parker was pretty cute in it, can't say much against her. Helen Hunt has certainly improved in acting since then, I didn't just dislike her character but also the way she acted. I am also amazed by the fact that her looks never changed, she looks now the same as she did when she was 22. Pretty cool for her! Shannon Doherty wasn't much on screen, good for her.But yes, I can't imagine how people can like this movie u unless they are 10 year old girls or were 10 year old girls when this movie came out and want to be a little nostalgic. If you aren't in any of these groups, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Girly and silly guilty pleasure","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Perfect mindless entertainment! A relic from gen-x girls' past... if you can laugh at the spectacular awfulness of it (and stop looking for a Sex in the City prequel) then this movie is nothing but 80's super-stylized fun.Not only are the ridiculous dancing, music and clothes entertaining on their own, but you get to see critically acclaimed actors attempt to glamorize it all, back when they were at the bottom of the industry food chain. Place this one next to Dirty Dancing and Footloose. Highly recommended to anyone who grew up in the 80's! "},{"Title":"If for no other reason, watch it for a totally goofy, young Helen Hunt!","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Girls Just Want to Have Fun may be one of those horribly geeky dance themed 80s movies, but it's still a comedy that has maintained much of it's entertainment value.Sarah Jessica Parker is back in something of her Patty Green like phase from Square Pegs. Here, she portrays Janey Glenn, an army brat who is the new student at an all girl's Catholic school. Her best friend, and the one with the greatest style in this movie, is Lynne Stone (Helen Hunt), a semi-wild child, who doesn't mind breaking a few innocuous rules in order to have some fun. Lynne encourages Janey to enter the tryouts for new dancers on a television show called 'Dance TV' which looks Dance Party USA. And actually, Janey makes it through the trials to compete in the finals and probably have her shot of being a tv star. Only problem is, she was teamed up with Jeff Malene (Lee Montgomery) a cute fellow who is supposed to be her competition partner through the rest of the auditions. That'd be fine with Janey, except her father, being far too unrealistic about the situation, doesn't want Janey invovled in the comeptition in the first place and second, doesn't want her getting invovled with boys, and especially not Jeff Malone, who I suppose is supposed to be something like a street tough, but a clean version (as most of the characters in this movie are). Janey's all set to give up, but Lynne advises her to stay in the competition and helps her keep the tryouts and Janey's burgeoning relationship with Jeff a secret. But, Natalie Sands (Holly Gagnier), a richie misfit who's jealous of Janey's quality time with Jeff, is determined to expose Janey, hoping her dad will find out and put an end to her participation in the tryouts so that Natalie will be able to dance with Jeff instead. It sounds really corny, and for the most part it is. Even the story is trite (a better version of this story you may recall is 'Bend It Like Beckham'). But, nonetheless, this movie is good for a couple of reasons. Helen Hunt as Lynne Stone is great. Stone is really a girl with great style and she's a real fun loving goof. I think she steals the show more than the rest of the characters. The movie is good, too, if you like 80s movies, even corny ones based around even cornier dancing. The music isn't so bad, either. I have a feeling 80s teen fans should enjoy it, though I suspect, probably more girls will than boys. But what the heck, give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I love this hip hopping movie Sara Jessica Parker did a awesome  job with Helen Hunt in this fun teenager movie. The way that the director caught the magic of the film was unbelievable. The costumes were very well done too. "}{"Title":"Brainless '80's Fluff","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I saw this video in the store one day while I was in an '80's mood. I'd seen Adventures In Babysitting, Ghostbusters and Beverly Hills Cop enough and needed something that brought me back to my youth. Then I found this flick- named after a brainless Cindy Lauper ditty, released the very year I graduated high school, and starring ACADEMY AWARD WINNER Helen Hunt (She got better) I couldn't resist. It was like a ride in Michael J. Fox's Delorian straight back to the mid-eighties and I loved every second. My wife and I had a great time playing scavenger hunt on all the typical 1980's fashions (probably make a great drinking game) Right there! Skinny White Tie!! Lace Ringed Ankle socks! IZOD! I just saw an Izod! And who would have guessed that hell raisers, punk rockers and lesbian weight lifting gate crashers were so good at choreographed dancing? If you are a child of the '80s- this movie is a must see. But with all the wonderful talent that participated in this film, my only question is, what happened to Lee Montgomery? "},{"Title":"Best Movie","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  In it's own right it is a great movie.  But I am a huge Dance movie fan.  I love dance movies and this one is my favorite.  Plus Lee Montgomery is such a hottie.  And Sarah Jessica Parker can certainly hold her own. "},{"Title":"Fun to see Sarah Jessica Parker and Helen Hunt before they were stars!","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  In case any of my friends are reading this review, I just want to say I only watched this movie on USA network because it was fun to see Sarah Jessica Parker and Helen Hunt when they were 20 and 22 respectively.Simple story.  Parker's dad is ex-military and strict, and she goes to a Catholic girls school. But she is now in Chicago and wants to be a dancer on the local TV station. While her dad thinks she is studying, or at choir practice, she has to slip out the bedroom window, down a rope, and over to practice with her partner.Hunt's character becomes friends with Parker. She encourages her and helps her. Problem - the rival girl's father wants his daughter to win and threatens to fire the father of Parker's partner.  The father says the hell with job security, go for it son, or something equivalent. You may be able to guess the outcome.The movie is sprinkled with various teen-age highjinks, like the time a party invitation was intercepted, copied, and given to all the fringe teenagers, who show up and mess up the dance rival's party. All-in-all a nice piece of fluff, a 90-minute sitcom, and fun to watch the girls before they became big stars.  I rate it 6 of 10. "},{"Title":"The best!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. It's the best movie I have ever seen. Ok, it's old and a bit geeky, but who cares when it's so very-super best!!!! You move, you bleed A big hug to everyone who likes this movie!   "},{"Title":"This movie makes you wanna dance !!","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a very fun-filled movie and has some great one-liners too. Janey (Sarah-Jessica Parker) wants to star on a dance show called Dance TV. Her friend Lynne (Helen Hunt) will stop at nothing to make this possible. Unluckily for them, rich-girl Natalie also wants to star on DTV. And what Natalie wants, Natalie gets!! With the best 80's music ever, this movie will have everyone who watches it dancing in their homes!!! "},{"Title":"This movie makes you wanna dance!!","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is a great, fun movie that is perfect after a lousy day. Janie (Sarah-Jessica Parker) wants to dance on a TV show called Dance TV and her clowinsh, comical friend, Lynne (Hellen Hunt) is determined to help her get there, against the rich bimbo, Natalie, who is also out for D-TV glory. It makes us all wish we were still in the 80's!! A fun-filled,  feel-good movie. "},{"Title":"The best cheesy movie ever!","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  I own this movie - and I love it! One of those uplifting girly movies - I used to watch Dance Party USA and I danced in my living room every day after school! This movie is just great - and Jeff Malene is just a hottie! "},{"Title":"Need Some Help","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Hi....I just signed up b/c I have been a fan of this movie since I was like 7 and have been re-watching it again, and it provoked me to do some researching....but having no luck....wondered if anyone can tell me how I can find the soundtrack? It says in the credits that it is available by Mercury Records, but this was in 1984! I've made the mistake of probably signing myself up for three or four diff. music download things, none of which found any of the songs, and they really can lift me up when I hear them b/c they remind me of the movie...Amazon pulls up nothing either...anyone know how I might do this? I LOVE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Little More Than a Long Music Video","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Girls Just Want to Have Fun means more now than it did nearly 20 years ago because it proved to be the starting point of some big name people (Helen Hunt, Sarah Jessica Parker and Jonathan Silverman). However, the film is a major bore as Parker wants to enter a dance contest that her father is totally against. In all the title song is the biggest attraction as this was during a different time when people like Cyndi Lauper dominated the airwaves. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"I Love To Dance..","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  My friends and I call ourselves the GJWF Club.  We are in love with this movie and any chance we get to say, well no matter how hard you try you will never be as good as me we jump on it.  I could watch this movie over and over again.  The dancing is awesome and the comedy fantastic.  If you haven't seen this movie and you like a laugh and dance see this.  I have even got the soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Absolutely laughable, could it be worse?","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The only interest in this film was watching the 'future' talent that had to try and make this inane, brainless drivel try and work. After watching this rubbish I am surprised that any of them found future employment.The young players did seem genuinely enthusiastic, so I assume that the need to break through to the big time was the motivation, it surely wasn't this film.... "},{"Title":"Widescreen","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" There are a lot of very affordable 4x3 versions of this around in the UK and when I first got it I was amazed and impressed and played it a lot, a lot because of Shannen at age 12. Just the politics got it to start to feel gritty. Now I have discovered how massive an improvement the wide screen version of Poison Ivy 2 is compared to the 4x3 and Girls JWTHF was one of the obvious other features to wonder about. Turns out that while my widescreen is 4 minutes longer, it covers the same content, as if it is the same thing played at a slightly different speed. There is no additional footage to change its feel. The dance, some of the feel is not the same. Wide helps it to have more structure. The big thing is viewability. Just now the grit has gone, for a while. I have rewatched it and liked it almost as much as I did at first. * My main interest in this recently is as a link between Grease and Heathers, leading to Clueless and lots of other stuff. Grease is incomparable, but I am trying to expand on it by getting to know the two Hairspray. The trigger for that was High School Musical, the concert. Heathers as massive wow, but it used to have difficulties for me. Solve that there are the difficulties in Girls JWTHF to try to untangle. This new widescreen version has helped me a lot by getting things to a starting point, what I really need is not to get sunk by my understanding of this story. "},{"Title":"SJP shows why she's so darn cute...","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Basically an attempt to cash in to the young girl just wants to dance craze of the 70's and 80's (see Flashdance) aimed at a slightly younger market.  SJP fans will note that as her character breaks more and more free of her Catholic upbringing, she dresses in less and less clothing - can't argue with that.The entire pretty movie is pretty much harmless. The occasional ugly crisis rears its head, just to be eliminated shortly thereafter, with little or no consequence.  Jeff's father going to be fired if his son goes on Dance TV - no problem.  Janey's father a military martinet he'll come around by the end of the flick.There are some cute moments and the occasional laughter, and lots of enthusiastic dancing (including some weird scenes with ballet dancers trying to be hip-hop). Generally entertaining, if you like that kind of thing. "},{"Title":"Could be called No Sex in the City","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  This one is the worst of what the 80's were about.  Bad dancing -- and I mean really bad -- as in clutch your stomach bad, not laughable bad.  And a plot that has the audience saying Who cares? less than ten minutes into the flick.  Makes a Harlequin romance seem like Shakespeare compared to this drivel.  No one could like this movie, not even Helen Hunt's mom.  Save the four bucks and rent Sex in the City instead. "},{"Title":"As a dance movie, disappointing","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  Otis Sallad is choreographer.  He did a lot of the _Fame_ TV show.  You don't see much here that you can't see there, and on the TV show you see who the dancers are.  In this production someone dressed like the leading lady is dancing with her hair over her face all the time. "},{"Title":"Oh, the abject humiliation...","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" ...that Sarah Jessica Parker must suffer every time Comedy Central airs this. I sat in rapt attention, afraid to turn away. The sight of Helen Hunt wearing leg-warmers and what appears to be an entire can of Aqua-Net will likely haunt me for months to come.This is one of those dues paying films that all actors must be tempted to accept out of fear that nothing better will come along. Still, it is campy fun. "},{"Title":"Very trite plot combined with cookie-cutter characters","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":"  The only reason I watched this film was I didn't think something with both Helen Hunt and Sarah Jessica Parker could be THAT bad.  Boy, was I wrong!  This has every trite characterization from the nasty spoiled-rotten rich daddy's girl to the heart-of-gold innocent catholic school girl with the overly strict military dad who just moved into town to the beautiful blue-collar boy who's mom is dead and doesn't want to let down dad and his bratty little sister.  Pathetic.  The ending is obvious before the story even gets started.  Wow.  I wouldn't be surprised if Hunt and Parker simply forget to put this film on their CVs.  I wish I could forget about it too.  Just give me a day or two... "},{"Title":"Where is Cyndi Lauper when you need her?","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music, Romance","Review":" Excruciating teen fracas, taking its title from a hit '80s song by Cyndi Lauper, is one that hopes to straddle the line between cartoonish tomfoolery and semi-realistic teen-rebellion nonsense. Sarah Jessica Parker plays a religious school student who defies her strict father and auditions for a popular dance TV show. Cheapjack production, slathered in day-glo colors, does manage to create nice buddy chemistry between Parker and 'bad girl' Helen Hunt, but the outré attempts at slapstick laughs are groaning and simplistic. If the film were an all-out spoof of the MTV-era, it may have worked; unfortunately, the military dad stuff keeps butting in, as if the filmmakers had no idea which tone to aim for. Lots of youthful energy, but hardly memorable. *1/2 from **** "}]