[{"Title":"Jagged editing, but some good chills.","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  This courtroom thriller was one of the films that spawned a huge wave of copycats through the mid '80's and early '90's.  Now, of course, these types of stories are on TV nightly in the glut of crime/law based shows.  However, in 1985, audiences could still be (and were) riveted to the big screen by stories like this.  Bridges plays a newspaper editor whose wife is brutally murdered along with their maid (in an opening sequence that is not overly graphic, yet is very disturbing.)  Before long, he is prime suspect in the killings and is defended by a tentative, reluctant Close who is trying to redeem herself after some earlier unethical legal behavior.  She squares off with slimy former prosecuting partner Coyote (in a slick, effective performance) to clear Bridges.  She then, foolishly, becomes intimate with Bridges.  There is constant doubt in her mind, as well as in the audience's, as to whether or not Bridges did the deed or not.  Because the story is a tease and exists to manipulate and captivate the audience, there are plot holes galore.  However, the film works very well on a visceral level, providing twists and shocks along the way (including one startling break-in near the end which is jarring no matter how many times it is seen.)  The film's greatest strength is the acting, notably Close.  Unlike later Eszterhas scripts, in which no one is sympathetic, she is a heroine to root for, despite her flaws.  She brings great conviction to her poorly conceived role.  Bridges does well also as the perfectly moussed, tan dreamboat who might be a savage murderer.  Loggia brings a welcome salty edge to the film with his foul-mouthed portrayal of Close's investigator friend.  All cussing and cigarettes, he is a stock Eszterhas character, but is acted well.  There are other fine smaller roles played by Dehner as a crusty judge, Young as a haughty rich-bitch and Austin (an underrated actress) as an attack victim.  Close has two annoying kids and a wimpy ex-husband to make her life that much more unbearable.  Drawbacks to the film would be the illogic of the script and the bizarre editing of the courtroom scenes in which the clothing Bridges and (especially) Close wear inexplicably switch!  Her hair is also consistently inconsistent throughout...(within scenes!)...flat one moment, curly the next, varying in height and swoop, etc....  The discordant music by Barry is very unsettling and his use of low piano keys doubtlessly inspired Jerry Goldsmith for Basic Instinct.  It's the same type of sound.  Folks expecting a watertight story will be disappointed.  Those who just want to be entertained and spooked should love it.   "},{"Title":"Close But No Cigar","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" ******SPOILERS****** A brutal double-murder of prominent socialite and newspaper heiress Mrs. Paige Forrester, Maria Mayenzet, and her house-maid Consuela Martinez occurs one rainy evening at the Forrester Estate outside San Francisco. Page's husband Jack, Jeff Bridges, who was also injured in the attack, is indited for murder by the San Francisco DA Thomas Kersny, Peter Coyote. DA Kersn feels that Jack not only murdered his wife and her house-maid but also faked his own injury to throw off the police's suspicions about him being the killer. DA Kersny also has it in for Jack personally in that being the owner as well as editor of the influential San Francisco Times he's been writing unrelentingly negative editorials about him. Being indited for his wife's murder Jack seeks out former DA Teddy Barnes, Glenn Close, who used to work with Thomas Kersny at the DA's office. Teddy quit some four years ago because of a case that she helped him with in which a defendant Henry Styles was convicted. Teddy later found out that Kersny withheld vital evidence that would have found Styles innocent. Later in the movie Teddy finds out that Styles hung himself in his cell from non other then Kersny himself! This got her even more upset then she already was about that case. This sets up the movies storyline A brutal double-murder is committed and a DA who has it in for the murder suspect jumps into the case for personal more then for professional reasons. The lawyer who defends the murder suspect has guilt feelings for working with the DA prosecuting the case against her client. Added to all that she's almost driven into a serious depression when she finds out that the person that she helped the DA convict, who she later found out was innocent, has just killed himself. With all the red herrings flying around in the movie does the murder weapon a hunting knife with a jagged edge belong to Jack? Most of all did the affairs, by both Jack and Page, one or both lead to Page's murder? It's also a mystery if the dashing and handsome tennis gigolo Bobby Slade (Marshall Colt),who was having an affair with Page, killed her when she threatened to leave him and then frame her husband Jack for her murder? The movie Jagged Edge holds itself together pretty well until the final fifteen minutes and then just falls apart like a house of cards. The totally contrived as well as unrealistic ending hits the viewer like a solid punch right in the stomach and knocks all the wind out of him or her. It's hard to believe that the killer would end up being so careless and stupid after bing so smart and cunning during the entire movie. This after he got away with the crime Scot-free and having nothing at all to fear from the law, why did he have to blow it all in the end?Jagged Edge is not a bad movie it's a very good murder/mystery/court thriller but with a terrible ending and it's a good ending that's the most important thing in a movie like it. "},{"Title":"days of our knives","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Some reviewers have called Jagged Edge a manipulative movie, but I didn't find it to be such at all. Granted, the plot seems to be something that we've often seen, but the director and stars know how to keep it from getting silly. When Jack Forrester (Jeff Bridges) is charged with murdering his wife, attorney Teddy Barnes (Glenn Close) defends him in court. In the process, she starts to get attracted to him. But as the story moves forward, questions start to arise how much do we really know about any of these characters? Can an attorney get manipulated by her own client? Whom can one trust in uncertain situations? Sound hackneyed? Maybe it is a little, but the movie keeps you guessing every step of the way. Both Bridges and Close show why they're among the greatest stars of their generation. I can pretty much guarantee that you won't find this movie boring. It's hard to believe that this was directed by the same guy who did Return of the Jedi. "},{"Title":"The Corona","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" What happens when one is given the clues that solve the murder of the wealthy San Francisco socialite early on in the film? Well, one keeps on believing that person which the guilt points to is innocent, which seems to be the premise of this tightly made film with the satisfying screen play by Joe Eszterhas.Not having seen it since its original release, we decided to take another look as the film was shown on cable. The film has kept its original glossy look that director Richard Marquand gave to the production.Glenn Close is the main reason for watching Jagged Edge. She gives one of the most intelligent performances of her career as Teddy Barnes, the criminal trial attorney that is hand picked by the legal team behind Jack Forrester, even though she is involved in another case. It's clear to see from the start Teddy, who is happily divorced, finds Jack, her client, an attractive diversion. In fact, it's almost out of character that this together woman to fall in love, something that might be unethical, but fall for Jack, she does.Jeff Bridges makes a good appearance as Jack. He is a pillar of the community and it doesn't seem he would be ready for romance after the terrible blow he has suffered. Mr. Bridges makes the best out of his character. Peter Coyote, is the intense D.A. Tomas Krasny, the man who suspects the truth but is outsmarted by Teddy in court. Robert Loggia is seen briefly as the foul-mouthed private investigator, Sam.Jagged Edge will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"The Movie Courtroom Drama","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"27 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Before I bash Jagged Edge for having what amounts to one of the dumbest endings in movie mystery history, I want to comment on an annoying Hollywood courtroom drama observation. Why is it that every single movie with a courtroom as it's center focus, i.e.. A Few Good Men, Suspect, Presumed Innocent, The Accused, Jagged Edge, etc., always seem to have their days last approximately 15 minutes? Has anyone else noticed that the movie cuts to the scene inside the courtroom and there is one person on the stand and both sides ask them questions and then all of a sudden, after a shocker of a revelation about the crime, the judge calls for recess until Monday morning? Does any court case in these movie have a full day or week? I mean by all accounts, if you think about it, if this is how they examine and cross-examine witnesses, they would have about 20 or 30 witnesses a day take the stand. If you watch real courtrooms, you see both side keeping the witnesses on the stand for hours sometimes days before they dismiss them. I know these are movies and they want to move the story along, but none of these courtroom dramas are ever realistic.******MAJOR SPOILERS - Don't READ ON IF YOU'VE NEVER SEEN IT*********** Now, on to my thrashing of this piece of garbage which I have watched again this month after seeing it almost 20 years ago. Why did Jeff Bridges character, at the beginning of the movie, (we find out at the end that he is the killer), put on the black outfit with the mask if he was going to kill the only people in the house who could have identified him? This kind of audience redirection is so annoying because in real life the guy would have slaughtered his wife and maid and then faked his own injuries without the use of the costume. That first scene alone was enough to realize who the killer really was.Now skipping way ahead, past the trial and all the over-acting done by these truly first-rate actors, we come to the ending. The part where the twist comes in. Before we even see the shocking piece of evidence that proved the accused was actually the killer, we know it will come out because the trial is over and the scenes are still going on. By the end of the trial it is so obvious that the film makers are trying to misdirect the audience into thinking it is someone else that you know who it really is. But my problem with this ending is a couple of things first, of all the tracks that the killer has covered, why would he not have gotten rid of the typewriter? And even if he didn't, why would he leave it in his own house? Second, who the hell does Glen Close's character think she is by changing the bedding after she has just slept for almost 18 hours? Then miracles of miracles, she knows exactly where the replacement sheets are and behind them is the one piece of damming evidence that proves who the killer is. Because no one else in the world would have a typewriter like that.OK, the shock has been put upon the idiots in the audience so we move to the dramatic ending. Glen Close doesn't speed away and run to the police or to her detective friend's house, she goes home alone and takes off all her clothes so she is now extremely vulnerable like all women become in these movies. Her killer lover calls and she tells this PSYCHOPATH, over the phone, that she knows he killed his wife because she found a piece of office equipment. Now Jeff Bridges, who apparently has never heard of double jeopardy, the constitutional amendment that states that a person cannot be tried for the same crime twice no matter how much evidence comes out after trial (just thought I'd help out all the idiots), decides that instead of either leaving well enough alone and dropping her like a bag of dirt, or going over there in street clothes to talk things over with her, decides to once again dress up in his black costume to presumably go over and once again kill the only person who could identify him...not really knowing, however, who she may have called to let know about this incredible piece of evidence she just found. Because, of course, he knows her so well that he knows she wouldn't have run to the police or her detective friend or the DA or the mailman or the homeless lady out in front of her house.Complete garbage. "},{"Title":"Manipulative, but not bad at all","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  JAGGED EDGE (1985)-- Grade BI don't know why JAGGED EDGE is known as one of the best mystery films of the '80s. Let's face that this decade was not amazingly great for movies, but of course there were better mystery films DRESSED TO KILL, BLOW OUT, HOUSE OF GAMES, BODY HEAT, just a few that come to mind. JAGGED EDGE is not able to escape from most of the clichés of courtroom drama and what it's worst it shamelessly manipulates the audience. The main comment here has the same complaint, so I think many people agree with me. The one that should be blamed is Joe Eszterhas, who would write the screenplay for BASIC INSTINCT, a worldwide success, seven years later. He knows how to manipulate audiences, to make them stay aware and to keep their attention tightly without a shame, purposing questions with only two answers yes or no. Did he kill her or didn't he? Eszterhas makes us believe in both possibilities several times during less than two hours. Using, of course, not very credible plot twists. ....... OK! So JAGGED EDGE is cliched and manipulative. It's difficult to forgive the first, but why shouldn't we forgive the latter? Don't we like to be cheated in some cases?If you think it's difficult to forgive the way this film grabs you, there are other ways to like it. The story, even cliched, is still interesting and suspenseful. The directing is great and the actors are pretty good. Glenn Close is reliable as the lawyer and Jeff Bridges, who has made a career of hits (ARLINGTON ROAD) and misses (KISS ME GOODBYE), is convincing as the mysterious client. JAGGED EDGE is a flawed film, but its manipulation has a good side. At least we care about the characters and the story. This is not a good way to write screenplays. This is not the best thriller of the '80s. But it is far ahead of some cheap productions of the '90s (BODY OF EVIDENCE, SLIVER, both with similar situations to JAGGED EDGE).  "},{"Title":"Written by prolific screenwriter Joe Eszterhas...","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" that can be a good or bad thing, depending on the material, and actors involved.In this instance Glenn Close gives a worthy performance, although she seems to be using one facet of her many sides; she has so much more to offer. For a talented actor, the role of hard-boiled lawyer Teddy can hardly be challenging.Peter Coyote is also good as prosecutor, albeit a bit crude and seems a bit too well dressed, considering he works for the prosecution. Robert Loggia as Teddy's investigator, determining whether Jeff Bridges is a sociopath or not. Would he kill his wife for money?. Seemingly no. He seems a decent, narcissistic, handsome newspaper publisher.The sub-theme of Teddy, shirking her career, and attending the funeral of a young (innocent) man who hangs himself in jail seems gratuitous. These days, any lawyer who is successful defending criminals most probably would not attend a funeral in these circumstances. It is nice to humanize the attorney, but not at the expense of reality. I am certain audiences today have a hard time empathizing with any attorney.That being said, the story is intriguing, although now redundant. The courtroom scenes a bit too protracted, but Close and Bridges have a believable chemistry in this. Supposedly Eszterhas wrote this with intimations of the Manson killing; rather strange considering the fact that that was SUPPOSEDLY a random, violent killing, According to Mr. Vincent Bugliosi, author and prosecutor in 1969. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Murder, Conflict & Contradictions","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Jagged Edge is a well written and extremely entertaining psychological thriller which unsurprisingly was also a major box office success. Essentially, it's a murder mystery which features some interesting characters, numerous unexpected developments and some great performances from an exceptionally talented group of actors. Director Richard Marquand is very effective in creating many moments of tension especially during the courtroom scenes and the whole drama keeps the audience in suspense and in a state of uncertainty about the defendant's innocence or guilt throughout the whole movie.After wealthy socialite Page Forrester (Maria Mayenzet) and her maid are savagely murdered and Jack Forrester's (Jeff Bridges) injuries require hospital treatment, D.A. Thomas Krasny (Peter Coyote) visits the crime scene and rapidly decides that Jack (who is the sole beneficiary of Page's considerable estate) must be the murderer. Jack is the very successful editor of a top newspaper which was owned and controlled by Page.Jack is subsequently arrested and charged with murder and seeks help for his defence from the firm of corporate attorneys with whom he has a longstanding relationship. One of their number is Teddy Barnes (Glenn Close) who is an ex-criminal lawyer who had a great track record but gave up that field of her profession because she became very uncomfortable about the unethical conduct of her colleague in the D.A.'s office (the aforementioned Thomas Krasny). She agrees to take on Jack's defence but only after a great deal of persuasion from both Jack and senior members of her firm who offer a partnership as an added inducement.Teddy's decision then leads her into a surprising series of events which begin with her becoming Jack's lover and continue with her having to deal with a number of incidents which prove to be very challenging both professionally and emotionally before she finally gets an opportunity to publicly expose Krasny's grossly unprofessional conduct after the case reaches its conclusion.Teddy experiences a considerable amount of conflict which starts when Jack and her firm want her to take on the case against her wishes and continues as her commitment to the case and her relationship with Jack cause conflict to develop within her own family. Her conflict with Krasny during the case is also profound because of matters that arise in the case but also because she's regarded him with utter contempt for such a long time.Teddy and Jack are also both full of contradictions. She gave up criminal law because she was appalled by Krasny's unethical practices and yet she gets embroiled in a relationship with her client which is extremely unethical and unprofessional. She also experiences contradictory feelings about Jack's possible innocence or guilt and Jack continuously gives out contradictory impressions about himself by his various expressions and actions. The whole issue of contradictions also becomes a strong feature of the clues, the evidence and the story developments which continue to be seen as the action proceeds.Thomas Krasny is politically ambitious and in the past had withheld evidence which would have proved the innocence of a man who later committed suicide in prison.The characters in Jagged Edge are often idiosyncratic but never dull and the performances by Jeff Bridges, Glenn Close, Peter Coyote and Robert Loggia (in a wonderful supporting role) are very impressive throughout. "},{"Title":"Good But Needed More Suspects","Date":"16 September 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Spoilers AheadA flawed movie but still worth owning. My favorite scene is when she gets him acquitted and she finds the typewriter up on that shelf with the music Creep Out! All through the movie she keeps trying to see if he is the Iceman or not; especially the scene on the beach, but he is such a sociopath, his acting is flawless, he fools her. When you watch it over you will be mad at yourself for not seeing the giant hint; watch when she praises the horse and Bridges says,Look at how vulnerable they are with those legs. I know, don't feel bad, I missed it also. Loggia steals the movie as her foul mouthed investigator I love when he says,Is that your brain or another part of your anatomy talking. The music compliments the scary opening murder scene with us being inside of him existentially. I like the movie but there is one giant problem. Other than the sleazy tennis pro, there are no other suspects. Ask yourself, have I ever watched another murder mystery where there is the main suspect and only one other possible murderer? Yet, Bridges' portrayal of an ice cold mercenary killer who is going to own that newspaper whatever it takes is quite memorable. I appreciated Marquand keeping most of the gross out violence off camera. Close does quite well here; we are with her is he or isn't he?When I saw this in the theater people gasped at that typewriter discovery scene followed by his popping up next to her car window that evoked screams and flying popcorn all all over the theater. The acting alone is worth owning the movie for Close, Bridges and slimy Coyote who steals the movie. The classic scene where Close names the case right in front of Coyote, which he dared her to do the whole film. She plays a very strong female lead and carries the movie easily. Notice, she did not use Kung Fu or do somersaults in mid air with a sword. See, Feminists, you can accomplish your cause without making yourselves figures of ridicule. Close is excellent in the movie; yet, it is a flawed masterpiece. If you want to see Marquand's best movie, that made him famous watch Eye Of The Needle. Bridges will keep you guessing the entire movie; I will be honest, even with only the tennis pro as another suspect, Bridges fooled me the whole movie. Parents the movie has a nude scene that is short but explicit, the violence while off camera is quite disgustingly described in court. Also, he writes in blood above her bed, like Manson. The intensity cannot be overstated; I admired Marquand for using music, photography and lighting instead of gross out buckets of blood. This is good but it could have been great. Please, just one or two more suspects, the slime-bucket Tennis Pro just is necessary but far from sufficient. I own the movie but it is borderline. It is not a big re-watcher unless you show to guests I would not buy it. It is really a good one showing movie. Borderline Owning But At Least One Showing Movie. "},{"Title":"thriller","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" A man discover's his wife and maid have been murdered, an investigation ensuses and sooner rather than later he is deemed the main suspect and Is hauled in for the crime. he enlists the help of a pretty young lawyer who he eventually falls for,, the two get close,, and she let's her emotions run wild, and cleary she falls for him while defending him against the charges that he brutally murdered his wife,, apparently though his wife was cheating at the time,, and her boyfriend turns up dead later, on, but there is more to this than we think as the lawyer's assistant's dig up more information on her and the boyfriend,, classic edge of you're seat thriller , that will keep you guessing until the end. "}{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  If you have never seen this film, then stop reading reviews and watch it because the film really works better if you don't know anything about it.Now, the film is certainly flawed, but it's still interesting to watch.I love courtroom thrillers, and there's plenty of court drama here, but not enough to make the picture work. I think another 20 minutes would've added much more depth to courtroom sequences.The acting is excellent, but the direction could've been sharper. I found the romance to be contrived, never had a flow to it, it just happened.Some blame must go to the screenplay, it wasn't strong, not enough depth to the characters, and some of the courtroom stuff was unrealistic.The photography is excellent, it hooked me into the picture.Overall, a good film, but I think the writing was a bit lazy. "},{"Title":"Jagged Edge equals jagged movie","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Intriguing movie mixes the high standards of ethics and forbidden love. I like Glenn Close, and she gives a powerful character reference as lawyer Teddy Barnes, and the 'did he or didn't he?' storyline is very intriguing. The 'jagged edge' role is interestingly portrayed by Jeff Bridges, and the movie details a sensational court case and the trials and tribulations of either believing in your morals or in your heart. But sometimes your heart rules your head, and maybe that's not a good thing....Jagged Edge is a jagged movie, a little rough around the edges, but smoothing out to a reasonable sense of conclusion. "},{"Title":"Sometimes a husband IS the first to know.","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Richard Marquand directs this emotional crime thriller. Your heart and mind get involved as a very wealthy socialite(Maria Mayenzet) is found slaughtered in her blood splattered bedroom and the word 'Bitch' written on the wall. Of course, the first suspect is her manipulative newspaper editing husband(Jeff Bridges). With his best charm, he insist his innocence. The current prosecutor(Peter Coyote)has locked horns with the editor before and wants a conviction badly. Returning to court room law, an undefeated attorney(Glenn Close)decides to defend the man set to inherit more of his wife's fortune. She didn't plan on falling in love with him. This is not an action movie, but a thinking movie. Bridges and Close are perfect. The supporting cast features Robert Loggia, Lance Henriksen and Leigh Taylor-Young. One thing for sure; Mr. Mustard did not do it with a candlestick in the library. "},{"Title":"A Forbidden Affair In This Taut Thriller","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" A prosecuting attorney-turned-defense lawyer falls in love with a rich, charming client who's been accused of murdering his wife and her maid with a hunting knife in this film,Jagged Edge.The story is about a taut mystery about an attorney who defends a newspaper publisher accused of murder.It stars Jeff Bridges and Glenn Close together with Peter Coyote and Robert Loggia. It is a courtroom thriller, written by Joe Eszterhas, and directed by Richard Marquand.When an unknown assailant gruesomely slays San Francisco newspaper heiress Paige Forrester, her husband and business partner, Jack Forrester, turns to corporate attorney Teddy Barnes for counsel. Teddy, who quit her job with the district attorney's office four years earlier over an ethical dilemma, has reservations about returning to criminal work; nevertheless, she accepts the assignment, convinced of Jack's innocence and eager to face off in court against her old boss, DA Thomas Krasny (Peter Coyote), who's about run for attorney general. With the help of investigator Sam Ransom, the recently divorced Teddy builds a strong defense for her client, though the work and her incipient romance with Jack cause strain in her relationship with her children. When Jack's innocence and his romantic intentions come into question, Teddy feels her life slipping back into a moral quagmire until a series of courtroom denouements set the stage for even bigger surprises.Slick and manipulative, the movie is nonetheless a vastly enjoyable psychological thriller due to the expert turns from the talented cast.Although the screenplay does what it can to throw up a smokescreen, but the viewer will probably be well ahead of the story's final resolution.It is best when it's seen with a minimum of analysis as it becomes supremely effective. "},{"Title":"Doubt","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Movies which people try everything to find out who is the real killer are usually interesting. Nowadays they are all very predictable, but Jagged Edge isn't. It's a good movie in showing aspects of the professions of lawyer and prosecutor; I work for a local judge, and I can understand why Teddy wanted to leave this area so bad. Working with people's destiny is hard to our conscience and requires much responsibility. Maybe teaching in a law school is much less stressful. It's interesting to notice how good the acting used to be in 80's; the whole cast is very professional and I can't see one scene they're overacting. Jeff Bridges and Glenn Close steal the show and were probably very rewarded back when this film was released. It is also interesting to notice how they could live without a computer-- how on Earth would Teddy discover he was the killer if there wasn't the writing machine? To sum it up, Jagged Edge is a great and entertaining mystery thriller, do not miss it! "},{"Title":"Real people, human drama, top suspense","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" A pure class act is 1985's Jagged Edge, one of the best psychological thrillers to ever be brought to the big screen.The original story by Joe Eszterhas is brilliantly manipulative and fabulously handled by all concerned. Its twists and turns are intricately inter-weaved, with a sensational double twist saved for the nail biting conclusion. Eszterhas' virtual rehash of this ingenious story in 1991, that of Basic Instinct, paled in comparison and was of course terribly directed by the gratuitous Paul Verhoeven. Not so for the superior Jagged Edge however.Our director is Richard Marquand, no stranger to thrillers (Eye of the Needle), he was also responsible for the third Star Wars instalment, Return of the Jedi. In helming Jagged Edge he has excelled himself by allowing the perfect amount of each of the film's elements to come to the surface, whilst creating tension from the outset and maintaining a steady tempo throughout. There's never too much sex, lots of intrigue and legal complications, and we get plenty of opportunity to delve into some fascinating characters, all brought to life by outstanding performances.Jeff Bridges' charming, seemingly harmless murder suspect Jack Forrester is very well portrayed by the leading man. You're always doubtful, but never sure, whether it could have been he who brutally murdered his wife for financial gain. Reluctantly defending him is corporate lawyer Teddy Barnes (a first rate showing from Glenn Close), who makes a return to criminal law after four years away from that arena. She is uncompromising and demanding, yet all too often lead by her heart. As her old pal and investigator friend, Robert Loggia lends strong support (an Oscar nominated role) as does a menacingly convincing Peter Coyote as D.A. Crasny, a ruthless public prosecutor who'll stop at nothing to get a conviction. All other cast are splendid.Maestro John Barry's Jagged Edge suite sets the mood with ease as it continually makes use of recurring themes. Rounding off this most effective of double edged thrillers is the top class editing from Sean Barton and Conrad Buff which keeps everything extremely taught.One of this picture's strongest points is the fact that its characters are real people and Eszterhas treats us with a human drama we can wholly believe, unlike Basic Instinct with its over the top style and idiotic players. Of course the plot is the mainstay of the entire show, and its razor sharp narrative along with the afore mentioned talent and technical brilliance make for one of the best suspense films in town.Saturday, January 7, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"Sharp film, serrated ending.","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Teddy Barnes is a conflicted lawyer, still reeling from the dubious methods of a colleague, she takes on the defence of Jack Forrester, who is accused of murdering his wife with a jagged edged knife. Gradually falling for Jack's seductive powers, Teddy falls in love with the man she now has to defend, her problems it seems, are about to become far far worse.Jagged Edge, directed by Richard Marquand, starring Glenn Close (Teddy), Jeff Bridges (Jack), Robert Loggia (Sam Ransom) and Peter Coyote (Thomas Krasny), is bringing nothing new to the table of a much replicated genre. It does however boast brilliant acting, a tremendous screenplay (Joe Eszterhas) and a production value that demands it be viewed with less than cynical eyes. That it is written by Eszterhas is obvious when looking at the structure of the picture, death, sex, troubled romance, greed and that old devil called obsession (Basic Instinct anyone?), yet aided by a competent director and an exemplary cast, Jagged Edge shines brighter than most other films of its ilk.It looks a little frayed (not jagged) around the edges now, but that is purely because of the advent of time and the ream of thrillers using this format that have followed this piece. If one (such as I) can transport oneself back to the 80s and view Jagged Edge on its original terms, then its easy to recognise just what a well put together picture it is. Close and Bridges are superb, whilst Robert Loggia steals the picture from under their noses, his interplay with Close is a particular highlight. In spite of some less than great twists and unsubtle scapegoat placings, Jagged Edge succeeds because you are there at the finale, and because its held you in its grip all along, you (hopefully) have invested yourself with these characters, you simply just have to know, for better or worse!The ending was cause for much discussion back in the day, and viewing it now it still feels like a moment of cheek mixed in with some form of clarity, but rest assured it works well, as does, funnily enough, the whole film. No world beater here, but highly accomplished and worth the time of any thriller obsessed movie fan. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Neat Courtroom/Romance Drama","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" The plot's probably familiar. Man seems falsely accused of killing his wife. Hires attractive woman as his defense counsel. They seem to fall in love. She discovers he's guilty. Justice is served.What separates this from a Lifetime Movie Network flick is that it's actually pretty well thought out and splendidly acted.Glenn Close is fine as the defense attorney. Watch her expression as the early victim from Santa Cruz describes her ordeal in the witness chair. She's a good actress. She has a nice figure too, although wardrobe seems to have cinched her waist so that her rump seems too pronounced. Jeff Bridges always brings something interesting to the party. Here he plays it relatively straight as the accused husband, relying on a relaxed sort of charm that is appropriate to the character. Pete Coyote as the villainous but clever prosecutor is surprisingly good. John Dehner is as reliable as a war horse as the judge. I can't think of a role that he hasn't invested with a certain dignity. Leigh Taylor-Young has only a single scene but she's devastating. It isn't simply that she has aged a bit and yet looks fine. The delivery of her lines is splendidly matched with her body language. The director is a big help with her scene but elsewhere seems to condescend to the audience. A woman testifies to being trapped by a masked stranger at her home, tied up, and having he breasts carved. It's a horrifying story. Being that, it can carry its own weight but the director has the witness sobbing from the beginning instead of showing the gradual rise in the trajectory of her emotions. And when Glenn Close, watching her, projects that exquisite empathy, the camera slowly dollies in closer so that we don't miss it. We wouldn't have missed it anyway, even without the director's hitting us over the head with it.There isn't much of a score and what there is of it is effectively programmatic, kind of like an updated version of Max Steiner's Mickey Mouse score for King Kong, in which the music imitates the events and situations we're watching on screen. (During the requisite silent wait for the jury to come back with a verdict we don't actually hear a clock ticking. Instead, the music imitates the ticking of a clock.) I wonder if this isn't the kind of movie that will be seen differently by different audiences. For men it might be a story about conflict in the courtroom with a romance thrown in. For women, on the other hand, it might more likely be seen as a story of the emotional relationship between Bridges and Close that is tested in a courtroom.I'm not at all sure that men would read it the way women would. Close's attraction to Bridges would seem -- not exactly inexplicable but rather taken for granted. Women might be able to tap into Bridges' appeal more effectively. They're better at reading these kinds of situations than men are. (I am speaking to you as your psychologist. That will be fifteen cents.) Look at Jeff Bridges from a woman's point of view. He has all the qualities it takes to attract an unattached young woman. He is -- in no particular order -- rich, powerful, handsome, casual and unpretentious, polite, athletic (plays racquetball, which replaced tennis as the game de jour of the aristos), sensitive (he weeps when he enters the room where his wife was killed), intelligent (she quotes Oliver Wendell Holmes and he identifies the source), doesn't smoke tobacco, and he's misunderstood by everyone else. Oh -- and he LOVES horses, which women also love. What more could you ask for in an alpha male -- pheromones? Well, he's probably got them too, with more flavors than Baskin-Robbins.After the verdict is in, the movie kind of collapses in upon itself. Close finds irrefutable evidence that Bridges is the murder and rushes home with it. She tells Bridges on the phone that she has it. Of course this puts her in immediate danger of being slaughtered by him. Then she calls her friend and investigator, the vulgar but empathic Robert Loggia, and hysterically tells him, Sam! I need to talk to you! I need you right away! He asks her what it is, but she abruptly falls silent. Loggia urges her to tell him what it is, but she smiles and replies, It's nothing, Sam. I just wanted to thank you. It's a cheap, old way of getting the audience to squirm and urge her to TELL HIM for Bog's sake! Nobody can get through a scene like that and make it believable yet again. As for Bridges' motive for trying to murder Close at the end, what is it? Even with her new evidence he can't be tried for the same crime again. Still, nicely done. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Stupid but slick and entertaining","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Rich Page Forrester and her maid are brutally killed (on a dark and stormy night no less). Her husband Jack (Jeff Bridges) comes under immediate suspicion. High priced lawyer Teddy Barnes (Glenn Close) defends him. Naturally she immediately falls in love with him...but is he the killer? The film is stupid but then it was scripted by Joe Eszterhas who gave us such masterpieces as Basic Instinct and Showgirls. There are plot holes galore, some really questionable legal points and an overly dramatic trial (with some unintentionally hilarious moments and every cliché ever written thrown in). Also Close's domestic problems are dragged in for no real reason that I could see. Still I'd be lying if I said I didn't enjoy it.This was a big hit in 1985 and it's easy to see why. It has romance, drama, sex, mystery and a plot so simple that anyone can follow it. You can turn your brain completely off and still understand it. It is slickly directed and LOOKS great. Also the acting is good. Close and especially Bridges are great in their roles. But Robert Loggia steals every scene he's in as a foul-mouthed investigator (his scenes are heavily edited in the TV print). Also he was nominated for Best Supporting Actor for this movie (he didn't win). And it does keep you guessing who did it until the very end.So it's a slick, entertaining 80s flick. Just don't see it and expect anything intelligent. Recommended (with reservations). "},{"Title":"The filth of criminal defense and prosecution needs a rest.","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Once an ambitious prosecutor in the D.A.'s office, attorney Glenn Close has gotten out because of the disgust she feels towards the type of cases she took on. A truly brutal and frightening murder opens up the film and leads to the prosecution of the victim's husband (Jeff Bridges) who pleads innocent and convinces Close to take the case. Former D.A. colleague Peter Coyote takes on the challenge of prosecuting Bridges, but Close has a ton of tricks up her sleeve.Sometimes horrifying in its description of a revolting rape and murder, this often becomes distracted by the drama surrounding Close's family life. A subplot surrounding the suicide of somebody she helped prosecute years before could have been a separate film altogether. One of the mistakes that this film makes is having Bridges and Close sleep together, an obvious violation of legal ethics. This is interesting from the perspective of showing a woman utilizing both power and ethics in a man's profession, but it becomes pretty clear what's going on half way through. Performances are excellent, particularly Robert Loggia as Close's investigator and John Dehner as the judge. Perhaps some less obvious plot ploys could have been utilized to make it all the more fathomable. "}{"Title":"Keeps you on edge.","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" This is a thriller that keeps you on the edge, gripping from start to finish, especially in the courtroom scenes. It's a story about defense lawyer Teddy Barnes (Glenn Close), who represents Jack Forrester (Jeff Bridges) - charged for the murder of his heiress wife, Page (Maria Mayenzet).While the plot objectives may appear overused by today's standards, the story to me is still fresh and intriguing, and the above average acting, especially that of Glenn Close, helps keep the move interesting. Robert Loggia as Sam Ransom was OK, but his foul mouth was a turn off. Jeff Bridges gave a rather monotonous performance.The courtroom scenes were definitely the highlight of the movie, with the back and forth between Teddy Barnes and the antagonistic prosecutor Thomas Krasny (Peter Coyote). The subplot of Teddie's ex-husband and her kids blended in well with the movie too.Overall, it's a good, thriller with some unpredictable moments.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Mix of courtroom drama and psycho thriller","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" JAGGED EDGE is a pretty decent '80s thriller that mixes two genres to good effect. The film kicks off with a nastily memorable opening sequence in which a woman is knifed and murdered on her bed by a masked psychopath. From this point in, we're in BASIC INSTINCT territory, as a defence lawyer grows close to the murder suspect while detectives strive to make sense of the crime.The second half of the production moves into courtroom drama territory and at this point it really picks up with some quietly gripping scenes. It's not as gripping as the classics of old (for instance, BOOMERANG!, a film noir starring Dana Andrews that I recently watched) but it certainly does the job in keeping you watching.The film is well cast, with Glenn Close as the protagonist and not the bunny boiler (FATAL ATTRACTION did typecast her in the eyes of the public). Jeff Bridges plays it mysteriously, but it's the supporting cast where this really shines Robert Loggia steals every scene as the foul-mouthed ally, Peter Coyote is a hard-headed rival, and there are minor roles for '80s favourites James Karen and Lance Henriksen. JAGGED EDGE manages to keep the tension going right until the final, fumbled reveal. "},{"Title":"fair whodunnit but don't buy the romance","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" San Francisco heiress Page Forrester is brutally murdered along with the maid in a sadistic manner. District attorney Thomas Krasny (Peter Coyote) has the case. Her husband Jack (Jeff Bridges) is soon a suspect with a financial motive. He hires lawyer Teddy Barnes (Glenn Close) who worked under Krasny. She hasn't done a criminal case since a questionable case 4 years ago with Krasny. She falls for Jack but she can't be certain about him.The problem is that Krasny only has a circumstantial case. I kept waiting for some sort of physical evidence. I know this was pre-CSI but it still feels very flimsy. Jeff Bridges is a little too cold and I can't buy completely that single mom Glenn Close would fall for him so quickly. That's because Close exudes smarts and not the flighty innocent that is required. The acting goes overboard a bit after the second crime is revealed. I don't think she did anything out of the ordinary. The final scene doesn't really make much sense either because he would obviously be discovered later. There is a good whodunnit mystery here but it has a few too many jagged edges. "},{"Title":"Decent 80's thriller","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Jagged Edge is a glossy 1980's courtroom thriller about a man accused of murdering his wife. The lawyer he hires falls in love with him as she tries to clear him of murder. It is a simple plot and much of the enjoyment comes from trying to guess whether the husband is guilty or not. Both the leads Jeff Bridges and Glenn Close put in good performances especially Bridges who is all charm without ever seeming too innocent. Peter Coyote adds excellent support as the prosecuting lawyer. There are a few negatives, the courtroom scenes all seem a bit clichéd, clumsy and predictable and at times in the middle the film does lose momentum however the last half an hour is engrossing and pulls it back.I found Jagged Edge to be an entertaining thriller with a good pay off. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Always follow your instinct!","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" You will believe in it all along and at the end you will say you knew it all the time, but you will be lying and you must not tell a lie because you are under oath, and you have cut the cherry tree down, really and indeed.It is not another film on justice, on the miscarriage of a prosecution and the biased bigotry of a prosecutor who had a black man in one case and then the perfect social climber in another case. Strangely enough that prosecutor just neglects some elements that should have prompted an investigation for a serial killer, but then the case would have evaded his political hands (Elections! Elections! Elections!) and the FBI would have come into the picture, maybe, since they were just starting to speak of profiling in Quantico, Virginia. The subject of this film is how easy it is to manipulate American justice and even American judges if you have a good lawyer and if you can manipulate your lawyer into believing you. And that's the whole case. Add to that some unprofessional elements and you have the American trap for everyone instead of justice.The ex-prosecutor who is playing defense councilor has forgotten all her ethics in her bathroom one happy morning and she has the relation with her client that is strictly forbidden by all rules, mega rules and mini rules even. So she creates a pure hellish pit for herself and everyone else in this society, leaving a sociopath and psychopath social climbing serial killer on the run. I can't say more without deflowering your virginal interest for the end, but be sure we knew it all along and yet it is not exactly what we had foreseen and predicted in our mind, not at all even because. . . in my deepest and most trustworthy mind of mine we could have sworn it was a little more complex.Enjoy the suspended suspense that is blown up at the end into thousands of shattereens.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Jagged Edge.... a crime thriller.....","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" 'Jagged Edge is a 80s thriller that evolves around the murder of a publisher, and her husband is held on trial for the murder. A female attorney takes the case to save the hero from the gallows. The film through its sheer treatment becomes engaging and would hold you to your seats, especially the courtroom scenes. The film was a big hit of its time and shares the same trait of the successful thrillers of 80s like Fatal Attraction.Anyway, it has been claimed the film was remade in Hindi as Kasoor which I watched long before; and I was amazed that the whole plot, characterization, and twists are the same. Only at the end, 'Jagged Edge falls short. And one cool advice Don't watch this film if you have watched Kasoor.Rating 2 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"Courtroom drama plenty of thrills , taut  , intrigue and twists","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" San Francisco heiress Forrester is cruelly killed by a black suit clad murderer . Her husband Jack (Jeff Bridges) , a known publishing magnate , is convicted for cold blooded murder . He contracts an advocate-in-law , Teddy Barnes (Glenn Close) , former prosecutor , and now at charge of the criminal defense , in spite of the fact she has not taken a criminal case long time . The widower is allegedly considered guilt , though freed by means a bail until trial celebration presided by an expeditious judge (John Dhener) . Then they fall in love and she's defending the man she loves . The trial takes place and there appears an accusation lawyer (Peter Coyote) , an ambitious district attorney who previously worked for her ...This court-room drama is a Neo-noir movie with tension , mystery , surprises and , of course , a suspenseful twist in the end . Despite of the fashion-able sex and violence , this is a satisfyingly old-fashioned sort of film that avid fans of the genre will love . Jeff Bridges and Glenn Close are frankly well , there's enjoyable chemical between them . Interesting writing credits by Joe Eszterhas , a successful screenwriter (Basic instinct , Jade , Sliver , Showgirls). The flick is rated ¨R¨ for sexual scenes and some violence . Colorful cinematography by Matthew F. Leonetti and sensitive musical score by John Barry . The motion picture was professionally directed by Richard Marquand . He was hired by George Lucas after seeing ¨Eye of the needle¨ and only non-American to direct a Star Wars film ¨The return of the Jedi¨, though his career failed with flops such as , ¨Until September¨ and ¨Hearts of fire¨ until his early death. "},{"Title":"Drama That Keeps You Wondering About Character","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" I LOVED this movie and could not find it for years--thought it was called The Razor's Edge (but that was a Bill Murray movie made around the same time). This is exciting and it seemed realistic in the grisly parts and the scenery. It was thought provoking and it made me really wonder if Glenn Close was falling in love with a murderer or if he was truly innocent and earnest, like she hopes. It helped me realize that others struggle with judging a person early on in seemingly dynamic, relationships and I thought Glenn Close and Jeff Bridges played their attraction well, with lots of electricity & sparks they tried to deny, between them. Glenn looks particularly feminine and beautiful in this role and Jeff Bridges looks sexy and handsome and I liked the horseback scene a lot. I LOVE this movie. Close plays drama well and Bridges is also GREAT in these character-flawed angst, roles The Vanishing, and The Fabulous Baker Boys. "},{"Title":"Good.","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie on a Saturday night with a bunch of friends when it came out (20 years ago, oh how time flies! I remember that one of my friends had a very hot girlfriend and she was giving me the eye big-time).Although I'm a bit hazy on some of the details, I do remember the plot, and most of the key events, and many, many scenes. (This forum helped me recall much.) What I do remember was that this movie really moved. None of that tush-shifting that boring movies evoke. In fact, this movie was the cinematic equivalent of a good page-turner. Taut, tense, tight.I also remember that the acting, direction, production all seemed very slick, professional and self-assured. Personally, I found the two leads great, and Jeff Bridges especially mesmerizing.Finally, without spoiling, there was one scene which had, it seemed, literally everybody in the packed movie theater we were in literally jump up six inches and scream. I do not ever remember a scene impacting a collective theater audience so intensely.So all in all, I thought of this as a very solid, entertaining movie. The first time I was aware of negative reaction to it was in Leonard Maltin's movie guide. He says, paraphrasing, How can such a 'smart' movie have so many dumb plot holes? I remember being very surprised. But I see on this website that many people are saying pretty much the same thing. All I can say is that I don't remember having that reaction myself at all.So it looks like this is one of those movies where you'll probably fall into one of two camps a. Great, solid movie. b. Boilerplate courtroom drama with dumb plot holes. I wish I could help you out in advance by telling you which group you'll fall into! Maybe I could give you a Rorschach.Postscript. After we all left the cinema, my friend's hot girlfriend was saying Okay, so who did it? and we were all trying to explain it to her, but she wasn't convinced! I think my friend ended up marrying her. After I shtupped her a few times (nah, just kidding). "},{"Title":"Jagged Edge is truly a tense and gripping film with excellent performances from its stellar cast","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Directed by the Richard Marquand (Eye of the needle) this fascinating court-room thrilling Drama inspired a lot of films since. The story follows the murder of a woman from a rich family that owns a newspaper. The prime suspect is her manipulative husband (Jeff Bridges). He hires a successful lawyer (Glenn Close) and an affair is developing between them. The film has exciting twists and never let's up. The acting is the real star of this show Jeff Bridges brings one of the best performances in his long career and Glenn Close also shines as the tough but sensitive lawyer. In the supporting roles special appreciation goes to Peter Coyote as Thomas Krasny and Robert Loggia who gives a memorable performance. Overall one gem of a film you shouldn't miss. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Truly Gripping","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Murder suspect Jeff Bridges leads lawyer Glenn Close into a deadly knife dance in a tantalising 80s whodunnit written by Joe EszterhasScriptwriters tend to be treated like dogs, but for a while in the 80s and 90s, Joe Eszterhas (Flashdance, Basic Instinct) commanded the kind of power and respect usually reserved for the stars. Jagged Edge shows why.You've heard the story a hundred times before. A perfectly rational lawyer, Teddy Barnes (Close), falls for her client, Jack Forrester (Bridges), while defending him on a murder rap. He's bright, charming and now very rich, having inherited his wife's millions after someone took a knife to her guts. Oily investigating DA Thomas Krasny (Peter Coyote) is convinced that the husband's guilty. Jack swears he ain't and Teddy is only too happy to believe him, especially since she knows Krasny has bent the rules in the past. But as the case continues and her intimacy with Jack deepens, so too do her doubts. Eszterhas unsheathes this serrated mystery with an assassin's stealth. His script feints and lunges and keeps you guessing about Jack's innocence until the very last shot. Even then you have to work out its significance. Of course, Eszterhas' skill would have been for nought if Bridges wasn't such a good actor. He never gives the game away. Even the glint in his eye is ambiguous, and in Close he has an ideal fencing partner. They parry and thrust through their characters' dangerous flirtation, warming the clinical machinations of the plot with easy humour and a zinging chemistry. The film is as handsome as Close herself and helmed with lean assurance by Richard Marquand who builds tension to the accelerating rhythm of John Barry's score. Verdict Expertly conceived and executed, Jagged Edge teases so effectively that even if you've seen it before it grips you to the last.  "},{"Title":"God bless Robert Loggia!","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Jagged Edge is a very fine film. It is sort of a combination film noir and courtroom thriller. Glenn Close and Jeff Bridges both ignite and have real chemistry as a lawyer and her client. However, the person who makes this film for me is that great actor Mister Robert Loggia. He absolutely steals the show as the hilariously foul mouthed Sam Ransom private eye. The part fits him like a glove and its like someone wrote it just for him. Mister Loggia is one of our most under appreciated thespians. He has never given a bad performance in any role I have seen him in. He has an amazing talent and a gift that he brings to this role that I would like to point out. He is rough and tough and profane but he is sensitive and caring. He is like a father figure to the character that Glenn Close plays. He is a tough son of a bitch with a heart of gold that he wears on his sleeve. Forget Sam Spade and Jim Rockford and Phillip Marlowe, they have nothing on Sam Ransom thanks to the amazing talents of Robert Loggia. He has a relatively small part in the film, but he proves the truth of that saying that there are no small parts only small actors. He was nominated for an Academy Award for best supporting actor and I feel he was cheated out of an honor that should have been his. Don Ameche won for that very silly film Cocoon. I am not saying Ameche wasn't a fine actor, but in all fairness Loggia gave a better performance in a role that was much more complex and demanding. He deserved the Oscar not Ameche. Jagged Edge is a good thriller that will keep you on the edge of your seat until the end. SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT, I knew that Bridges was going to be guilty in the end and I am glad he got what he deserved. It was almost poetic justice.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable - if flawed thriller. WARNING SPOILERS!!","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this film on late-night television the other day, years after seeing it on video for the first time. It is still quite a gripping movie, but like BASIC INSTINCT, which was also written by Joe Eszterhas, it is a frustrating experience. The climax of that film ruins what effectively works well up to that point, in much the same way the the ending of THE SIXTH SENSE betrayed it's set-up.If characters are so, so smart, why do they deliberately, or perhaps why does the writer, make it all the more convenient for them to be caught out? It applies to both sides of the coin, not just villains.JAGGED EDGE is slickly produced, with very crisp and open staged scenes and typical Eszterhas trademarks - sex, insinuation, tension - are all here. The actors, notably Peter Coyote and Robert Loggia, steal the film from Close and Bridges and John Barry's score is understated enough without offsetting the events on screen. "},{"Title":"Not all that bad.","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was recently lent to me from a person I know who thought I might enjoy this film. And it actually in my opinion wasn't all that bad of a film. I mean it wasn't GREAT and I won't add it to my collection of movies but the 108 minutes I spent watching it I can say were enjoyable. The film did have some flaws however. A bit of the dialogue was hard to understand and was quiet. Could of been just the version I had but I found myself constantly increasing the volume to almost the top and even then the talkin' was still not very loud, but then when a yell or scream came it almost shatters yer ears! Kind of reminds me of some 70's or 80's x-rated film. And for me that is, was it was very obvious on who the killer was. A downfall was that the movie gave a little too much evidence on who it was but then shifted things around trying you to second guess but it wasn't convincing or good enough. But just so I don't scare people and make them think this movie totally sucks, on to the positives. I did enjoy the nice quick pace of the movie and how it didn't drag on for a long time and then for the last 10 minutes start to get good. This movie captured ones attention right from the very beginning and to the end. Jeff Bridges and Glenn Close do an excellent job as playing the roles of the characters. I can also say is the suspense/thriller movies of today aren't this good and are kind of goofy compared to the ones like these. I DO thank the person who lent it to me though, was a nice way to burn 108 minutes if you have nothing better to do. As of now this movie is going back in the Return Pile. All in all 8/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  What a mystery! This film has great scenes with great dialogue, from a great script by talented Joe Eszterhas. I really like his work on this film, Basic Instinct, Sliver and Jade. They are four very, very good thrillers. I don't understand why so many people don't like Joe Eszterhas. He is a very talented screenwriter. This film is truly suspenseful, and his script presents enough clues and evidence to tear your mind in a million directions, suspecting multiple people. The acting is very well-done, including Jeff Bridges' impressive breakdown scene when he is trying to explain to Glenn Close how he found his wife's body. All around a very well made mystery thriller with enough suspence to keep you riveted. I really hope Joe Eszterhas writes another one, even though I heard he's quit Hollywood. But we need you some more, Joe! "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  I love suspense/thrillers/mysteries....especially when they have plot twists that I don't see coming.  Jagged Edge fits this criteria.  Yes, he is....no, he's not....yes, he is.  It kept me guessing until the end.Plus I'm a great fan of Glenn Close's work.  I'll see a film just because she is in it...just to watch her work. She didn't disappoint me in this film.  So what's not to like?  )To enjoy this film don't over-analyze it too much.  Suspend your level of disbelief, kick back and relax, and enjoy the ride!Namaste' "},{"Title":"Good suspense with some solid performances outweighing flaws","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Alright, so it is ridiculous for a defense attorney to be seduced by her client.  Nevertheless, the suspense and performances were solid -- especially when you've finally hired a babysitter to watch your pre-pubescent kids.  There was a lot of hype for this movie before it came out, and the movie didn't quite live up to that -- but it was decent enough. Glenn Close does her best with an inane premise.  Jeff Bridges is passable as the charming defendant.  But highest marks definitely go to Robert Loggia as the cynical detective, with kudos also to Peter Coyote.  Surprisingly, the smaller roles were handled quite well, with highest marks to Louis Giambalvo as a confused witness. This one might not be worth $8.50 a head if it came out today(I'm very tough that way!), but its DEFINITELY worth the video rental. "},{"Title":"Fiction not Poetry","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Future will get in the Haunted mansion at Florida Don't look down, up, west or east, this guy will cut your strawberries in a flash. He is hot as a cherry down there when he walks up the stairs Hear him scream, you will end up working with him. He is very hot. I hope the oven did not get burned. You will love it. The poetry of the film is enthralled in its mesmerizing techniques of F/X he produces to the spectator a classical scene, yet with distinguished accents of aggressive masculinity, where he climbs rigid wooden-handled domestic cage elevators and he does not like it when he finds things that he dismisses. Marylin Manson, the singer, began his professional career in the steps of Jeff Bridges, the thoughts of -Men in Thights-. A most professional, softly scored, soft suspense thriller for the serial-killer fan. "},{"Title":"Very satisfying","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  OK, so its a bit formulamatic, but the actors really make it work.  It takes awhile to get started, but once it does, the suspense and mystery is undeniable.  Many reviewers complained that the script was weak, I agree to some extent, but even with an unspectacular script this is still a very watchable thriller.  One question, they billed Lance Henrikson(Aliens, The Terminator) as co-starring, but he only appeared in one scene for about twenty seconds.  Does that make much sense?  Anyway, this is a very satisfying thriller with a great cast.  7.5/10. "},{"Title":"A weak plot plus poor on-screen development don't make good cinema.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Leading lady lawyer Teddy Barnes (GLENN CLOSE) allows passion to overrule professional ethics and recklessly embarks on an affair with her client. Teddy Barnes is defending newspaper publisher Jack Forrester (JEFF BRIDGES) who is accused of viviously slaying his leading socialite wife with a hunting knife. The plot is mediocre and is not helped by poor on-screen development. The main dramatic effect is produced by the use of unexpected twists and turns in the unfolding courtroom drama as suspicion shifts from suspect to suspect and new witnesses are miraculously found who contradict all that has gone before. The device is overused and becomes gimmicky but nevertheless remains effective as an instrument for creating suspense. Somewhat reminiscent of Casablanca where the story changed on set from day to day. Glenn Close plays the feisty lawyer with conviction but Jeff Bridges renders a bland newspaper tycoon, adding nothing to a poor script that fails to give character to the magnate; although he is portrayed as someone leading an affluent life style appropriate to any well-heeled prominent member of the community such as a doctor, lawyer or successful businessman his actual status has no relevance to  the story. This sort oof superficiality is a general weakness of this film which fails to fill in any of the characters except lawyer, Teddy Barnes.Major acting honours go to the support cast. John Dehner delighfully underplays the aging, almost senile, Judge; although Marshall Colt's makeup is overdone as the repugnant tennis pro cum gigolo he gives a very convincing performance. Robert Loggia achieved an Oscar nomination for supporting actor in the role of Teddy Barnes' private investigator, Sam Ranson. He is very much a father figure to her but that does not prevent his incessant use of porn-speak. Given a more eloquent use of the English language with a fine turn of phrase he could have been a much more interesting character but as it is he is just an uncouth pulp fiction nobody. Characterisation is one of the film's weaknesses, coupled with some trite dialogue such as when Teddy Barnes asks Sam Ranson whether his mother ever washed his moth out with soap. The film fails to tell the sory visually but falls back on straight narrative between characters (after all it is supposed to be a picture!). Another weakness is that there is no police investigation of the murder, all the enquiries are conducted in the courtroom. And why, when the murder weapon is discovered, are finger prints not mentioned? The court scenes are very flat and much of it seems more like the mutual mudslinging of a divorce case as the philanderings of the suspects are pursued by Teddy Barnes and the DA, effectively played by Peter Coyote.Other CommentsThe sound was so  indistinct in a number of scenes that I had to play them back to catch what had been said.OK for passing a couple of hours away but hardly worthe watching otherwise. "}{"Title":"Tense...","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Glenn Close and Jeff Bridges are two very good actors. Together, they help balance this movie out and make it a very good one. Bridges plays the husband of a murdered woman who is accused of killing her for financial gain. The neat twists and bends lead up to a surprising climactic conclusion. This movie also stars Robert Loggia, and I think he is a neat actor, who knows how to play his characters effectively. A good movie, with great suspense. "},{"Title":"I recommend this movie especially for legal beagles.","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  A gripping story of a man Jack Forester, Jeff Bridges (The Mirror has Two Faces) accused of murdering his wife. I had the privilege of watching this movie as an assignment for a class. When I mentioned privilege, I really meant it.  Those days when I was in Law School it was a real treat! Our Professor/Judge gave us that as a class assignment for Professional Responsibility/Legal Ethics.  I can tell you something! Between watching this movie and  reading a one hundred and fifty page assignment for a class, I take this movie anytime!  It sticks with you, like the plague,  to see in what troubles an attorney can get into by getting involved,  especially emotionally involved,  with a client.  Well the fact that I had free time due to the lack of mandatory reading for a class in itself,  made me biased in favor of the movie. The Professor had the class spot the ethical rules that were broken in the movie such as never get involved with a client. Well Teddy Barnes, Glenn Close( The Natural) did just that. I am not going to teach the legal issues in this movie to you.  But I respectfully disagree with Leonard Maltin. I think that the characters are very believable, specially if you are in law school and you are hanging in there by a thin tread of fear thinking what I am going to do if I have to defend a man like that?  This movie was reality to me. It sure was!  Just image one of the members of the defense team falling in love with O.G. Simpson.  That is where this movie goes. It can be watched in multi-level fashion. I watched it about twelve years ago and watched again on television last week. It scared me to death both times.  It is a very powerful movie! Actually the story without the romance has a similar fact pattern to the Simpson case. Coming to think of it, it is like life imitating art!   I recommend it, especially for the legal beagles.   "},{"Title":"Predictable And Cliché-Ridden","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" It's a simple story, with a straightforward plot. A person wearing a disguise murders a wealthy woman in her bed. The woman's husband is charged with the crime. A famous lawyer defends the husband in court. The film's underlying premise is not new. It's been done before at least once, in a film from several decades ago.Jagged Edge is as much a character study of the two leads, Jack Forrester (Jeff Bridges) and Teddy Barnes (Glenn Close) as it is a murder mystery. The husband, Jack, is an attractive, charming young man, a person one would be hard pressed to picture as a killer. Teddy, the defense attorney, has had some regrets in her past. She takes the case reluctantly. I must say that I found the Glenn Close character annoyingly weak and indecisive. As written in the script, Teddy Barnes is also not too bright. And it's this characteristic that largely drives the film's plot.Red herrings exist, thus providing a few twists and turns. And although the film's ending is not at all believable, it does provide some spine-tingling suspense, enhanced by pounding music and dim lighting.The main problem here is that the story is rather predictable, even with the red herrings. Another problem is that the script is encrusted with tons of film clichés the adversarial relationship between prosecutor and defense counsel, frenzied news reporters, typical courtroom drama, among other things. The film would have been better if the writer had inserted more suspects, and zapped all those talky and cliché-ridden courtroom scenes.With credible cinematography, Jagged Edge looks reasonably good, visually. And the acting is not bad. Peter Coyote makes a fine prosecutor. But the story is too predictable and too burdened with clichés for the film to merit anything better than an average rating. "},{"Title":"He is innocen","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" This is a typically eighties movie,with all the clichés around the brilliant lawyer -of course she is a divorcée-,the handsome guy who may or may not be a cynical killer ...and of course a long trial.The screenplay is full of holeswitnesses for the prosecution or for the defense appear and disappear much to the two lawyers 'surprise ;and of course the discovery of the final clue by Close almost as soon as she is in her lover's house .And ,for a brilliant lawyer -who is responsible for a miscarriage of justice all the same!- ,it's not very smart to sleep with your client just before his trial!And she does not seem to work very hard on her case ,except for the scene when her daughter asks for some help for her homework.It takes all the talent of the actors to sustain the interest till the end.And sustain,they do ,for both Glenn Close and James Bridges are excellent (so is Peter Coyotte who makes the best of an underwritten part).The screenwriters display a certain sense of humor I particularly like the lines about the hero's horses and how Glenn Close reacted during the trial.Entertaining ,but not really memorable. "},{"Title":"A tense thriller with a great cast","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Picture is a fine murder mystery, courtroom drama and romantic thriller as attorney Glenn Close defends client Jeff Bridges against murder charges. Also aiding Close is Robert Loggia as a tough private investigator who uncovers some disturbing information about Bridges during the proceedings as Close becomes involved with her client on a personal level. The film shows Close juggling her professional career and personal life as a single mother and Bridges is all boyish charm and good looks and make quite a handsome couple. The movie has a solid supporting cast that includes Peter Coyote, John Dehner and Leigh Taylor-Young and a nice music score by John Barry. "},{"Title":"Robert Loggia's Oscar-nominated performance is the highlight of Jagged Edge","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" The film itself is a mildly entertaining courtroom thriller, but Loggia's performance as Sam Ransom is the shining star of 'Jagged Edge'.Despite the fact that Loggia appears in only a few scenes, he leaves a solid mark with a foul-mouthed but tender-hearted character. The nuance with which he displays these two sides of Sam is just wonderful; one moment, he's cursing at Teddy for bringing up past professional problems - later, he's embracing and comforting her when she's frightened and confused.The range of emotion that Loggia presents in his brief screen time is admirable, and it's a shame that his performance has been mostly overlooked (as it's stuck in an otherwise forgettable film). He was deservedly nominated for a Best Supporting Actor Oscar in 1986, though he lost to Don Ameche for 'Cocoon'. In my opinion (though I don't assume to be right), he should have received that award over Ameche. I don't dispute that Ameche was a fine actor, because he was. It's just that I think Loggia's performance outweighed Ameche's in depth.If you're curious about 'Jagged Edge', see it for Loggia. His performance is worth at least 3 of the stars I've given this film. "},{"Title":"entertaining but cynically built and not too honest with the audience","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Jagged Edge keeps you watching, and it's not really a cheat. But...Very close to the end, Glenn Close and Robert Loggia uncover, once and for all, the identity of the murderer by taking a ski mask off his face. The way the movie is built, you can simply tell there was room for several endings, one with Jeff Bridges under the ski mask, and another with the gigolo under the ski mask.My feeling is that all through the shoot, Jeff Bridges did not know if his character was guilty or not (we'll wait and see how the previews go, and then we'll decide, Jeff). The movie's point is that Glenn Close doesn't know, but I had the feeling that Jeff Bridges - the actor - didn't know either.Also, the final revelation hinges on a shaky premise that after oversleeping in someone else's house, Glenn Close would take it upon herself to pull the sheets off her bed, and that she would know where fresh sheets are.No matter how you cut it, those final 5 or 10 minutes hurt the movie as a whole. "},{"Title":"The Typewriter.","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Jeff Bridges plays Jack Forrester, whose heiress wife Page is brutally murdered with a (jagged edged) hunting knife in their San Francisco beach house. Jack finds himself indicted for her murder, though maintains his innocence, and hires high-profile attorney Teddy Barnes(Glenn Close) to defend him. She at first is convinced of his innocence, since she finds herself attracted to his good looks and charm, and so tries to build the case that Page was having an affair with her Tennis instructor. However, a key piece of evidence(a typewriter) will play a devastating role in making her believe otherwise...Slickly made and well acted film is still unpleasant and mostly empty, leading to a conclusion that makes little sense, and is full of holes.(That Typewriter again!) "},{"Title":"Bridges and Close make this empty courtroom thriller worth watching","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" JAGGED EDGE is a slick, but empty courtroom thriller about a former criminal attorney (Glenn Close) brought back to criminal law to defend a rich industrialist (Jeff Bridges)accused of murdering his wife. The film feels empty to me because there is no viable explanation as to why Close's Teddy Barnes believes that Bridges' character is innocent, other than his word. Barnes left criminal law because she hated defending the guilty and yet she takes Bridges' case without question because he pretends to cry when they revisit the murder scene and because he flirts with her, despite every piece of evidence regarding to the case points to him from jump. She finds out mid-trial that he lies about an extra-marital affair he had and yet continues to defend him. Courtroom dramas like this only work if you believe in the innocence of the accused up to some point and I never did. Close and Bridges work hard to convince in their roles and they do have strong support from Robert Loggia (Best Supporting Actor nominee) as Close's world-weary detective, Peter Coyote as the slimy prosecutor and Close's former employer, John Dehner as the judge and Leigh Taylor Young as a key witness. If you don't look at the story too closely, it is watchable. "},{"Title":"Formulaic courtroom drama/murder mystery fare with good acting/directing, but sloppy writing.  Annoying twist at the end, too. And horrible child actors.","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  A pretty formulaic courtroom drama/murder mystery with some decent acting and good photography.  The writing is unfortunately where the film sags. None of the characters have nearly enough depth, though they are (just barely) saved particularly well by the grace of the actors who portray them.The twist at the end was also far too predictable, but in one of those daytime soap opera sort of ways where you think to yourself could that be what's going to happen?  No, no...the writer wouldn't be that asinine. And then when it turns out the writer IS that asinine, you roll your eyes and change the channel. The movie basically throws everything in your face that you've been subjected to over the course of the film, but in such a heavy-handed NO DUH sort of way, that you can't help but wonder if the writer conceived the script while suffering a concussion.I personally think the writing would've been cleverer if the character who gets it at the end wasn't who Glenn's character pretty much thought it was going to be by that point.  It would've made for a far better ending, and a far more plausible one at that.Oh yeah, and there's some pretty irritating child actors in this film. "}{"Title":"Otherwise ordinary film has its merits","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Typically-formulaic Joe Ezterhas thriller.  While Richard Marquand's uninspired direction doesn't help much, the film does benefit from terrific performances, some genuine suspense, and one of John Barry's most beautiful and underrated scores.   "},{"Title":"Joe Eszterhas's best script, for what that's worth.","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Glenn Close kept her utilities on for at least a couple of months with this painfully straight-faced courtroom chuckler, and her performance (and Peter Coyote's) goes a long way to making a silly, silly movie quite compulsively watchable. The same can't be said for Jeff Bridges, who plays the part of a plot device at least passably, while at least one very large pig gives its life so that Robert Loggia's performance could take place. The plot centers around a contrived murder case (the sort where the victim's name is Page Forrester, a San Francisco socialite)...legal verisimilitude is not the name of the game, but rather lurid knife murders and sack-rolling. Still, put it next to Flashdance and Basic Instinct and it's Lawrence of Arabia. "},{"Title":"Dumb except for Loggia","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  This is such a dumb movie - the surprises are so obvious, and there is far more convincing detail in even the most average Law & Order episode. However, watch this movie just to see Robert Loggia in action - he is wonderful. He also does have THE best closing line in movie history (but not if you watch the film on Network TV !!)  "},{"Title":"We're talking about unchecked aggression here, dude","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Once a box office hit, now a laughable thriller, Richard Marquand's Jagged Edge stars Jeff Bridges as a husband accused of murdering his wife. Bridges maintains his innocence, falls in love with the lawyer representing him (Glenn Close) and then spends the film's last act teasing his audience did he indeed do it? Did he get away with the crime? IS HE A MURDEROUS PSYCHOPATH? IS HIS NEW LOVER IN MORTAL DANGER?The film was written by Joe Eszterhas, a writer who specialises in trash. Marquand maintains a good pace during the film's first act, but things get increasingly slow/predictable as we progress. A better director would have laid on more thrills or, even better, embraced his lurid plot and so poured on more cheese.5/10 &#x96; Worth no viewings. See the marginally better Primal Fear, Presumed Innocent or Hitchcock's countless wrong man movies. "},{"Title":"good acting is the star of this mystery/thriller","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Glenn Close is an attorney who reluctantly takes on a case in Jagged Edge, also starring Jeff Bridges, Robert Alda, and Peter Coyote. Close, now in corporate law, is persuaded by her boss to take on a murder case involving a client (Bridges) accused of killing his wife in a particularly savage way. After meeting with him, she believes him innocent, and finds herself falling in love with him. It's a tough case, as she's going up against her former boss, who doesn't always play fair.This is a big budget, good looking movie with lots going for it except, as others have pointed out, bad editing, script holes, and a lousy ending. Handsome Jeff Bridges is certainly a compelling defendant, and it's no wonder that the Close character falls for him. The acting is excellent, with Close and Robert Alda, as her investigator, being the best. There's a nice turn as well by Karen Austin, who gives evidence in court.Jagged Edge (which refers to the murder knife) was a very popular film when it debuted in 1985. It was the era for this genre, with Dressed to Kill, Blow Out, Still of the Night, Kiss Before Dying, among others, doing big business, culminating with Fatal Attraction. This film could have used a stronger script and a little more attention paid to the editing. It is, nevertheless, entertaining. "},{"Title":" A Movie very close to Basic Instinct!","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"                 This film came very close to Basic Instinct,'92, where the victims were bound and tied to the bed, in this film they were all women!  There was a great deal of excellent court room scenes and great acting by Glenn Close(Teddy Barnes),Fatal Attraction,'87, who was a criminal lawyer and decided to come out of retirement and help a very rich good looking Jeff Bridges(Jack Forrester),Seabiscuit,'03 who desperately needed her professional help and body!  Robert Loggia(Sam Ransom),American Virgin,2000 was a criminal investigator for Teddy Barnes, and every word out of his mouth was F This & THAT!! and a lot more.  If you like a film that has lots of suspense and keeps you Wide Awake right to the very end, this is worth watching! "},{"Title":"Lame script, full of holes","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  I gave this movie a 3 only because of how good Glenn Close and Jeff Bridges were. To the script, I give a 0. The whole movie rests on did he kill his wife or didn't he? The lawyers fuss over the knife and former lovers and their reputations or lack of, and never once does anyone EVER mention an alibi, or where he was that dark and stormy night. Another major plot hole is the fact that everyone -- jury, lawyers, judge, etc. -- is supposed to believe that his guilt will rest on whether he or she had lovers in their pasts. Um, I don't think guilt swivels on that one point! "},{"Title":"Typical Courtroom Marry-Go-Round.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Jeff Bridges is framed for murder and it is up to lawyer Glenn Close to clear his name in this dull courtroom drama that tries to substantiate its sorry screenplay with typical twists and turns in the film's final act that most could have predicted anyway. Robert Loggia received a very curious Oscar nomination as a private investigator who helps Close out. Far from being a total success. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"The script that made Joe Eszterhas famous.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Forget Showgirls and Sliver, and Flashdance, and Basic Instinct, Jagged Edge gave Big Joe his bones, his legitimacy.A good suspenseful thriller, a bit dated, a trifle cliché (the suspect's wife had been sleeping with the country-club tennis pro, of all things), but well-paced, and well-acted.Glenn Close takes her place in rarefied air here, the strong, but attractive adult female lead. An air uninhabited in film throughout the 90s..Susan Sarandon may try best to fill this spot, but she is nowhere near the attractive, desirable lead that Close was during this period.Beautiful Bay-area landscapes only add to the overall package.I wouldn't rate this high in the genre, but I see absolutely no reason to diss it either.A solid overall effort.  "},{"Title":"The beginning of writer Joe Eszterhas' string of shameless audience-manipulators.","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Popular, often suspenseful, often entertaining courtroom drama is, ultimately, an unforgivable piece of pathetic manipulation.  Loggia comes across best, but only because, as the screen's most convincingly cynical private dick in years, he doesn't believe ANYTHING being purported by ANYONE.  Glenn Close's tough-but-naive defense lawyer comes off much worse, not only believing her client but falling in love with him (why is it Hollywood defense lawyers ALWAYS seem to run into this problem? -- is there not such a thing as a compelling enough case that it doesn't require an overbaked romantic subplot?).  And Peter Coyote, one of our most underrated actors, shows here why he's so underrated -- his films rarely make money, but when they do, they're garbage like this.  In the end, you'll be thoroughly satisfied with the final plot twist and resulting action, unless, of course, you make the mistake of leaving your brain in the on position while viewing the rest of the film. "}{"Title":"Sagged Edge","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  I viewed this film for the first time in the year 2000 and, well, whatever it viewed like when it was made the ensuing 15 years cannot of helped. They didn't work for the romance aspect of it and when you throw out that you've got little left but a second rate t.v. courtroom drama.  In the end the killer could have been anyone of three and, frankly, I didn't much care which of them stepped up to the plate.  Bland, not at all compelling and without any performances worthy of note save, perhaps, supporting actor Robert Loggia, this Edge sags and is best avoided altogether.  You'd be better off watching a rerun of 'The Practice'anyhow. "},{"Title":"highly overrated  movie elevated by a great performance from Close but  very predictable","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHThis isn't going to go down in history as one of my favorites. While not dreadful I did think it was overrated and not nearly as unpredictable as has been said. The movie is tension provoking, I'll give it that and Close is wonderful but the movie, for me, wasn't much more then average or slightly above.I really did not think this was as unpredictable as has been said. I kind of knew this guy really did it and though I had a few moments thinking it could have been the gigolo, by and large I figured it had to be Bridges because that's the way movies of this type almost ALWAYS end. I think, in a way, it would have been way more unpredictable to actually make the gigolo the murderer and let Close and Bridges live happily ever after. With this movie you are almost guaranteed the final twist. Not very unpredictable overall.And there were such a large amount of clichés in this movie that it was difficult to believe at times. The court scenes were not believable. The scene near the end, where Close learns the truth and then runs home alone was so purely fake it was almost annoying. The movie turns into a horror toward the end. And overall, though it is watchable it never became all that interesting to me. The twists and turns it takes are to predictable and I think it would have been better at the end, when the mask is taken off, to have it be someone else. I see this in movies where a woman is an accused murderer too. For me it was a very predictable thriller type of movie, elevated by a great performance from Close. But I did not think it ever became really great.It makes for decent watching though, definitely not terrible. I'd rate this about a 6 out of 10. Watch any movie with Close in it and one is almost guaranteed a great performance though this wasn't her best picture. "},{"Title":"Not worth it despite the title!","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  If u have watched as many movies as i have, (and i imagine anyone who is 29 years old would have watched atleast 5 whodunnits and courtroom dramas of different varieties), this movie does not cut it. If you are interested, let's get together and make it fun by pointing out the maximum no. of holes in the courtroom argument dramatic sequences. C'mon, one doesnt even have to know how to spell L.A.W for gaping at the huge hollows left in the scripting of the court sequence. And the shots of a white gloved hand opening door knobs is oh so..yawn! You may read a lot of reviews saying this is an OK thriller. Ask me, i rented it because i read those! It aint worth it! "},{"Title":"zzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  A very predictable and dull 'thriller' involving the courtroom 'drama' around Jeff Bridges being tried for the murder of his wife.Represented in his trial by Glenn Close, in one of her poorer and less interesting performances, this was pretty much a bore fest from start to finish.And the twist was about as twisted as a ruler. "},{"Title":"Where Are The Thrills?","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Horribly written, directed and acted thriller, with the over-used Glenn Close (in tummy accentuating court attire), as an attorney hired to defend Jeff Bridges.  Except for the O.J. trial, this film contains the dumbest court room scenes, ever.  Close and Peter Coyote's characters would be thrown out of any court room in America (except perhaps Los Angeles'). The entire plot is contrived and silly, and totally unbelievable.  One of the many waste of time thrillers of the 1980's.  NOT recommended!  For a good 80's thriller, see Brian De Palma's Dressed To Kill, Blow Out or Body Double, or Peter Yates' underrated Suspect, instead.  "},{"Title":"Overrated as they get","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  This film was so popular-I never quite grasped the reason for its success.I found the ending to be such a ridiculous contrivance-it was like an episode of Murder She Wrote.If you haven't seen it,don't.This is a bad film. "},{"Title":"Dumb and Dumber","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" I just watched this turkey on cable television. Contrived plot with some of the most hackneyed court room scenes this side of Leave her to Heaven. The story is bad enough, but the script and acting are so absurd that by the time the killer is revealed at the end of the film I no longer cared. Totally unrealistic nonsense. Glenn Close as a lawyer whose well-being is based on her client's innocence on which she swings back and forth like a metronome during entire film. Peter Coyote plays the most incompetent D.A. on celluloid, and his horse's behind of an assistant who can only make dumb faces when things fall apart in court is just a terrible, terrible actor.Just awful. Go watch a rerun of Perry Mason instead. "},{"Title":"Pretty ordinary","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Jack Forrester (Jeff Bridges) is accused of the brutal murder of his wife. He hires Teddy Barnes (Glenn Close) to defend him. Barnes used to work for the district attorney, but quit after having regretfully participated in a prosecution where the DA withheld evidence.In the first scene we are treated to a front row seat to witness the murder. All right, I realize that it's important for the initial scenes to capture your attention, but I don't need to be hit over the head with a two-by-four. The music is so over the top, and the murder so disgusting, that I quickly realized that subtlety was not to be a hallmark of this movie.The story ultimately devolves into a sub-par courtroom drama. The usual quota of surprises are supplied, like Jack's not revealing a crucial event that, being as smart as he was portrayed to be, he had to know would come up. Events are tossed in to purposely mislead and they are so obvious that you know that they are there to mislead.Bridges and Close go through their paces in performances that are lackluster. At least Close is called on to look indignant or frightened on occasion, but Bridges is hardly called on to do anything but deliver his lines. Peter Coyote, as the DA, does seem to be trying and Robert Loggia, as a private investigator, adds some spark. I have nothing against profanity in movies, but Loggia's using the F-word at every opportunity seemed completely gratuitous.This would hardly qualify as a decent episode of Law and Order. "},{"Title":"undemanding thriller","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Once past the lurid sex murder in the opening scene you'll find a fairly absorbing (but, in retrospect, hardly memorable) legal drama, with crack attorney Glenn Close defending newspaper publisher Jeff Bridges (who may or may not be innocent) against unscrupulous DA Peter Coyote. The scenario holds together well enough despite some not unexpected shortcomings (awkward domestic melodrama and a color-by-numbers romance), but the resolution is secondhand Hitchcock and curiously anticlimactic. Nothing profound here, just taut, unsophisticated entertainment, with a San Francisco Bay Area background put to good use. "},{"Title":"A Fair Thriller...","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" 'Jagged Edge' is a fair thriller from the 80's, it has a interesting plot, which translates into a one-time watch. Richared Marquand, the late filmmaker has directed the film well. He's a talent I am sure we'll never forget!'Jagged Edge' has it's share of minuses as well, the film starts off really well, but becomes boring post 30-minutes into the film. In fact, one breaks into a yawn in those portions, they are bland. But the film saved by it's captivating climax, the twist-in-the-tale, when the culprit is reveled, it does leave you awe-struck, which works to it's advantage.Coming to the acting department, Jeff Bridges is okay. Glenn Close steals the show with a superb performance. She breathers fire in the courtroom sequences and leaves you stunned with her powerful and arresting dialog delivery. Robert Loggia is very good, and his Nomination at the Oscars for Best Supporting Actor was justified. Others also lend able support.On the whole, 'Jagged Edge' does deserve a watch despite the blemishes. It has what a thriller wants, a good culmination. So, yes watch this! "}{"Title":"Best comedy of the 80's","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Maybe it's just a dated movie, and all these plot gimmicks have been used so much that we are used to them by now. Maybe if I could go back in time to the 80's and see it I might have a different opinion of it. But this is probably the most laughably contrived movie I have ever seen. I literally laughed aloud several times during this movie. The acting was pathetic, especially Close's performance (who I usually like and respect). You keep hoping for something unique and surprising, yet believable and inevitable, but it never comes. And just when you think it can't be any more contrived, predictable or stupid &#150; comes the ending. Great for laughs. I think the most shocking thing about this film is that it was actually nominated for some awards. "},{"Title":"Above-Average Courtroom Thriller","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Jagged Edge is a representative species of the courtroom thriller category. It has all the classic ingredients A lawyer dedicated to save his defendant whom he stubbornly believes is innocent against all appearances, a heartless DA who is willing to bend the rules a little bit to achieve his goals, a small idyll between the protagonists, and the necessary murder, suspense and chill.So, apart from being representative, is Jagged Edge good? The answer to this question is a qualified yes. Glenn Close delivers a nice performance as attorney Teddy Barnes, while the performances of Jeff Bridges and Peter Coyote are simply satisfactory as defendant Jack Forrester and DA Thomas Krasny respectively. The plot keeps us wondering whether Forrester did actually commit the murders or not until the very end, but in my opinion at least, things turn out to be rather predictable despite the scriptwriter's best intentions. Add to that a slightly above-average direction, and the jury is out with an overall 6/10 for the film.  "},{"Title":"Jagged Edge","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  Close plays an attorney who falls in love with the prime suspect in this often razor sharp suspense thriller that is perhaps best known for Close's different array of costumes in the now famous cross examination scene. Oscar nominee Loggia gives one of the best performance of his career as Close's foul mouthed leg man.  "},{"Title":"Now Jeff Bridges should have known from Fatal Attraction that any affair with Glenn Close will never end well D","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Over all, Jagged Edge was a decent sexual thriller with some intelligent drama. It kept you guessing what would happen next and if Jack Forrester was truly guilty of his wife's murder. Even though this is a very well used trial in movies and not to mention... life, you still go with it because it just kept you intrigued. The acting is pretty good and decent, enough to make you believe. But I truly think that the actors could have gone further to make the roles as their own. Glenn Close was over all, a decent performance, but not her best. I would recommend Fatal Attraction or Dangerous Liasons for that. But if you like or love sexual thrillers, I would say to watch this. It's a good one.6/10 -1 for all those shoulder pads and big hair do's. D "},{"Title":"One of those courtroom dramas where the verdict comes early & the ending is transparent","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Right off you know that 1 of 2 people did this crime. It's either the crooked D.A. or the husband character. Along the way it's just too easy to see the ending. This is one of your typical 80's courtroom dramas designed to try and fool you....or at the very least shock you in the end. I had this one figured out a little before half way through. It neither fooled nor shocked me.Basic premise is husband of a rich girl goes on trial for the murder of his wife. The D.A. who happens to running for the Senate tries the case hard because the husband is the boss of a newspaper who happens to write articles that are critical of the D.A.. With this angle they try and fool you or steer you in that direction but it's painfully clear that the husband portrayal is just too squeaky clean. A few surprise witnesses appear and these mysterious notes keep appearing stating that he's innocent. No effort is made through out the film to try and find the typewriter that made these notes so right there, you kinda figure there's no need because the killer is in plain site.Typical 80's drama that'll keep you guessin for a bit, but if your like me, it won't take you long to figure it out. There are much better examples of 80's courtroom dramas like The Verdict that show how good that decade was. This one was just surface fluff drama. For a Glenn Close drama that has substance and suspense...try the obvious...Fatal Attraction. "},{"Title":"On second viewing pretty lame","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Those Eszterhas scripts don't stand a second viewing. I mean what makes them work is a trick (always the same trick from Jagged Edge on to Basic Instinct, Sliver and Jade), so once you know it there's no suspense left.I admit the first time I saw Jagged Edge I found it good, but 15-odd years later the second viewing was quite a let-down (ironically I found Basic Instinct better the second time). What stands out is Glenn Close's and Peter Coyote's acting. Close as counselor Teddy Barnes does not have a very interesting part to chew. Eszterhas uses two stock devices to flesh it up (desire for revenge/redemption + broken family) and he does it quite heavy-handedly. As another IMDb user commented, you can find plenty of this MOW stuff on TV (betwix top-scripted series). Peter Coyote does stand out, his character is more simple (he is the evil DA) and he does such a perfect job embodying Thomas Krasny you wish he had a couple more lines. Now I like Jeff Bridges but he can't add the subtlety that is so hard to find in the script.Eventually Jagged Edge is much more of a court movie than I remembered. Before the time in court the rhythm is botched, then it's run-of-the-mill proceedings. Make sure you gave Basic Instinct a chance before watching that one.(DISCLAIMER I seldom blame a movie on its script. I happen to know pretty well the body of work of Joe Eszterhas, that's why my comment is thus slanted. Anyway let's acknowledge the writer had more talent in selling it than those who bought the story head-on). "},{"Title":"has a better cast than it deserves; Ezstherhas hadn't hit his stride yet","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Let's face facts, folks, Joe Ezstherhas is one of the guiltiest pleasures in screen writing of the 90s, or just in general in the past twenty or so years. His work is so trashy it's close to being the essence of pot-boilers, even if one has to remember that it's good for being so rotten, in its own way (Basic Instinct and Showgirls are the most notable examples). Jagged Edge, on the other hand, tries to be somewhat respectable despite its pulpier roots. He throws in several curve-balls (all of them, sadly, can be seen before they're pitched), and delivers some good, solid courtroom drama, but mostly the actors have to carry much of the picture to keep from getting too... well, bland, really. The first half hour feels the most of this brunt of not really being very exciting, as its predictable story develops like we've heard it dozens of times before.As I mentioned, by the time the courtroom drama picks up, and the intrigue gets juicier, there are some moments of interest. But it's trying to be a legitimately good movie, when if trashier it could be just as crazy and awfully lovable as other scripts by him. Thankfully, and this is more-so to director Richard Marquand's credit (keeping a steady hand at the helm, not doing anything too flashy), it's cast so well that one just goes along for the ride. Bridges is the kind of actor that works perfectly, as a guy you want to like so much that it gets tricky to figure out if he's good or bad- his charisma and talent is that strong. Close also fits in well, if a tad TOO well, as a lawyer with a lot to prove and a lot to lose emotionally with the murder case. And also of note is Robert Loggia as her partner/counsel, who provides the bulk of the cursing and most of the common sense. And lest not forget Peter Coyote (only better choice would've been the main prosecutor from Law & Order Sam Waterston).It's maybe worth a look-see on a Sunday afternoon, and if one is fans of the actors or interested in other things from Return of the Jedi helmer Marquand. But for Ezstherhas... it's meh. "},{"Title":"Putrid","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Stupid courtroom thriller written by the master-hackster, Joe Eszterhaus. I probably should have shut it off as soon as I saw his name on the project. And the fact that it is a courtroom thriller doesn't help, as that's a genre I don't usually abide. It was directed by the guy who did Return of the Jedi. Jeff Bridges stars as a man suspected of murdering his wife. He hires Glenn Close to defend him in court. Both give what are among their worst performances. Less terrible are Peter Coyote as the prosecuting attorney (and apparently lead investigator? It's all very confusing) and Robert Loggia as Close's favorite private investigator. Loggia received an Oscar nomination for his work. He's the best part of the film, but he's barely in it. One wonders why we didn't follow Loggia on more of his investigations. Usually, he just shows up at Close's house or in the middle of court to tell her what he's found. The courtroom stuff is some of the worst ever done in a film. Eszterhaus has no idea how court works. I'm not an expert, either, but I know enough to say that everything that happens in this movie is utter crap. Honestly, the case against Bridges is so flimsy that it would never have come to court in the first place. There's a big twist by the film's end which is pretty obvious and entirely moronic. This is very much in line with Eszterhaus' later masterpieces Basic Instinct and Showgirls, but it's even dumber than those. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Despicable violence, staged for the sensational...","Date":"8 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" With such a quality production and top-rank stars, you would think director Richard Marquand's Jagged Edge could overcome the sleazy elements in Joe Eszterhas' script and deliver us a tough, straightforward thriller. Alas, this murder mystery is queasy and uncomfortable, with nasty plot elements that don't quite match up with the film's glossy, old-fashioned veneer (it's rather like watching an old Humphrey Bogart crime-drama mixed in with exploits courtesy of the Manson gang). Lawyer Glenn Close defends Jeff Bridges on charges he murdered his wealthy wife, while her assistant Robert Loggia does her leg-work with an amusingly salty tongue. Close is an intrinsically smart and intuitive actress who just ends up looking like a dummy here, open-mouthed and vacuous, while Bridges steps into the gutter with a performance that isn't courageous or versatile as much as it is confounding (hopefully he was well-paid). A big hit in 1985, though the picture's zonked pacing is thudding, its hazy logic at half-mast, and its trashy climax pure tosh. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A  Typical  Court  Room  Thriller","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" When a wealthy woman is found brutally murdered in a beach house her husband is the main suspect and has to stand trial. To defend him he hires a top woman lawyer and they get romantically involved.The film has an acceptable rhythm, moments of tension and the cast is a highlight. Glenn Close is perfect as the attorney of a man she is trying to save not only for justice but also for her personal feelings towards him. Jeff Bridges renders one of his best performances as the suspected husband and Robert Loggia gives one of his excellent supporting roles. Peter Coyote is the Distric Attorney who is convinced that the man is a monster.Director Richard Marquand does a good job since whether you think the man is guilty or not you always doubt at times. He achieves a good and most watchable piece of cinema in its genre.One flaw (and not minor) it is hard to believe that a cold murderer who has planned his crime meticulously for years would leave a typewriter in a place where it can be found rather easily (instead of getting rid of it). "}{"Title":"Gayest Mystery Movie Ever","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":" Terrible, terrible, terrible. The movie was way too predictable. There was hardly any mystery to begin with. Jeff Bridges did the worst acting in his career. It was just disgusting to watch. After his role in Starman he seriously fell to pieces. I'm not even trying to be funny. His acting role sucked a**. Glenn Close did okay as his lawyer. The only reason why I didn't turn away from the movie was because of Robert Loggia's fierce role. That was the most the cussing I've heard anyone do since Linda Blair. He deserved that nomination that year. At first I didn't why he got nominated but I guess that was the only good thing about Jagged Edge. Overall, the plot sucked and I mean really sucked. Plus it was dumbest ending in the history of movies. Come on Glenn, Jeff and the retard who made this s**t. "},{"Title":"Opened Pandoras Box","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller, Mystery","Review":"  It`s impossible to believe this now but by the mid 1990s the screenwriter of JAGGED EDGE Joe Eszterhas was the highest paid screenwriter Hollywood had ever produced . Notice how JAGGED EDGE starts ? An isolated house at night , the house is lit up by a flash of lightning , a crash of thunder , cut to interior of house , cut to intruder`s P.O.V....You see it`s the most obvious cliche known to cinema and one every screenwriting student at film school will be told to avoid but here a future mega million screenwriter uses it as an opening scene . I`m not dissing Mister Eszterhas , or if I am it`s down solely to sour grapes . The main plot - which I won`t go into - was probably okay at the time , but the problem with this type of movie , a sort of combination between film noir and courtroom drama is that it opened a pandoras box of similar type movies for the next ten years including future Eszterhas scripts like BASIC INSTINCT and JADE . I guess I should have watched this for the first time in the mid 1980s instead of 2003 because it does seem a somewhat tired plot today   "}]