[{"Title":"Great comedy, and quite an 80's time capsule.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lost In America is one of those movies that I always meant to see, but never remembered to rent. A few weeks ago, I finally got a chance to see it, and I loved it. Albert Brooks and Julie Hagerty are perfect as the classic yuppie couple that decide to set out on the open road after a series of strange circumstances. Brooks' rave-out on his boss at the beginning of the film is priceless, as is his interaction with the unemployment office worker in the midwest... I'll just check my $100,000 a year job file. Brooks is also great when he tries to reason with the casino owner, and arguing with Hagerty over her inability to use the words nest and egg. From now on, birds live in ROUND STICKS!!!, for breakfast, you will have THINGS over easy!!!!Most of the best dialogue and scenes are delivered from Brooks, but Hagerty is quite good as well, as the timid wife whos honest, yet HUGE blunder sets the tone for the rest of the film. My only complaint is that it seemed about a half hour too short. When they decide to return to New York, I would've allowed one more wacky situation on the way back home, but it was not to be. It left me feeling that the ending was a bit rushed. But this is a minor complaint from a great film that deserves to be seen over and over.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious, And You've Got To See It, It's Historic","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**Without question, Albert Brooks is the absolute master of subtle humor. In `Lost In America,' the writer-director-star weaves an hilarious tapestry that is no less than a paean to an entire generation of Yuppies.  When David Howard (Brooks), the creative director for one of the largest advertising agencies in the world, fails to get the promotion he's `waited his whole life for,' he quits his job (`Well, I got fired, but it's the same thing&#150;'), then convinces his wife, Linda (Julie Hagerty), to do the same.  They then proceed to sell their house, liquidate all their assets (`We got a ride on the inflation train you would not believe,'), buy a thirty-foot motor home and drop out of society in order to `find' themselves.  Patterning himself after the guys in `Easy Rider,' David's plan is for them to set off across America, to `Touch Indians, see the mountains and the prairies and all the rest of that song,' and they leave Los Angeles with a new motor home, a substantial nest egg and an anxious sense of adventure.  It all soon goes awry, of course, and what follows are some of the funniest scenes you'll ever see in an intelligent comedy.  Among the most memorable are the ones with Michael Greene (As David's boss), when he informs David that instead of a promotion he's being transferred to New York to work on their latest acquisition, Ford (`We got trucks, too.'); one with Garry Marshall (As a casino manager in Las Vegas); and finally, the scene in which David explains the concept of the `nest egg' to Linda, which has to be, historically, one of the classic comedy scenes of all time.  The solid supporting cast includes Tom Tarpey (Brad Tooey, the `bald-headed man from New York'), Ernie Brown, Art Frankel, Charles Boswell and Joey Coleman.  Written by Brooks and Monica Johnson, `Lost In America' is a timeless comedy classic that can be enjoyed over and over again.  I rate this one 10/10.  "},{"Title":"ALBERT BROOKS  YOU RULE!!!!","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Who said Albert Brooks is an acquired taste?  After watching The Muse, which until this day remains the FUNNIEST comedy I've ever seen, I've been curious about Brooks's work.  Since this had its place on the AFI's funniest comedies of all time, I decided I'd check it out.  Though I didn't feel this was quite as funny as The Muse, Brooks delivers his trademark sarcastic comic gags.  It's hilarious to watch Brooks, a yuppie businessman who just quit his job, try to apply for a job among the lower class.  Asking if there are any executive positions. Brooks has the best timing among all the comic actors.  His style of delivering his brilliantly sarcastic dialogue is impeccable and almost never fails to crack me up!  Brooks's movies are not only funny, but they're well-written.  Lots of the time comedies move on the sheer energy of the cast.  In his films, the writing alone is energized enough and the cast adds to that energy.  Brooks and Julie Hagerty have an incredible chemistry, and their conflicts are absolutely hysterical.  From now on, you will never be allowed to use the words 'nest' or 'egg' ever again!  That's a line I will always remember.  Brooks has that memorable, unique style of writing that I'm sure comedy writers everywhere will either acknowledge thoroughly or try to imitate (unsuccessfully, of course).  One thing I just cannot understand is the R-rating.  Brooks, being one of the few tasteful, intelligent comedy writers in the biz, rarely uses profanity in his movies.  Only twice do we hear the f word, and for the right reasons (He was angry at his boss for God's sake!).  I'm well-aware that the PG-13 rating wasn't invented when the movie came out, but Sixteen Candles used the f word twice and got away with a PG, as well as a shower scene involving a female and a notorious close-up of her breasts.  Don't expect anything filthy in this movie, because of the stupidly-awarded R-rating.  Brooks doesn't sink that low.For all those who appreciate good, intelligent humor--an escape from cheap slapstick and gross-out gags.  Not that I don't appreciate that type of humor ever, but this is REALLY what comedy is all about!My score  7 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"Hilarious satire from masterful Albert Brooks","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Albert Brooks and Monica Johnson have fashioned in their Lost in America screenplay a spot-on portrait of upper middle class malaise and its correspondent affluence atrophy -- and skewered it all with perfect vignettes of accomplished comic finesse.  Most fans of this film -- and it certainly has a cult following -- will gleefully cite scenes ranging from the legendary nest egg speech to the job service interview as examples of terrific comedy, and I wholeheartedly agree Lost in America is very funny. Brooks, who not only co-wrote the film but also stars and directs, only falters a bit when it comes to the overall pacing (I thought the section that opens the film spends too much time in Los Angeles before the couple decides to head out for the open road), but this is a minor complaint. Most of the time I am laughing too hard to point out any flaws. "},{"Title":"One of Brooks' funniest films; the ultimate road trip!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  LOST IN AMERICA (1985) ***1/2 Albert Brooks, Julie Hagerty, Garry Marshall. Hysterically funny film by Brooks about his character, David Howard, a yuppie who loses his job after his dream of a promotion falls through as an ad exec and decides to take his scatter-brained wife (Hagerty) cross country a la Easy Rider but in a Winnebago but gets seriously side-tracked in Las Vegas.  Brooks has never been finer and gives the ultimate scene in cinema's history of being fired and quitting at the same time! "},{"Title":"The genius of the individual scenes add up to one comedy classic.","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Albert Brooks' and Julie Hagerty's portrayals of the definitive yuppie couple are hilarious.  They're so typical, especially with their attitude at the beginning about what is important in life, (a house with a tennis court and a Mercedes).  Everything Mr. and Ms. Blue Collar America hates about the Reagan-era generation is portrayed here.  They have everything, just to have it all blow up in their faces. The success of this film comes from the sum of its small parts.  Brooks' phone conversation with Hans, the Mercedes salesman (voiced by Brooks himself), the firing scene with Brad and his ad jingle for Ford, the check-in at the Las Vegas hotel, and, of course, Brooks' sales pitch to the casino manager (Gary Marshall), are just a few of the gems, which, when added up result in one of the funniest films ever made. "},{"Title":"Ok, this movie rocks!","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After reading the reviews I couldn't believe that there are people that found this movie boring. To me it has some of the best dialog in any movie.Favorite scene? hard to pick, but probably when Albert Brooks comes down to the casino in his bathrobe looking for Julie Haggerty and finds her chanting...22,22,22,22. When asked how down she is she says Down. When asking the casino operator how down she is he says Down.Another player says She really likes 22I have seen this movie over and over again and it just keeps getting funnier each time I see it. I am a big Albert Brooks fan, Defending your life is very good and Real Life is also a favorite.If you like dry humor and great dialog see this one for sure! "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of the last two decades","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This brilliant comedy is the best-ever showcase for Albert Brooks's comic genius, as a writer, director, and actor.  His satire is well pointed and his delivery of dialogue is uniquely inflected and hilarious.  Most of the scenes are nothing more than confrontations between him and another character, but they are nicely varied and impeccably played Brooks's manic unraveling in front of his boss as he quits his advertising job; Brooks trying to convince Gary Marshall (as a Vegas casino executive) to give him his lost money back; Brooks explaining the nest egg principle to Julie Hagerty (as his wife) after she has blown their life savings at roulette; Brooks's interview with a cynical small town job counselor; Brooks as a crossing guard taunted by obnoxious pre-teens on bicycles (the funniest such scene since W.C. Fields); Brooks's telephone conversation with a supercilious Mercedes salesman; Brooks applying for a job as a drug store delivery boy (he plans to use his Winebago); Brooks's incredulous meeting with Skippy, his wife's 19-year-old new boss at a fast food joint.  Well, you get the idea.  It's a tour-de-force for Brooks, and an unsung comic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Lost in Translation","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A typical Albert Brooks film where the characters and the situation create the punchline. Most Albert Brooks fans will enjoy this movie for the simple reason that it stars Albert Brooks. Considered to many as the younger / less Jewish version of Woody Allen, Brooks is almost as funny whether or not his movie deals with relationships. In Lost in America, Broosk tackles not only the relationship between husband and wife but the relationship between America and the American dream. Julie Hagerty co-stars as the off beat yet hilarious wife that loses all their money in Las Vegas. The dream turns into a nightmare their dreams are suddenly gambled away. The story takes a giant turn for the funnier as Brooks and Hagerty enjoy a 80's version of Easy Rider as they discover themselves on the open road of their lives. All in all, it all ends in New York. "},{"Title":"Yuppie love gets the road test","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Los Angeles ad agency exec David Howard (Albert Brooks, who also directed and with Monica Johnson co-wrote the script) doesn't get the promotion he expected. In fact he's being sent to New York. He blows his stack, does a you can take this job and shove it routine and is out the door. He tells his wife Linda (Julie Hagerty, whom I recall as the flight attendant in the very funny Airplane!(1980)) that this is all for the best because, like his hero from the movie Easy Rider (1969), he wants to quit the rat race, drop out of society and just get on the road and see America.She too quits her job. They sell the house, consolidate their cash, buy a Winnebago and hit the road. How wonderful it is going to be! Well, no. Of course things go haywire. I'll leave the details for you to observe while noting that this is a funny and ultimately charming movie, a romantic comedy for the already married done in a low-key manner ending in yuppie irony.See this for Albert Brooks whose modest career includes roles in some fine flicks most notably, Broadcast News (1987), and Taxi Driver (1976).(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "}{"Title":"A wake up call for all Americans!!","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Be prepared, Albert Brooks's humor is ULTRA DRY. I found myself loving this flick before I was really old enough to. This movie addresses the reality of the happy couple, born 35+ years ago, now trapped in the Rat Race for the rest of their working days. They work for the owners of their company, for the government paying taxes, and for the bank paying off a mortgage and credit cards. A wake up call for all Americans!!! "},{"Title":"laughing out loud in America","Date":"22 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Lost in America' is a largely overlooked comedic gem of a movie, directed by and starring the intermittently brilliant comedian Albert Brooks. It's probably his best film, the most successful in terms of sustained humor. Others, like 'Defending Your Life' and 'The Muse' fall flat for long stretches and Brooks' neurotic persona starts to grate. But when he's good, he's very good, and there are some gaspingly hilarious moments in 'Lost in America.' I wouldn't mind being Albert Brooks. Without ever having a huge commercial success, he has been able to produce films regularly (while appearing in others) for the last thirty years. He's sort of a poor man's Woody Allen, but frankly I prefer Brooks and find his comic style much more palatable. 'Lost in America' finds David Howard (Brooks) expecting a big promotion at the ad agency where he works. More than expecting it, he is banking on it. He and his wife Linda (Julie Hagerty) have sold their house and bought a new one, so certain are they of this impending move up and increase in salary. David's friends and co-workers have all told him he's a shoo-in for the job. Yet worry nags at him. He's like a little kid who has convinced himself he's going to get a pony for Christmas but deep down knows there's no way. The big day arrives and when the dust has settled, David's worst fears have come true. In fact, worse than his worst fears, because before that dust settles, more has happened than he could have conceived that morning while he was rehearsing his 'acceptance speech.' This is the funniest scene in the film, a classic little study of human nature when everything that can possibly go wrong does. It's not slapstick; it's just a three-way conversation between David, his boss, and a bald man from New York. Before his boss even has a chance to really say anything, David launches into his thank you's and what a great day it is and how he is going to practically live at the agency from now on, giving the new job his all. That's great, his boss says, except you're not being promoted, you're going to New York to work on a new account (Ford) as Brad's (the bald man) assistant. Nothing in David's repertoire of responses is adequate to reply to this; part of his overcoming the nagging worry was to totally dismiss the possibility of this happening. So he loses it, completely. He rips into his boss, into Brad, into Brad's impromptu idea for a jingle (this little Town Car, will drive you away to the tune of 'New York, New York'), into his wasted years at the agency, into his boss's hairpiece, into New York itself (if you think it's so great, why don't YOU go to New York? he shouts). By the end of all this, which has taken less than fifteen minutes, he not only doesn't have the promotion, he's been fired. All of which is just the set-up for the rest of the film. A super-hyped-up David dashes to Linda's office and breathlessly tells her what happened, desperately trying to put the best spin on things. He decides on the spur of the moment that they should sell everything they own and drop out of society, like they did in 'Easy Rider.' One of the ideas he spews out has to do with uninhibited sex (I think) and concludes with the inspired thought that there are some people you f*** in front of and some people you don't. We'll FIND THE ONES... and then we'll spend the rest of our lives f****** in front of them! Linda tries to calm him down before he hyperventilates but soon he is rushing off to price motorhomes. From there, they head off across America in a Winnebago, to touch Indians among other things, but the trek turns out to be an abbreviated one as they only make it as far as Arizona, after Linda gambles away all their money in Las Vegas. There are other funny moments which inevitably seem a bit anti-climactic after the high-intensity rush of laughter induced by the above-mentioned two scenes. Still, it is a well-paced comedy that finds Brooks at a peak, consistently coming up with funny lines and situations. Many of the ideas hit very close to home with young urban professionals, if they are self-observant enough to notice. Not too many films are really 'laugh out loud' funny, but 'Lost in America' is one of them. "},{"Title":"Lost In America","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Papa Villone asserts that If you can manage to find more than four memorable quotes in a film, it's a classic of some sort. Well, Albert Brooks' 1985 film Lost In America is so stocked with great quotes that it's off Papa's meter MERCEDES leather? What's MERCEDES leather?I've seen the future and it's a bald man from New York!I like Wayne Newton. Are you saying I'M a schmuck?You can't even SAY the word 'egg' any more. When you go into the woods you see a bird's round stick. For breakfast you have THING'S with ham.I'm losing my right eye. What? I'm losing my right eye. What?An adult should NOT get a bloody nose.This film is hysterical. I watched it over at Casey's house for the first time a few days ago. Casey said he'd already seen it five or six times and now I know why. Director, writer and star Albert Brooks has created the perfect yuppie comedy. An advertising executive in his thirties who is on the verge of buying a new house for he and his wife, which he's hoping to coincide with his long-awaited promotion to vice president, is called into his bosses office and learns that not only isn't he getting the promotion, all he's getting is a lateral transfer (from their LA office to their New York offices). In probably the finest job- quitting scene in the history of film, Brooks explodes in the most acerbic, articulate way everybody has always dreamed of when realizing all their years of hard work mean nothing.He leaves his job, talks his wife (Julie Haggerty) into quitting hers, and they decide to find themselves on the open road just like Easy Rider. They sell EVERYTHING, buy a Winnebago and STILL have about 150,000 dollars to their name and head to Vegas. Brooks qualifies himself every time he has to deal with someone Hi, uh, my wife and I have dropped out of society, and... They have enough money, he conservatively estimates, to stay on the road for the rest of their lives. That's before she loses their nest egg at the roulette table. Brooks the adman tries to talk the casino owner (Garry Marshall) into giving back the money. It doesn't work, but Brooks keeps pushing, trying to sell the casino on improving its image. (I'm a high-paid advertising consultant. These are professional opinions you're getting.) There are other great scenes, as the desperate couple tries to find work to support themselves An interview with an unemployment counselor, who listens, baffled, to Brooks explaining why he left a $100,000-a-year job because he couldn't find himself. And Brooks' wife introducing her new boss, a teenage boy.The funniest aspect of the film, though, is the element of materialistic panic Brooks is able to squeeze out of his character. He's a typical A-type, potential heart-attack victim he makes a lot of money (80K! ), but not enough; who lives in a big house, but is outgrowing it; who drives an expensive car, but not a Mercedes-Benz; who is a top executive, but not a vice president. In short, he is a desperate man, trapped by his own expectations.See this with your friend from Microsoft who got hired fresh out of high school. "},{"Title":"Lost in America 6/10","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Many of today's youth knows Albert Brooks as simply a voice of a fish in Finding Nemo. The rest mostly know him for his comedic shtick (I know him mainly from his guest appearances on The Simpsons), and it seems like Lost in America is a perfect example of Brooks' comedic talents. His deadpan routine is really what made him famous, and this was really an introduction to his work for me. I was underwhelmed but not really disappointed.David Howard (Brooks) is an advertising guy who is expecting a promotion, but when he doesn't get it, he decided to take his wife Linda (Julie Hagerty) to start a new life, Easy Rider style. She quits her job and they go out roaming the country in their new Winnebago. However, when they get to Vegas, David finds out something about Linda that will change their entire journey.Put simply, Lost in America is not a funny movie. It is comedic, sure, but it never made me laugh once. Their situations were grounded in reality, and what Brooks (who also directed and co-wrote) was going for was to show what could actually happen in real life. Therefore, there was nothing in the least wacky going on. I think Brooks was having trouble keeping a lot of funny things for reality; much of what was somewhat funny was whatever was improvised and started to grow a little over-the-top.On the other hand, where at one point Lost in America failed with it having be in a basis of reality, it was good that it seemed real, that it could happen to anyone. Everyone has a little David Howard in them, and when he was basically telling his boss to `take his job and shove it', everyone who has ever worked in corporate America, much like Office Space, would be standing up and cheering.In addition, Lost in America was constantly entertaining. There were no dull moments, and at a quick 91 minutes, it's a cheerful diversion. It's not funny, but with Albert Brooks, Julie Hagerty, a simple plot and consistent entertainment, how can you go wrong?My rating 6/10Rated R for some language. "},{"Title":"An Unexpected Delight","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Lost in America shows that Albert Brooks is a unique individual, who can tell a realistic story with dialogue and structure that are just as quirky as his character, David Howard. We start with what is clearly an unhappy couple having a tense discussion about how their life will play out in the next few days. David will get a promotion, the two of them will move to a new house, and everything will be fine. It is when David does not get the promotion he expects that everything changes, and the couple has to learn to live spontaneously.Wait though, because this can't just happen &#x96; the characters have to learn/make mistakes in order to change their outlook on life. David is still very methodical, planning to use a specific amount of money for one thing and carefully spend the rest on luxuries after the two are remarried. Unfortunately, the film resides to making a dumb character out of his wife Linda, who loses all of their money (except $820) on an entire night of playing roulette. Because God forbid we have a thoughtful female for the protagonist's wife in this film about finding the self.To me, the pacing of this film seems a little off &#x96; it is quick and funny at some parts, but these parts are cut between some scenes that are overly long with few cuts and tons of dialogue to preach the message of the film to the viewer, the message being when times are tough it is important not to lose the sense of self.The second half of the film is not as predictable as the first half, particularly the delightful turn at the conclusion of the film. With the tone of the film set, I knew this film would have a happy ending, but what I was expecting did not involve David getting his previous job back, because it kind of goes against the themes presented in the middle of the film. I enjoyed the nice surprise though, and things were clear to me when David asked if he should eat s*** in New York &#x96; it made the scene where he examines a dream car passing by a lot more relevant than I had taken that scene to be. While most of the film force feeds the importance of living life by your own terms (especially with too many references to Easy Rider) David getting his executive job back at the end shows that, as I have read somewhere before, financial stability can equal emotional stability at times. "},{"Title":"Belongs on side 1 of Albert Brooks' Greatest Hits","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Son of a bitch, that was some ending.Albert Brooks' Lost in America takes two middle-class yuppies (Brooks and Julie Hagerty) and sends them out on the open road to find themselves. Think Easy Rider with everything going comically wrong. Hagerty loses their life savings in Las Vegas, and the beleaguered couple find themselves in minimum-wage jobs somewhere in Arizona.Brooks zeroes in his biting wit on middle-class America (and the general malaise therein), fashioning a droll satire (of the highest order) in the process. Brooks' neurotic personality is played to the hilt, infusing his scenes with off-the-wall energy, while Hagerty's mousy bewilderment makes for a great foil character. And then there's Garry Marshall in a restrained bit performance that's just comedy gold. But Brooks takes their story of hopelessness and despair, and brings it full circle, making the movie a wry comment on the romantic notion of fleeing suburban ennui in favor of an idealistic trip across the country. Four my money, as good as the preceding running time is, that ending makes the movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"wildly misunderstood","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this is often seen and reviewed as a mid-80a update to the culture shock and general societal alienation manifested in the early 60s; nope; it's mainly one of the first post women's lib male emasculation movies; short take- a couple of airhead CA types decide to sort of bail on the big bucks and the system; crossing the country in vegas the simpering, cutey-pie wife morphs into a hysteric who loses all their money at the tables; then she berates him for being mad about it, for even mentioning it; she becomes so peeved she also gets into a car and goes off with another guy; nice; but the almost eunuch pursues, is beat up by the new guy, and simmers as she laughs at her husband for his general ineptness and cowardliness with her boyfriend of the minute; now a full eunuch brooks finally gets them to nyc where he takes the same old job with a 31% salary cut, and still with the simpering wife who lost all their money; it's all brooks, which is sometimes brilliant, sometimes needing an editor; but no way it's a lighthearted long, long trailer type trials and tribulations as lucy and desi find out what's most important "},{"Title":"Linda Howard....if you really drop out...you drop out with nothing","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  David Howard (played by Albert Brooks) and his wife, Linda Howard (played by Julie Hagerty) have the good life and everything that goes with it and are just about to move into their California dream house. However, they begin to wonder if their lives have become too responsible and controlled. Escape for them presents itself when David doesn't get the long awaited corporate promotion to senior vice president and he quits his job- or is fired, you be the judge. David then convinces his wife that they have been on the road to no where- you know the road, and she quits her job. Now they're free to head for open spaces and purse their dream to just touch Indians.Quickly they sell everything and escape from yuppiedom with their nest egg intact. They. get the motor runnin'. in their new motor home and. head out on the highway. a la Easy Rider. At that moment life is wonderful and toasted cheese never tasted better. One quick stop in Las Vegas and they will be on their way to touch Indians. But in less time than it takes to say 22, their nest egg is depleted, their marriage in peril, and they are hopelessly lost in America.Not to fear, while temporarily lost they rediscover their love for each other, get a good dose of small town life, and decide to rejoin the rat race.Lost in America should strike a chord with especially those that saw Easy Rider and repressed the impulse to drop out of society. Great, great, writing by Albert Brooks and Monica Johnson. Brooks and Hagerty are successful in creating the same type of zany marital chemistry and intensity which existed in I Love Lucy, The Honeymooners, and All in the Family. This movie is great therapy!  "},{"Title":"I've seen the future!","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" And it's a bald headed man from New York! There are so many great lines - Garry Marshall is fantastic as the casino owner - from his opening We have to tawk to Schmucks like Wayne Newton? - he's underrated and used to perfection in this film. Hey, I even like the bellhop who shows the couple-to-be-married to their room. Is this the bridal suite? I don't know. Does this open to another room? I don't know. Can you push these beds together? I don't know. Understated and hilarious. This is among Brooks' best movies. Along with Defending Your Life, and of course, Real Life, Brooks is an absolute master at dry, subtle humor.When this movie came out, I was about ten years away from being the right age to blow up at my boss, drop out and live free like in Easy Rider. When I got to the right age, I had kids and obligations, so this movie lets me live vicariously. And I don't even have to eat **** in order to do it! 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"But honey - I said i was sorry","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My title is a quote from the movie. It's what julie hagerty says to her husband albert brooks after she, in one evening, gambles away their life's savings right after they quit their jobs to retire in their RV!!This is a very funny show about how everything goes wrong in the world. Brooks is perfect as the yuppy husband and jule hagerty is great as his hysterical wife. Hagerty played a similar role in Airplane, probably the funniest movie ever made. With her high pitched voice and skinny face no one was better at playing a helpless and useless female.I'm not a big albert brooks fan but, like jerry lewis, he did come up with one bonafide masterpiece. "}{"Title":"this movie never gets lost","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Why not take an adventure to get to know one's country a little better? That's exactly what David (Albert Brooks) and Linda Howard (Julie Hagerty) do. After David loses a promotion that he's been anticipating, he quits his job and gets Linda to quit hers. The two proceed to travel across the United States, looking into every aspect of American life. Naturally, there are a few mishaps along the way.I could say that Lost in America is Easy Rider transposed to the '80's, but that doesn't do it justice. It's more of a look at life in general, and how the simplest things can yield unexpected results.Watch for Happy Days creator Garry Marshall as a casino owner in Las Vegas. "},{"Title":"I like his brand of humor","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Albert Brooks It seems that one either likes him or can't stand him. Sorta like David Letterman.  It is my observation that many folks don't get his quirky brand of humor - and that's OK.  Brooks is in a class by himself.I happen to relish his droll wit, and there are many scenes in this movie that I look forward to watching every time I rerun it, which is about twice a year.  His resignation from the advertising firm is classic Brooks, as is the encounter with the casino manager, played by Gary Marshall.The script has some memorable lines and some of the dialog will regularly creep into conversations with members of my family who also share my amusement with this flick.  C'mon 22, Down, and advice about how to handle the Nestegg are especially noteworthy.It's one of Albert's funniest efforts and if you like his humor, you will definitely enjoy all 91 minutes of this film.  9/10 "},{"Title":"My legs are tired...let's live here!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the best comedies ever...I crack up every time I see the part where he's working as the crossing guard and sniffs the leather inside the luxury car which stops & asks for directions...It's a cruel reversal from Lester Burnham in American Beauty...as Kevin Spacey's character really wants to experience minimum wage employment again (to spite his wife), but Albert Brooks' David Howard has hit the skids because of his dim-witted spouse.  And yet, he sucks it up and makes it work in the end because he still loves her...Ain't love grand!The fact that America never embraced Albert Brooks' films is a crying shame... "},{"Title":"Where's the story?","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Didn't see it when it first came out in the 80's, but was interested when shown on TCM a couple of nights back, thinking I had missed something not following Brook's career closer, since the little I had seen of him had shown quite an intelligent comedian. And being a sucker to abandon-modern-life-go-back-to-simpler-way-of-life stories, was actually quite excited about the premise, but then the couple mentions going to Las Vegas and I thought No, it can't be, it would kill the story right there. Guess what! It was! What a wasted opportunity for adventure and to explore America a la Easy Rider...I can't believe this is in AFI's top 100 comedies...Also I can see now why Brooks never developed much of a career. "},{"Title":"Brooks, Brooks, and more Brooks.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How much you like Brooks' Lost in America will have everything to do with how much you like Brooks. More of the same old Brooks wit played out in a tale about a yuppie couple who decide to drop out, sell everything, and take their nest egg on the road in a Winnebago to find themselves. Lost in America is not the best nor the worst of Brooks and plays out a little flat though it does have its moments. An okay but dated small screen watch for Brooks fans and couch potatoes who stand nothing to lose by a sampling. (C+) "},{"Title":"Seems most of the people like the films of his/her culture","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I will not read reviews anymore. For me this movie is not funny as some people said, nor gave me anything. I didn't laugh at any scene...Two idiot persons.. Albert Brook has been talking too much and made me bored... What I concluded reading IMDb reviews and looking at the grades is that American like American films, Indian like Indian films and grades get high accordingly. of course there are films getting high grades and positive comments from all over the world; I like that kind of movies. The reason of I don't like this film might be because our pleasure has been changed from 30 years. So I decided not to watch the movies from 80's ) "},{"Title":"Some good laughs","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" David (Albert Brooks) is an ad exec expecting a big promotion. He and Linda Howard (Julie Hagerty) have sold their house for a bigger house. Instead of being the new senior VP, he's being shipped to NY for their new Ford account. He goes ballistic and gets fired. David convinces Linda to quit her job and abandon their successful yuppie lives to find themselves like 'Easy Rider'. They sell everything and buy a Winnebago. They go to Vegas to get remarried but things go terribly wrong when Linda loses all of their money gambling.The movie starts a little slow. I rather they get to the Winnebago faster. Albert Brooks is wildly talkative. Julie Hagerty is adorably hilarious. She is just insanely funny when she loses her money. The little hearts bridal suit is really the start of the laughs. There are some great laughs although Albert Brooks could sharpening his directing skills. He tends to run on and on. "},{"Title":"Great scenes, but thin and missing an ending.","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Albert Brooks is a wonderful talent, somewhat of a Woody Allen offshoot, and his script writing is witty and has just the right amount of offbeat humour to it.The film has a great premise, and the characters are realistic and sympathetic enough to retain attention, but it moves too fast and feels underdeveloped. It starts out with Howard (Brooks) established as a moderately successful advertising executive, who with his managerial wife, plan to put a down payment on a 400k house. But the corporate lifestyle has sapped some of the excitement out of both their lives, and before divorce proceedings set in, they hilariously quit their jobs and set out on the open road to find themselves. And along the way they bring the 'nest egg'. Unfortunately, things don't go as planned, and the soul searching quickly becomes a trip through hell. With each quagmire the couple finds themselves in, Brooks' character hilariously pleads with the people he sees as obstacles to their luck. The film is built around 3 or 4 of these lengthy, seemingly improvised sketch scenes, and is what provides most of the entertainment apart from the scenario. But after the main twist and conflict happens, the film loses steam and the hijinx quickly dissipitate until the film deflates at the end. Little soul searching actually occurs, and the film has a realistic, but disappointing ending after much of the build up to their quagmire. The ending just isn't what was promised after the dark hilarity of misfortune that preceded it. The characters feel annoyingly self entitled at first, and start to grate, but the writing and short running times keeps things feeling fresh long enough to want to finish. Worth watching just for Brooks. "},{"Title":"Episodic but Funny","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A Yuppie couple leaves its jobs, liquidates its assets, and buys an RV, intent on living on the road like their idols in Easy Rider. Things don't go as planned because of a single event. That single event is so contrived and unbelievably stupid that one doesn't feel any sympathy for the couple. However, one can laugh at them. Brooks could be Woody Allen's irritable cousin in terms of his neurotic behavior and impatience. Like Allen's films prior to Annie Hall, this one is episodic, and some of the episodes are quite funny. It doesn't quite come together as a satisfying whole, but the journey is worth taking, and Brooks knows not to overstay his welcome. "},{"Title":"Glad I found it","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Minor spoilersSometimes you just want to go on a road trip.  Just hit the highway and let it take you somewhere.  It's always been a fantasy of mine to just leave it all behind and discover something.  If that sounds appealing to you, then you will probably enjoy `Lost In America'. Make no mistake about it, this movie is funny because Albert Brooks is in his element. Nothing against Julie Hagerty, who plays her ditzy role well but is Brooks' antics that are the source of all that is risible here.  From the mixed start to their adventure (`Born To Be Wild' plays as a biker flips them off) to the clever Las Vegas and `$100,000 jobs' scene this is a great comedy.  The title is clever also with its duel aspect of being lost and trying to find yourself, and being lost in corporate America itself.  Good stuff.  	  "}{"Title":"Can't miss with Al Brooks, baby...","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Very amusing, cute, and, at times, laugh-out loud entertainment.  An excellent date movie; one that can be viewed over and over, too.   Albert Brooks is one of my all-time favorite comedic actors- in a league with pros like Steve Martin.  Did I mention that you should rent it tonight? "},{"Title":"a bird lives in a round stick","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i disagree with a previous comment.  i don't think you need to be over 45 to appreciate this film.  you just have to have the same fear that Brooks has in this movie could i have caused the unhappiness that i feel because i made a bad choice with my life's direction? wonderful neurosis is portrayed, but backed up with a bit of pomposity, too. this is an overlooked film.  catch it if you can.  "},{"Title":"great but ending could be better","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have always thought of Albert Brooks as a West Coast Woody Allen. This movie is no exception, and some of the dialogue is priceless. (My favorite Brooks is looking through a filebox of job listings in a small town and says to the job counselor in all seriousness, Don't you have a $100,000 box?) The movie pokes fun at Yuppie culture and Yuppies without ever becoming nasty about it. This movie focuses on two yuppies (Brooks, Julie Hagerty) who have tired of their lifestyle and decide to take to the road in a Winnebago a la Easy Rider. First Hagerty loses all their money at blackjack, which precipitates Brooks' hilarious nest egg speech. Misadventure follows misadventure, until the couple are forced to take minimum wage jobs just to survive. I love the part where Brooks tries to get the money back from the casino owner. The only problem I had with this movie was the ending. It happened too fast and seemed somehow tacked-on, as if the screenwriter had to think of something fast that would only take about five minutes. Had the movie taken about fifteen more minutes to explain the couples' motive in why they resolved things as they did, the ending would have worked. As it stands, however, it's unsatisfying and seems more like a sell out. A darn shame.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Synopsis of Yuppie Culture","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a GREAT movie. But you have to be over 45 to appreciate it. It basically says everything one needs to know about trying to achieve success in America - materiality, money, sex, heroes, hypocrisy. I watch this movie twice a year and quote lines from it constantly. Come on 22. (Even the number harkens back to Casablanca). "},{"Title":"The Yuppies' Easy Rider","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" We have all wanted to do it.At one time or another we have all wanted to flee our drab,bottomless pit lives to see and discover the world.It's a very tempting idea.Fortunately,what we learn from films like Lost in America is that Winnebagos don't run on faith.Albert Brooks and Julie Hagerty teach us this lesson well,making us laugh at them,as well as ourselves when we picture ourselves in their position.When it comes to comedies,I tend to lean more toward the slapstick side of things.It's the way I have always been,but Lost in America gives us laughs and teaches us a lesson at the same time,making it worth seeing again. "},{"Title":"You actually feel compassion for Albert Brooks","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Peppy dialogue and workmanlike direction are all very well and good, but they are not what distinguish this movie. This movie plays out a familiar nightmare that many people barely avoid--what if you were stuck out in the sticks and had no resources and no one around to understand your jokes? Wisely Brooks did not try to milk this idea for the whole length of the movie, but instead left it as a second-act problem. He resolves the problem quickly and easily because otherwise this black comedy would be disturbingly close to tragedy.One thing I like about this movie is that its last scene is on my block. The basic pitch is the same as Orwell's Keep the Aspidistra Flying--has anyone else noticed? "},{"Title":"the hook","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You have to laugh at the character Albert Brooks portrays. After starting off with some righteous indignity, things just go from bad to worse. For me, that's the funny part.The whole adventure would seem to be some great adventure, they lose all their money, he tries ingratiating himself to the casino manager, Garry Marshall, who's having none of it. Then he gets beat up by that guy (The way he tells it, the guy was already dead when he got there). He looks for a job...a six-figure job...in Podunk Arizona, ends up as a crossing guard where the kids don't even respect him. And his wife has a teenage boss. This whole domino effect keeps pushing him down and when they pull out of there, they don't even roll up the awning.Maybe it throws off some viewers because we're usually rooting for the protagonist. But I think it's an Albert Brooks pattern, like in the movie with Charles Grodin et al where the unintrusive documentary about a family causes them to melt down. "},{"Title":"lost in...aimlessness","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mild chucklefest about a bored ad exec approaching 40 who talks his wife into abandoning their jobs for life on the road. Your typical Albert Brooks offering, which of course, is not for all tastes. Some can take to his light style of humor like addicts to coke, while others will scream how mediocre this film is to be held up as an example at screen-writing classes.Most of Brooks' humor in his films come from his characters being utterly flummoxed by life or his grinny observations about everyday people. You get that usual array here, but unlike some of his other efforts, this Brooks screenplay seemed oddly malnourished. He gets caught up in this whole Easy Rider nonsense and places the film's more humorous and intriguing moments at the front. The business with Hagerty and the casino happens so quickly, that it a) uses the best device too fast, and b) seems too out of character for her. Brooks needed more time spent on the road meeting goofy locals and emptying his RV's chemical toilet that would eventually prompt Hagerty to do what she does early. And therein lies the film's bigger problem they only really have one predicament. Once they hit their financial nadir, they look for jobs, work them for one day, and the film ends with a cop-out minutes later.Sorry to forward-project, but I was a GREAT admirer of Brooks' Defending Your Life. It had his usual breezy, near lulling atmosphere on display, but with the life-after-death exploration as a great backdrop, that filmed worked better. Lost in America just sort of coasts along with random vignettes before breaking down at the side of the road. "},{"Title":"This movie is a riot!","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not only is this movie a riot but it is a classic! There are very few movies I can watch over and over and this is ONE of of them! Albert Brooks is brilliant as is the ENTIRE cast. Every time I watch it I hear different comic lines and they just keep coming! After their argument (at the Hoover Damn) his wife decides to put her thumb out to get away from him and gets picked up. He finds her in a restaurant and after an altercation with the guy who picks her up, he says to her, Next time time can you get a ride with a small, old woman? So many classic lines and scenes I can't go on! I highly recommend! One thing I always wonder about is how their lives would have turned out if they hadn't stopped in Las Vegas! "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really enjoyed this film. Albert Brooks and Julie Haggerty play a successful yuppie couple who seem to be perfectly happy. A new house, a new Mercedes Benz, etc. This all changes when Albert Brooks is denied a promotion at his advertising firm. Of course, Albert Brooks has a breakdown and convinces his wife into buying a motor-home and traveling across the country. Brooks sees this as the perfect opportunity for he and his wife to let loose, stop being responsible, and find themselves. The results are very funny and very entertaining. Albert Brooks is as likable as ever in this thought provoking and true to life comedy. ***1/2 out of ****. "}{"Title":"The Only Problem With This Film Is That It's Too Short","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" **THIS REVIEW CONTAINS QUOTES/SPOILERS** I've read a few comments here, and can't believe anyone doesn't find this film hysterical. This film might contain a few moments that fall a bit flat; but for the most part, this film is a comic masterpiece. And what's so sad, I've been laid off a few times, and have suffered the consequences, but still can find the humor in this film.Some priceless quotes include You're much too clever to be senior vice president. I need you creatively. I've made Phil Chibano SVP.I hate your suit, Brad. A transfer???? I can get that at a bus terminal! Our hairpiece secret is off.Don't have lunch with this man. Security...Don't worry....I leave on my own free will. 22, 22. She likes 22, doesn't she?The Nest Egg Principle.You're down on your luck, are you? You don't want to know.Oh, you mean the $100,000 box. Brillo head.Kill the child. What are you? I'm a crossing guard. What are you? I'm the new Assistant Manager at the Der Wienerschnitzel.He, Skippy, had to sleep on it? These are just a few of the priceless gems from this film that will only be appreciated as gems once you see it. I've asked all my friends to watch this film, only so that I can communicate with them in Lost in America-code thereafter. Ask your co-workers to see it as well....quoting this film with them from time to time will bring a smile to your workday. My brother even orders pizza under the name of Phil Chibano. This is my favorite of Brooks' films...I wish he would write and direct more frequently. However, he's stated that he can only turn them out once every 5 or 6 years. Too bad. Modern Romance and Real Life are also quiet gems as well, but this one's his best, I believe. Julie Hagerty was nothing short of perfect casting for the role of his wife in Lost in America. And, we're treated to a very nice cameo by Gary Marshall as well (The Desert Inn has heart. The Desert Inn has heart. Oooo, it gives me chills just thinking about it. Your room....comped.) Rent this film and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie about a California based adman who gets a transfer to New York and refuses to move. As a result he is fired. Weighing his options with his wife, the couple decides to sell everything and buy a large RV and travel the country for a few years.At Brooks' insistence the couple decide to stop off in Las Vegas to get remarried. When Brooks goes to sleep, his wife sneaks off and loses everything they have in the casino. With no options the couple are forced to live in a trailer park and take very low paying jobs.Through it all, Brooks starts to realize that moving to New York might not have been a bad decision after all Gary Marshall makes an hilarious cameo as a casino manager that has to explain to Brooks how his wife lost all there money and then becomes annoyed when Brooks suggests that it would be an advertising boon if the casino gave all the money back.I loved this movie! "},{"Title":"Underrated Classic","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's not laugh out loud funny. It's not very long. It's not particularly obvious. This film is like a joke that doesn't make you laugh when you hear it but that gets funnier and funnier as time goes on and you find yourself in situations that remind you of this movie. This is a thoughtful, subtle work of reality film. I would love to befriend the Howards, which is a tribute to the affectionate nature of the performances. Perfect casting. Classic, memorable one-liners. A gem. It's interesting that more films aren't made of the whacky plots that life's great imagination throws up. Yes, there are lot's of true crime works, usually given the Hollywood treatment. The events in some people's lives are so unlikely and unusual that there is definitely more scope for the reality genre. Very challenging to script, act and direct with the kind of delicate restraint as we see in Lost in America. "},{"Title":"Even FUNNIER in post-bubble 2002.","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How can ANYBODY think this movie is dated? I just watched it for the first time in years - and it's even MORE appropriate for these times.A male yuppie type-A doesn't get the right job and so convinces his wife to dump her job too so that they can touch Indians and find themselves - with the help of a gigantic motorhome and a nest egg of 100-odd thousand dollars. And of course the SECOND that things don't work out, they give in and go back their former yuppie lives. YES, the movie is short (blissfully short - 91 minutes of pure comic genius) but the sudden conclusion and mad dash across the country is the whole point...! It couldn't have ended any other way!The premise alone is wonderful enough, but throw in the fabulous comic timing of both Brooks and Julie Haggerty, great supporting performances, impressive directing from Brooks and a near-perfect screenplay, and I believe you have what ya might call... a GREAT FILM!My vote for funniest line? Tie between Touch that keno card and I will kill you... I will kill you and You couldn't change your life on a hundred thousand dollars? "},{"Title":"Quite possibly, the funniest movie ever made...","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Boy, reading the comment from that 'anonymous' couple made me question their entire relationship, but that's another story. A friend turned me on to LOST IN AMERICA a few years ago and nothing I've seen since has compared - in any way, shape or form.Basic outline A successful, middle-aged couple from New York gather up their nest egg and decide to drop out of society. With everything in tow, they embark on a journey in a deluxe R.V. First stop, Las Vegas. I won't reveal too much, but it's the way the various situations are handled that makes this film so superior. Without resorting to throwaway gags or lame slapstick, the movie is painfully funny. There are too many scenes to mention that stand out as genius (a word applied carefully here), but they resonate deep in to the mind.I'm unsure why the other couple assumed you were meant to feel sorry for them, as this is far from what the movie intended. At the very least, it is a truly hilarious commentary on money, society, marriage and survival. From Julie Haggerty to 'Skippy', all the performances are exceptional. Albert Brooks *rarely* makes a bad movie. He's absolutely watchable in anything. In this he shines. I can hear his desperate plea to the casino boss in my head (see it and you'll understand).The film is immensely enjoyable, vastly underrated and virtually impossible to appreciate with one sitting. They should put this in a time capsule. "},{"Title":"Not Albert Brooks at his best.","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It started out with such promise. I love Brooks' humor. Most people I know don't, but the idea that this yuppie was going to engineer a find yourself tour of America for himself and his unwilling wife in a Winnebago held out the promise of a rich minefield of comedy to come. After Julie Hagerty's character loses the entire nest egg in their first stop in Vegas, I couldn't watch the movie anymore and I walked out by the time they got to the Grand Canyon.I don't know if it was just my disappointment at Albert Brooks' use of such an obvious situational device as the loss of all the money to set up the rest of the film, or my own sense of unquenchable murderous rage at the wife for having been so weak and stupid to lose every dime and completely undermine the rest of their lives, but I could not watch another frame of this movie, and have not gone back to it to this day. Once you lose heart, once you can no longer maintain the willing suspension of disbelief, you are through with a film. Defending Your Life was so brilliant. This was just awful. "},{"Title":"masterpiece","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Few comedies can truly be called cinematic masterpieces. Particularly in the last two decades we've seen a real scarcity of comic inspiration in the cinema. Albert Brooks' Lost in America is brilliant. Easily the best comedy of the bloated 1980s, possibly of the last thirty years. It ranks among the works of Preston Sturges in terms of sheer comic invention.Albert Brooks and Julie Hagerty are a Los Angeles yuppie couple who are happily married but feel stuck in the go-go 1980s decade of shallow materialism. When Brooks doesn't get the promotion he feels he deserves he spontaneously quits and convinces his wife to do the same. they liquidate their assets, buy a mobile home and ride off just like Easy Rider into America, to find themselves and touch Indians.One thing about Brooks' comedy style it is brutally, brutally cynical. You just know their jaunt into the heartland of America isn't going to end well. And yet, Brooks' sincerity about his character making a statement about selling everything and going off in search of America is clearly genuine. That what makes this film so remarkable. This is a portrait of an artist in wild conflict with himself. When Brooks sees the Mercedes at the end and the film shifts to soft-focus lighting and we hear a choir singing - that has to be one of the funniest, yet most cynical moments in any comedy ever made.I would highly recommend this film to anyone. However, not everyone gets Brooks' style of comedy. Some people seem to find him annoying. But he is one of the funniest men alive, too.Also, the scene with Brooks and the casino manager when Brooks pitches his advertising idea, is one of the funniest scenes in film history. "},{"Title":"The price of becoming 'irresponsible'...","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Los Angeles advertising executive, expecting a promotion within his company, is instead offered an out-of-state transfer that sounds suspiciously like a demotion; he chucks his job, talks his wife into quitting her managerial position in the mall, and together they hit the highway in a newly-acquired motor home. The couple's first stop Las Vegas! Pungent, prodding bitter-pill comedy from director and star Albert Brooks, who also co-wrote the nervously tasty screenplay with Monica Johnson. The Vegas stopover does present a contrived wrinkle in this otherwise surefire concept, dealing with Julie Hagerty's suddenly devil-may-care spouse who loses her head in the casino overnight. Although probably very likely, one is aware that this circumstance is being used as a stepping stone to the rest of the picture (and it also turns Hagerty's character into a ditz, which the actress has to work hard to overcome). Otherwise, Lost in America is an amusing, gently acerbic journey with a vivid and brilliant look, due in part to Eric Saarinen's terrific cinematography. Acted to perfection by Brooks, who knows instinctively how to connect directly with the audience without pandering for affection. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Extremely funny","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" SPOILER ALERT! Surely one of the funniest films of the 1980s. Yuppies Albert Brooks & Julie Hagerty decide to drop out of society, buy a Winnebago and hit the road. Things go from hopeful to hopeless pretty quickly. Leaving LA, they get as far as Las Vegas where Hagerty gets caught up in a mean, and unlucky, gambling streak. The couple soon realize that the materialistic life they fled was actually good for them. Brooks is brilliantly funny and the script (by Brooks & Monica Johnson) is chock full of now classic scenes Brooks & Hagerty checking into a hotel's junior bridal suite; Hagerty getting a job at a fast food joint called Der Wienersnitzl; Brooks blowing up at his boss and informing him that their toupee secret is off. This remains Brooks's best film, so rich and so telling. Brooks is very well matched by the slightly off-kilter Hagerty and the supporting cast includes Michael Greene as Brooks's insensitive boss and a very funny Gary Marshall as a befuddled casino manager. "},{"Title":"Gone to the country! (spoilers)","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'Lost in America' is a pretty funny movie about a couple's desire to break free from the strains of structured society. As Albert Brooks's character, David Howard, consistenly asks, Have you ever seen Easy Rider? Basically, he and his wife just pick up and head off to get away from it all and they think they've got their roughing it epiphany all planned out. And boy, were they wrong.Despite Albert Brooks's typically annoying character (David) who just loves to berate a point to death, both he and Haggerty were good in this little adventure/mishap. Brooks is David Howard, an advertising executive. His wife, Linda (Haggerty) is a personnel manager. They just sold their house and David is expecting a promotion. At first, Linda is the only one with doubts about the way things going, particularly the lack of spontaneity and the scary realization that everything with her and David, their jobs, and so forth, will be stagnat and pretty boring from that point forward. It takes David awhile to figure out that he's stuck in a rut as well after being passed up for a vice president promotion while some younger guy with less seniority gets the job. David, as usual, tries to plead with the person who seems to be his present obstacle to his goal, but to no avail. In fact, he makes a total fool out of himself, and suddenly finds himself out of a job. WARNING SPOILERS BEYOND THIS POINT.But the failed meeting actually energizes David into doing some thinking, basically having the same realizations (although impulsively so) that his wife does. The plan just quit the jobs, save the house, and hit the road in their Winnebego with the protection of their nearly two-thousand dollar nest egg to carry them along for the next few years, protecting the nomads. The first mistake relying on this plan.As the movie tells you at the end, anyone with a plan like this should completely avoid Nevada at all costs. While stopping there to renew their vows, David and Linda stop at the 'Desert Inn,' where Linda gambles away nearly every bit of the nest egg, at least an amount that meant something. And now, the couple's relationship becomes like a father yelling at his teenage child for totally wrecking valuable items. And with only their Winnebego, a short supply of gas and food, and hot tempers left to guide them, they really will get to experience roughing it...Hollywood style anyway.I don't particularly like the ending. I suspect with convictions this strict, they might not have been expected to stick it out in the boonies trailer park in some teeny tiny Arizona squat, but they could've gone elsewhere and roughed it. Then again, that's almost as unrealistic as the ending they used in the movie loading up the camper and heading back to homebase. Though, with a near total loss of a pretty valuable nest egg (they were gambling the whole thing from the start--putting nothing off to the side), the only thing to do was turn around and go back to everything they knew and, like a Hollywood ending, get equal to or better than what they had when the left, even though David for the most part left on bad terms with his boss, letting the expletives fly and the veins poke out. Isn't there a movie where the family says yes, lets get away from all of this bullsh*t, and actually go through with it to the end? The real self-finding experience and all of that. Not something that suddenly turns into the characters rethinking how much they wanted to get away from it, deciding that yeah, so this kind of lifestyle is sucking the life from us, but we're just too used to it to leave. Then again, is there ever a middle ground? Like, if David and Linda went back, but couldn't get that $100,000/year job back or she couldn't get such an exciting jobs. Double dang! No less, aside from that, you might enjoy this one. "}{"Title":"One of the all-time great comedies","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you've never seen an Albert Brooks movie--and if you're like much of America, you've never had this treat--this is a great primer. Howlingly funny dialogue, with one of the few comedy hyphenates who's willing to present his characters as an obnoxious patoot. A laugh riot from start to finish, particularly if you enjoy the EASY RIDER references "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Anonymous is utterly wrong.  I will now use her review of this film as the standard by I which I judge all BAD reviews.Lost in America is a wonderful film full of irony, whimsy and huge laughs. Albert Brooks' performance is brilliant as is his script and direction. This movie captures much more than the escapades of two yuppies seeking an enhanced existence.  It turns a mirror on our society and the craven symbols we desire and harshly mocks them.American film-making would be much more plain were it not for Mr. Brooks. Long may he wave! "},{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think Albert Brooks is an under-rated writer, director, and actor. I just love this movie, I can see it over and over again. The scene where he tries to persuade the owner of the casino is one of the best comedic scenes in cinema history. His comedy is not for everyone, but if you understand his humour you know what I mean. And if you love this movie check out Modern Romance, another classic that will leave you in stitches. "},{"Title":"Classic, therapeutic Al Brooks","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As with any Albert Brooks movie, it has its ebbs and flows. But this is great, cathartic stuff for any average yuppie. Brooks' sardonic view of humans, events, and chaotic fate is in full gear with this film.The therapeutic nature of the quitting scene is not to be underrated. Every couple of three years, I have to rent this movie simply to live vicariously through an on-the-job twist that Brooks' character encounters and his hilarious and wonderful reaction to it. Great fantasy material to survive crummy jobs and bosses. "},{"Title":"best comedy ever!!!!!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is not only the funniest albert brooks comedy ever, but the funniest comedy ever.  brooks and monica johnson have written a wonderful screenplay that anyone can enjoy and relate to.  I'm only 18 years old and i can relate to a lot of what mr. brooks was trying to convey to his audience.  the sharpest screenplay that I've ever seen translated to film.  I've seen it about ten to fifteen times and still laugh out loud when brooks tells his fellow workers after he quits I've seen the future here, and it's a bald man from New York! "},{"Title":"Albert Brooks is a genius","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The script is just *fantastic*.  We begin with an unhappy yuppie speaking in hypothetics, searching for a way to change his life.  The plans that he based the rest of his yuppie-hood are quickly sullied, and this springboards him into a new way of life (which is justified by the success of fictional characters in his favorite movie).  He takes his suppressed wife along with him, and just like that, without anyone really noticing, Lost In America is off to the races.Since every one of Albert Brooks' films are damn near perfect(with the exception of his 1999 clunker, The Muse), it is silly to call this his best film.  But it certainly is his most focused.  The subplots are a little more than quick, sketch-like detours, leaving the central story of what actually happens when responsible people drop out to fill the screen for all ninety-one minutes of neurotic bliss.The smartest thing Brooks could have done was to make it appear as if this was a movie about two people with a lot of money and a Winnebago travelling across country, encountering hijinks along the way.  In fact, this movie is about reality.  This movie's about two people who liquidate their assets, buy a Winnie, set out for the rest of their lives, and then LOSE EVERYTHING.  The comedy of Lost In America is imbedded in the what now? expression that the star and director carries in his eyebrows.  What could be angled for heavy dramatic purposes is turned into situational comedy (the main character's wife leaving him, going off with an ex-convict, who then beats up the main character is FUNNY?) beautifully by the writers (Brooks and frequent co-conspirator Monica Johnson).  Albert Brooks is NOT a West Coast Woody Allen.  Woody Allen, as much as I love him, isn't this funny in his best movie.****** "},{"Title":"lost and hopefully never discovered","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is boring.  I was embarrassed for Albert Brooks for having written and directed it.  It is not funny.  It is like a soap opera with banal dialogue about watching grass grow.  Brooks comes off as a poor imitation of Woody Allen. "},{"Title":"One of the most under-rated comedies of all Time.","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I notice from the IMDb ratings that his film only gets a 6.9 rating overall. Ridiculous. Somebody once called Albert Brooks the funniest man in America. To be honest, i second that emotion. This film, which I always delight in when I get the chance to watch it. ( Which is very, very rarely) packs more genuine laughter into a single word- nest egg)- than a hundred gr5oss-out comedies and a thosuand dirty words, put together. I rarely agreed with the critic John Simon, but he put it well. Watching this exquisite film, you laugh so hard you cry. And what happens when you laugh and cry all at once? You see rainbows. Moral of the film. The next time you have a large amount of money and decide to drive across America in a Winnebago, drive through Utah, not Nevada. "},{"Title":"Good but very dry and not for all tastes","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a very slow-moving but funny film that doubtlessly will not appeal to many in the audience. That's because the pace is very low and the jokes tend to be very cerebral and subtle. Most teens and action movie fans would probably get bored very quickly seeing this film--especially since the best moments occur later in the film.The film is a strange look at yuppies who are sick of the suburban life and want to see America. Actually, Albert Brooks wants to drop out and see America--his wife, Julie Haggerty, is less thrilled with the change and is content just to remain in their old lives. But, she loves her hubby and ultimately agrees to sell everything and buy an RV and head out on the open highway.However, their wonderful plans all come crashing down around them when they get to Las Vegas. Brooks goes to sleep and the next morning he finds his wife in the casino--where she had been all night long and where she had just gambled away all their possessions! This is only about halfway through the film--what happens and how they survive is something you'll have to find out yourself. "},{"Title":"good but not great","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The 80s version of easy rider. Albert Brooks plays a man who is upset about being passed over for a promotion and his job is being  sent over to New York. He doesn't want to leave L.A. so he quits his job and gets his wife, played by Julie Hagerty, to quit her job also. They make a decision to sell their house and everything they own and when they do, they find they have over one hundred and fifty grand. They buy a motor home and travel across the country just like in easy rider. When they get to vegas his wife loses almost all their money at gambling and they are screwed. They wind up getting jobs as a crossing guard and an assistant manager to a teenager. I liked the movie but it wasn't that funny.  "}{"Title":"More sobering than funny","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I do like Albert Brooks, and there were moments of genuine hilarity in Lost in America... but those moments were too few and too far between, and at times the movie becomes outright depressing. There's a great deal of potential for humor in Brooks and Hagerty's situation, but a lot of it gets lost in its underlying bleakness.Worse, structurally this film is a MESS (and to explain this involves revealing the ending, so be warned). Brooks and Hagerty have lost practically EVERYTHING, and both are reduced from working at high-paying, prestigious corporate jobs to, respectively, working as a crossing guard and an assistant manager at Weinerschnitzel in a dead-end town in Arizona. This dreary situation the main characters have gotten themselves into resolves itself in, literally, the LAST THREE MINUTES OF THE MOVIE (if that long). Brooks says, basically, screw this; I'll go to New York and get my old job back - and so, in a hasty montage, we see the two of them traverse the entire country to New York City, and it is revealed in scrolling text right before the end credits that Brooks did indeed get his job back and everything is now hunky-dory. I'm not sure exactly what the point of the rest of the movie is when it's all tied up so neatly and abruptly. The entire movie is spent laboriously drawing the two in deeper and deeper, only to put them practically back where they started via two or three minutes' worth of explanation that should have taken fifteen or twenty.So what IS the ending trying to say? That it's a losing game to throw it all away, to live your dream - that your only hope is to reenter a life of drudgery? Pretty bleak message for a comedy. I give this one a 5. "},{"Title":"The film was a downer with little humor and much angst.","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There was nothing comic about the adventures of a thirties couple getting ready to explore America.  Only harsh reality and disappointments happened on their path.  The improbable situations were unimpressive and any humor in them was outweighed by their real position.  "},{"Title":"Since when can a comedy contain no humor?","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is almost completely awful. Not worth the rental fee or the wait time in your cue if you do the mail thing. I can't believe that Bravo put this on their funniest all time comedy list. (Bravo lists Animal House at #1, and Lost in America isn't even in the same ball park.)A yuppie take off on the film Easy Rider, which the film itself references several times. The plot becomes very predictable. And an extremely long pointer scene, leads you right to the conclusion that the Vegas visit is going to be a bad move. The film is excruciatingly slow moving, it takes over 1/3 of the film to eventually get the couple in their Winnebago and on the road. The pace increases briefly when Albert Brooks is running through the hotel then grinds back to its dirge.Brooks is his usual character. I really wouldn't call it acting as its the same character I've seen in any other film he's been in, Defending Your Life, The Muse, Broadcast News, etc... So if you're a fan of his character than you'll possibly enjoy this movie. Maybe the script is a funny read that just didn't translate to celluloid. Instead of laughs I found frustration. The lame and predictable situations, the whining, seemingly endless boredom, well its 90 minutes of your life you'll never get back.The only upside to this film is the scenery of America. From LA to New York, you get to see what America looks like on I-10. So if you're into American Scenery Skip to the last 5 minutes of the movie to see the best part, and avoid all of the frustrations of watching it all the way through. "},{"Title":"A pointless, insipid tale","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After having watched patiently for over an hour, I checked the progress bar on my DVD player to see how much was left, which is never a good sign. To my astonishment, I found that I was 3/4 of the way through the movie -- and there hadn't been a single funny scene, line, skit -- anything.Incredulously, I sat through the rest, expecting some grand finale, some extravagant comedy cataclysm, but the nightmarish flick just rolled on, and came to an utterly uneventful conclusion. There were no laughs, no giggles, nothing.The boring parts of this film were good, in the sense that it took me away from the bits that were just agonizingly awful. I've watched a lot of films. But I can't remember having been so disappointed with one, for a long, long time.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly dated humor!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Was this sort of movie funny back in the 80's? I really don't remember. Basically a pair of yuppies want to lose themselves ala Easy Rider but instead whine and quibble about every possible thing in their lives. It tries to be a funny workplace humor piece, but fails miserably. It tries to be a road-trip film and fails there too.No one will like the characters or the plot or anything. For funnier workplace humor, rent Mike Judge's masterpiece Office Space. For the best road-trip humor, the classic Vacation and European Vacation can't be beat.What distresses me most, is this film made the AFI's top 100 funniest movies (why we rented it in the first place). We have since stopped working through that list. "},{"Title":"Draws a blank","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I cannot honestly believe what I've just seen , and moreover what've just read here on IMDB from people who also, I assume, saw it.  A completely plotless, pointless, flat, insipid, badly acted piece of junk from Albert Brooks, who must be truly the American king of overrated comedy.  The man is self-indulgent at best and doesn't raise a single laugh even as he drops the few jokes which had some potential on his foot.  A satire which is as sharp as an egg. The acting, as I mentioned, is absolutely atrocious.  Thank God Julie Hagerty hasn't had longevity in the movie business.  Albert Brooks just goes on and on and on, doesn't know when to shut up, cut the length his scenes, and move the story along.  But then again, what story.  The whole thing was just painful to sit through, waiting for some reason to sit through it, and ultimately not getting one.  If you loved this, you definately haven't seen many movies.  There are real comedies, satires too, out there which have have their plot, timing, and acting in the right place.  And they don't have Albert Brooks to drag them down the drain. "},{"Title":"took the premise and sat with it","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a barely competent romantic comedy, not worth the praise which critics have placed on it. The premise could have led to a very good movie. Brooks took the premise and didn't run ... didn't even walk ... just sat there with it.It just doesn't go anywhere. I have this recurrent feeling that maybe if it had been longer, it would have had time to develop the idea. Trouble is, it had an hour and a half, and did about five minutes of development.Al Brooks and his character were annoying -- just flat-out clich. Julie Hagerty's character was at least interesting and provided the only sympathy I felt toward anything in the movie. But even her character was messed up by the haphazard development, which pushed the character in various inconsistent directions.I'm glad I watched it because I've been reading about it for almost 20 years thinking I should see it. Now at least I know I needn't have bothered. It was pleasant enough -- I didn't turn it off -- and had a few good laughs, but it was a major disappointment compared with the build-up. "},{"Title":"More like Lost from any Reality!","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is mildly entertaining and faintly amusing; but could of been a lot better. The lead actor also directs and most of the scenes in the film go on too long and are far too self-indulgent and are not very funny.The story is A company executive thinks he will get promoted but does not and in a huff decides to leave his well paid job and take his wife and to do an Easy Rider across America in a trailer.Our executive is not the type to do that kind of thing being basically a greedy self centred person, and he soon discovers the errors of his ways, but the film ending is vague and unsatisfactory. I ask rhetorically what is it with these movie people who try to tell the rest of us how to behave when in reality unlike what is portrayed in this film and with the type of individuals involved they would never ever do what is depicted in the story, but rather be falling over themselves to try to make another buck?I think my 4/10 is generous! "},{"Title":"A complete waste of an hour and a half","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of those movies where all the comedic scenes would fit in the trailer. The rest of the time is spent wondering why this is/was a top-rated comedy. Just never could quite figure that out.Most of the attempts at humor were just plain juvenile and were interspersed between scripting that was just plain slow and plodding.We thought about turning it off just over half way through, but figured that due to the reviews something good had to eventually happen. Sadly we were wrong.My faith in the IMDb review process (this one got generally good marks) has been shaken a bit. "},{"Title":"A horrible movie","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was forced to watch this movie for the final of my Comedies as Commentary on American Society film studies class.  Personally, this is one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  I NEVER walk out on a movie.  But, if this hadn't been part of my grade, I might have.  This movie has no redeeming qualities.  The acting is terrible, the script is worse, and the plot is sad.  Two people decide to drop out of society, liquidate all of their assets, and travel across America like in Easy Rider.  How pathetic can you get?  They lose all of their money and are forced to reenter society with lowly jobs.  The only people that laughed in a class of 40 were the two professors.  This movie is just plain horrible. "}{"Title":"Rich yuppies take to the road and lose everything.  Boo hoo.","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have ever seen.  It was boring and obnoxious at the same time.  My husband and I both found ourselves checking out the architecture of the theater rather than the movie.  We use it as the standard for bad movies. "}]