[{"Title":"Hits all the right notes, at multiple levels.","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"118 out of 137 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those rare movies that has something for everybody and is nearly perfect in many respects. Many of the negative comments about the film here are one dimensional and fail to see the multiple levels  on which the movie operates.First, there's the political level Colonial Africa before, during, and after World War II populated by all of Europe (and America), and Karen Blixen caught in the middle between Germany and England. Interestingly, the settlers are willing to die for their countries eventhough they have little idea why they are going to war, and communication between Kenya and Europe lags by months, not weeks.There's the sociological level White Europeans attempting to civilize and Westernize an essentially foreign land and people.  I think the movie does a great job of intimating how the Kikuyus, the Somali, and Masai saw European settlers in their land - comical, enigmatic, and out of their element. Instead of fading into the background, the movie would fail without the simple wisdom of Farah who knows more than any of the white settlers in his land. (This water must go to Mombasa. God is great, Saboo). Interestingly, Sikh Indians are brought to the English Gentlemen's club to act as servants and when Karen dares to enter the men's only den, it's the Sikh who is responsible for escorting her out; none of the English gentlemen have the balls or nerve to do it. An interesting observation on the English White man's view of the world before World War I.Historically, the film portrays real people with some fidelity since all of the characters, even Farah and Kumante, were based on actual people; Kumante was even alive and consulted during the filming in 1982/3.  The character of Felicity is based on Beryl Markham, a truly magnificent woman who wrote West with the Night which might even portray colonial Africa better than Isak Dineson did.As a travel log, the movie works as well as any National Geographic since we see, (vicariously through Karen) as she watches a platoon of Masai warriers running through salt flats in full battle dress, as she learns about lions in wild, and how a herd of Elephants looks and sounds from a biplane.Narratively, Out of Africa is not just a chic flic as someone posted, unless the poster thinks that all romances are essentially chic flics. I generally can't stand romances, but this operates not just as a romance between people (Karen and Blix, Karen and Dennis) but between people and place.  The passion they felt for each other was matched or exceeded by their passion for Africa. When the movie was over, I too had fallen in love with Africa.The movie can be watched simply for its Cinematography, editing, sound, and set design alone. What other movie integrates poetry by Coleridge and Houseman, Mozart's Clarinet Concerto, and the writing of Isak Dineson so easily that you barely notice it?  Many scenes translate into still works of art  A bottle of wine and peaches on the hunting table, a Victrola playing Mozart in the African bush, a rainbow over raging falls, lions surveying the land from the Ngong hills.Such a great and beautiful movie. One that I will watch over and over again until an opportunity to see Victoria falls comes my way.By the way. I agree that the weakest link in the movie is Robert Redford as Dennis Finch Hadden since his accent is non-existent, but then again I thought that as an American in colonial England (as Hemingway was at this same time), it plays much better.  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies I have ever seen","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"71 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OUT OF AFRICA is based on the memoirs of Danish writer Karen Blixen (pen name, Isak Dinesen) in a coffee plantation in present day Kenya. It explains how this brave woman overcomes the stereotype of a dainty, colonial British lady by running the coffee farm while her husband Bror Blixen (Brandauer) led a life of hunting and infidelities.  Meryl Streep is great as Karen Blixen. She manages to maintain the realistic Danish accent through the whole film. Redford is great as Denys Finch-Hatton, the Etonian hunter who keeps companion in her loneliest and hardest. But the real attraction of the film is he outstanding photography of the African landscape together with the sweeping John Barry soundtrack that is probably the most beautiful movie soundtrack of the 1980s. OUT OF AFRICA will be regarded as Sydney Pollack's asterpiece and a Classic of our times. "},{"Title":"A Dream of Africa","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"53 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" My favorite movie of all time, hands down. I watched it for the first time in the theatre. As it ended, the audience sat motionless and quiet for several beats, then burst into loud applause as the ending credits rolled. I'm not always so prophetic, but I was incredibly moved. I said to my husband, We've just seen the Academy Award winner. If I had no other basis for recommendation, I would say the breathtaking cinematography and transporting musical score would make a viewing worthwhile (case in point the main theme playing as Denys Finch Hatton gives Karen Blixen her first airplane ride, and we what she sees, as God must have seen it). But these are merely the window dressings.There are two movie cuts floating around, which I tried to pursue through Universal, and then Disney. Forget it. Suffice to say there is a theatrical version and a Disney TV version, with little consequential difference to the plot except that the latter edits out a little of Karen's physical lovemaking with Denys and slightly expands her intellectual relationship with Farah; which to some degree helped buttress the development of his absolute devotion to her.The screenplay resembles Isaak Dinesen's semi-autobiographical book very little; even so, she did not tell the whole truth in her book. You'll have to get over it, except that I think the character development suffered the loss of Blixen's deep involvement with the displaced Kikuyu tribe working her coffee plantation. Also, without an understanding of the historical times, it would be too easy to say simplistically that this is a woman trying to live within the terms of a marriage of convenience and then compensating with pursuit of a doomed passion.What was crafted out of a mishmash of a more-or-less factual account and director Sydney Pollack's vision is still a beautiful love and adventure story in the midst of British colonial rule and an earlier, more racially and sexually biased era.Klaus Maria Brandauer as Baron Bror von Blixen (whew! - who called Karen Tannen, adding to my initial confusion) perfectly portrays that fun man you like immensely but could never really trust with anything important like your feelings. He along with several of the key male figures and symbols in this movie will eventually bow in respect to the man Karen Blixen becomes despite his often shabby treatment and other travails, because she rises above it all and perseveres. Redford plays mostly Redford. His Finch Hatton's sense of independence is fragile and illusory and will ultimately cost him dearly.There are a couple of continuity problems that bother me to this day, including the disappearing-reappearing champagne and the continually retracking parade marchers, but for the most part few expenses or attentions to detail were spared, especially in the lavish costuming. Bare-breasted native women will unfortunately also make their National Geographic appearance.Even so, Out of Africa is a treasure with a half dozen or more perfect and unforgettable scenes; a movie as long as this review, but I hope you'll agree, worth your patience. "},{"Title":"I had a farm in Africa","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"50 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a memorable gem of a movie!!  I thought this film deserved every one of its seven Academy Awards it got. After viewing this film again I'm just stupefied why didn't Meryl Streep win Best Actress in this movie. The role of Karen Blixen was very complex and she performed it beautifully. This is probably right up there with Sophie's Choice and Kramer vs. Kramer both Award winning performances for her and this is right there with Bridges of Madison County and A Cry in the Dark.Syndey Pollock hit the nail right on the head with this classic beautiful cinematography. The acting is excellent by Streep, Redford, and Klaus Maria Brandeur.  I liked the scene when Karen (Streep) wants her servant to address her by her name and he said You are Karen, Sabu.  I also loved the owl that she had in her room - it was a small one, but it was so cute and I loved it.If you have a chance to rent this movie, please do - it is a classic.  I love the beginning line I had a farm in Africa  it was so moving!! "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"48 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard of this film quite alot but had never seen it. Today I did and was amazed. It is based on the life of a danish female author who moves to Africa. Meryl Streep is exellent as the lead role and keeps a believable danish accent all the way through the film. Robert Redford is also excellent as. But of course the best feature of this film is the beautiful African scnery. It captivates the viewer and I think even if the acting was poor the scenery would still make you like the film. I cannot think of any other film I have seen that has matched this one. I recommened it to anyone. This truly is a touching, marvellous film "},{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"39 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a masterpiece in all aspects.  Of course, it's not for those looking for action or a fast-paced plot -- this film allows you to meet and get to know the characters with their virtues and foibles.  The cinematography is incredible and John Barry's score is matchless; one of the very few scores which would diminish a film if absent.  Meryl Streep was robbed of the Oscar; her meticulous German/Danish accent was first-rate. If I had to name the weakest attribute of the film, it's the casting of Robert Redford as Denys.  He did a fine job, and it was understandable that he was cast in that role, due to his bankability, but in reality, Denys was not American.  Redford is a bit too all-American for this role, but it's a minor detraction.  This film is my next purchase on DVD -- I've seen it dozens of times and I never tire of it. "},{"Title":"Excellently made, Streep wonderful, Redford miscast","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Fifty years ago I was living in the Kenya highlands, only a few miles from the old Blixen farm. Not a great deal had changed since the 1920s, the period of the movie, which manages a reasonable re-creation. However, the background is unlikely to mean much to Americans, only confirming unreal stereotypes of the colonial British. Meryl Steep, as we have come to expect, is superb in the part; and in 2003 she co-narrated a wonderful documentary on the remarkable Karen Blixen (Isak Dinesen), to whom in fact she bears some physical resemblance. Robert Redford is badly miscast, and why the producers didn't get one of many superb English actors for the part I can't imagine. As a love story well told in what to most people will be an exotic setting, beautifully photographed, it should be highly rated, justifying its many awards. "},{"Title":"Africa as it was","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"31 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out Of Africa is a poetical rendition of an Africa that is slowly losing its exotic appeal to the Western World.Sydney Pollack directs this brilliant movie with skill, helped no doubt by a well-written script. The performances are above average, although Robert Redford might have lost his opportunity at an Oscar for refusing to play an Englishman.Sometimes slow, and perhaps even boring, the sets nonetheless capture the viewer for their sheer beauty, and the score is just great to listen.A small classic that hasn't lost its strenght over the years, and still entertains me after multiple viewings. "},{"Title":"A Good Woman In Africa","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"41 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an overlong film derived from Isak Dinesen's memoirs of running a coffee plantation in Kenya in the early years of the twentieth century. The book is a different kettle of fish altogether, but I won't go into that. Sydney Pollock does a fine job of directing here, but in a way the movie is almost overproduced. There was, it seems, so much time and money to play with that the film drags an awful lot. Kurt Luedtke's script is laconic in the Hemingway manner, and very smart, though some of the ultra-sophisticated one-liners began to irritate me after a while. Pollock has a fine dramatic instinct and I wish that there was more drama in this film for him to lavish his talent on. The location shooting is superb, and the depiction of home and village life in colonial Africa is nicely done. I find the romance between Dinesen (called by her real name, Baroness Karen Blixen) and aviator-adventurer Denis Finch-Hatton, less than compelling, partly because, as the latter, Robert Redford refuses to use a British accent, which gives the movie a Hollywood feel, not a bad thing in itself, but the film was made in Africa, with a mostly British cast, and Meryl Streep as Blixen uses an impeccable Danish accent, which makes Redford seem like a fish out of water. This is bothersome because in many ways Redford is well cast in the role, thus his American diction seems like sheer willfulness on his part, which it probably was. Streep is fine in her role, and is especially good in her grand dame moments, as lady of the manor.There are some worthwhile incidental pleasures in this film. John Barry's fine score is perfect for the material, and really soars near the end, appropriately I imagine since one of the two main characters is an aviator. In supporting roles, Klaus Maria Brandauer, Michael Kitchen, Suzanna Hamilton and Michael Gough work small wonders. The use of Mozart, while true to life, makes this post-Amadeus film seem already like a period piece; the period being the 1980's. Mozart was all the rage in those days. His great music is, however, non- if not anti-emotional, and it's odd that it was used so often in the movie. The effect of the music is somewhat intimidating in the context of the romance at the center of the film, as it doesn't suit at all what's happening on screen, which can't help but make the viewer think that perhaps he's missing something; or maybe the film is just too smart for him. This is, again, a very eighties sort of feeling, of the sort of one gets from watching Chariots Of Fire, or listening to the music David Byrne and Laurie Anderson. "},{"Title":"Deserved praise?","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" What makes a good film? It's funny I lent my DVD of this to a mate recently and although she didn't hate it she didn't get it either. Which surprised me because, to me, there has never been any doubt in my mind about the beauty and quality of this film. Anyway I was surfing IMDb and decided to look at this page. There is (or was) a thread on the discussion board about whether this was a good or bad film, I clicked on it. I have never (in my modest surfing of this site) seen such a big thread. Surely a film that evokes that much passion (the majority of which was positive and defencive) has achieved something.I'm not saying that Out of Africa is the best film I've ever seen (I've yet to see that one!) but I think I can safely say that it has secured a place for itself both in cinematic history and the future of entertainment. You see at it heart it is a well made, timeless epic.Yes there will always be the people who take exception to the accents, dislike the ending or believes it drags on for too long, but that's their lost, I can't help thinking they haven't been patient enough (and this annoys me).You see the thing is in many ways the endless beauty of this film lies in its subtleties. Yes you have Meryl Streep and Redford flanked by the scenery and music, but for me it's the things like Pollock's direction, Michael Kitchen's performance and Karen's interaction with member's of the tribe that make the film.Part of me wants to tie my mate to a chair and make her sit and watch this until she gets it. The other half is slightly relieved, because I feel that with her rejection this film is ever so slightly more exclusively mine, and I know that although I'm still only young I will always have time a space for it! "}{"Title":"What a moving tribute!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie and, contrary to other comments....I loved the book upon which this film was based.  Dinesen wrote almost poetic prose describing her beloved Africa.The love story is/was secondary to her love of Africa.  I've read her biographies and I believe that the loss of her farm was much more dear to her than the loss of Denis.If you're looking for a well told story translated onto film, this movie is a must.  Watch Streep's wonderful man-servant.  He will break your heart when he says, Your name is Karin, Sabu, at the end of the film. Such loyalty.Enjoy this love letter to Africa.  "},{"Title":"Superb Meryl Streep's Best Performance","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderful film. Great in every detail. Director Sydney Pollack captures every nuance of time and place, and the cast is perfection. Meryl Streep is a total wonder as the Danish woman who goes to Africa to find a life but learns about love instead. Robert Redford was much maligned when this film was released in 1985 but now seems quite fine. Michael Kitchen, Rachel Kempson, Suzanna Hamilton, and Michael Gough are all good. John Barry's beautiful score is among the best in film history a perfect melding of times past and wistfulness and love. Gorgeous African vistas serve as a backdrop for the love story between Streep and Redford, playing real-life characters Isaak Dineson and Dennis Finch-Hatton. But this is not just a movie romance. It's a story about loss the loss of love, the loss on innocence, the loss beauty. And it's all symbolized by the loss of Africa. War, mechanization, imperialism, westernization, progress are the evils of the early 19th century just as they are today. But the heart of this film is Meryl Streep's flawless performance. She is a wonder. "},{"Title":"A Masterfully Woven Epic Romance (Contains Spoilers)","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of Africa is based on the true story of Danish writer Karen Blixen (Streep), a gritty and fiercely determined woman who thrusts herself into the heart of the Serengeti to hammer out a new life for herself as a baroness in the untamed heart of Africa. Even as she struggles against floods, drought, and labor difficulties to launch her coffee plantation, her newly married husband, Baron Bror Blixen, soon fades from her life, reappearing from his philandering adventures only occasionally to take money from Blixen's already dwindling wealth. In the shadow of her husband's cold neglect, an enigmatic African hunter (Redford) soon enters her life, and the two are swept into an emotionally-charged romance that parallels the rugged, epic beauty of the African plains. Blixen's story ultimately ends in crushing defeat as her entire plantation is burned to the ground in the year of her most bountiful harvest. In a heart-wrenching display of love and devotion, Baroness Blixen falls to her knees before the governor to beg that the Kikuyu be protected. Blixen never again returns to Africa.Blixen is a deep and thorny character masterfully portrayed by veteran actress Meryl Streep. Robert Redford delivers an equally stunning performance, sparking a chemistry between he and Streep that engenders one of the most endearing love stories in cinema history. Though neither Streep or Redford took home an Oscar, Out of Africa featured a cacophony of talent, masterful storytelling, and stunning cinematography that when combined brought home a deserved Academy Award for Best Picture.A rare combination of vulnerability, feminism, and disappointment, Out of Africa dares to appeal to the subtle but powerful strength of human emotion. "},{"Title":"A Movie That Grew Onto Me As I Got Older","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Out of Africa was released in 1985, I never really thought much of it. Give a break already; I was only nine years old when it was released. I was more interested in G.I. action figures and Saturday morning cartoons. This is a romantic period piece that starred Meryl Streep and Robert Redford and was directed by the late Sydney Pollack. As a frisky kid I thought my mother was crazy sitting there for two hours and half watching this movie. I was bit questionable as to why deserved the accolades it got including being nominated for seven Academy Awards. I often times walked out of overlong mundane movies, but I thought that if my mother could sit thought it; I might as well give it a chance. I found myself as an adult to have not only faithfully stayed on my seat for the duration I also felt that this movie is intriguing.Out of Africa has a script by Kurt Luedtke based on the many works of well-known Danish author Karen Blixen (under the moniker Isak Dinesen) after she went home after living for many years in Africa in the 1930's. During her stay in Africa, Blixen (Streep) is faced with a loveless marriage to an unfaithful aristocratic cousin (Klaus Maria Brandauer), had a coffee plantation that never blossomed and while WWI was in effect, she encounters the many changes that materializes as a result behind the devastation. In the novel, she never fully explains much about her relationship with Denys (Robert Redford), except that he was living with her for awhile and was a big game hunter and flew a plane. Her relationship with Denys was more emphasized in other novels that she penned.Meryl Streep turns in an excellent performance and Sydney Pollack's direction was handled with well enough care, giving us a believable interpretation of the Africa that was depicted from Miss Blixen's novel. Robert Redford is great in a supporting performance, but his English accent cannot do him any justice and there is not enough depth as to what makes him the way he is. The film itself is not only a one-note romantic drama, but an in depth look at Africa in all its glory and seen through the eyes of Miss Blixen. And we see Africa as a great continent with wonderful people and its diversity, the beautiful animals that feed off the lands and the gorgeous plantation thanks mainly to the brilliant cinematography by David Watkin.I just wished there was more exploration of the African people, but I guess Luedtke decided to focus more on the main plot which was the romantic build-up between Denys and Karen. But I just sat and watched the film with a free mind as I watched Karen and the men she had in her life. By the time the film ended I had a better understanding of who Karen Blixen really is. She is a person that anyone could relate to. I also understood why this movie was a box office success. It led me to an era that's virtually obsolete. After years of having a metaphoric blind eye, I turned a new leaf on this story as Out of Africa is a very solid movie that I would recommend to anyone to watch. I may have looked away from it for decades, but now at 37 years old I enjoyed it immensely and can understand why it was two hours and forty-five minutes long. "},{"Title":"Episodic and overrated","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A story that is difficult to translate into a film without being episodic and a little bit direction-less. How many fireside scenes, meaningful pauses and plaintive longing gazes do we need to sit through to get the romantic undertows? Lots of subtlety in the script and visual symbolism inadequately matched by Robert Redford's neutral performance giving the impression of a huge American film-star doing it by numbers, conspicuously super-imposed onto an otherwise convincing depiction of colonial Kenyan culture in the early twentieth century. Director Sydney Pollack believed Redford gave the historic character he was portraying an unobtainable quality that couldn't be offered by any high-profile British actor at the time of filming (1984). Once the British acting fraternity recovered from the shock of being so unfairly patronized, they might, if given the chance, have cried out, Haven't you heard of Pierce Brosnan? Indeed, Brosnan's age in the early 1980's would have been much closer than Redford's to that of the historic character being portrayed. In fairness to Redford, he was apparently prepared to equip his character, an English gentleman, with a suitably Etonian accent. Pollack allegedly felt however than an English accent from Redford would distract the film's viewers. Hmmm. Yes, Mr Pollack. An Englishman with an American accent is so much less distracting and so much more believable. It's Meryl Streep who does the lion's share (no pun intended) of the heavy-lifting with able support from Michael Kitchen and others. Lots of beautiful photography and sweeping themes from veteran composer, John Barry. As a keen photographer once said to me however, Why is good photography allowed to be an excuse for a bad movie? I don't agree it's a bad movie but I do believe less is more and that the film needs a lot of tidying up with a tauter narrative. The truth is, I find it a curiously interesting albeit flawed film and wouldn't be surprised if I find myself enjoying it more upon repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"Vanity Farm","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is hard to watch a movie with such an unsympathetic protagonist. Karen is a woman who tries to sleep her way into being a baroness. But once the baron has his way with her for a while, he tires of her and reneges on his promise to marry her. So, she turns to his brother Bror, who she knows does not love her, and offers him a deal if he marries her, she gets to be a baroness, and he gets access to her money. He accepts, and they leave Denmark to go to Africa and start a farm in the year of 1913.Having made her Faustian bargain, she starts right off being a sourpuss about the whole thing. You know, acting as if she is being neglected, as if her husband doesn't love her, especially when he feels free to do as he pleases. As he explains to her, she may have bought the title, but she did not buy him. Now, he is a bit of a jerk, but isn't that what you would expect from a man who would marry a woman for her money? After a while, we start to like her, but every time something bad happens, as when Bror gives her syphilis, we think, Well, that's what you get for marrying a man who doesn't love you. She gets the Salvarsan cure, but there is no indication that Bror is treated for the disease, and we have to wonder if she continues to have sex with him, especially since she becomes upset by his continued infidelities. Fed up with him, she tells him to move out of the house and get a place in town. But she does not want a divorce, because then she wouldn't have anybody. Huh?She eventually starts having an affair with Denys, who is a big game hunter. Denys is a believer in free love, figuring he can continue to come and go as he pleases, which hurts her feelings, because she has fallen in love with him and wants him to spend more time with her. He is surprised and dismayed by her attitude, but I could have told him that would happen. Exasperated, she tells him that everything has a price. Well, she ought to know. Denys is not willing to pay the price of being domesticated, so they split up, and he eventually dies in an airplane crash.As for that all that money she had, between the cost of supporting her husband and trying to grow coffee in Africa, she ends up so broke she has to mortgage the farm. Then, right after the crop is harvested, it is destroyed in a fire. When asked if she had insurance, she responds, That's for pessimists. As I said, it is hard to have sympathy for her. So, she loses the farm and has to go back and live with her family, which she admits she has nearly bankrupted. She removes the white gloves from a servant's hands, saying that was a mistake, and in saying goodbye to another servant, asks him to call her by her first name. I guess that means she finally realizes that being a baroness was just so much vanity. A lot of people like this movie, presumably because Africa is filmed so beautifully, and because her lover Denys is filmed so beautifully. But if she had stayed in Denmark and not wasted her money buying a farm and a title, she could have led a financially secure life and possibly found a man without a title who loved her and wanted to marry her. "},{"Title":"A Great Geographical Epic","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Before 1985, Karen Blixen was not a widely known figure in the English- speaking world, even though she was an English-language writer as well as a Danish-language one. Indeed, she was best known as Isak Dinesen, having oddly adopted a male pseudonym, even though it was quite obvious that the author of the autobiographical Out of Africa was a woman. After the film came out, new editions of Blixen's novels were on the shelves of all the bookshops, generally credited to Karen Blixen (Isak Dinesen). The cultural influence of Hollywood can be positive as well as negative. The film is based on Blixen's best-known book, telling the story of her life in Kenya, to which she and her husband Bror had moved to take up farming, between 1913 and the early 1930s. The book also tells of Karen's relationship with the large white settler community in the colony, her divorce from Bror and her love affair with the big-game hunter Denys Finch Hatton.Although the real Finch Hatton was an English aristocrat, Robert Redford here plays him with an American accent, although he is never referred to as an American in the film and the audience is probably supposed to accept him as British; he takes part in British military operations in 1914, at a time when America was still neutral. Apparently Redford wanted to play the part with an English accent but this was vetoed by director Sydney Pollack, who found Redford's accent unconvincing. This piece of miscasting was much criticised in Britain. It is certainly received wisdom that no film can do well at the American box-office without at least one major Hollywood star in the cast, but this film already had such a star in the shape of Meryl Streep. Pollack probably just wanted to do a good turn to an old friend; he and Redford had previously worked together on several films. Streep's own accent (I haad a faarm in Aafrika....) has been criticised for sounding insufficiently Danish and also praised, Leaving that controversy aside, however, her performance here, for which she received an Oscar nomination, is well up to her usual standards. It seems odd that Pollack originally did not want to use her on the grounds that she did not have enough sex appeal, as there is no reason why Karen Blixen needs to be played as a sexy glamour girl. She was, however, evidently a woman of intelligence and humanity, and these are qualities which Streep is well able to convey. Klaus Maria Brandauer is generally better acting in his native German, but this is one of his better English-language performances, making Bror seem a likable rogue even when we learn just how badly he has treated his wife. Pollack was able to direct films in several different styles, and Out of Africa is very different in terms of its pacing and visual style to his earlier films like This Property is Condemned, The Electric Horseman and Tootsie. It was made as a grand, sweeping epic, similar in style to works by British directors like David Lean and Richard Attenborough whose Gandhi had come a couple of years before. It was perhaps a brave move on Pollock's part to make a film of this nature. Lean had come rather unstuck the previous year when he attempted to use this style for A Passage for India, an intimate story of human relations rather than of the great political or military events which had formed the backdrop to his earlier epics. Out of Africa tells, if anything, an even more intimate story than Lean's film, the story of a woman and the two men she loved. And yet, for me, it works in a way in which A Passage to India does not. I think that the reason is that, whereas the likes of Gandhi and Dr Zhivago are great historical epics, Out of Africa is a great geographical epic. In this it is comparable to some of the great American Westerns, such as Wyler's The Big Country, or Luhrmann's more recent Australia. Although there are some big historical set pieces, such as the victory celebration at the end of World War One, the film is really as much about the African continent and its landscapes, wildlife and indigenous people- Karen befriends the local Kikuyu people who are patronised or neglected by the other Europeans- as it is about colonialism or about the story of Karen and Denys.Streep did not win Best Actress- she lost out to Geraldine Page- but the film received seven Academy Awards including Best Picture, Best Director for Pollack and Best Cinematography. The photography, particularly the scenes of the East African plains, is certainly magnificent, a kaleidoscope of the greens and yellows of the bush and the blues of the skies. The aviation scenes- Finch Hatton was a keen airman- evoke something of the same exhilaration as John Gillespie Magee's poem High Flight. (Oh, I have slipped the surly bonds of earth......). Another well deserved Oscar went to John Barry for Best Original Score; his famous theme tune sounds like the noble slow movement of some great romantic symphony and beautifully complements the mood of the film. Out of Africa has a reputation in some circles as a controversial, even undeserved Best Picture winner. It would not, perhaps, be my own personal choice as best film of 1985- that would probably be Peter Weir's Witness- but even so I cannot regard it as an unworthy choice by the Academy. It may be slow-moving by Hollywood standards- the most commonly-made criticism- yet its pace is appropriate to the story and to the lyrical style of Blixen's writing. The casting of Redford may have been a mistake, but overall this is a grand, stirring and often moving piece of film-making. 8/10 "},{"Title":"An uninspiring and forgettable choice for Best Picture, but not an offensive one.","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1985 had plenty of best-of-year selections that are all-time worthy. Brazil, Ran, Come and See, even Back To The Future and After Hours are sentimental favourites worthy of treasuring. However, that year the Academy opted for a film that would most likely have been forgotten by now if not for its stars. On rare occasions has Out Of Africa graced upon a top 10 Best Picture winners list. But it's not necessarily an offensively poor choice. Despite its sentimental package, it's not too sweet but not too thrilling, diving deep down into the middle ground. Scattered through its 160 minute running time, its delights are sparse and slight. There's a decent wit on occasion, some beautiful shots and the heartbreaks of the main story are quite effective. It's just too bloated to invest in. Every time I feel that it may be growing on me, it swiftly ruins it with a distraction or an unconvincing moment. Meryl Streep may have been at the top of her game at this time, but her performance is too inconsistent and shrill, and more-or-less blends into the background even though she leads the thing. Then Robert Redford just sticks out with a thinly developed character where he's not able to shed off the star power he gained in the 70s. I bought their romance, but not their status in this early 20th century world. The film takes too long to get to its central argument of nature vs. life of luxury, and while its interesting, it feels quickly abandoned for more distractions. The cinematography is good at times, but it feels like its win was justified by the tricks it pulls. The soaring wides are wonderful, the plane ride sure is an experience (forgetting the terrible cutaways of our stars), but the beauty is in the individual shot and not the package as a whole. It's best in the simple imagery of poetic silouhettes. I just wish the film was richer. Other than the greens, the film's sets and costumes are bleached various beiges and browns. Blandness on top of blandness on top of blandness. It's pretty much summed up by a scene where Streep's character tells the characters a story and we skim over the whole thing with various reaction shots and then they tell us it was great. Here's a gift just because.6/10 "},{"Title":"Roger Ebert wrote You Have to Be Very Talented to Be Working with Meryl Streep. Sydney-Meryl Combo Rules!","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching Meryl Streep in 2011's The Iron Lady and in 1985s Out of Africa gave me two different results. While in both of them, Meryl gave her best shot, the director's approach towards the actress is very different. In Out of Africa, Meryl's character Karen is a hardworking, independent, strong-willed young baroness/plantation worker later author, while in The Iron Lady, she oscillates between an eighty year old dementia-suffering Thatcher and a middle-aged Thatcher, both authoritative.While I do understand Phyllida's attempt to have Meryl foreshadow others to show Thatcher's dominance, the movie itself became a one-woman show that barely gave a s*** about the supporting cast. While in Out of Africa, Pollock never resorts to showy camera work to highlight Meryl. The camera moves through the picturesque Africa and the beautiful Meryl so naturally as if the cameraman was lost in the beauty of the entire place. While Meryl is a marvel, Pollock himself is a wise man who gave the picture an independent existence. The Iron Lady will always remain Meryl's Iron Lady.Based on a true story, Out of Africa shows Karen Blixen's life as she adjusts to the African lifestyle while romancing Denys (Redford) and divorcing Bror (Klaus). The opening itself talks of the farm at the foot of the Ngong Hills and is voiced by Streep in a very distinctive accent. Many of her performances, especially the ones where she uses accents, are slightly difficult to accept first but shine later, even though she does sound like Sly Stallone at times, especially when she says in one scene I want you to COME HOME. Karen marries Bror to retain her title of baroness and moves to Africa. Bror uses her money against her wishes and doesn't take care of her properly. Karen meets Denys and another guy, and invites them to her home. Both the guys are attracted to her but things go awry for one. Denys and Karen fall in love but Denys lives a very different life, independent like Karen but in a nomadic way. Karen runs the entire farm, opens up a school and acquaints and adjusts herself with the Africans.Pollack has handled the movie tactfully, and the film is enriched by fine performances. The green verdant lands of Africa with the pastoral huts of the Africans on one hand and the lavishness of the Britishers on the other can be seen. There is this lovely scene where the tribe chief tells Karen that only tall children will go to school. When Karen tells him that sending kids would be very wise of him, the African replies that the Britishers have learned to read, but it has not helped them in any way. Still, the farmers hold respect for Karen's caring nature.Clocking at 2 hours and 40 minutes, Out of Africa is like a landscape of a beautiful bird on its mighty flight over the flowing rivers and the dense forests. My Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Enduring","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies the more you watch, the more you see. Having watched this movie dozens of time it never ceases to amaze me how much there is in it...beauty, character, music, a way of life. While others say the story is weak, I find it to be a meditation.   "}{"Title":"The One that got away!","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a film that when it came out for some unknown reason I never saw. Over the years it has passed me by many, many times either in people's conversations or midnight wanderings with the remote but always I let it go by. Maybe it was the fact that it won such acclaim and attention and was talked about so much that I thought I knew the film, that I didn't need to see it. There was always another film to see. Well obviously my 'mistake' was rectified as I wouldn't be writing this now. I came home to find my girlfriend watching the very beginning, proceeded to read the day's newspaper but had one eye on the screen. She had seen it a few times and later on tiring went to bed. I'm not sure why this time was different but I continued to watch. Thank god I did. This is a magnificent, intelligent, moving film that on this night of 6th August 2007 means so much more to me than had I seen it in 1985. Of course now I realize why I've been so averse although unconsciously of seeing it. Going through a bloody divorce then not of my own choosing I don't think could have handled as Meryl so brilliantly did the strength that her character had with love and all it's attachment. This is human film that really seeps into your soul and I'm full of admiration for Sidney Pollack's brilliance and for putting together a team of people both in front and behind the camera that have created such a gem. All the Actors were superb with Meryl setting the pace like a long distance runner wanting to cross the line with everyone winning! This is a film with a strong heart! "},{"Title":"Dinesen ultrapasteurized","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of Africa is a perfect example of how Hollywood can misrepresent good literature, in this case big Hollywood bankers vs Isak Dinesen's glittering (and unapologetic and politically incorrect) masterpiece of reminiscences of her life as a coffee plantation owner in pre-World War I German East Africa. Robert Redford is fatally miscast as her British lover. The filmmakers took an honest and startling account of human relationships in colonial times and ultrapasteurized it. This movie is to movies what the irradiated white liquid sold in supermarkets is to real cow's milk. If you tried to live on it you would die. There is not a genuinely moving moment in the whole story because it's been reduced to formulaic Hollywood romance that cannot work with these two mismatched protagonists no matter how much music for the heartstrings wells up from the soundtrack. Meryl Streep gives her all - which is considerable, as does Klaus Maria Brandauer as her nasty husband; they are the only reasons to watch this film. Of course it was showered with Oscars. What else is new? If you want to see a superb film adaptation of an Isak Dinesen work, catch Babette's Feast starring Stephane Audran (in this case the Academy did justice to quality - it deservedly won the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar for 1987). "},{"Title":"mediocre eye candy","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie should not have won the Oscar for Best Picture. The fact that it did was either because it was a very bad year for movies (in which case, I don't think an award should be given for this category) or the academy, once again, voted for a bloated MEGA-picture despite it being sterile (there are MANY worse examples of this--think of The English Patient or The Last Emporer).While I don't think it was even close to Oscar material, I also think a few reviews on this site are too harsh as well. Giving this picture a 1? Nope. This isn't fair, as the music and photography were great. I loved the African singing and the scene of the biplane flying over the flock of flamingos in incredible.So, the final verdict dull and unlikeable characters, a script that reads like fiction (not the real life story), unconvincing dialog BUT a treat for the eyes and ears. So my advice is to turn off your brain and enjoy--particularly on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Kitchen!!","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is brilliant. I've read a lot by & about Karen von Blixen. Michael Kitchen is wonderful in his role, especially at the end when he reveals something about his life that was then taboo. The film is elegant. I advise Everyone to see it! Buy it! My former brother-in-law, Lars-Eric Lindblad, was a great Adventurer. He wanted to set up tent camps for photo safaris on the Tanganyka/Kenya border. He was an animal lover, member of World Wildlife. He did not want his tours to bother animals. He asked me to talk with a rep'of the T. travel bureau. I was a young, attractive & talkative American, tall, with red hair (like a Maasai, ha). Within 3 days, I learned that tent camps set up there would bother Silverback Gorillas as they migrated North. So Lars didn't set up tours in that area. Instead, he let me travel around Kenya for 3 months (1977). My in-laws were living in the Von Blixen home (for 5 years). I stayed in that home for a week, dreaming of Karen & writing poetry. Older native people remembered Missi Karen. I found it strange that the native people treated me like a Queen. It is a joy to know that Karen did so much for the tribals during a time when it was common to see them as not quite people. I had learned Swahili (Baya Sana no good Santi Sana bless you or good) because it disgusts me when people go into a country without one word of the language. When Out of Africa came to movie theaters, my father told me, Dixie, This is your life! I was then married to a cheating, mean husband who philandered all over the world. 20 years after my own Out of Africa, I married a guy who looks like Redford & is as intelligent as Kitchen (Foyle). I shall take him to Kenya, to show him where Karen & I once lived. Go to Waa for our 25th anniversary. Please watch this film, rewind to catch the nuances of acting (esp. Michael Kitchen). Absorb the story of Kenya as it grew from a colony until just before it came into its own, the Indepence Jomo Kenyatta dreamed into reality. "},{"Title":"Liked It A Lot More After Several Viewings","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"20 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Few movies ever increased in my ratings as much as this one did from first viewing to the last one - the fourth, about 5-8 years ago. I guess I am due to see this again soon.Early on, after seeing this on widescreen, my rating of it began to increase dramatically. I hadn't realized on those first two early viewings on formatted-to-TV VHS just how beautiful this movie was shot. The accompanying music score also is outstanding. The main score, the theme song of the movie, if you will, still ranks as perhaps the prettiest I have ever heard on ANY film. (For the full version of the music, stay with the ending credits.)In addition to a greater appreciation of the visuals and soundtrack, I enjoyed the story much more by the third time and Meryl Streep's Danish accent as Karen Blixen went from annoying to acceptable. It is a romance story and there isn't much action, and parts of it can drag a bit, but not for long. I even found I could enjoy this 161-minute film broken up into several viewings.One credibility problem, the other main character  Denys, played by Robert Redford, was supposed to be British but had a 100 percent American accent. He didn't even try to fake it! His character also was a little too secular-humanistic for me to root for him, anyway. He didn't have much a moral base (marriage is just a sheet of paper-type beliefs). Streep's character wasn't all that hot, either, and I'm wondering if the real Karen Blixen was more Christian-like than shown in this movie. It wouldn't surprise me. Character-wise, I liked Blixen's husband, played by Klaus Maria Brandauer, probably best in this movie.This is such a classy-looking film that I can overlook a few flaws and too-secular main characters and enjoy what the rest has to offer mainly the magnificent African scenery, mellow story and rich music. "},{"Title":"Out of Patience","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"21 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a stupefying bad film.  It would be easy to blame it on Sidney Pollock, who, like George Cukor before him, seems to excel at making a woman's picture, but unlike most of Cukor's work, this film is just dull, dull, dull.Nevertheless, when it came out, the critics were unanimous in their praise.  Meryl Streep was the darling of the film industry, Brandauer was the European star who every one wanted, and Redford was Redford.  In truth, Streep's Dutch accent was nothing, if not annoying, and Brandauer looked as if he were on life support.  Redford?  The Englishman?  This movie drove him out of acting and into directing.  Name one important acting role he has had since this pretentious movie.  Sure, it was based on an autobiography, but the story, if there was one, was not compelling.  If I had not been attending with my wife and another couple, I would have gotten up and walked out.You see, handsome photography and an exotic locale, together with name stars, do not a great movie make.  You have to care about the characters, and what happens to them.  The stilted dialogue, the lack of action, Brandauer's indifference, Redford's wooden acting, the weak story line, the formulaic direction, and the excessive length of the picture trump what may have been an interesting autobiography written by a woman who moved to Kenya in the early 20th Century.  This film is a monument to excess, but the investors were rewarded handsomely.  Commercially successful, the movie fails on all other levels.     "},{"Title":"Truly the best cure for insomnia short of Ambien!","Date":"17 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was curious about this film that beat out for Best Picture, IMHO, the superior The Color Purple from the same year, so I watched it recently. It was hellish torture! Almost three hours of NOTHING no plot, no characterization, no dialogue, no dramatic conflict--NO NOTHING! Sydney Pollack turned Isak Dinesen's tragic life into an uninteresting blob of blandness that made that illustrious author seem like a nonentity totally unworthy of a movie bio. At the end of this fiasco my body was hurting all over because of all the tossing and turning I did in my chair to avoid falling asleep.I award four stars for cinematography and beautiful scenery, but then there is beautiful scenery and good cinematography in that dolphin video that plays non-stop in ICU's - supposedly because it is soothing, but after about an hour probably becomes torture for the poor patients - and I don't think anybody would consider THAT best picture material! "},{"Title":"Brilliant - worth waiting 30 years for","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I somehow managed not to see this film for 30 years so I was pleased to catch it on TV over the holiday period, albeit its spectacular panoramas were not best served by a TV screen - even a large high definition one.I loved it. I loved the Africa backdrop which looked totally authentic. I loved the acting - especially a mesmerising performance from Meryl Streep who I couldn't look away from. I loved the script with its surprisingly sharp and sophisticated brevity not once did I feel a scene or a dialogue went on for too long; and often I was taken aback and then delighted by the audacious and sudden full stops&#x85;in fact, I was shocked to discover afterwards how long this film runs for because it felt so economical. For me, the camera work was honest and natural and the editing as sharp and clean as the dialogue.Now that I see it cost $31m to make, 30 years ago when a dollar was worth a buck, I'm not surprised. I could see it all on the screen and I didn't notice any corners being cut in location, scenery, props, costumes or casting. The only scenes which jarred slightly were the cockpit closeups during the flying sequence which were obviously shot in the studio. But I assume it wasn't possible to get insurance for two of Hollywood's A list to cavort around the skies in a rickety open-top flying contraption. Overall though, this film was beautiful to look at.I thought that this was the finest performance of Streep's long and glorious career. And the best direction of Sydney Pollack's fine career. The film as a whole is in my all-time Top Five. "},{"Title":"Okay to pretty good movie, but not Best Picture material","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not really an all-time epic favorite. Nice photography, but every cinematographer who goes to Africa does well. Nice, unobtrusive direction. Robert Redford was fairly low-key, not necessarily mailing it in, but really just okay. I did enjoy the performance of Klaus Maria Brandauer, who was sufficiently oily to be dis-likable, but played it honestly enough to avoid being hate-able. Meryl Streep, as always, put in a fantastic performance, limited only by the script and director. I thought that this was an okay to pretty good movie, but have to agree that a Best Picture Oscar is not really warranted. It was a pretty light crop of nominees that year, though, so I suppose that explains it. "},{"Title":"Above Average Film Despite Slow Pacing!","Date":"28 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite the tepid, glacial pace and long running time, I found Sydney Pollack's Out of Africa to be an intriguing movie. This film is filled with beautiful cinematography especially when it comes to landscape shots, great acting, and enough animals to easily satisfy a naturalist.This film is about a life of a woman when she moves from Denmark to Kenya in 1913 and her story of her time in Africa.The acting is very good especially by Streep and Redford. I think they were the ones who kept me interested in the film with their charming performances.Overall, this is a really good movie. The question is does this movie deserve the Best Picture award? I wouldn't think so because the other options are a little better than this film. If it wasn't for a very slow pace, this film would have been very good. I rate this film 8/10. "}{"Title":"Pollack captured Kenya","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are three movies made in Africa on my favorite list. One is Out of Africa. The other ones are The Gods must be crazy and White Mischief. I loved the movie on the big screen when it came out and even if the emphasis in the film is on the love life of Karen Blixen, which is not true in the book, it succeeds to convey the main purpose of Isak Dinesen to show the incredible beauty of Africa, specifically Kenya. Usually I do not like it very much if the casting director chooses actors for their fame and not for their suitability for the role. In the case of Meryl Streep I have to concede that she did a marvelous job and is quite convincing in the role of a Danish baroness of that time. I am less happy with Robert Redford being chosen . There are plenty British actors who would have been more suitable. (And I like Redford). He just does not fit the image of the British White Hunter. But this is about the only fault I found with the movie. Everything else is outstanding. I lived for a few months in Kenya and went on Safari and I have to say that Pollack succeeded in capturing the essence of the country and its people and he also portrayed the British occupiers quite accurately. I have seen many beautiful places in this world, but nowhere did I feel more happy than in Kenya. There is something magical about this place and somehow it shows in the film. I just bought the DVD and of course it is not the same thing like watching it on the big screen. I wish they would release it again in theaters so that I can experience that flight over the marvelous landscape again. I did nearly the same flight when I was there and I will never forget it. I also want to mention the costume designer who created the absolute incredible beautiful headdresses for Meryl. I wish we would go back to a fashion where women could wear creations like this. I always look at these terrible pots Queen Elizabeth is wearing and I am not surprised hats are not fashionable. But I was always a fan of the fashion in-between the two world wars. "},{"Title":"Acting it out","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie starts off really good. And the actors continue on that high rhythm they have going on. There is not that many surprises going on relationship-wise between them, so the tension is build by them acting so good. The problem being, that the movie takes its time. And when I say takes its time, I mean it takes a very long time ... very very long time to get to the end.The story does not offer that much substance for the running time. And the points are being made clear long before the scenes are over. Still it opts not to crank up the speed. While the human relationships are the ones that keep the movie together (with the superb acting), I couldn't help but feel that the movie could have been cut to tighter running time, without anyone really missing too much "},{"Title":"White Woman's Burden","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the memoirs of the real Karen Blixen, Out Of Africa provided Meryl Streep with a great role, one of her Best Actress nominations was earned from this film. That woman can adapt and cast in just about any culture. The key to the film is understanding that Meryl Streep's character comes from a non-imperialist country, or at least one that had no imperial ambitions at the time she came to Africa. Denmark in 1914 owned Iceland, Greenland, and the Virgin Islands and the last she'd sell to the USA a few years later. The assumptions of racial superiority just aren't in her as they are with some people, including her husband Klaus Maria Brandauer who's been there awhile. She's an odd duck in the Kenya colony, but she gradually wins their respect.Bored with her life in Denmark among the upper crust of that country, Meryl enters into a marriage with Klaus Maria Brandauer, the brother of a friend and goes to East Africa where with her money he hopes to start a cattle ranch. Without telling her he decides to grow coffee instead and that marks a first breach in the relationship.It's a fine day when she wakes up and is diagnosed with a venereal disease which was untreatable not so very long ago. It's grounds for her to leave for Denmark and take the cure. She also separates from her husband though they stay cordial. Not something I'd do under the circumstances.When she returns to Africa and to her coffee plantation which is now showing a bit of success, she takes up with Robert Redford, an iconoclastic white hunter whose time among the natives has given him a different perspective than the Britishers. There's no explanation of Redford's lack of English accent, not even the usual one of Redford being Canadian which is the standard Hollywood explanation for American names in British settings.Sumptiously photographed in Africa, Out of Africa won a flock of Oscars that year including Best Picture and Best Director for Sydney Pollack. Other Oscars were for Cinematography, Art&Set Direction, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Music and Best Sound. Streep did not win for Best Actress and neither did Klaus Maria Brandauer for Best Supporting Actor. Curiously enough Robert Redford was overlooked in a film that clearly tilted towards the leading lady.One thing that Sydney Pollack did that few others have, he showed the various native peoples in the Kikiyou tribe as individuals in their dealings with Streep. She respects as do few others the fact that this is their country and she's interloper. Her concern for them is genuine and it's part of the love she acquires for the place. She never returns to Africa when economic circumstances force her to leave, I suspect because she can't face what probably happened to those she assumed a burden for. White woman's burden if you will in the most altruistic sense.Streep leaves during the Thirties and in ten year, post World War II, Kenya colony had a most bloody separation with the British Empire with the Mau Mau Rebellion. You see some ever so subtle hints of it developing in Out Of Africa.Much good and bad has come Out Of Africa and this film is the place to see both of it. "},{"Title":"Outstanding is not a strong enough word to describe this great film!","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Karen (Meryl Streep) is a Danish woman who marries a close friend (Klaus Maria Brandauer) and immigrates to Kenya. She comes from a wealthy family and it is her wish to start a new life in Africa after being jilted by a man she loved. Although Karen thinks they are going to have a cattle farm, her no-good new husband goes to Africa first and inks a deal to raise coffee. On the journey to Kenya, Karen meets a safari guide named Denis (Robert Redford) and has a few brief but interesting conversations. Once in Africa, Karen's new husband proves to be a disaster as a mate. Not only is he unfaithful but, he goes off to join the fight in a small local war and leaves Karen to run the farm herself. Admirably, Karen proves to be a good farm manager and a kind caretaker to the Africans who work on her farm. Over the ensuing months and years, however, Karen grows closer to Denis until they are greatly in love. But, does happiness really last forever? This is a based-on-fact story of Karen Blixen who wrote her own autobiography, Out of Africa. She, as one can easily see from this story, was a great storyteller, writer, and lady. As Karen, Meryl Streep gives one of her most worthy performances, touched with beauty and great angst. Redford, too, gives a nice performance as the man who truly loves Karen and shows her the world's possibilities but, who remains a man apart. The rest of the cast is wonderful, the costumes are very lovely, and the Kenya setting one of the most beautiful ever recorded on film. On top of that, the script by Kurt Luedtke is elegantly memorable as he incorporates Blixen's own words into the overall story and does it very, very well. The striking mantra, I had a farm in Africa, goes deeper and deeper into the heart as the film progresses. No one who cares about film, about romance, about adventure or about humanity should really miss this movie. It is a towering achievement and it will remain as an example of the best of what cinema truly is for years and years to come. "},{"Title":"Perfection","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A beautiful, well developed story with great actors and magnificent scenery! Meryl Streep provides a performance that is probably one of her best ever and Robert Redford assists in his portrayal as her love interest. But, Streep maintains control of the entire movie with her wonderful portrayal of a woman who must make her way through a man's world while struggling to keep her farm and help the people she's come to love. It could be said that this movie is rather long, but editing any part of it would have been a major mistake. The scenery, especially the aerial views of Africa and the wonderful music make this movie one of my favorites of all time. I had to rush out and buy the soundtrack when it first came out and to this day, 20 years later, I still love to listen to the beautiful music and imagine myself in the airplane flying over Africa. "},{"Title":"a seemingly innocuous romantic movie of imperialism","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everything in this movie is beautiful. Too beautiful to ignore the fact that the narrative is told from the white imperialist perspective. Africa and Africans are romanticized into the background of the protagonist's love story. However, it is not difficult to pin point the hidden imperialist agenda. Karen Blixen-Finecke represents a sympathetic missionary-style imperialist who eagerly tries to enlighten her African labor through Western education. Denys Finch Hatton is a pretentious environmentalist imperialist, who, on the one hand, tries to preserve the primitive Africanese in Africa (his criticism of Karen's project of building schools), on the other hand, exploits Africa for its economic resources. His two goals are not contradictory in order to continue exploiting Africa, it has to remain primitive, both its people and its land. African people have no voice of their own in this movie. They are portrayed through the eyes of Karen and Denys. Their ultimate otherness provides an exotic catalyst for the romantic love story to develop. In turn, the innocuous story line of love helps justify the very disturbing and dark side of Western imperialism.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This romantic movie has it all. Great acting, beautiful scenery and breathtaking music. Once you start watching you cannot stop!I love this movie, and the story really moves the heart. You just got to see it...  "},{"Title":"Touching the right key","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was very surprised that Out of Africa is not in the top 250. Sure, this movie is about a Danish woman trying to build and keep a farm in Africa, it's also about a woman who tries to be fair to her black employees and stands up against conventions when she feels she has to. But that is not what this movie is really about, I think. I was struck by this movie because it really touched me. I would call this movie a masterpiece, because it really does something to me, unlike other movies who may try to achieve this but are not subtle enough and turn out to be sentimental. I suppose it's very hard for an actress to get it just right. Meryl Streep plays wonderfully and so do Robert Redford and Klaus Maria Brandauer. It really does't matter that Redford is an American and not an Englishman in real life. Some reviewers had this against this film. If this bothers you, you're missing the point. I had great sympathy for Karen Blixen and truely granted her the love and happiness that she deserves to have. Therefore the ending is so intensely sad. The music is absolutely beautiful and probably one of the reasons why this movie has such a powerful impact. There are few movies like this one, but perhaps Leaving Las Vegas had a similar effect on me.  "},{"Title":"Movie A  DVD  A","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Africa A/A 4.5.00 1.851/4.1 First Viewing Anamorphic Widescreen Best PictureThis is a great movie.  Everything about it is first rate including story, acting, directing and cinematography.  Its bear sweep at the Oscars in 1986 only proves that.  The DVD does great justice to the film.  The anamorphic video transfer was done painstakingly well and a very good Making of. video is included.  "},{"Title":"Best cinematography, but not best picture","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's very difficult to be critical of a man who just passed away, Sydney Pollack, but Out of Africa did not deserve the Best Picture or Best Director Oscar.The movie, though, did deserve its Best Cinematography award. I felt like I was watching a National Geographic special as I observed the beautiful landscapes of Kenya and the native animals hunting, playing, and avoiding predators. Africa is set between 1913 and about 1930, but there are even photographs from airplanes.Oftentimes, I wished the movie was a documentary about Kenya's lions, monkeys, rhinos, and elephants, and the sometimes sleep-inducing plot wouldn't interfere with it. The best scenes involved animals &#150; Meryl Streep's character (Karen Blixen) freezing as a lion approached her while Robert Redford's character (Denys Finch Hatton) hesitated before firing his gun, Streep whipping lions eating her oxen, monkeys playing with record albums, and Blixen and Hatton hunting lions.As a director, Pollack should have done a much better job of editing. The movie is based on a real-life story, but the life of Blixen just wasn't interesting enough for a 160-minute film. It would have been much better at 100 to 120 minutes. Most of the scenes of the hoity-toity Europeans partying in Kenya were pointless, and the pacing was really, really slow.But length is NOT the only problem. Blixen needed to be far more passionate about Africa and its people. I presumed she wrote a book (pen name Isak Dinesen) on Africa because she loved it, but this emotion is not conveyed in the film. She does talk once or twice about teaching native Africans to read, but she doesn't exhibit enough passion, and it's others who do the teaching.In addition, Africa is promoted as one of the screen's great epic romances (the first sentence on my movie box.) It just isn't. The Blixen/Hatton romance is really slow developing. They first kiss 100 minutes into the movie.The movie's last hour is stronger plotwise than the first 100 minutes as Hatton and Blixen's conflicting views of marriage and life makes the story close to compelling for the first time, the dialogue between them improves dramatically, and there are other plot twists. It's too bad Redford underplays his character and comes across as a 21st century American instead of the early 20th century Brit he's supposed to be.As for Streep, she is so brilliant in Sophie's Choice and other movies that I'm guessing that she got the Danish accent of her character right. However, the accent is sometimes hard to understand so I wish she chose being viewer-friendly over realistic.Analytically, Africa deserves a 6 because the last hour is strong enough to get an 8. I gave it a 5, though, because the plot during the first 100 minutes was so weak that I wouldn't have watched the last hour if I wasn't writing a review.ZWrite "}{"Title":"A beautiful movie","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Spoilers are within) This film is a love story, both love between two people and love for Africa. It's a stunning film, beautifully shot and immensely powerful.  I fall in love each time I see it, and its effect is immeasurable.  Though it is long, and not action packed, its purpose is to lay out a sweeping portrait of East Africa, and to tell a beautiful but tragic story within it.  This is a wonderfully made film, with masterful performances, and a true portrait of what it means for a cynic to fall in love, both with a person and a place. Though both love stories end in tragedy, the unfolding of the tale is one of beauty; a film well worth seeing.   "},{"Title":"one of the best films ever...","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This has always been my favorite film.  The subtle beauty of this film always amazes me.  Streep and Redford both deserved something more than oscar has to offer anymore.   The entire cast for that matter was wonderful.   The cinematography was breath taking.  I was shocked when I saw how low a rating it had here. When I see what films make the big money in the US (ridiculous plot ,exploding cars, corny humor), I don't know why this shocked me.    "},{"Title":"Tedious Mediocrity","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  &#145;Out of Africa' is a film that struggles to impress. It is loosely based on the memoirs of Danish aristocrat Karen Dinesen (Meryl Streep), whose failed social endeavors at home drove her to a platonic marriage to a Baron (Klaus Maria Brandauer) and to an eighteen-year exile in colonial Kenya. The wide skies of Africa enlarged Dinesen's horizons, allowing her to explore the limits of her endurance through business venturing, friendship, and ultimately romance with wildlife hunter Denys Finch Hatton (Robert Redford).The components of cinematic success are all there erotic triangles, colonial Africa, exotic natives, even war, illness and bereavement. Paradoxically, after the first twenty minutes something goes terribly wrong, causing this over-ambitious film to evaporate into plain meaninglessness. The source of this unfortunate debacle is to be found in the substandard screenplay, which tends to revolve endlessly around itself, while stubbornly refusing to lift the story and the characters off the ground. Fine recitals by Streep (featuring a superb Nordic accent), and Michael Kitchen (as Berkeley) are not dynamic enough to conceal the film's fatal contradictions Dinesen is a feminist spirit whose self-confidence is dependent on the men in her life; colonized Kenya is a sanitized paradise where &#145;noble savages' know their place; and where white colonialists are well-meaning philanthropists with imperfections that have hardly any impact outside of their narrow &#145;bwana' circle. In conclusion, do not allow yourself to be deceived by the film's Academy Award credentials. This is mediocre cinema -the kind which pleases the eye, but is all empty calories. 4.7 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty amazing that this movie won an oscar for best movie. But that's probably got more to do with the actors than the movie itself. Which was, btw, overlong, a bit pointless, and dare I say it, downright boring at times.Street and Redford (though both great actors) have no real chemistry and one can't understand Brandauer's role in this one. It just won't get interesting. It may have some good scenery shots, but the story lacks big time on a real goal. I'm sure Dinesen's books are great though...Overrated by the academy, 5/10. "},{"Title":"surprising","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" a film with Meryl Streep and Robert Redford could not be more than a good one. the African landscapes, the music, the cast are virtues in same measure. but the real surprise is the wise balance between emotions, love story, decisions of the lead characters. the science to use a book for explore the nuances of a form of survive far to well- known places. the precise - delicate portrait of relationship and about the status/roots in a different society. and, sure, the high poetry of images - parts of inspired music. a film for remind and discover. small, seductive, bitter details. and for understand a part from a non ordinary biography. more than a good film, a surprising one. for a kind of magic who rebuild a lost form of romanticism and adventure. "},{"Title":"Still very well worth viewing","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Danish Karen Dinesen married her Swedish cousin Baron Bror Blixen and moved to Kenya in 1914 where she had a life of struggle trying to make a commercial success of a coffee farm, suffering the humiliation of the baron's promiscuity, and falling in love with the British Denys Finch Hatton who stole her heart while fiercely protecting his own. In 1931, she returned to Denmark much poorer both financially and romantically. In 1937, she wrote the biographical work Out Of Africa.Sydney Pollack produced and directed this film adaptation of Blixen's life with the wonderful Meryl Streep as the Danish writer and Klaus Maria Brandauer as her husband and the handsome Robert Redford as her lover. Rather long (2 hours 41 minutes) and slow by today's standards, this is still a wonderful movie, aided by the stunning photography of wild animals in Kenya's Shaba National Game Reserve and the evocative score by John Barry.As a massive fan of Meryl Streep throughout her long and distinguished career, I first saw the movie in 1986. I was prompted to revisit it in 2015 when my son and his family relocated to Kenya and, when visiting them, I went to Karen Blixen's house in what is now the suburbs of Nairobi. She is still remembered with such affection in Kenya that the area where she lived is now called Karen. "},{"Title":"Interesting From a Historical Note","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 20th-century colonial Kenya, a Danish baroness/plantation owner (Meryl Streep) has a passionate love affair with a free-spirited big-game hunter (Robert Redford).How accurate this is to reality, I have no idea. I know they downplayed some of the plantation stuff, making it seem like the farm was not as big as it really was, so we do not have to see so many laborers. But the general idea is more or less based on truth, I suppose.What I find interesting about that is when viewed as a colonial film (which seems appropriate), I had no idea Denmark had such an impact on Africa. There are many European countries who had their territory, but Denmark is not one that comes to mind. And this was well into the 20th century, which seems even more strange. "},{"Title":"wonderful cast, save one; glorious scenery - Out of Africa","Date":"1 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to describe this film. On one hand, it's long and slow; on the other, it's an absorbing story with fantastic acting and breathtaking scenery.Meryl Streep stars as Karen Blixen, a Danish woman, who marries Bror Blixen and becomes a Baroness. The couple move to Africa in 1913 and start a coffee plantation.Blixen cheats on her and is away often for business, while she stays at home working the plantation. Ultimately he gives her VD.She falls in love with Denys Finch-Hatton (Robert Redford). The relationship is frustrating for her -- Denys does not want a commitment, he wanted freedom. When she returns to her native country, she writes about her experience as Isak Dinesen.The film shows a lot of interesting history the class consciousness, for one, as Karen was looked down on because of her humble beginnings. Also, it shows Europeans trying to impose their culture on a foreign people.It definitely portrays how the different tribes saw the Europeans, basically as people who did not belong there.It also shows the simplicity of the natives, and how their knowledge of their own country was superior. All of this is before World War II and very interesting. Interestingly, Sikh Indians are brought to the English Gentlemen's club to act as servants and when Karen dares to enter the men's only den, it's the Sikh who is responsible for escorting her out; none of the English gentlemen have the balls or nerve to do it. An interesting observation on the English White man's view of the world before World War I.Many of the lesser characters were real people. Kumante was apparently consulted by the filmmakers. Felicity is based on aviatrix Beryl Markham. The cast includes Klaus Maria Brandauer, Michael Kitchen, Michael Gough, and Rachel Kempson, all wonderful actors.Meryl Streep does a beautiful job as Karen/Isak. Robert Redford is miscast as Denys, who is supposed to be a British aristocrat. If he speaks with an American accent, he can't be a British aristocrat. Apparently Redford used an accent but Sydney Pollack made him overdub his lines; he thought they would distract the audience.I think he should have been encouraged to work on and use the accent so his portrayal could have closer to the real man. As it is, he comes off as miscast -- and American. He also doesn't register as well as he could, given his looks and charm.The scenery in this film is the true star. So many of us don't have a strong picture of Africa; this film displays its great beauty.Interestingly, the story of Isak Dinesen was considered for Greta Garbo, and Audrey Hepburn was offered the role before Streep. "},{"Title":"Personal and uplifting","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of Africa is a film that invokes wanderlust. With that name it has to, doesn't it. With big panning shots of the local life and grand orchestra tunes it sometimes feels more like a National Geographic documentary than a movie.Out of Africa however is not about lions, but about relationships. Similar to stories like Pride and Prejudice it does not rely upon much of a story. There is some business with the farm in Africa, some diseases and some hunting trips, but beyond that there is not a whole lot happening. However, despite the lengthy runtime, the movie does not get boring as the actors do a good job and it is interesting to see their characters get revealed and interacted with, and the two main characters played by Robert Redford and Meryl Streep show good chemistry together. That said, It is understandable if not everyone will agree that this is enough to justify sitting through over 2 hours of it.A praiseworthy quality is the film's subtlety and intelligence, specifically in its dialogue. Often not a whole lot is being said and pauses can be long but the meaning is plentiful and relatively clear.Out of Africa has an interesting positive mood. It left me feeling uplifted. However, if I look back at the story and all its negative turns, it is one of the darker stories I have encountered. How does this movie manage to do that? Not sure, but it seems that freedom, peace, love, determination and acceptance prevail over the hardships.A point of annoyance for me came from an unusual angle. As you watch this movie you realise that this is a story about a white noblewoman from Denmark having love adventures in Africa, against the background of half-naked poor black servants, but the movie redeems itself to some degree by acknowledging the problem of colonialism in its story and dialogue and by making the main character fairly likable and hardworking.Another point of annoyance is Meryl's prominent friend played by Klaus Brandauer. He has 0 chemistry with her and does a whole range of despicable things and the movie, with its music and dialogue, does not seem to recognize it. Meryl's character keeps giving him a pass. Perhaps that is realistic for the position of women in the time in which this story takes place. Again, the movie is subtle so perhaps it is expected that a character like this is not vilified.Yet another small nitpick is the accent. I am sure Meryl Streep is doing an excellent Danish accent. Unfortunately, I had trouble understanding the first part of the movie because of it.Out of Africa is a personal positive experience centered on character interaction. Unless you are not into that, there is no reason not to watch a quality movie like that. "},{"Title":"An underrated beauty... Sort of.","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw Out of Africa, I was completely awe-struck. It was the most poetic, lush, and vibrant film I had seen in a long time. I wanted to pack my bags, book my flight, and maintain a farm in Kenya at the foot of the Ngong Hills with Streep and Redford for the rest of time. The production itself is so exquisitely served that you can't help but to just marvel at the beauty. On a recent re-watch (the first time I've visited the film since my lyrical first viewing), I looked upon this work of pure synesthesia with the same sense of wonderment, but perhaps with a more critical eye.Let's unpack the good. Strike that &#x96; the incredible. Never has there been a country more lovingly photographed than Kenya through Sydney Pollack's lens and the cinematography of David Robinson. The mystery and majesty of East Africa grabs you and simply refuses to let go. It's perhaps the most cinematic representation of natural beauty I've ever seen. Redford and Streep strike editorial poses amid giraffes and elephants and lions, while the iconic scene known as A glimpse of the world through God's eye is just a thing of heart- stopping beauty, complete with the rippling of a flock of flamingos, the powerful roar of a waterfall, and the jagged caps of mountains. I'd go as far as to call it one of my favorite film scenes of all time.The depiction of the good life in Colonial Africa is equally as enticing, a cozy haven of languid fireplaces and plush furnishings - a world of antique chintz and silk brocade. I could go on and on. And on. The curator of this magical world is Karen Blixen, a fascinating and courageous woman, played with sure-footed confidence by Meryl Streep. She absolutely perfects the clipped and guttural Danish accent, but that's to be expected. Her critics have never faulted her technical virtuosity. While this is one of her most interesting character transformations, it's not among her best. The serene beauty of her face fails to convey the inner turmoil of a woman who has battled syphilis, lions, and colonial patriarchy, and while she has never looked more beautiful, her myriad on screen personae have never hinted at sexual wildness or mysteriousness &#x96; a requisite for this character. I read somewhere that Julie Christie was attached to the project at one stage or another. She seems like a no-brainer for the part, doesn't she? Now, on to the not-so-good. The film (perhaps wrongly?) shifts Baroness Blixen's dreamy love affair from one with Africa, whose essence she distilled so gorgeously in her memoir, to one with Robert Redford. Or, Denys Finch Hatton, the Oxford-educated son of an English Duke. Sorry about that! My slip is to be easily forgiven, though &#x96; Redford and screenwriter Kurt Luedke have erased all context to this character. Redford speaks in his own American accent and doesn't necessarily breathe easily in his period garb. I am of two minds about this performance. On the one hand, it absolutely works as Redford (a.k.a. America the Beautiful) in Africa, aloof and ambiguous, sexy and narcissistic, heart-achingly romantic. But as an aristocratic British hunter and aviator? Not so much. I couldn't help but wonder how Terence Stamp might have fared in the role, with his aura that just reads upper-crust and hypnotic, azure eyes. Redford and Streep make for a visually stunning pair, and there's chemistry there, to be sure, but, in truth, hotter sparks are ignited between Streep and her philandering Baron husband played with beguiling and rakish charm by Klaus Maria Brandauer. So, what's my final conclusion? I don't think I can give you one. Despite evidence to the contrary, I still love this film. It just works on so many levels. I can't deny its superficiality or its missteps, but it easily ranks among the three greatest Best Picture winners of the 80s (next to Ordinary People and Amadeus), and I'll be damned if I've been dissuaded from my initial dream of owning a farm in Africa at the foot of the Ngong Hills with my true loves, Meryl Streep and Robert Redford.A-/B+ "}{"Title":"Story about a danish woman who lives in British East Africa during WWI","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie out of Africa, directed by Sydney Pollack, is about a Danish baroness who owns a coffee plantation in Kenya. Her life is being complicated by many matters. For example, there's the fact that her marriage is mainly businesslike and her husband cheats on her, she also has a lover herself and needs to run a coffee plantation with help of the natives in times of war. The movie was inspired by a book written by the Danish author Karen Blixen and other writings. Pollack used Meryl Streep and Robert Redford as main characters, which in my opinion was a fabulous choice. Both of them are in my top-list of favourite actors of all time. Robert Redford is just a very handsome man with great acting skills and Meryl Streeps acting is unbeatable, therefore she even won an Oscar as best-actress for the role she played. The movie altogether got seven Oscars and 25 other prizes. I guess you could say this film was and still is quiet successful. Of course the filming has aged, but if you think about the fact that they produced it in the year 1985, that's impressive. Also the story will always be touching as well as the acting performance of the characters. The movie is located in British East Africa during WWI, this is an extra element in the movie that makes living there makes it difficult for the baroness. The nature that the viewer got to see was breathtaking. This combined with the fantastic music by various artists as John Barry and Mozart, made me fall in love with this movie. "},{"Title":"Will One in Twenty Really Get the Two Relationships?","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Let us dispense with OoA as breathtaking travelogue, mood piece, presentation of sociological awakening (all of which it is) in favor of dissecting the two attachments in the context of the cultural rules and norms of just about a century ago. For Karen, both of the attachments are anxious or ambivalent in the terms of famed, mid-century psychologist John Bowlby and his disciples. Karen may have felt secure with Bror, but being a budding climber out of cultural boxes, the security would become chafing. Karen never felt secure with Denys, of course, because he was simply too far out of the box for her until it was too late. Bror was too attached to -- and dependent upon -- her, though insistent that she fit his programmed pictures of what a woman should be, according to the instructions implanted in his Mind of the Time. Denys was as ambivalently attached to Karen as she was to him, but for precisely opposing reasons. She was (unconsciously) attracted to his free-spirited and independent transcendence of the cultural norms... while, however much he may have been drawn to her hormonally, Denys was as (quite consciously) disturbed and put off by her culturally normalized, conventional possessiveness. Thus, OoA works -- on just one of its many levels -- as a dramatization of the conflict many, more enlightened people (as many women as men, nowadays) experience when attracted to those who are still stuck in the common cultural cave of lover as chattel. "},{"Title":"beautiful but slow","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In Denmark, Karen Dinesen (Meryl Streep) asks her friend Baron Bror Blixen (Klaus Maria Brandauer) in a marriage of convenience. He is an aristocrat without much money. It's 1913 and they move to Kenya. She meets big game hunter Denys Finch Hatton (Robert Redford). She eventually falls in love with Bror but his womanizing leaves her with syphilis. He does no work in their plantation. She's forced to get treatment in Denmark. After returning to Africa, Bror has not changed his ways and she asks him to leave. She develops feelings for Denys but he's refuses to be tied down.It's a long slow romantic epic. Streep is doing a good performance with dialect. Redford has his beautiful charms. Director Sydney Pollack films the scenes with beauty. However he doesn't inject the movie with tension or romantic heat. It's an epic romance that may be out of time. It's from another era and not particular better for it. This movie is beautiful and the acting is impeccable. The flight is cinematic although I wish the Streep Redford closeups weren't faked. The easiest way to amplified the drama is to distill the movie into a romantic triangle or shorten it to only the romance between Streep and Redford. "},{"Title":"As time goes by,Bobs worse,Meryl is better.","Date":"20 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everyone has seen this film. As the yrs go by,I cant help but see how well Miss Streep commanded the screen and how utterly behind the pace fell her male lead,Robert Redford. He settled for plastic,matine idol. Time has not been kind to his performance,for you see how he holds the movie back. So,watch,enjoy,and forgive Bob. I think he did his best. Hes just a pretty boy and always has been just that. Never so evident as in this film. The entire film is rife with Bobs liberal stands. The good news is,it is such a huge film that you can easily ignore Redford and enjoy the timeless performance from the female lead. What a country,what a story. Enjoy,just grit your teeth,every time Bob is on the screen. "},{"Title":"the tragedy of not being rewarded for your efforts","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" great classic film. if you haven't watched be sure to do so the film surprised me w the frankness of some of the issues it dealt with given that the film was made in 1985 - it wasn't simply a costume drama in beautiful landscape photographywhile watching I simply marveled at Meryl's range & careerrather sad the tragic life of Karen Blixen who tried so hard but was not rewarded for her efforts Fortunately the film was rewarded for its efforts! so Blixen got her dues in the end and we shared in her struggle.moral of the story is write it downPollack coats the harshness w romanticism "},{"Title":"You own nothing in Africa, Africa owns your soul ...","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" As an upper-class celibate from Denmark, graced with Meryl Streep's delicate traits, Karen never strikes as a person who'd feel like fish in water in African land. But it's a credit to Out of Africa's intelligence not to let us jump to such hasty conclusions.It actually is in Denmark where Karen's life meets with a social dead-end she has education, looks but lacks money and reputation. She finds a husband who can provide both in Baron Bror Blixen. This is not about love in the Latin-romantic (and cinematic) definition, but an opportune juxtaposition of friendship and convenience, marking Karen's rebirth as a Baroness with a meaning to her life a farm in Africa&#x85; and what more adequate setting for a rebirth than the cradle of humankind?Indeed, Africa is this magical place where all civilized instincts are inhibited, a return to the basics for any human being. No one owns, everything belongs to time, and men are only passing through while only Nature lasts. But Africa's privilege also made it the perfect target for European imperialism. And when Karen arrives in 1913 in British East Africa, aboard that long train penetrating savanna's immensity, we understand that Africa's virginity has already been soiled.But Pollack doesn't fall into the Manichean trap; there are basically two types of Europeans the colonizers who believe their duty is to 'tame' Natives as parts of the wilderness, and those who embrace Africa as a free land, for new opportunities. Karen's marriage set her free from both social conveniences and her husband who cares as less about his marriage as the farm, preferring the thrills of safari. His only involvement will consist on turning the project into a coffee plantation, without even consulting Karen.Out of Africa chronicles Karen's attempts to get accustomed with Africa and lead the farm on her own. Her motto is to own something and make the best of it on a personal and collective level. The film's recurring line is I had a farm in Africa, which emphasizes her pride over owning a parcel of a sacred territory carrying all the mysteries of humanities. But this pride is less driven by selfishness than a strong desire to translate her experience into something meaningful. This desire takes a new significance after the syphilis episode that annihilated her chances to have children.To fulfill her maternal instincts, Karen treats the Kikiyu tribe like her own children by healing them, instructing them, offering a part of their land that she owns, a so revealing paradox of how strangers to the meaning of 'owning' Natives are. Karen's attitude isn't 'patronizing' or reflecting the colon's zealous trials to civilize the wild out of Christian goodness, deep in her heart, she tries to inculcate enough strength to resist the invasion. But this is the African paradox; its vulnerability hides a much greater force that shall not be corrupted, not according to Denys anyway.This is where Denys' character is significant; he's a handsome and free-spirited big-game hunter who emulated Masai's faithfulness to human nature and Nature itself. Inevitably, any of his encounters with Karen leads to a debate over European presence in Africa. Why should she turn the Kikuyus into British? What makes them ignorant? Both make valid points as if the African exoticness and civilized instincts, putting Karen and Denys in the crossroads of nature and civilization, translated the eternal conflict into an endearing romance, asking the same question what will triumph? A romantic conflict indeed &#x85; Denys is like a roaming lion that Karen tries to keep close to her, they both embrace Nature and ironically, it's with a civilized engine, a perfect incarnation of the miracle of science, that they can contemplate Nature's magnificence. James Horner's mesmerizing score, so simple and magic reaches an emotional highlight during the unforgettable biplane sequence, conveying a drunkenness of freedom, unique and ephemeral, before civilized matters end up burning the wings.Karen's odyssey meets with misfortune when the plantation burn leaving her bankrupt. Meanwhile, Bror's extramarital affairs lead to a friendly divorce, all in all, making Karen's life in Africa difficult, except if Denys accepted to marry her. After having lost everything, the only possession of Denys' heart would mean deliverance for her, but this is the only thing he wouldn't allow, being obliged by a piece of paper. The greatest romances are the doomed one and never has this dilemma been so intellectually challenging.Yet like a lousy deus ex machine, something we call a twist of fate in real life, Denys dies in a crash, permanently sealing Karen's fate. Ironically, losing all the ties is the last stroke that forge her personality and decide her to write about Africa, learning how to lose to understand the land where nothing is to be possessed, the land of Masais nomads, hunters and adventurers, which she ultimately became.And that return to basics oddly applied to Sydney Pollack on a cinematic level. In 1982, he made Tootsie, an old-fashioned comedy  la Sturges and Capra, tailor-made for the 80's but he lost to Gandhi. Three years later, he'd win the Best Picture Oscar with his epic movie, whose escapism also borrows from Hollywood's Golden Age. Yes, there is something of Scarlett O'Hara in lioness-hearted Meryl Streep, something of Rhett in the detached and charismatic Redford, something of Gone With the Wind in that love-and-hate triangle formed with Klaus Maria Banderer.And yes, there is the thoughtful portrayal of African people, illuminated by the performance of the dignified, dedicated and gentlemanly Malick Bowens as Karen's servant and butler. His relationship with Karen highlights this extraordinary bond that can grow with the passing of time between two different persons. And the last exchange between them seals forever this sacred link with Africa, when he finally calls her by name, this is Karen's indestructible root in Africa's soul.For, despite the title, Karen will never be 'out of Africa'. "},{"Title":"A sweeping epic romance to Africa","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I do enjoy Meryl Streep (who doesn't really) and I adore Robert Redford. Yet I had never seen this film. Thanks to the classic cinema showing at Cineplex I had the chance to see it on the big screen and simply put...wow. Of course this is a romance but the biggest romance in the film is the ode to Africa. 70% of this stunning movie was actually shot in Africa and you live and breath the plains, the mountains, the dusty villages, the rustic safari, every animal you can possibly think of. This will literally make you ache for Africa much like our main characters do. I have rarely seen a film (if ever) that captured a real location like this one does. This film deserved every Oscar and accolade it got for film making because it literally defines stunning and that's completely without fancy special effects or 3D to bog it down. But that isn't even the thing that makes this an amazing movie. The beautiful story, the fantastic performances, the incredible chemistry...everything about Out of Africa works. It is a long nearly three hours that I still didn't want to end when it was all over. It was such a powerful and moving story and everything about it was emotionally charged and just beautiful to watch. This instantly found a place in my heart as a classic film for me and I am sure to see it again and soon! Decades later and Meryl Streep is still a powerhouse in Hollywood. This was a young Meryl Streep at her simplistic best. She always has this way of bringing a character to life and yet her portrayal of Karen Blixen is so subtle and down to earth. You just understand her and feel her passion and enjoy her adventure. The words I had a farm in Africa at the foot of the Ngong Hills... will haunt me but in a good way. Robert Redford was sure an ugly dude wasn't he? (sarcasm) But aside from being one of the most debonair and attractive men in the world (I am straight honest) he is also a first rate actor. He also has a way of playing down to earth characters that you relate to. At first his character doesn't get a lot of screen time, running into Streep's Blixen repeatedly over the years in Africa. When their passionate affair begins they chemistry together is palpable and lovely to watch. They are two power houses that mesh so well together. On top of that the supporting cast were phenomenal. Klaus Maria Brandauer is excellent as Blixen's womanizing husband. Malick Bowens is astonishing as Blixen's stoic house-man. Bowens and Streep also have incredible chemistry and their final scenes together tear at your heart strings. Joseph Thiaka, Stephen Kinyanjui and Michael Gough also deserve honourable mention in their respective parts.Sydney Pollack is considered Hollywood royalty thanks to a handful of modern day classics like Tootsie, this film and The Way We Were to name a couple. I'm ashamed to say I have only seen a couple of his movies and now I am officially a huge fan. This was one of the most well directed movies I have ever seen. It is just one of those rare films where every single piece falls into place. It transports you to Africa like few other films do and is an incredible ride beginning to end. You will laugh, you will cry and you will simply be amazed. This is the type of movie that screams classic (albeit more of a slightly modern classic.) This one enters my all time favourites proudly!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Period Film, Awesome Photography, Score.","Date":"9 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" How did I miss this when it came out in the 80's? I am very impressed with this film. There is no one great thing about it. But the landscape scenes of the Kenyan countryside are simply stunning. The story line is engaging and touching. The acting is outstanding, particularly Streep who has so many ups and downs in the film that she performs perfectly. Some reviewers complained about the choice of Redford in his role. I would argue Redford fits into his role quite well and really delivers the goods, as long as you don't take issue with an American playing the role of Streep's lover (why would you?). I love the setting. 1915 to 1925 I think. Almost 30 years after this film came out it is still an amazing, timeless masterpiece. "},{"Title":"This movie would have been so much better without R. Redford","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll give it a 9 for Meryl performance. She's so amazing, a fragile yet naturally strong woman. What doesn't work in this movie, is the presence of mr. Redford. I clearly have the impression Meryl has two characters in this movie one when Redford is in the scene, and a different one when he's not. It's like when Redford appears, she becomes a different person, she loses her attitude, character, determination, inspiring presence. The cheesy play of Redford just doesn't fit in this movie. When he's not in the scenes, it's a total different movie, based on Meryl's character, centered on her as a woman. When he appears, the whole movie turns around his charm, charming, charmer, charmed.. you get the point. A director's cut would do much for this production, you know what I have in mind. "},{"Title":"Redford  BIG mistake","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed the film and sure and sure, it's an overly-romantic mess, I admit that but I could still enjoy it.The film's biggest fault, to me, beyond any doubt, is that Robert Redford should NO WAY have landed this role and been cast in it. Clearly, it was done for the box office draw but who, for even a second, is convinced someone named Denys Finch Hatton? Are you freaking kidding me? Robert Freaking Redford? Mr. All American? No British accent at all? And this is supposed to be believable? Why not just change the character's name to, oh, I don't know, John Smith or Larry Adams or something? That way, it would have been FAR more believable and consistent.But Deny Finch Hatton? So Meryl Streep can do an accent--and act?--but Robert Redford can't and doesn't have to? Are you kidding me? Mo Rage the blog "}{"Title":"Dull Memories","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a serious film. The big explosions and fantastical, unrealistic situations are not present here, so it must naturally aim at more intelligent movie goers. Still, I have the following problems with it What does the title mean, get the hell out of Africa? There was an umpteen number of European settlers in early 20s century going abroad trailing along their bored wives. Should I be interested in their boring lives, caring about their relationship with the servants and their extra-marital affairs? Why is this movie valued so highly? Because of the love story? Love is overrated, everybody falls in love and quenches her thirst at some point only to hate and turn it into an abusive relationship a couple of months/years later. An old woman's memento, even in an exotic milieu, isn't interesting enough for me, I concluded.And I really didn't need to see the cruel and inhuman lion hunting. It makes me sad to think hundreds of thousands of defenseless, magnificent animals were shot and butchered in the late 19th and early 20s centuries because of our sick egos. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest screen romances ever","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reading some of the criticism of this film, I wonder if they saw the same movie that I did. This is an absolute masterpiece in every sense of the word! The photography is stunning, with virtually every scene presenting a sumptuous feast for the eyes. The soundtrack is heartfelt and magnificently blended into the story. The actors are superb, with notable performances by Meryl Streep, Klaus Maria Brandauer and Michael Kitchen. One of the deepest performances is turned in by Malick Bowens as Farah - so wonderfully sensitive. Those who knock Robert Redford playing a Brit would have also undoubtedly knocked him should he have affected a British accent. His performance, to me, was magnificently understated and on target. I find that a lot of guys have trouble with Redford - undoubtedly insecure egos. Sydney Pollack deserves to have his face carved on the Mt. Rushmore of filmmaking for this timeless, romantic and deeply moving motion picture. "},{"Title":"Rare Epic","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" If we are lucky, we get to see an epic such as Out of Africa maybe once a year; if we are lucky. This film, clearly the pick of 1985, was one such movie.We start out with a simple yet affecting screenplay from ace writer Kurt Leudtke (adapted from Isak Dineson's writings Out of Africa, Shadows on the Grass and Letters from Africa plus Isak Dineson The Life of a Storyteller by Judith Thurman and Silence Will Speak by Errol Trzebinski) and add some top performances for a moving drama. Meryl Streep conquers another accent and another role with her eyes closed. She personifies the strong willed Danish woman of Dineson's stories. As well rounded and as good as I have ever seen him is Robert Redford as the free spirited Denys Finch Hatton. Strong too is Klaus Maria Brandauer as Baron Von Blixen, the wayward husband, while Malick Bowens is a delight as Mrs Blixen's native 'man'.To round the film off you add astute editing, glorious cinematography and John Barry's best ever musical score, and you have a marvellous picture. Director Sydney Pollack pulls it all together with a charm and style that seems effortless.Definitely a movie you should try and see at the cinema of you get the chance. It may, for some, outstay its welcome a little, but epics are want to do this. Many viewers will rather wish it was not finishing so soon.Saturday, January 31, 1999 - VideoStreep is at her superb best as the determined baroness Blixen, and this would have to be Robert Redford's best ever as the wandering, enigmatic Finch-Hutton. The support cast, including Klaus Maria Brandauer, Michael Kitchen, Malick Bowens, Joseph Thiaka, Stephen Kinjanjui, Michael Gough and Suzanna Hamilton are all excellent.Out of Africa is a true epic, because it has everything. Visually breathtaking, it is enhanced by John Barry's grand score, his greatest. The film is not outstanding by accident, and is crafted by director Sydney Pollack using Kurt Leudtke's beautiful screenplay.A sumptuous big screen experience.Tuesday, January 4, 2000 - Video "},{"Title":"best of the best in my top 100 movies","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" At the moment, it has to be the best -all round, movie ever made!(see my '100 movies to watch before you vacate your perch' ) care of living social/face book sitethat said, the Baader Meinhoff Complex 2008 has to be 1st equal, although of a much narrower appeal (unless you are a German baby boomer)If there is any one out there that hasn't yet seen 'Out of Africa' Youmust see it without delay as you are missing a cinematic masterpiece.I don't know how many awards it has garnered but it can't be faulted for acting, cinematography, script/storyline, direction, i could but i won't go on. That it's rated only a 7 is a bit of a travesty but at least it's up there. SEE IT NOW! "},{"Title":"Disappointed...","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of Africa was a good movie. I enjoyed it very much. The casting was excellent and of course Robert Redford and Meryl Streep delivered great acting throughout this film (not to mention Pollack's directing). The main thing about this movie that bothers me to be honest is that it actually beat The Colored Purple for so many Oscars. I know that doesn't technically have anything to do with the movie. It was good, just way overrated. The Color Purple, I believe was sooooo much better it's not even funny. I guess it won because Out of Africa leaves you feeling good and The Color Purple leaves you with a disdained towards fellow mankind lol "},{"Title":"Why this film transcends most romantic films","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The reason why Out of Africa is one of my favorite films is because it portrays the yearnings that lie behind what we frequently call romance to build a story that contains more wisdom and points to something more transcendent than other films that fall into that category. Most unabashedly romantic movies portray the lovers' love as the be-all-end-all of everything, but not Out of Africa, to its credit. I think of the beginning when Karen describes (and then we later see) how Denys showed her a glimpse of the world through God's eyes, and then, I thought, 'Yes, . . . I see.' Though there is the theme of Denys Finch-Hatton's inability or unwillingness to make lasting human connections for fear of losing his independence (even the man he considered his best friend says, I didn't think I knew you well enough), the film is obviously more about Karen Blixen. It's about her having to adjust to the ultimate dashing of the best-laid plans and about learning that she doesn't ultimately possess or own the things in life that bring her joy. Watching her cope in the midst of that process makes her, to me, one of the most appealing female film characters that I've seen (much to the credit of the wonderful Meryl Streep). By the end of the movie there's a very poignant admixture of the grief of loss and the peace of letting go that moves me every time and that I don't fully understand.It was John Barry's music that first aroused my interest in this film, and to me it's interesting how his sensibilities seem well-suited to films that portray themes of recapturing something lost or holding onto something you can't. In addition to Out of Africa, some of his other films that might seem eclectic at first but all contain this thematic vein would be Mary,Queen of Scots, Somewhere In Time, Raise the Titanic, Peggy Sue Got Married, and Dances With Wolves. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie, that I saw a hundred times, always makes me cry of emotion... The edition on 2 DVD is the best way I have to travel to a country I have never been before. The performance of Meryl Streep is one of her best; she deserved that Oscar... The music of John Barry is the most descriptive I've ever heard. I heard the CD not hundred, but thousand times. The cinematography captured the landscapes a perfect way. The combination of images and music is magnificent. Even Robert Redford, an actor of limited resources, give us a sympathetic Dennys. Clauss Maria Brandawer, a nice actor, is a very good contrast to Meryl, the best American actress alive... "},{"Title":"Spectacular African scenery but love story is lacking","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have not seen this movie since it first came out. At the time I was a tremendous Robert Redford fan so quite enjoyed it, though his character in this movie is not a very sympathetic one. In general, I found it almost like a National Geographic film and more notable for the magnificent African scenery than the less than compelling characters or love story. For those who loved this movie and enjoy colonial African tales, I would also recommend the mini series The Flame Trees of Thika, starring Hayley Mills.This beautifully photographed movie tells the (true) story of Karen Blixen, who moves with her husband of convenience, a Baron named Blor Blixen, to colonial Kenya to set up a coffee plantation. Following her coldly neglecting and unfaithful husband's departure from the scene, she falls in love with a dashing, free spirited aviator and big game hunter, Denys, portrayed by Redford. The story revolves around the safari adventures of these two people who are both in love with Africa, perhaps more even than with each other, and their passionate though doomed love affair.Meryl Streep competently portrays Karen Blixen, and others more knowledgeable in the matter than I have either praised or criticized her Danish accent but it was certainly adequate by my standards. Robert Redford's character, Denys, is not a very charming or endearing one, as this adventurer 'wants to be free' and refuses to commit, preferring instead to depart from his supposed Great Love according to his whims. As for this romance, it is NOT emotionally captivating but lacking in chemistry. The real love story here IS dramatically conveyed, but it is between Karen Blixen and Africa. I wonder if the portrayal of her relationship with Denys did justice to the real life story of Karen ('Isak') Dinesen Blixen, on which this film is based.Frankly, I do not hold past European colonialism in very high regard. Karen Blixen admittedly elicits viewer sympathy in both her tragic love relationships and her plantation struggles but nevertheless, she is condescending to the natives. The rather interfering white folk intruded their supposedly superior culture and civilization on a country not their own. I would like to see this movie again in my more mature years to focus on its portrayal of the native Masai and Somali tribes and the relationship of these African natives with the colonizing Europeans.All that being said, I would still recommend this visually stunning movie for the breathtaking African scenery alone. However, don't expect to encounter one of the legendary romances of cinematic history. For myself at least (and I'm a romantic), it simply wasn't there. "},{"Title":"Spectacular scenery","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Maybe I haven't got enough experience of affection or deep love, so what I can feel was the independent and nature character of Karen. Contract marriage never ends with a happy ending, so was it in this movie. But when Karen found her true love, it made me so sad that the god deprived everything back from her. It's a moving love movie, but not so marvelous as 'pearl harbor' which also told this kind of story. Without doubt, the most impressive thing in this movie was the great scenery of Africa, which took my breath away. Hundreds of thousands acres of lawn, blocks of cattle, endless horizon, were exactly the same as what I imagined of Africa. I love those views which set a beautiful background for this somewhat common story. "},{"Title":"I think it's a must for you","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a very remarkable love story that lets you understand that the human heart is always open to let love come in and also go out for other people. You also see hard aspect of life in Africa, how people have to fight to survive the difficulty due to their climate condition. I think this film is a must for you. "}{"Title":"The best movie by Pollack!","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the movie to see if you're a fan of great acting and hooked to Africa.Brilliantly put together by Pollack and superlative performances by both Redford and Streep,this is the movie that got me addicted to Africa.By the way,try to get hold of the soundtrack.I guarantee it's as stunning as the movie! "},{"Title":"7 Academy Awards... need I say more?","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film without reading the book. Although I've heard different stories about how the book is better than the movie and vice versa, I feel that after seeing this film, I won't bother reading the book. Streep and Redford are flawless representatives of their craft-acting. The combinations between them, Barry's music, Pollacks directing, Africa's landscape and excellent dialogues, make this work of art, something unbelievably beautiful, that I will hold to my heart for the rest of my life. Everytime I hear the opening dialogue I had a farm in Africa..., it continues to send pleasant shivers down my spine.... "},{"Title":"Lovely, Heartbreaking, Poetic, Exciting, Gorgeous","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A frontier movie Europeans moving into and changing Africa; a woman who, failing to conform to her society's norms, courageously and willingly transplants herself into a new world yet unwillingly is forced into a man's role without the benefits of being male. Though she acts, she's not in control of her life. She doesn't achieve what she really wants; her life consists of her responses to it. She's frustrated, left grasping, wondering if Africa will remember her when she's left (so beautifully expressed and narrated at the end of the movie!). Of course there's a man, and of course it's Robert Redford. (Side comment Meryl Streep says Robert Redford is the best of all her on-stage kissers.) Robert's (natural) aloofness (and genuineness) work well in this role, but for me, there's an element of too cool, too untouchable, that's not satisfying in this character. I'm just not sure if it's the character or Robert. But you must see this film - you must fly in the biplane over the coastline with Robert and Meryl and see what I swear are honest-to-God tears and wonder on Meryl's face. It's a great movie with one of the most moving scores you'll ever hear. "},{"Title":"The poem that moved us so. . . .","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" With rue my heart is laden By A.E. HousmanWith rue my heart is ladenFor golden friends I had, For many a rose-lipt maidenAnd many a lightfoot lad.By brooks too broad for leapingThe lightfoot boys are laid; The rose-lipt girls are sleepingIn fields where roses fade..This is the poem that causes you to sit quietly after it's remarked in the movie - but it's only one of many moments I'm touched to my core. I love this movie and think if it when I feel Im fighting my battles alone. I can continue with dignity and courage. Others have. "},{"Title":"When the god's want to punish you they answer your prayers .","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out Of Africa is directed by Sydney Pollack, has music by John Barry and stars Meryl Streep, Robert Redford, Klaus Maria Brandaur and Michael Kitchen. Out Of Africa is the fascinating true story of Danish author Baroness Karen Blixen.Before gaining fame under the pen name Isak Dinesen, Karen led a remarkable life out in pre First World War Africa.After contracting Syphillis from her philandering husband she discovers she can't have children and devotes herself to running her coffee plantation and farm.You gain the utmost respect for this woman due to her emotional strength and her ability to function in a very male led way of life.She's one of the earliest examples of the modern businesswoman who operates successfully in a male dominated environment. Karen runs the farm on her own and gets involved in situations not thought to be suitable for women.Baroness Karen Blixen(Meryl Streep)along with her husband Baron Bror Blixen(Klaus Maria Brandaur)moves to a house in Africa to run a coffee plantation and farm.As the years progress Karen discovers that Bror is being unfaithful to her and as the First World War dawns Karen begins a friendship with hunter Denys Finch Hatton(Robert Redford).After the war they begin an affair of their own and Karen at last may have found the happiness she has longed for all these years.However tragedy strikes in many different ways and Karen discovers that at times life is seldom fair,the ending is heartbreaking and the whole film is one that lingers in the memory long after you have finished watching the film.The film has beautiful location work in Africa and gorgeous costumes and music.Robert and Meryl are excellent together really bringing these two fascinating figures to life.Truly a film to be cherished forever and a must see for people interested in the real life story of Baroness Karen Blixen. "},{"Title":"One of The Best Movies","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Filmed on location in Kenya, Out Of Africa, is one of the best films that I have ever watched.Based on the life of Danish female Author, Isak Dinessen,also known as Karon Blixen, wrote many short stories, has some very good and breath taking scenery, such as those of the Flemingoes on Lake Naivasha, Mombasa and not to mention the Ngong Hills.Karen Blixen moves to Kenya, just before the out break of First World War. Upon arriving there she meets the hunter Denys Finch - Hatton but marries Baron Blixen, who has set up a Coffee farm at the foot of the Ngong Hills.Meryl Steep is superb in the role of Karen Blixen as is Robert Redford in the role of Denys Finch - Hatton. The theme and music by John Barry totally fits the scenes, the story and the atmosphere - just brilliant. The director, Sydney Pollock, has directed this movie in a way that is most memorable and this movie is worth watching As a matter of interest to those who have adore this movie, there's an area in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, which is named Karen. This area has been named after Karen Blixen and her house has been converted into a museum and the club, Muthaiga Club, is in the suburban area of the capital, in an area named Muthaiga. If at all possible, when visiting Kenya, it is worthwhile to visit Karen Blixen's House, at the foot of the Ngong Hills.I had the opportunity to meet some of the local actors after the movie was released and also had the opportunity to meet Kumante. Above all, I visited Karen Blixen's house and saw some of the area as well as getting a good view of the Ngong Hills. Many still believe that Denys Finch - Hatton is buried there.I had a farm at the foot of Ngong Hills... "},{"Title":"Modern Day Classic","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" BreathtakingThe storyline, acting and locales make this movie a modern day classic. And it's only 21 years old. It is a movie that can be watched and enjoyed over and over many times and not become boring for generations to come. Robert Redford and Meryl Streep are a perfect match together, strong, independent, adventurous and still longing to be with each other. The movie shows us how life and love is like the Africian wilderness, its complex yet simple, its plains are filled with dangers, yet the beauty of its mountains and valleys are spectacular. We understand that life and love is a daily struggle, just like the wilderness of Africa.I wish more Modern Day Classics could be made for our next generations of movie enthusiast! Robert Dawson "},{"Title":"Overrated...","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I know many people will not agree with me, but this film is overrated...especially when compared to The Color Purple which also came out the same year (1985...Oscars awarded in 1986). I challenge you to watch all the films nominated in a major category of the Academy Awards (Best Picture, Director, Actress, Actor, etc) that year. While the performances in Out of Africa are excellent (I'd expect nothing less from Meryl Streep and Robert Redford), they do not compare to those of Whoopie Goldberg, Danny Glover and the rest of the cast in The Color Purple.Further, Sydney Pollack's direction is good, a tribute to his craft, but let's be real. Spielberg's direction of The Color Purple is exquisite, the story is heart-wrenching and he brings out every last scrap of emotion is each actor. "},{"Title":"This is the movie of my life (until now)","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most wonderful movies I've ever seen. Robert Redford (Denys Finch Hatton) and Meryl Streep (Karen Blixen) are the perfect choice for the characters. The photography and the sound track are excellent. I lived in Africa for some years and I missed its wonderful colors, sounds and perfume. With Out of Africa I had the opportunity to return and I'm not disappointed with the travel I made. Sometimes be prepared to cry and sometimes to smile or even to laugh. Karen Blixen was a courageous woman, full of strength, love, compassion and passion! When I think about this movie, I always remember Karen's magic words I had a farm in Africa. But Karen learned that Africa is impossible to own! The shampoo scene and the plane ride were my favorites. It should not be missed under any circumstances! "},{"Title":"Beautiful in every way","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the most beautiful movies every made. Meryl Streep and Robert Redford are beautiful, not just in the sense of glamor, but in the nature of the characters they portray, especially as they dance or share a moment of Mozart. The African peoples who surround them are beautiful in their native dress and behavior and music. The original music of John Barry is beautiful, lush, moving and unforgettable. The photography is beautiful, and with the music, one experiences the vastness of the land and the heights and depths of the terrain and the unique shapes of trees and the natural habitat of the animals. Watching this movie is a totally beautiful experience. "}{"Title":"Top of the heap for this genre","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is some marvelous symbolism in this film and the screenplay by Kurt Luedtke touches on much of it, but the enhanced DVD contains commentary by Isak Dinisen's biographer, Judith Thurman, as well as comments by director Sydney Pollack that provide additional insights into the characters that we don't necessarily see on screen. However, this doesn't detract from this immensely well-crafted film, so rich in texture and scope, that it accomplishes what all good movies do; it removes us from our world for the amount of time it's on the screen and immerses us in the milieu it creates. This films, not only because of the craftsmanship, for which John Barry also deserves exceptional recognition for a masterful music score, stands head and shoulders above the other blockbuster woman against the elements contemporary films of the time, such as 'Heat and Dust' and was obvious inspiration for other such hi-dollar period romances to follow like, The English Patient and The End of the Affair. What makes this film really shine, however, is Streep's performance as Dinesen, at once both likable and empathetic due to her complete mastery of the art of screen acting, in which again, we forget we're watching a performance. Klaus Maria Brandauer is also excellent as the philandering Baron Blix...and Redford is Redford, perhaps, as some have suggested, a tad mis-cast, but still commanding and ultimately plausible as the conscious big-game hunter/conservationist, that he too is impossible to dislike. All in all, a film that truly enriches the overall experience of American cinema. "},{"Title":"Gorgeus film!!!!!!!!!","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is a dream!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Robert Redford and Merryl Strep are Excellent!Pollack is a major director for he caught Africa on its major plans in all its senses - Africa is that beautiful and he caught it as only the masters do. The sound track was also inspired. Everyone should see it to remember how life can be so beautiful. Those moments of passion really take our breath away.....i mean on the flights scenes.... Mama Mia!!!!!!Blixen is one of the best writers on Africa - she has tales on the Masai that i strongly recommend - the one on the European depressed traveler that finds peace on a small inn and after asking why is reported that the door had an upside seat where Jesus found Moses to exactly make their peoples peace... is my favorite "},{"Title":"A true romantic classic","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of Africa is the true story of Baroness Blixen who moves to Africa from Denmark to run a farm, and encounters many difficulties which eventually force her to move back to Denmark. This movie is a true romantic classic; Meryl Streep and Robert Redford both do a superb job acting (as usual). Although not really stirring or gripping, nevertheless it is well directed and the picture is pretty good, the scenery and portrayal of native Africa in general is amazing. Not a short movie (two and a half hours), up until the last fifteen minutes it is a very tranquil movie which might bore some viewers. But the last fifteen minutes is very moving and emotional, also the adages in the movie (where Streep tells her story) adds intensity, well done Meryl. My overall rating 3.5 out of 6. "},{"Title":"Haunting and beautiful, like Africa","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the most beautiful film I ever saw. It carries all the emotions associated to the majesty of Africa, its sheer beauty, the longing of its vast spaces, the sorrow of Time flying associated to the loss of a loved one departing. Meryl Streep is superb and the poignancy of her acting near Denis' tomb is hard to watch, If it was just one film, then for me,  this would be the ONE! "},{"Title":"Magnificent!!","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the great movies of all time in my opinion. I thought Meryl Streep did a remarkable job with the character of Karen Blixen. The script was intelligent, the photography was phenomenal and the music was superb. One of Sidney Pollacks best films... A must see!! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of the love story, I loved Out of Africa.","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved Out of Africa. It is a moving story with fascinating and haunting characters, a beautifully filmed movie, and I loved it. The plot revolves, really, around the love story - and a beautiful love story it is. I could feel myself falling in love with Denys as Karen does. I was thrilled by the way both of their characters developed. When they fought, I was torn between a desire to slap Karen, and an achingly sad knowledge that, in a way, she was right. The theme music is still running through my head...My mother was right. Meryl Streep is incredible. And I was right - Robert Redford is wonderful. Watch this movie and enjoy it it is a mastery of the love story. "},{"Title":"A perfect movie, A perfect 10","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are only a hand-full of movies that I would rate a 10, and this is one. As a movie buff, there is nothing I would want to change or add to this picture. And The new dvd transfer is a pure joy, both in picture & sound quality. When I view a movie I have a need to fell something, if its a romantic drama, to a action movie.And Out of Africa really delivers.  "},{"Title":"inspiring","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was totally mesmerized the first time I watched Out of Africa. It instantly became my favorite movie. --- None of the other comments mention the defining moment for the film. Karen Blixen (Meryl Streep) has faced many disappointments. Her family has failed to match her with a good husband. Her husband has abandoned her for his own pursuit of pleasure. Her attempt to teach some of the local children to read has met with petty jealousy. Nature has taken the only thing of value that her hard work has produced(fire). The man she loves refuses to be tied down.<<<SPOILER>>>And then Denys (Robert Redford) invites her to get away and see the country for a few days. While in the bush, they stumble upon a feeding pride. Denys instructs her to simply fall down if a lion charges. But when the lion charges, Karen stands her ground, waits for the proper moment, and fires. Perhaps she can not control her husband or nature or petty tribal elders, but she will control herself. The lion does charge. She takes careful aim, waits for the lion to be in perfect range, and fires. There is no way she is going to lay down while a lion charges. --- For me, this was the defining moment of the whole movie. "},{"Title":"sky","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A thing of beauty is a joy forever. This movie is one. All movie's elements are interpreted well in it.Always I could find something new in Out of Africa when I watch it time after time. As Haroldf on Mar. 14 said, it showed us a way of life. You lose something, subsequently you have it, perhaps you would lose it again...In the life, it happened everyday. This is life, this is our life.Such movie, the more you watch, the more you know the life. Likewise, the more you know the life, the more you understand this movie.In this sense, the book is as good as the movie.And the wonderful soundtrack, comprises of John Barry's Theme of Karen, Africa traditional tune, the song (when Karen dance with Danys), and Mozart. There is no clarinet movement like this one of Morzart.  "},{"Title":"An incredibly beautiful film with flawless acting (especially by Meryl Streep), breathtaking cinematography, a moving musical score and a powerful script that is romantic, heartbreaking and poetic.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having recently watched Out of Africa again, I have to say it is my favorite film.  Every time I see it, the story gets stronger and more beautiful.  I also believe this is Meryl Streep's finest role, and think she deserved the Academy Award for her powerful and heartbreaking performance. She carried the film with such beauty and grace.  Her character was an inspiration, showing incredible strength and faith even in the darkest of moments.  I was not familiar with the writings of Isak Dinesen before this film but, having seen the movie so many times, have become fascinated by her life and work.  Out of Africa is truly one of the great films.  It is a shining example of the magic that happens when you combine the elements of great acting, incredible directing, beautiful cinematography, heartfelt music and the inspired writing of a memorable story.  "}{"Title":"I had a farm in Africa and other great lines","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had a farm in Africa...God bless you, Kurt Ludtke. What an amazing screenplay this was, considering what he was working from. Sure, it's visually stunning. Sure, it's got incredible performances by Meryl Streep, Robert Redford and Klaus-Maria Brandauer. But what I remember the most after all this time, is the script.  Well, OK, and the scene where he washes her hair. One of those movies that gets me every time I see it, even though I know what's coming.  "},{"Title":"A very evocative interpretation of the story","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is gloriously evocative of rural Kenya. I first saw this movie a few days before my first safari, and this inspired me to visit the Karen Blixen house in Karen, Nairobi. The film gives a fantastic ex-pat view of Kenya, with some interesting insights into African life. To get the full picture, read all the books, including 'Isak Dinensen' the Life of a Storyteller' and 'Silence Shall Speak' to see what a clever interpretation the movie is of the whole story, not just the bits Karen wrote about in Out of Africa. OK, so Denys looked nothing like Robert Redford, but perhaps RR plays a 1980s equivalent of the dashing hero? Don't get hung-up on being too literal - a small-flight over the Maasai Mara is just as wonderful as it looks on the film. And all that implied sex under the mosquito nets! "},{"Title":"writer Isak Dinesen remember her life in Africa","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had a farm in Africa at the foot of the Ngong hills... starts the movie and the book simultaneously.  Reading the book, though is disappointing.  Denys Finch Hatton is not in the book as much as he is in the movie.  And after seeing the movie, Denys is going to be Robert Redford in your mind... Who can resist a movie with the dashing man himself and Meryl Streep ?  I love this movie and will watch sixty times over (and then the Horse Whisperer had to come out...). I give this movie a perfect ten acting was perfect as was the cinematography.  Movies like these are made once in a blue moon.  Go rent if if you haven't seen it! "},{"Title":"One of my favourite movies","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful film and never fails to touch me. Meryl Streep's voice as the narrator alone makes it worth watching. The beauty, the sadness and the truth of this story are stunning.One thing I like very much is the way it uses motifs the lions, the rifles, the cuckoo clock etc. Especially the objects in Karen's house take on a symbolic life of their own, which tells a story to complement the main narrative.I'm not sure how central the romantic aspect of the film was supposed to be, but I find it secondary to the development of Blixen's character and her relationship with Africa. Robert Redford, though a charming man at all times, doesn't interest me much, but each time I see the film, I fall in love with Streep's Karen again. "},{"Title":"Luscious, All-Day Epic That Justifies the Price of HDTV","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard to remember that there was a steady production of long, cerebral, romantic films in the 1980s, when quirky action-comedies (Ghostbusters, Beverly Hills Cop) & earnest, belt-fed shooting orgies (Rambo, Lethal Weapon) ruled the box office more often than not. Some, like Chariots of Fire, Gandhi & A Passage to India, were slowly forgotten, but Out of Africa keeps a quiet, fervent fan base. Isak Dinesen's story of out-of-sorts aristocracy making a go of it in colonial Africa is hardly a unique one, since almost all the white hunters and many of the farmers were European misfits who preferred rough exile to the slow death of genteel boredom at home. Of the many themes that Pollack might have explored, he chose to concentrate on Karen Blixen as a woman struggling to find a place that will accommodate both her own strong will & the pressures--including her own desire--to fit into Victorian society by marrying & making a home. A marriage of convenience to Bror Blixen (Brandauer), a pleasant, impoverished ne'er-do-well, unites her family's money with his blue-blood title & sends the restless newlyweds to seek their fortune on a farm in Kenya. Karen soon discovers that her marriage is a mixed blessing Bror prefers the freedom of professional hunting & is no help on the farm, but doesn't interfere as she carves out her own domain. If Karen were a man, the struggle to master the wilderness might have been a man-against-the-elements gig like The Old Man & the Sea, but comes across more believably as Xtreme Housekeeping. Karen is rewarded with the eventual orderliness of her nest & her freedom from family & marital authority. But the quiet ostracism she gets as the unsexed wife of a shameless rogue keeps her from pretending, even to herself, that she is not desperately lonely. The brief, rare appearances of Finch Hatton (Redford) at her farm lift her loneliness so completely that his quick departures bring it crashing down almost unbearably, until at last their relationship becomes discreetly, respectably steady. But if Finch Hatton is deeper & more attentive than Bror, he is also a white hunter, a man to whom the dangers & hardships of Africa are nothing compared to the burden of home & regular work in Karen's world. Streep's performance is understated compared to O'Toole's in Lawrence of Arabia (Out of Africa for the Dirty Dozen crowd) but just as definitive. Karen's heroic efforts on behalf of the colonists, such as her epic trek across the desert to resupply the rattletrap British African army during the Great War, are met with bewildered embarrassment, while her unshakable resolve to give her Kenyan laborers a Western education meets as much resistance from tribal leadership as colonial authorities. The contemporary audience wants Karen to scream, rave & slap just about everybody, but Streep & Pollack must vent her anger & hurt with the demureness that the film's plot calls for. Few other actresses & directors would have been up to the task. Brandauer makes the most of his brief chances to depict careless, shallow Bror, a lovable rogue whose dastardly, genial cleverness in blaming Karen for her strength & competence is uniquely fascinating. Viewers will love or hate Redford's performance. The former will marvel at the gradual revelation, from under the veneer of rugged self-sufficiency & deep, respectful knowledge of Africa, of Finch Hatton's terror at the domestic cage he perceives Karen is closing about him even as his pity for her turns first to admiration & then love. The latter will see Isak Dinesen & the Sundance Kid. No film, not even Lawrence, can compete with Out of Africa's breathtaking photography which, with John Barry's music, make for a cinematic experience more fulfilling but less exhausting than a Star Wars film. Pollack's halting attempts to either apologize for or criticize colonialism are unsatisfying but likely would have been a real drag if he had walked more deeply into that socio-political morass. Widely panned for its slowness & length, Out of Africa is paced similarly to The Godfather but its quiet, intense tale of a willful but sensitive woman in a strange land & the two men who can't control, understand or resist her needs more patience & perspicacity than Leave the gun. Take the canole. The rewards are worth it when you're in the mood. Don't think you need to be a Gentleman, a Scholar or an Ar-teest to enjoy Out of Africa. All you need is a spare afternoon & the hunger for a simple yet grand, ultimately rewarding tale of a woman who once had a farm in Africa. "},{"Title":"Contemporary mythos","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this film, initially, for the score. I bought the DVD for the film's very interesting relationship with Truth. Although the central (and many peripheral) characters actually lived and related to one another in an around Nairobi at the time presented in the film, a great many liberties were necessarily taken to fabricate a reasonably cohesive narrative. At best, the story that resulted attains mythic proportions, but at the very least it's a parable concerning ownership. Karin owns things that come to Africa with her. She fully intends to exert her will upon the place. In the course of her eighteen year residency, Africa changes her profoundly. Whether she has impacted Africa is entirely unclear, but the water that lives in Mombasa returns to Mombasa, and ultimately, Karin goes out of Africa, sadder, wiser and very different from the neurotic adventuress who arrived two decades earlier. Interestingly, the white, central characters ALL are re-invented by Africa. It's not difficult to see them all as representatives of European colonialism, nor is it difficult to see Africa as the first cradle of humanity, or as Eden, from which European colonialism has finally been expelled, like Adam and Eve. The towering problem Pollock faced in making this film was the absence of a storyline that would unite the detailed episodes and anecdotes penned by the consummate storyteller at the heart of the story. He relied upon several biographers and at least one of the pre-existing screenplays to bring to the screen a love story of epic proportions about the decline and fall of an epoch. The film is about many things, but its pace and its sensibilities derive from a time that is barely comprehensible to contemporary filmgoers. The controversy regarding the quality of the film, in my mind, makes it a kind of benchmark. People who don't like it, I don't want to know. There are a great many insights provided by the filmmaker's commentary on the DVD. Redford's excellent British accent was deemed unnecessary and counterintuitive to his cinematic charisma. All the exteriors were shot under canvas beneath ferocious equatorial natural light, yet the ubiquitously backlighted figures are photographed with seamless brilliance. Almost all interiors are lighted from outside the practical sets, imparting a lustrous aura to every figure that epitomizes a reverence for the material, the performers and the art of cinema. In dozens of other ways, this film has re-invented the process of making films. Fast film for daylighted exteriors (heavy emusions to soften and diffuse glare, ISO 100 stock for darker interiors. It's profoundly and fundamentally revolutionary, revisionist and eminently worthy of study on every level.  "},{"Title":"Fabulous movie!","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite movie ever! Wow.....the filming was breathtaking. The story was based on Dinesen's letters and was (though not entirely faithful)put on the screen with such tension that it flooded the senses. So romantic......washing her hair...the characters were so well defined and integrated into each scene. The chemistry between Merle and Robert set the screen on fire. The music was outstanding. The airplane ride was like discovering the world for the first time. I have wanted to go to Africa ever since I saw this movie. Dinesen must have been a very powerful woman. To do what she did, exhausting every possibility to make her vision a reality. Given the circumstances and the hardships of the country, she is truly an example of never give up until all options are exhausted.  "},{"Title":"David Lean lite","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For me,that is the best description of this movie. Yes, the cinematography is beautiful, the animals are beautiful, and all of the actors are beautiful. But that's about it.Sydney Pollack takes a simple story of two people who are in love, yet want each other to change, for them, and somehow manages to spread it out over 2 hours and 45 minutes. Streep and Redford are terrific, but there is obviously no real chemistry between them, and in the end, their story is not all that interesting.  Brandauer is also excellent in a role that is the most interesting one in the film(that's not much of a compliment). There are so many smaller roles that are introduced for no apparent reason. They do not add focus or contribute to the story, and you're not exactly sure why they are there.The same holds true for the rest of the film. For all of the beautiful scenery and wonderful cinematography, the viewer will come away with the feeling that much of it is there for window dressing. Pollack tries to combine Zhivago, Lawrence of Arabia and A Passage to India into this film.This movie could have been just as effective with 40-45 minutes removed from it.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Perhaps Not Australia","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This works. But it works for disturbing reasons.The film changes her deep respect for things African (except the headman). The whole tone is European the `high level' view of the land, even the score. What's strange is that much of the book deals with how alien is the European perspective in Africa. The movie misses that kernel, but for slight lip service. Her things in the house are more European looking than her real possessions (which one can see in Denmark). It could as well have been set in Australia to judge from the film instead of the book.Streep is a miracle. How sad has her state become since. Here, she is at the height of her powers, from `French Lieutenant's Woman' to `Ironweed.' Redford's character is much more interesting than Redford. He merely exudes charm -- his effect doesn't come so much from talent.Dinesen's stories are indeed wonderful (and Markam's which are also used here).That, and the deep landscapes are what carries this simple movie. This was the first big budget film that was primarily meditative -- especially the last 50 minutes -- with scant plot, so Pollack deserves some credit for breaking the ice for more advanced meditations.Suzanna Hamilton's and Michael Kitchen's characters are charming. I recently saw Kitchen in `Proof of Life' which quotes this film. He was rather good there too.This film should be seen for historical reasons of colonialism, of a great actress, of a landmark technique. "},{"Title":"Music & Scenery over the story any day!","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You cannot see this Film without being completely enthralled by the most wonderful music soundtrack - it tends to dominate wholly as it captures the mood so brilliantly.   It is followed by some of the best shots of Africa you will ever see, and these two are reasons enough to view Out of Africa time and again.  Meryl Streep, with a very fine accent' plays her role beautifully, while Robert Redford in what is somewhat of a supporting role is spot on.  Klaus Maria Brandauer certainly deserved his nomination as Best Supporting Actor, but the Lions would get my nomination!  The story itself was fairly mundane, and fully overshadowed by the music and scenery - get it on DVD and enjoy its beauty. "}{"Title":"HER Kukiyu...REALLY?","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Visually, the film is stunning - the camera truly takes advantage of Kenya's breathtaking natural beauty and wildlife. But as has been said here too many times, this is a movie for white people interested in Africa. Isak's well-meaning but ultimately patronizing bio about her life in colonial Africa has made an equally patronizing and condescending film about her life in colonial Africa. And while Streep is technically competent in the role, she lacks true emotion, unlike her bravura turn in Sophie's Choice. Her performance seems more like Accent 101. If only Redford had taken the class. His refusal to learn (and for Pollack to not let it matter)an English accent is one of the most offensive parts of the film. Call it laziness or ego, it's distracting from the film. He gets by on charm - may have worked in Hollywood's Golden Age, but not in modern film. OOA's main Oscar rival, The Color Purple was also an uneven film, but had more emotional ambition regarding its black characters and stronger leading performances. No way should it have lost anything to this ponderously middlebrow elitist film. But it is pretty at least. "},{"Title":"about  solitude","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" the solitude and its forms is the subject of this beautiful film. a film about a woman and her force to change few territories. and a portrait of Africa in delicate colors of feelings, life and fight. like many of her movies, it is a film of Meryl Streep. she is heart and light of it and this fact it is not a real surprise. only result of a mistake. because Robert Redford represents only a presence. seductive or nice but far to be axis of his role. sure, it is not a great error because, like a reasonable film in African space, the images are the most important trap for public and the story is still good to cover each gray zone. so, a beautiful film. inspired adaptation. homage to memory of Blixen. and small lesson about life sense. "},{"Title":"A Redford-Streep Masterpiece","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of Africa is a romantic drama based loosely on the autobiographical book of the same title that was written by Isak Dinesen,the pseudonym of Danish author Karen Blixen,which was published in 1937,together with additional material from Dinesen's book Shadows on the Grass.It stars Robert Redford and Meryl Streep together with Klaus Maria Brandauer. Others in the film included areMichael Kitchen,Malick Bowens,Stephen Kinyanjui,Michael Gough,Suzanna Hamilton and Iman.The book was adapted into a screenplay by Kurt Luedtke and directed by Sydney Pollack.The film's events revolves around that time when the book's author was was married to Baron Bor Blixen-Flecke.In 1914, the Baron moves himself and his wife to a plantation in Nairobi, then leaves Karen to her own devices as he returns to his womanizing and drinking. Soon, Karen has fallen in love with charming white hunter Denys Finch Hatton, who prefers a no-strings relationship. A woman who prides herself on her independence,Karen finds herself unhappily in thrall to a aloof man -- and doubly unhappy for living out such a clich situation. This is a great movie to look at, breathtakingly filmed on location. It is a film with the courage to be about complex, sweeping emotions, and to use the star power of its actors without apology.Also,Meryl Streep provided an excellent performance as Karen despite being on-screen most of the time with Robert Redford,who somewhat delivered an unnatural American performance in portraying his Danish character.While film director,Sydney Pollack applies craftsmanship and restraint to a classic plot curve of longing, fulfillment, and loss, and although the denouement is a bit overextended, he never yields to facile, insistent sentimentality wherein his effects are honestly won.Overall,it managed to be a masterpiece inspite of its glaring flaws. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece Movie of Colonial Africa !","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The entire cast, crew including the director and music composer did a great job to make alive a forgotten chapter from the Kenyan colonial times that was penned down by a Danish colonialist in a superb setting. The cinematography and screenplay goes so well with the mesmerizing and soothing John Barry sound track. The cool and evocative music played at dusk with the train streaking its way through the vast grasslands is a feast for the eyes. Something that takes the audience/viewer right into the ambiance of the great setting, magnificently directed by Pollack.Meryl Streep as Blixen has outperformed and imbued all the aura and charisma to her demanding role as a freedom loving adventurous wife of a white settler. This movie based on a true novel is bred with originality of characters, sequences and incidents which at times, seem ethereal in nature and challenging in composure. A must see film for those who are not carried away by the temporal and crazy side of performing arts. "},{"Title":"my take on OUT OF Africa","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" i just keep coming back to this marvelous movie again & again....... its sheer poetry in its photography, romance, emotions & sensitivity..... brilliant acting by the best Hollywood actors & perfect direction with not a single dull moment.... i think the rating of 7 is not a fair one because i would give it an 8 or a 9.... both Redford & Streep waltz through the movie so gracefully & with such gentle passion. its a movie which will stay with you forever & ever.... see it with friends....family.... and definitely to uplift you when you are down & low because it depicts such a believable story in today's materialistic times. i last saw it 7-8 years ago but the visual beauty is still so fresh in my mind. it sure is a must see especially for Meryl & Redford fans.... "},{"Title":"A Well-Made Film...","Date":"29 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Out Of Africa' is A Well-Made Film in all respects. It's a moving true-story, that translates into a moving film, as well. Sydney Pollack Directs the film with understanding, the Screenplay by Kurt Luedtke, is well-done, The Cinematography by David Watkin, is stunning and the performances by it's leading pair, Streep & Redford, are note-worthy.'Out Of Africa' is based loosely on the autobiographical book Out of Africa written by Isak Dinesen the pseudonym of the author Karen Blixen, and describes events during the period from 1914 to 1931 concerning the European settlers and the native people in the bush country of Kenya in British East Africa. Its setting spans from seaside at Mombasa up to Nairobi, and from Mount Kenya to Kilimanjaro, as told from the lyrical, poetic viewpoint of Danish Baroness Karen von Blixen-Finecke.As a film, it has some great potential. But, I really thought the film was overly long. The film Definitely could've been trimmed, at least by 20-25 minutes. And even the lethargic pace, acts as a speed-breaker.The Adapted Screenplay, which won an Oscar, is engaging & moving. Pollack's Direction, which won him an Oscar, is under-stated & photographic. Cinematography, again Oscar-Winning, is stunning. John Barry's Oscar-Winning Original Score, is wonderful.Performance-Wise Streep as Karen Blixen, is note-worthy, as ever. Redford on the other-hand as her lover Denys Finch, is restrained. The Chemistry between the 2 Screen-Legends, is top-notch. In the supporting cast, Klaus Maria Brandauer leaves the strongest impression.On the whole, A film worth watching, that even won an Oscar for Best Picture. It may not be flawless, but it has it's share of pluses, that make up for it. "},{"Title":"Understanding the mysteries of Africa and the human soul.","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sydney Pollack's epic romance set in the highlands of Africa has more to do with the human soul than almost any other film of its kind. Based on the writings of its main character, the Baroness Von Blixen of Denmark, the film tells the story of how this strong-willed, very determined and independent woman came to a foreign land, established her own life without her husband's support and at the same time assisted the local people with education and land to live on.This extraordinary woman is played by an extraordinary actress, the great Meryl Streep, who so embodies this character accent and all in such a way that we never for a single moment feel we are seeing an actress playing a character but rather the Baroness as she really was. Complementing her is the ruggedly handsome and epitome of freedom, Denys Finch Hatton, a free game hunter whose spirit is as tied to the African frontier as the Baroness' is to her farmland and the native people. Their romance dominates the second half of the film and besides the incredible chemistry between Streep and Redford, there is also the feeling that these people have been ready to meet their whole lives; they just needed the right environment to do so.What it all comes down to is that Out of Africa is one of the great Hollywood epic romance films of all time, comparable to Gone With the Wind, Dr. Zhivago and Titanic. All of these films have exciting characters meeting in turbulent times and with the exotic world of Africa and the decline of European influence as the backdrop here, this is a film that explores not just a doomed romance but also the end of European colonization in Africa. It truly is the end of an era, and this film is able to capture that bygone period as well as give us one of the more memorable romances of the last 50 years. All in all, this is an intelligent film that stands on its own as epic, charming, romantic and beautiful in all aspects. "},{"Title":"i love Brazil but Africa is a beautiful place as well","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" So I watched 1986's best picture winner Out of Africa. This movie won a butt load of awards. So is it a classic, I say yes. This movie is based on the true life adventures of writer Karen Blixen while ahe lived in Kenya in the early part of the last century. She is also the writer of another story which is the basis for one of my favorite films Babbette's feast. This movie has gotten some flack for being an undeserving winner, chiefly because the color purple and the cult classic Brazil were also released that year (Brazil's thought to have gotten snubbed by Oscar and I would agree with that sentiment). However, I thought this movie was great. It seems to be mostly true to the real life adventures and trials and tribulations of Karen Blixen. The movie has superb acting from both it's leads, the great Robert Redford and the timeless Meryl Streep. The backdrop of Africa in all its glory is beautifully shot, and the time period is faithfully represented. There are a few moments which look a little fake, like they have video backdrops, something today's green screen would have prevented. Besides from that I think this is a first class film and a great story. I don't think you can go wrong with this one. if you like concise reviews of interesting films please read my other reviews at http//raouldukeatthemovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Beautiful film","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film about Karen played by Meryl Streep who runs a coffee plantation with her husband in Kenya in 1914. She falls for a hunter named Denys played by Robert Redford.They go flying together and exploring in a whirlwind romance. The cinematography in Africa is gorgeous and Pollock's direction was great.Meryl Streep as always was great and so was Redford.This film was based on a true story and was very well done, winning a total of 7 Oscars.This is a film every film lover should seek out I highly recommend it 8 and half out of 10Philip Moore "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie, in a beautiful Africa.","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" After a very long time, I'm watching a beautiful movie in every sense of the word. Out of Africa by Sydney Pollack has beautiful direction, cinematography, location, performance, music....Who wouldn't feel like living in Kenya and running a coffee plantation after watching this one? It also brought back some emotional school-day memories to me. Watching Meryl Streep sharing stories with Robert Redford near logs of fire in the movie reminded me of my story-telling days at my boarding school where we kids would switch off lights at our room, huddle together and I would share some haunting or adventure tales with them. Sigh!Meryl Streep is a great actress but she keeps an almost stoic look throughout the movie which reduced some of the fun. This story is mostly wild or adventurous in tone so maybe a more bubblier performance like Nicole Kidman in Australia would have created more magic. Some of the other cast performances in the movie were similarly more conservative or subdued than required. Verdict It's still a lovely watch. You'd either feel romantic, long to live a country life or maybe, even happily run a farm in Africa ) "}{"Title":"Lovely movie","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I know there are those who don't like the fact that this movie won best picture, but while it is not my favourite movie of 1985 Out of Africa is a lovely film. It is perhaps overlong and the pace is very leisurely(I remember seeing it first time and being not as engrossed). That said, Sidney Pollack is indeed a fine director, and does an admirable job directing. Out of Africa is further advantaged by the spellbinding cinematography and scenery, John Barry's incredibly moving music score(loved the classical music choices too) and a truly heart-breaking story. The script is good too, and the acting from both Robert Redford and Meryl Streep is exemplary. All in all, Out of Africa is a lovely film, not the perfect film by all means, but it looks beautiful and quite moving. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Breath-taking","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Awesome landscapes nearly overpower this best picture winner shot on location in Kenya. Nearly however, is the operative word, because Meryl Streep and Robert Redford fulfill an uncommon love story to counterbalance this absurdly beautiful spectacle.Truly every frame is a marvel, every set piece is a gem. produced as a memoir's translation to the big screen, Out of Africa also sidesteps charges of racism with fidelity to its source. further demonstrating how first world storytelling technique can subdue all else in pursuit of profits and art, Sydney Pollack's epic exists as a sharply produced romance-cum-travelogue.Highlights include a safari via biplane; glimpses of naturally occurring wildlife; and the sweeping uplift of John Barry's thrilling score. "},{"Title":"Blixen of Africa","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film reminded me a lot of Lawrence of Arabia. Both are primarily spectacles with stunning landscape shots, excellent performances, and superfluous running-times. Both center around a daring, at times endearing European expatriate (here we have a Danish woman in Africa rather than an Englishman in Arabia). Both are peppered with the occasional clever quip. Neither serves as a history lesson, Out of Africa even less so than Lawrence of Arabia. It is above all a love story between Karen Blixen (played wonderfully by Meryl Streep) and Denys Finch Hatton (played by Robert Redford, who is dashing if a little bland). Do not watch this film to understand colonial relations in Africa. The African natives are either extras or haven't-seen-you-in-awhile supporting characters. It is better described as a broad allegory &#x96; Karen and Europe represent civilization, intellectualism, and future-oriented thinking, whereas the streetwise (or safari-wise) Denys and Africa represent freedom, intuition, and a life lived in the present. I know it's not what actually happened, but the story might have been more interesting if Denys himself was an African rather than a white man suited to the African lifestyle. Nonetheless, I would recommend the film to anyone who enjoys high-quality cinema and doesn't mind a little romanticism and sentimentality. "},{"Title":"a heartbreaking story!!!!","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" when i started to see this movie I really never thought that it would be really good. How wrong i was!!! this movie is excellent, it deserved the Oscar. Meryl Streep's performance is brilliant, her way of changing of character so easily is amazing. The other fact why i actually loved this movie is because of the wonderful landscapes, they are simply amazing.For people who enjoy watching movies like Titanic, Moulin Rouge or Atonement, this movie is perfect. I recommend to see it, specially for Meryl Streep fans.My rating, 9/10, great job!!! "},{"Title":"One of the very great movies","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all I couldn't but hold on to the comment that said Redford miscast! What the heck!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Anyone who comes to this conclusion is definitely judging what the character did in the movie and not the acting. I can understand that a viewer gets too emotional about the story and probably hates the fact that he leaves Streep but one should be objective enough to judge the acting skills. Redford is amazing in this role and though I love Meryl Streep and I am sure that everybody does for she is a great actress and this is nobody can deny but Redford is an equal star in this movie! He played his role so good that he was too believable. I was equally charmed by him just like Meryl did in the movie.There is one amazing part in the movie where Karen (Meryl) is trying to get Denys (Redford) into the idea of marrying her and he asks the very one logical question that every person who is against marriage usually asks and aside from the fact that religion forbids out of wedlock relationships you really don't have a logical answer to present to those people. And Merly just gives you the best and most beautiful and most logical answer you can get to this question. She says I know that the paper makes no difference but if you really love somebody so much and you know that the person would do anything for you, then you should be able to do something for that person even if you disagree! Just waw! nothing is more logical than this answer and I dare you to come up with something else.The movie is just amazing and an experience that you truly don't want to miss. It won 7 Oscars and they were all well-deserved! "},{"Title":"I bless the rains down in Africa","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out Of Africa is a romantic epic on the Dr Zhivago scale. A sweeping story of romance amidst a backdrop of uncertainty, Africa is seen and told through the eyes of Karen Blixen (Meryl Streep, doing a great job with the difficult Danish accent), a Baroness in a loveless marriage who comes to Kenya pre-WW1. A stranger in a strange land, she comes to feel deeply about Africa and its people, and also falls in love with Denys, a game-hunter who will love her deeply but never really belong to her.Streep's Karen and her journey carry the film, and she gives an excellent performance. In the tradition of a great romance, it is also a tragic one, but it perhaps did not leave an emotional impact on me as I had hoped it would. It did not lag in any parts, yet I somehow did not feel as connected to it as I would have liked. The real rewards of watching this film, however are the glorious cinematography and images of the African landscape. I would love to see this in the theatre, to really appreciate the epic scope of Pollack's film. "},{"Title":"For older folk","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the life and writings of Danish Baroness Karen Blixen this epic romance set on the The Veld on the African plains. This classic Sydney Pollak Film earned him seven Oscars.Karen Blixen is played by Meryl Street who marries her male companion for the title of Baroness settles on a British colony in Africa.She develops a romantic and fiery relationship with Big game hunter Denys Finch Hatton played by Robert Redford.The film has its dramatic moments when Karen confronts a lion pack on two occasions.With grand vistas of the classic African landscape and its realism in the struggles and challenges of British colonisation in Africa provide a great back drop for this traditional love story.One of the great achievements of Sydney Pollack's career as was Tootsie. "},{"Title":"what is the poem by Meryl Streep's character","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I very much enjoyed this movie. It was grand and beautiful. The music was ethereal when combined with the visual grandeur of the cinematography as well as the very personal cinematic moments. I enjoyed the intellectual treatment of the social politics of the time and the character development of the major and minor characters in the movie. I thought that the Baroness' character was a strong and highly intelligent person who brought respect and appreciation for the impolitic treatment of both women and Africa at that time. I appreciated the development of the plot as it always brought together loose ends with interesting and sophisticated clarity. I was especially moved at the end of the movie by the poem read by the Baroness after the huge personal tragedy she endured immediately before departing for Denmark. It is one of the most poignant recitations I have ever heard and I felt it as deeply as I have ever felt a poem, and it actually caused physical anguish. I cannot locate that poem anywhere and would appreciate it if anyone could identify it for me. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on a true story, Out of Africa is a poignant love story that takes place in 20th century colonial Kenya between Karen Blixen (in a superb role for Meryl Streep who was Oscar-nominated for this) and Denys Hatton, with the film centering on Karen Blixen. The best parts of this film are the incredible cinematography (by David Watkin who won the Oscar for this film) showing Africa in all its splendor 100 years ago (also shows the downside including a disease that affects Karen that could be cured today) and the superb score by John Barry (of James Bond fame). His score is one of his best (if not the best) and goes to show why he is a top-notch composer - for which he won the Best Music, Original Score Oscar. This film also garnered 6 other Oscars including Best Picture and Best Director (both for Sydney Pollack). If you are in the mood for a period piece, then Out of Africa won't disappoint - a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Streep Took Me Right Back","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I heard Karen Blixen tell a story in 1958.  Then I saw Meryl Streep portray Karen Blixen in this movie.  I will swear Streep was channeling Blixen, it took me right back to 1958.But the movie itself...it seems to think that hungry lions lurk around every corner of Africa.  I did not think it portrayed Africa fairly or that it showed much of the grandeur of Karen Blixen. "}{"Title":"As beautiful as love can be...","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a few words, this is a film about love, without any other consideration. I'll try to explain that, although I am afraid that there is no explanation for love, but anyway I'll try Love comes into us through the eyes, through the ears, through the imagination. That's just what this film does. It has the best visuals I have seen in a movie, with absolutely wonderful landscapes full of incredible colors and wild innocence. It also has one of the most beautiful soundtracks I have heard in a movie, with lots of evocative suggestions, and it has a dialogue which becomes poetry by the minute. Perhaps some of you will think that I overrate this movie, but I am in love with it! This film really succeeded in making me see the world through the eyes of a lover. And a terribly sad story becomes something secondary when a true love is in the air. My rating is 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"How can You forget him....?","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So many people enjoyed Pollack's best film. -So many wrote a comment to tell everybody just how much they enjoyed it; but not of my fellow comment-writers have mentioned the name of the man, who should really be honored DAVID WATKIN - a cinematographer in Freddie Young - class. Since Yentl one of my personal favorite photographers, and with his Oscar-work on Out of Africa sure, never to be forgotten ! Don't just rent it - knock Your local cinema manager with a stick, until he gives You the REEL (!) thing - Out of Africa in 70mm. This is what the big screen was made for......! "},{"Title":"Out of Africa","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Adaptations of famous novels are often safe bets for film producers looking for a story to bring to the silver screen they often have an existing fan base and need less aggressive promotion in order to get noticed among the stream of new movies produced every year. One such adaptation, albeit a loose one, is Sydney Pollack's Out of Africa that is based on the autobiography of Danish writer Karen Blixen, also known as Isak Dinesen (1885-1962). The film won a remarkable number of Oscars and other awards in 1986, including the prestigious Best Picture, but in retrospect the movie does not seem all that extraordinary.The story begins in Denmark where Karen (Meryl Streep) is reminiscing her years in Kenya in the early 20th century. She has originally traveled there to marry her nobleman fianc Bror (Klaus Maria Brandauer) and to set up a dairy farm, but learns that Bror is keen on starting a coffee plantation instead. Feeling like an outsider in the sunny, hot country and lonely in her somewhat ceremonial marriage, Karen develops feelings for a handsome big-game hunter named Denys Finch Hatton (Robert Redford) and tries to keep herself busy with various activities like starting a school for the children of the Kikuyu tribe whose members work on her plantation.Just as expected, the film is full of beautiful African scenery, flora and fauna accompanied by overbearing music by John Barry. Especially the airplane sequences look magnificent, but sadly the landscapes cannot carry the whole tale alone. I don't mind slow narratives, but here it feels that the story takes forever to start, only to develop into an uninteresting and lackluster romance that doesn't really seem to go anywhere either. All the fascinating aspects of the story's background are passed with barely a mention the effects of the distant World War I, possible problems in the race relations in the colonialist society, Bror's point of view in his collapsing marriage... Where is all the conflict, the real drama? Some of it would have most definitely been needed to justify the 160 minute runtime instead of just relying on the poetic atmosphere that I don't think is well enough created to be memorable.In spite of the award nominations for Meryl Streep and Klaus Maria Brandauer, I don't feel they can bring their characters to life in a very interesting way. The focus is heavily on Karen Blixen, so a lot of the responsibility is shoved on the shoulders of Streep who delivers an alright performance (ignoring the annoying faux-accent) but her character has been written so stoical about everything that I just couldn't care about her much. Fine, maybe that's how women were taught to behave in those days, but that's also what artistic license is for. Robert Redford's Denys is so manly and untamed in his overwhelming love of freedom and fear of commitment that Karen's relationship with him doesn't get to become very fascinating at any point. I have not read the original book, so I don't know if the screenwriters have altered the story a lot, but as already mentioned, there is a bad shortage of proper drama in the film.All in all, Pollack's technical direction is fine and the movie is nice to look at, but the actual dramatic content is so faint that I could not help being bored most of the time. Nevertheless, during the final scenes the style picks up a little, becoming pleasantly melancholic and emphasizing the lingering sense of sadness that had been vaguely floating in the air throughout the movie. Not quite strongly enough to make Out of Africa a particularly great film though; I much prefer Richard E. Grant's semi-autobiographical 2005 film Wah-Wah when it comes to movies about dysfunctional Europeans living in Africa. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep shines in this long, languorous tale","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Meryl Streep shines in this long, languorous tale&#151;based on a true story&#151;of Karen Blixen, an independent Danish woman who begins a new life in Africa. While Streep is brilliant, the real star of the film is Africa itself; the landscapes are stunning. Karen strikes a bargain with her friend Bror Blixen He has a title (baron), and she has money, so why not get married and start a farm in Africa? But shortly after getting off the train and getting married, she's having her first argument with Bror. The plan was to buy sheep, but he decided to plant coffee instead. Next time you change our mind, she says with a barely-concealed threat, do it with your own money. Karen meets an adventurer named Denys (Robert Redford), and there's an instant attraction. Her marriage becomes increasingly strained until she finally asks Bror to leave. Karen and Denys have much in common&#151;story-telling, music, and a love of nature&#151;but she is possessive while he abhors being possessed. He takes her on a safari, and she is enchanted, even though they are threatened by a pair of charging lions. Denys buys a plane and takes Karen on a magical flight over the mountains, plains, and waterfalls. Even viewers who find the story boring will be thrilled by these wonderful scenes. Karen comes off as self-righteous and bitchy at times, but one can't help admire her passion, courage, and spirit. Redford always comes off as a bit wooden, but he's well-cast here. Denys is a loner for the most part, and chooses his words carefully; Redford captures the taciturn nature of the hunter. Klaus Maria Brandauer, in a memorable role, is the opposite He always says exactly what's on his mind, and he says it in the most charming manner. Out of Africa takes patience to get through all 150 minutes. There are scenes that are exhilarating, and others that tear at the heart; but the pace is extremely slow, and may be boring for some. However, I've seen the film several times and would recommend it highly. Streep's performance is simply amazing, and those African landscapes are unforgettable. "},{"Title":"I had a farm in Africa! A beautiful epic, with great actors and excellent music!","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had a farm in Africa! Those words, wonderfully spoken by the great Meryl Streep, immediately pull you into the movie and from the first moment on, you are hypnotized by the gorgeous landscape, the beautiful music and the great performances. Even though there are several movies I have yet to see, this one is definitely somewhere on top of my list of the greatest movies ever. Sometimes you'll come across a movie that will keep you thinking for days and weeks to come and in my opinion, this is one of those movies.The plot centers around Karen Blixen, who moves to Africa with Baron Bror Blixen, and marries him there. She is not in love with him and her real interest in him is his title, which he is quite aware of. Karen, who is not familiar with the African language or customs, struggles at first to establish her person, but with her kindness and eagerness soon starts to make people respect her. She also meets Denys Finch Hatton and Berkeley Cole, who are captivated by her way of telling stories. When the war breaks out, Bror leaves to fight with the British and Karen starts to realize that she actually wants him to be there for her. After a tragedy strikes, she has to accept that her wish will never come true and she starts turning to Denys...In my opinion, there are several key things that make this movie the masterpiece it is. First of all, the acting is probably some of the best I've ever seen, especially from Meryl Streep. It is true, that there are few, if any actresses, who can keep up her with her strong presence and aura. She completely vanishes in her role as the ambitious, but left alone Karen Blixen and brilliantly shows us the conflict her character is in. Robert Redford's performance is nothing short of hers, and it is a scandal that he did not receive an Oscar nomination for his role as Finch Hutton, a charismatic hunter, who is just not willing to form a bond with anyone to closely. Klaus Maria Brandauer also deserves a nod at his point. He frequently manages to dominate the scenes he is in, even though he has a lot less screen time than Redford or Streep, a shame. The rest of the supporting cast, especially Michael Kitchen as Berkeley Cole, Malick Bowens as Farah and Michael Gough as Lord D, also stand out.Africa has rarely been more beautiful on screen, than in this movie. During the plane sequence were are invited into a world of the unknown and the undiscovered, and the score by John Barry will most certainly give you goosebumps. The main theme is used several times throughout the film and every time it is more beautiful than the time before.To be honest, the only shocking thing about this movie, is the low rating on IMDb. A 7.0 is not what Out of Africa deserves, and in my opinion it should be among the Top 250. Rarely a movie has captured me as much as this movie did. Watch it and you won't regret it, I promise "},{"Title":"One of the all time Hollywood classics","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" So, you have the beautiful and desirable Meryl Streep drinking wine and listening to Mozart with the exorbitantly handsome Robert Redford in the middle of nowhere underneath a starlit sky gazing into each other's eyes, and, after days, perhaps weeks, of trekking and driving through the Bush, shooting a couple of lions, and getting thoroughly saturated and immersed in the enigmatic, beautiful and mysterious paradise that is Kenya, do they finally get around to actually consummating their union. (I wanted to use the proper word, but modesty forbids).Nowhere is Hollywood's dilemma more exposed than in this film. Of course, one never talks about sex, especially between members of the aristocracy, let alone admit to its practise between consenting adults unless absolutely necessary.For me, the best bit of the film was the couple of minutes allocated to Berkeley and his Somalian woman who just happens to be serving tea in beautiful china cups when Redford shows up unexpectedly. She very quickly withdraws to a little corner in the adjoining room while the two men talk business, ignoring her as if she is not quite human, but attractive nonetheless.The choice of Mozart for the soundtrack is pure genius. No other composer could quite capture the atmosphere as Mozart, but are we to assume that the native Africans could not also have enjoyed his music as much as the white man? As one might expect, the film concentrated on the lives of the white folk, while the black population were simply subjugated to minor roles, and always in the capacity of servants and manual workers. Even the chief of the tribe was regarded as an inferior human being, although some respect was given to his position. This is a shameful indictment of British Colonialism.Berkeley is dying of black water fever. Later on, Redford tells Meryl.'Oh, I'd better go and visit him,' she replies.'Er, I don't think that would be a good idea,' exclaims Redford, 'he's got himself a woman, a Somalian.' 'Oh,' replies the Baroness, turning her nose up at the thought of such an unsavoury union.'She seems to be quite fond of him,' returns Redford by way of explanation.So why might Berkeley have been so drawn to her, we ask ourselves! Well, had the camera been spying on the pair of them in his last dying days, we would have seen the smile on his face occasioned by the fantastic blow jobs she was giving him.But then that would have been mixing fantasy with reality. "},{"Title":"A  Great Woman and a Streep Tour de Force","Date":"25 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've watched this movie many times over the years and although it seems like I know it by heart I always seem to watch it again and it always seems like the first time. And so this Christmas morning when I saw it was going to be on TV I dutifully viewed it again and for the rest of the day I will think about it as I always seem to do.There are many aspects or levels on which to enjoy this movie. For me there is first the historical level...a glimpse of British colonial east Africa during the period of the story, 1913-31. There is the great landscape...wild and free and unexploited; the native peoples who are primitive and yet they exude a nobleness and simple grace and beauty like the land they inhabit; and then there are the colonials many of whom are living semi-degenerate life styles and who are there for no other reason then to exploit the place. One immediately makes the obvious comparison and draws their own conclusion about which group is the more to be admired.And then there are the characters beginning with the immense Meryl Streep character, Karen Blixen, who is a European dropped into an impossible situation in Africa and then must spend the entire movie, a period of 18 years, trying to make the most of it. In doing so she endears herself to us by overcoming one incredible hardship after another as well as a failed marriage and an unfulfilled romance with the Redford character, Denys Finch-Hatton. We also enjoy the brilliant Streep performance with the Danish accent and all the wonderful mannerisms that make this another perfect Streep performance.The Redford character Finch-Hatton is a British hunter/guide that Blixon gets to know after he saves her from a lion. He sort of floats in and out of the story and as somewhat underplayed by Redford (certainly in contrast with Streep's performance) he just seems to hang out; it is difficult to see what motivates him...it isn't money or women or love of country and he doesn't really even seem to love what he does. It is rather that he is like the country itself...he is just there in all his physical beauty. But he also has a sort of poetic, philosophical intellectualism about him that is what draws Blixen to him. And in the end he is as difficult to hold down as Africa itself and perhaps what happens to him and to Blixen's tenure in Africa and to British colonialism are wrapped up in Redford's character. It is all there until it is not there...nothing has really changed and life goes on.There are several other wonderful characterizations including those of some of the native characters and there is the vast beauty of the land. The colonial incursion is already on the wane...there are efforts to exploit it like the Blixen farm but they like the lifestyle of the interlopers can't last. Only the land endures and the movie makes the most of the wonderful landscape. Some might say that this slows the action to a halt at times but this is as much about the land as it is about those trying to change and exploit it. In the end what you remember is that wonderful music and the great land of Africa. And you remember the wonderful writer, story-teller and heroine who overcomes all until she can't any longer. And to me Meryl Streep dominates this movie much as Blixen took control or her life in Africa so I'm not sure whether it is Streep or the real Blixen who is more to be admired. "},{"Title":"Becareful","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is amazing, i could watch over and over again, i love the scenery and the views it reminds me of when i went to Kenya every time i watch it, Meryl Streep is amazing in it. Her accent is amazing and the chemistry between her character and Robert Redfords is breathtaking. The film had so many intense and intimate relationships, between Karen and Denys, Denys and Berkley. The ending completely takes you by surprise because it just doesn't come into your mind. The whole story line works so well and the characters in it are so endearing the whole of the film is so well balanced. The ending is heartbreaking but it isn't awful its so devastating for the character but she copes with the situation so well. The film reminds me so much of Kenya, its so amazing.The Story line is based around a woman who leaves Sweden to marry her 'lovers brother' She doesn't love him but it is just an arrangement so she can become a baroness and he can have some money. When she moves to Africa her husband leaves her to care for the coffee farm they have started together, she becomes friends with her Butler, who loves her so much. She then meet Denys who she falls in love with an embarks on a passionate but ultimately doomed affair with after the break up of her marriage. The whole film is wonderful and Breathtaking "},{"Title":"Poem","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Scene At Denys's grave From A SHROPSHIRE LAD XIX TO AN ATHLETE DYING YOUNG by A. E. Housman (1859-1936).The time you won your town the race /We chaired you through the market-place; /Man and boy stood cheering by, /And home we brought you shoulder-high... Smart lad, to slip betimes away /From fields where glory does not stay /And early though the laurel grows /It withers quicker than the rose... Now you will not swell the rout /Of lads that wore their honours out, /Runners whom renown outran /And the name died before the man... And round that early-laurelled head /Will flock to gaze the strengthless dead, /And find unwithered on its curls /The garland briefer than a girl's. (Note A play, The Invention of Love by Tom Stoppard, examines the life of A. E. Housman. The play opened in London in 1998 and in Philadelphia in February, 2000.) The (fictional)script written for the movie gives Meryl Streep the further comments Now take back the soul of Denys George Finch Hatton, whom You have shared with us. He brought us joy...we loved him well. He was not ours. He was not mine. "},{"Title":"When the Gods want to punish you, they answer your prayers.","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Barbara Kingsolver's astonishingly vivid Poisonwood Bible was my first and remains my most detailed image of Africa. It is not a pleasant atmosphere that is presented in the book, but the beauty of that unique natural environment is presented in Out of Africa more in than in it's dangerous potential. Of course, some of the most important and moving scenes in the film involve near-death experiences involving some African wildlife, but I have a feeling that the breathtaking expanses of open wilderness will be remembered more than these close encounters. It is precisely the experience of reading the Poisonwood Bible (and the characters' experiences in living in Africa) that has made Out of Africa have a unique impression on me. The film takes place around World War I, when large numbers of European settlers were leaving the unsatisfying life in Europe and seeking greener pastures, as it were, in East Africa. Certain elevations and locations were known to have fewer insects and dangerous animals, and could be good for farming. The story focuses on the life of the Baroness Karen Blixen, who plunges headlong into a marriage to her lover's brother in order to avoid a life of loneliness, only to gradually watch that marriage fall apart. The damage to her relationship with her husband is extensive but also gratifying, because she has a determination and healthy spirit that he doesn't seem to share, and clearly lacks the respect that she deserves. Her husband is wildly unfaithful to her, even managing to bring syphilis home to her, eventually asking him to move out. Thus begins the curious romance between her and a big game hunter named Denys (Robert Redford). There is a clever and highly satisfying exchange between Denys and Bror (Blixen's husband), after Bror discovers their romance. You should have asked permission, he tells Denys. I did, he replies. She said yes.I have read that the relationship between Baroness Blixen is very different than in the real Baronness Blixen's books, in which the Africans are of great importance to her. Because this movie is an epic romance, it focuses more exclusively on the romance between Blixen and Denys, as well as the juxtaposition of the failed romance with her husband and her genuine hope for something better and more real with Denys. Out of Africa seems to run the risk of having too many well-known Americans movie stars in a story that takes place just after turn-of-the century Africa, but because Director Sydney Pollack understands how to mold their star power to the story and to the passion created within the story, we are able to focus on the characters rather than the actors, and envision a time past in a part of the world that is unknown to so many in the audience. Bravo! "}{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A movie like this deserve a lot of credit. That's Out of Africa. Based on a true story on the life of Karen Blixen(Meryl Streep), a baroness and coffee plantation who finds love and heartache in Kenya. She looks like to be a very remarkable woman who made an error. She teaches a servant to be a fine cook, have the young natives to be educated. She would later meet Denys Finch Hatton(Robert Redford), a big game hunter who happened to be kind-hearted man Karen would ever meet. I liked the part where Karen shoots at lion, Denys takes the ascot and tents to her bleeding lip. And the part where the coffee plantation was lost in a fire, he made sure that Karen would be insured for that. It was sad when Denys lost his life in a plane crash. And also her true love was the man who gave her different flowers, in Africa. Knowing the language, knowing the honor, and knowing who to trust is vital, despite what the rest of society thinks about it. Very poignant, very astute, this movie is a big winner in my book! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"One of the best films, ever","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Words don't do justice to this film. As most people know, this story line and acting are beyond first rate, and the cinematography and musical soundtrack are inspired. Taken together, the effect is sublime, moving, and often breathtaking. John Barry's musical compositions are among the finest ever done. This from the same composer who scored Born Free and Dances With Wolves. The musical background to the aerial scenes of Africa, with flocks of a million birds, herds of wildebeests and Mount Kilimanjaro are incredibly moving, as is the depiction of the emotional turmoil that characterizes the involvement between Redford and Streep. "},{"Title":"Great Film!!!","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I rented this film again recently, and I liked it even more than when I saw it originally.Even though it is long, I did not find it boring, not even in parts. The script is well written, it is beautifully photographed, well directed, and the acting is great.What I like about the film is that it makes me FEEL, and I like that. The story holds my interest. I also enjoyed the wide variety of chrarcters, and had a good laugh a few times. Sydney Pollack is a very talented director.Very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Worth to be seen","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie feels like a genuine copy of Colonial life in the beginning of the last century. With all the glamor and chances of the rich comes also emptiness (a cheated wife who turns to Alcohol and picks up Syphilis), trouble (her coffee farm in Africa burns down after years of struggling to get it going) and in the end an unhappy life (her lover dies in a plane-crash).The movie itself bursts over with great, great, great photography and without wanting to tell you something like a teacher it does tell a great deal about some basic rules in life that still apply (in some corners of the world, that is).  "},{"Title":"Yes! This movies DOES belong to Ms. Streep!","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oops! She did it again! Yes, Ms. Streep literally puts us into the shoes of the central character Karen, and makes us identify with all her concerns and problems. She brings out the humanity,compassion and dignity of Karen. YES! She is terrific! As usual... While a lot of mention has also been reserved for the breathtaking Cinematography (as someone rightly noted, every frame looks like a painting) , one must not forget the DIRECTING by Sydney Pollack. Yes Sir, he captures Africa just as it is. Once he had the story in his hands, he could have made this a loud period or costume piece. But no, he instead weaved in the stillness of the African plain into every frame. Pollack's direction has lent this movie a quiet dignity and a touch of class. He has captured reality of the African environment, and the emotions attached to it by Karen ,EXACTLY as it is. It must be noted that he almost entirely entrusted Meryl Streep with this movie, and allowed the movie to revolve around her. Yes, Ms. Streep is almost the co-director of this movie, as Karen's character controls the entire flow of the movie! This move did pay off, but it was very risky, as the movie would have collapsed if Ms. Streep were not upto the mark.I find it difficult to believe that this movie was successful at the box-office. This movie is centred around the emotions of a woman, and this NEVER suits the traditional masochistic taste of the larger audience.Rather unsurprisingly, some people have also commented that this movie is boring and only meant for people who are ruled by their emotionsSee What I mean? I wonder how this movie worked at the box-office in 1985, when it was indeed a slow-paced emotional drama which usually works out to ZIP at the box-office.However, I agree with what a few posters have said here, that this movie is completely centered across the colonial perspective. The writer(the REAL Karen) has completely blinded herself to the exploitative nature of imperialism. Except on some occasions, where these take the voice of Denys' character. So despite a strictly colonial perspective being presented, the good part is that it's still a heart-wrenching one. "},{"Title":"warm and inviting","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never liked Meryl Streep in the eighties, like Olivier I thought she was a bit over-rated, trying too hard to be a great actor. But with a little distance gone I've started to appreciate her a bit more. I don't think this is her greatest performance (the accent isn't great) but she has a commanding presence and in one particular scene  looks incredibly beautiful. The story occasionally drags but the stunning scenery and wonderfully rich score more than makes up for it. It's such a long gone era that it's a great film to lose yourself in. (8/10)  "},{"Title":"Being Swept Away","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is incredible...Everything is thought out and the music makes the scenes...U feel for the characters....Robert Redford was perfect as Denys in his quiet strength and this was the best Meryl Strep has looked...This is one to keep in a collection for rainy days or anytime u feel like getting swept away by a film   "},{"Title":"My favorite movie and Meryl Streep is the greatest actress ever!","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most beautiful movie that I saw in my life! I am deeply touched when I watch OOA every time. Till now, I have already watched it for more than 10 times since I first watched it 7 years ago. The music ( especially the very beginning and ending), beautiful! Picture, splendid! Meryl Streep and Robert Redfood gave a superb performance. Unforturnately,  they did not win best actor and actress in 1986. Meryl Streep showed her gift of foreign language again. I think this time she did much better than Sophie's choice (1982). OFA is definitely deserved Best Picture of 1985. It has the heartbroken love and loss. You will learn that we should cherish life we have! A must-see for every one! "},{"Title":"One Masterpiece!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely one of the best movies I have ever seen. Great Acting by Meryl Streep and Robert Redford of course, but also Klaus Maria Brandauer shows his genius once again as Bror, while watching the movie you will never be able to decide whether to hate him or to like him. Wonderful story about a strong European womans life placed in an exotic African continent and a controversial historic background. Deeply touching love story! Funny in dialogues (Check out Redfords lines)! Great musical score (the soundtrack fits in perfectly)! Camera!! The movie has great shots which show all the beauty of the African nature. Et cetera, et cetera... Almost perfect. True 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Sydney Pollacks finest film","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In hearing of Mr. Pollacks passing, I was reminded of Out of Africa, I haven't seen this movie in a decade or longer, but this film was something unbelievable. As a gruff former Marine I will admit this is the only film other than Field of Dreams that made me cry. The film envelopes you, the scenery, Streep & Redford, the story and that Barry score - the finest orchestral music - I believe ever written. This film was a true creation of wonder, this is easily Sydney Pollacks finest film. All the acting was superb, but the connection between Streeps yearnful Blixen and Redfords charming, freedom loving, Deny Hatton was remarkable. You know Blixen is going to be heartbroken in the end. But the greatest link is the music, Barry score is heart breaking.With rue my heart is laden, For golden friends I had, For many a rose-lipt maiden, And many a lightfoot lad.By brooks too broad for leaping, The lightfoot boys are laid; The rose-lipt girls are sleeping, In fields where roses fade. "}{"Title":"truly one of the best films ever made - if you are a thinking person","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is very interesting to note that people either love or hate this film, there are very few in-betweens.I watched it for about the sixth time yesterday and was struck anew at the beauty contained within. We are lucky enough to have a projector and see our films on a big wall. This is a film that is made for such a viewing; to see it squashed up on a television screen does not do justice to the panoramic images of this beautiful part of the world.The things that I rate most highly are Meryl Streep's performance. You can even work out her thoughts, she does not have to say a word to say a million other things.The outfits she got to wear. One of the best wardrobes ever created for an actress The wildlife. The aerial views of the animals are beautifulThe music. John Barry's best score.I do have a few minor niggles - there are a couple of cheesy moments. But there is no such thing as a perfect film. This is almost perfect and I rate it a ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"another great film from Robert Redford","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Robert Redford really know's how to do film's,this is just breathtaking,think all the cast are superb,story is lovely,i can not watch this film ,even from the opening without crying,as the music is just amazing i try to compose myself to enjoy the film and i just can not stop,the costumes are just beautiful,would really like to know if Meryl enjoyed wearing them?i think they were lovely,the story is great and so romantic,the scenery in Africa,how people conducted themselves back then,and how sad when she left Africa,a must see film,in peace and quiet.Robert as usual is so handsome,and is so perfect for the part he play's as is Meryl she is a wonderful actress,and always's get's the accent's to her part so well,would like to know too if they enjoyed making the film?a must see film. "},{"Title":"The life of Karen Blixen","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent film of Sidney Pollack with acting of two greatest of the cinema, Meryl Streep and Robert Redford. No less important and interesting was the performance of Klaus Maria Brandauer as Baron Bror Blixen-Finecke. This story was filmed in Nairobi. If you go to Kenya, try to stay in Safari Park Hotel, the main scenario of the film, which is outside Nairobi city. The story reflects the problems among the white colonizers, how the relationship developed among them and their approach to the natives. Some, the non hypocrite, were brutal with the slaves but others tried to be polite or subtle. In any case, all colonizers discriminated black people. The film steps at different time of the Blixen's life, her love for Denys Finch Hatton (Redford), her sickness, and her relationship with slaves. It is possible to see also some of the folklore of local population. "},{"Title":"You could write a book from the movie","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie has enough reality, complexity, and dimensionality that it would make a good book without much being added. When I read Out of Africa years ago, I found it taut and suggestive, while the movie is rich. By the way, comparing it to the tissue-thin The English Patient is like comparing add-water-and-microwave soup to gumbo.One admirable trait is that what happens depends on the personalities, their histories, the social setting, and the physical locale, plus an accident or too. It is mesmerizingly true to life, though perhaps not to the life of a 2003 couch potato.Is there a class cleavage here -- those with a touch of class admiring the movie and those without bored by it?Out of Africa weaves together a number of concerns -- colonialism, feminism, nationalism, and naturalism, for starters. These concerns are raised in part before the core of the movie starts, the love story, perhaps to set the context in which our heroine both ennobles her love story and is ennobled by it. The love occurs within a life -- I had a farm in Africa -- rather than being a substitute for life.The characters are both alienated and committed, again realistically. Our hero's long-time, close partner doesn't reveal to him that the partner is dying of fever and has a native mistress because he doesn't know him that well! In love, our heroine wants more committment while our hero treasures his independence, but in work our heroine treasures her independence. Ring true? "},{"Title":"Incredible!!","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's shocking, and almost unbelievable why this picture isn't in the first 20 places at the IMDB Top 250. How can we compare this masterpiece with the amusing, but juvenile and immature, picture `Back to the Future'? How is it possible to see `The Lord of the Rings The Fellowship of the Ring' in the first places? The acting, screenplay, photography, soundtrack, and the directing are simply superb, and work all in a perfect harmony like clockwork. Listen to its remarkable soundtrack, by John Barry, that tenderly and softly transports us to the local scene, perfectly mixed with the `Concerto for Clarinet and Orchestra in A (k.622), by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. MASTERPIECE - 10 in 10  "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie a couple of times and with each viewing come away amazed at what a spectacular movie it is.   OK..... its not exactly Lethal Weapon, but its not supposed to be.  What it is however, is a wonderfully well written film that take us on a journey with Isak Dinisen and her travels in Africa.  The love story I think is played out beautifully.  What else can I say... the cinematography .. captures Karen's love of Africa so well. Scenes that include fields..  rains.. trees.. the simple joys of sitting in a chair surrounded by nature.. help the viewer to understand what an impression Africa must have had on her soul.  The shots of Denys and Karen flying through the African landscape are some of the most spectacular ever.  The  soundtrack by John Barry.. magnificent.  Meryl Streep's performance here is great.. I think only topped by Sophie's Choice.  I can't believe this move isn't in the IMDB top 250!  If you haven't seen it... watch it! "},{"Title":"It moves me deeply every time I watch it.","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must have seen this movie more than 20 times and every time I cry!! I'm not just a romantic, it's such a wonderful story of a lost love and all the trials which go along with trying to belong to someone and have someone belong to you. It's very true to say that we only borrow someone from God - so to speak -and that we never really own anyone no matter how much we like to think we do. A wonderful, wonderful story, beautifully acted and filmed, a joy to watch again and again. One day I'll take a hot air balloon flight over the area and try to imagine how they must have seen it. "},{"Title":"Yeah Right","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Middle America thinks a movie should look like this. yawn. Nothing like the book, but if you like fantasy.... well let's say it's nothing like the book.Okay I have to do this for homework but let's get real. This is National Geographic with a couple of champagne parties added.Is the photography great? Sure. Is the music great? Buy the soundtrack. Will you learn anything about Africa from this movie...well, did I mention there was a book?Anything else you want to know about the story you can probably read online. "},{"Title":"All the star-power and prestige cannot erase the air of artificiality...","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Robert Redford is miscast as a British adventurer in Africa wooing married Danish writer Meryl Streep. Busy, overlong romantic opus/travelogue based upon the life of Karen Blixen is really just an excuse to get these two beautiful stars together on-screen, and certainly their combined chemistry makes several scenes quite memorable. Streep flourishes in this extravagant role, and Klaus Maria Brandauer is excellent as her rather hapless husband, but director Sydney Pollack allows his pacing to plod, and wooden Redford never livens up. It apparently impressed the Academy, winning Oscars for Pollack, Karl Luedtke for his screenplay adaptation, David Watkin for his admittedly lovely cinematography, Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Sound, John Barry for his score, and for Best Picture. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Out of sync","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Oscar-laden movie version of Baroness Karen Blixen's account of her experiences running a plantation in Kenya should have set off some interest to read her Isak Dinesen books, but it left me uninterested.  As a romance, Out of Africa is staid and conventional.  The chemistry that might have sparked the commonplace flirtatiousness of its star Meryl Streep and have transformed it into full-blown movie rapture over love interest Robert Redford never materialized.  Streep--the darling of Hollywood's nobility (considered by too many the best actress working at the time)--failed to bring Blixen to life on the screen, and Redford with his characteristically uninvolved manner pretty much left her to play to herself.  (His was maybe the most sensitively rendered impersonation of set furniture anyone could hope for.)  And to add insult to apathy, the writer Kurt Luedtke (He took home Oscar, too.) picks at the least interesting aspects of her stay in the dark continent.  He skirts issues that might have fleshed Blixen out as a woman of her time and temperament.  You never get the feeling that he has cracked the surface of Blixen's life, her triumphs and failures, her Christian beliefs, her commitment--albeit bordering on a kind of rich-white-woman condescension--to the natives she employed.  And, considering that this is the era when women as artists are coming into their own and are receiving the recognition denied them in the past, it's appalling how little of the artist Blixen we get to know here.What we get are David Watkin's pretty pictures which, if I venture to guess where Blixen would have stood on the matter, would be out of sync with how she felt about Africa.  It should have meant more to her than wide-open spaces and animals on the run as helicopters fly overhead.  The only people who don't disgrace themselves in the movie are the black actors, and you wish there was less of Streep and Redford and Klaus Maria Brandauer (as her philandering husband), and more of them.   "}{"Title":"Why must we always ruin a paradise?","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is a no brainer to relate that this film was Oscar-worthy for cinematography, sound, sets, music, writing, direction, and the Best Picture of 1985. It was visually stunning and the whole film just carried you away to a place that no longer exists. Oh, to have been given the chance to join Denys Finch Hatton (Robert Redford) on safari, or have dinner with Karen Blixen (Meryl Streep) on her Limoges, or even join Bror (Klaus Maria Brandauer) for a drink. They lived a great life at a great time, and we are indebted to Karen Blixon's books and Sydney Pollack's direction in bringing this wonderful world to us. "},{"Title":"Streep is  SUBLIME!","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The novel Out of Africa was written by Karen Blixen (Isak Dinesen) in 1935 and published in 1937 and recounts her life on a coffee plantation in British colonial Kenya from 1913 to 1931.The movie version of Karen Blixen's memoir was made in 1985 and starred Meryl Streep as Blixen and Robert Redford as big game hunter and naturalist Denys Finch-Hatton, with whom she had a passionate affair whilst estranged from her Danish husband of convenience, the Baron Brors Blixen(Klaus Maria Brandauer).ZZZZZZZ At least, that's always been my reaction to the description of this film. I'd never seen it out of aversion to it's subject matter. Also, Robert Redford kinda gives me the creeps. Or puts me to sleep. Not sure which. So, I netflixed it and forced myself to watch it, to enrich my film vocabulary, since it was an important film of the 1980's I'm very, very glad I did.Karen Blixen was an amazing woman. She defies utterly any attempt to pigeon hole her. She was fiercely independent, yet possessive and grasping. She was unselfishly devoted to the Kikuyu natives who lived on her plantation, yet she could never perceive anyone else's wants or needs. She was liberated ahead of her time, yet still naive about people's motivations. Her romantic choices were unfortunate, choosing only flakes unable entirely to commit, and commitment and thus ownership of a man is what she (at least in the movie) craved most. Brors was pathologically incapable of being a decent husband in any way, and didn't care much one way or the other. Denys, on the other hand, though he loved her dearly, suffered from what today is known as commitment issues.Meryl Streep's performance is one of her very best, and only proves that the Academy is a very fallible judge of performance, as she lost the Oscar that year. Many people go on and on about the accents she uses and how well she does them, as though that is the hallmark of a great actor. Well, to my mind, that's like saying that a writer is great because he can type well. It's a tool of her profession, a means to and end for her. No, Meryl Streep's brilliance lies in her amazing ability, a genius, of small character moments. She can say more with a pause and a look in her eye than most actors can say in a lifetime.Now that we are eight years into the new century, we can safely look back and begin to make judgments about the last one. One I would make would be that Meryl Streep was the finest film actress of the 20th century. I know, I know. Hepburn. Davis. Stanwyck.Still, I stand clear and firm on this. None of the others has (or had) her range. Ethel Barrymore, Helen Hayes&#133;these were great actresses of the stage, whom I do not count as I have no personal way to judge their performances.As to Robert Redford&#133;well&#133; he WAS charming and dashing as Finch-Hatton, but he wasn't British and Denys Finch-Hatton was a Brit to the backbone. Redford was incapable of convincingly playing it so, and many of his lines were written with a British sensibility, and Redford just threw away the best lines, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Clashing cultures","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out of Africa is three hours long, so get comfortable. It IS worth your time&#133;IF you like films that take a close look at clashing cultures and Colonialism, the role of women in men's lives, and some of that good old doomed romance. This film originally made me want to see whatever Meryl Streep did. Klaus Marie Brandauer is also very good. I have to say, I've seldom thought Robert Redford was anything special as an actor. Oh sure, he does that tongue-in-cheek look pretty well, and the intense, thoughtful squint. I've NEVER seen him in a film (whether set in 1910 or yesterday) with anything other than that 1970's haircut of his. THAT is a sure sign he's considered more valuable as a man-nequin than an asset to the art of acting. Except for a couple of small continuity problems, this IS a dramatic and often moving story of wealth, privilege, effort, success, failure, freedom, and loss. Many of the human issues are well represented and done in a patient enough fashion you have the opportunity to question yourself as the film moves along. The photography is lovely, the scoring big and sweeping (occasionally to much so), and the dialog sharp and insightful. "},{"Title":"Great piece of adult cinema that falls just short of perfection","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Circa WW1 a Danish lady farmer has an affair with an English (or so it said in the book!) hunter and playboy who would like to have his cake and eat it too.There aren't many classic films in existence and Out of Africa is a case of nearly -- but not quite. What prevents this from being one of the best films in cinema history is the central partnership of Meryl Streep and Robert Redford.(They don't as much set the screen on fire as work as an air conditioner unit! Talk about working in your own little bubble!) While Streep is acting for America, Redford doesn't even go as far as effecting an accent. Is he supposed to be British? American? American who has a British (parents?) link? Who knows and while I may have coughed at the wrong time and missed my clue it hardly sets us off on the right foot.Streep is a great actress but she is not a romantic actress. To be a romance actress you have to look like someone else is the key to your existence and Streep can't do that. Even here -- in another time and another age -- she acts like she is totally self-contained and self-reliant. Probably true (for the part which is based on a real story), but how can they build drama around something that seems almost throwaway.In one scene she wants marriage and he doesn't, because a piece of paper won't make me love you more. But the way he says it and acts I don't believe him. Whether this is character or half-hearted acting I don't know -- but the ageing Redford still acts like the young handsome man that doesn't have to try. While he has done the actors double top of keeping his stomach in and his hair on that doesn't mean you can play juvenile lead your whole life! Africa acts better than either of them. Vast, sweeping, strange and romantic. John Barry's score seals it. Kenya is Africa's greatest hit anyway -- all the good things (of Africa) and a climate the European can live in. The people are lovely too. I wish I had the money to go on holiday there! No review of this movie can ignore David Lean. He created the template that Sydney Pollock follows. I was expecting some updating of the technique and maybe more explicit sexuality - but Pollock directs the things as if it were still the early 1960's. He shouts cut at the tent flap rather than as they are lighting cigarettes.The story isn't really all that great. No big drama really. I was expecting them to sex it up with a few cheap wham-bams (elephants on the rampage, etc.), but they didn't deliver them although it does have some limited physical drama.There are few modern actors that can do romance anymore and that is a real pity because this film shows that the rest of the ingredients are readily available -- and people seem happy enough with this slightly frosty and forced coupling. What would they say if they saw the real thing? "},{"Title":"Predictable and ordinary Oscar bait.","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A film that requires very little extrapolation in reasoning, Out of Africa is a film that, before the projector fires up and the disc even goes in the drive, lends itself quite accurately to snap judgments. What it looks like, it is. It is Oscar bait, pure and simple; the kind of movie Oscar voters LOVE (I have proof, considering it won Best Picture). A weepy, epic-length soap-opera melodrama, set in an exotic place in a bygone era, featuring a couple beautiful superstars and posited in front of a famous moment in history. Look at its IMDb page. Read the back of the box. What does it sound like to you? That's exactly what it is. I can't fathom the film surprising anyone. If it sounds like a good emotional love story, it should deliver for you. If it sounds like lame, predictable Oscar bait, trust me, it will be for you. Streep has a sketchy accent and Robert Redford is as British as Charlton Heston is Mexican, and has as much success as ol' Chuck did (if I hadn't read that Redford was supposed to be British, I don't think I would ever have noticed). Blah, I'm not a fan, and although this wasn't as painfully empty as, say, Doctor Zhivago, it's definitely something that I wouldn't have actually had to watch to approximate the experience, and it's something I don't plan to ever see again.Grade 5.5/10 (C+/C) / #22 (of 24) of 1985 "},{"Title":"Robert Redford's lack of an accent...","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is fabulous for art direction and cinematography. Seeing it just makes me want to go to Africa. The film documents the state of Africa in the early 1900s - I love the scene of the train traveling across the savanna - the iron horse on tracks cutting through the vast empty landscape.Anyway, this movie is also fabulous for the acting of Meryl Streep as Karen Blixen aka Isak Dinesen. She mastered her unusual Danish accent for this film in a way that stays with you long after you've seen the film. But has anyone noticed that Robert Redford just speaks with his normal American accent? Isn't he supposed to be British as Denys George Finch Hatton? It's irritating that he doesn't even try to act like he's in a period film. It's just another way how exceptional women actors must jump through hoops while the older men actors just show up. The fact the Meryl Streep didn't bring home an Oscar is astounding - the fact the Robert Redford wasn't even nominated makes total sense. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 80s","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Africa (1985) I had a farm in Africa at the foot of the Ngong hills, so opens the famous Isaek Dennison novel from which this movie is based. Streep costars with superstar Robert Redford and by the time the Oscar ceremonies are presented the following year (it won Best Picture), Streep had ensured her place in the pantheon of Hollywood history with this epic story of a man and a woman and that damn plantation out in Africa.Utilizing once again an accent not her own, Streep plays the famous adventuress with a quietness and subtlety that belies the character's inner steel-like make-up. Romantic and bittersweet, the film's only flaw is Redford's lack of a fully conceptualized characterization as Streep's off-again on-again love interest. "},{"Title":"Resonates like a hundred different strings vibrating delicately in harmony through the notes of an epic symphony.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1985 Meryl Streep and Robert Redford were two of, if not the two, best actors in the business. Surely Streep's powerful portrayal of Isek Dinesen is masterful beyond belief, complete with one of the complex accents which became for a time Streep's trademark.If subtlety isn't your thing, don't bother with this one. It doesn't clang out a single bad note like an out of tune string on a guitar being banged by some club handed guitarist, as lesser films are wont to do. It resonates like a hundred different strings vibrating delicately in harmony through the notes of an epic symphony.Redford doesn't do accents, so he doesn't play well as an Englishman, but since that isn't critical to the story, it isn't missed. Klaus Maria Brandauer is perfect, as he always is, as the scoundrel Baron Blixen, whom Dinesen married for title and got little else.The graceful, epic beauty of this film is matchless. Pollack liked working with Redford, and their collaborations include The Way We Were, Jeremiah Johnson, The Electric Horseman, and Havana, a much under-appreciated film. Here, Pollack's direction has the lightest touch that imbues each moment with absolute truth and sincerity.But in the end, this is Streep's movie, as most of her films of this era were. Nothing could touch her, or likely ever will, and her haunting narration of I had a farm in Africa should rank with Play it again Sam as one of the most unforgettable movie lines of all time. "},{"Title":"Accent question","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great movie but I did not understand how a Danish woman would have a white South African accent on her arrival  in Africa and for the rest of the movie-Meryl Streep did a great job as always but that is not a Danish accent -it is  for the most part, South- African,-anyone can explain why that was, that I did not find out from the movie?? Thanks! "},{"Title":"The Lawrence of Arabia of the 80s","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meryl Streep and Robert Redford may at first seem like mismatched lovers but in retrospect they're perfect in this film based on the memoirs of Danish Baroness Karen Blixen-Finecke with the pen name of Isak Dinesen. Ms. Streep is the Baroness who wants a taste of the daring side of life and though penniless she travels to Kenya to marry Baron Bror Blixen-Finecke. She then becomes a Baroness and lives on a plantation growing coffee. She eventually meets Denys Finch Hatton and what unfolds is a love story to rival GONE WITH THE WIND, LOVE STORY and THE THORN BIRDS. The breathtaking cinematography echoes the LAWRENCE OF ARABIA legend and the score is a soaring, heartbreaking achievement. It's also one the three greatest tearjerkers of all time next to TERMS OF ENDEARMENT and STEPMOM. Sidney Pollack never directed a better film and conveys much more details than what had previously been expected of his style of direction. It may just be the best film of the 1980s (that is of course next to RAGING BULL). Naysayers will inevitably say that Redford should have had an English accent but it shows how wrong a person can be... he's better off and more believable without it. And of course Ms. Streep shows off her great talent for accents as the Baroness. Why couldn't she have won that year? Se la vie, I guess. "}{"Title":"I had a farm in Ah-frica...","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I notice that the people who dislike Out of Africa the most are American and Canadian, which is rather characteristic. I guess those guys expected a kind of Sara Michelle Gellar - Ryan Philippe routine from an aristocratism-obsessed Danish woman and an English aristocrat at the beginning of the century. What do I have to tell to them... go rent an XXX action. Streep and Redford (less so) do just great walking the blade, carefully balancing passion and dignity.  To call Streep's reaction to the news of Finch Hatton's death lame is in itself a high attainment in lameness.The important words are at the very beginning 'I wrote about the others because they're so much easier to write about'.  So the movie's all about love and that's something she's not written into the book. Still, there's so much more to Blixen than what we get to see. We aren't shown the real struggle for the farm and her life on the farm and among the natives, which could harm the compassion for the pain she's in when she's forced to give it up.  We don't get Lulu, which is a pity and we don't get Kamante much, which is a big miss. Redford's a bit too banal for the task of portraying Finch Hatton of the book, but who isn't?Still, Out of Africa as a film is a whole another, and to me new, side of Out of Africa the book, and that's gratifying.  Also, unlike the book, it portrays Blixen as a bit of a bitch, which she must have been, even though that hasn't a gram to do with being a good friend and a great writer and storyteller.  I was debating whether a movie was best to see before or after reading the book, and I'm inclined to think you'd be better off first reading  the book. You'd spoil nothing and appreciate so much more.  Or perhaps reading the book belongs in between first and second watching `Out of Africa'.I don't know about Streep's accent, but think 'I had a farm in Ah-frica...' was a bit too stressed. But 'If I know a song of Africa, does Africa know a song of me?' part was as perfect as anyone could have wished.  That sums it up. The movie places a strong emphasis on some things albeit to the harm of some others, but it does so with great elegance and it is still beautiful. You can look up accolades for the musical score or the scenery elsewhere. --- 8/10 "},{"Title":"I liken Redford/Streep to Tracy/Hepburn.","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of course, the big screen always adds romance, depth and dimension to a country like Africa.  Sydney Pollack does this brilliantly.  His direction in the scenes with Redford and Streep always leaves my skin tingling, much the same as what Spencer Tracy did with Katherine Hepburn.  I wish more movies were made in this way. The chemistry between Redford and Streep is cleverly done with the use of our imagination.  It is such a good story, I will be seeing it again on the 12th August at the Astor for the 22nd time. Cheers. "},{"Title":"An Endearing Love Story on One Country and One Man","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Meryl Streep, Robert Redford and Klaus Maria Brandauer give a performance that brings spark and excitement in every move. Based on the true adventures of Karen Blixson her love for a country (Kenya) and for one man (Denis FitzHatten). A woman in love with one brother who jilts her and another brother who marries her for money, but once Karen arrives in Kenya a new world opens to her. The love of the Kenyan countryside, the people and FitzHatten. Karen whats more than she can have and that's true happiness. But with the strength within her she realized at the end that she wanted more. FitzHatten was her equal in the love they had for Africa but Karen wanted a more permanent relationship with Fitzhatten that could never be.The music was haunting and beautiful bringing tears to the eyes of seeing a changing country. The panoramic view of Kenya stirred the soul. Meryl Streep as Karen Blixen brought the story alive. Klaus Marie Brandauer is the rascal who doesn't share Karen's dreams and Robert Redford as Denis FitzHatten adds depth as the one man Karen will always love but never own.The natives of Kenya also play an important part of Karen Blixson's life. The movie is poignant, eternal you'll watch it again and again always seeing some new. "},{"Title":"Where is the plot? Painfully slow-moving story beautifully photographed...","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most boring, painfully slow-moving stories ever brought to the big screen has to be Out of Africa, a snail's pace rendering of what is supposed to be a great love story. Visually, it's a stunning film to see with its broad landscapes and valleys of Africa and the wild animals, as seen from helicopter viewpoint, and all of it is accompanied by a truly fine score by John Barry that aims to capture the picture's mood.But aside from the great color photography and the spellbinding music, it's empty at the core with two passionless performances by Meryl Streep and Robert Redford, neither one of whom is able to bring real life to their characters. It's worth noting that although the film was nominated for several Oscars (including Streep and Klaus Maria Brandauer for his supporting role), it did not receive the Best Editing award--in my opinion, precisely because its three hours weren't scissored enough!With a slender plot that is almost invisible to the naked eye, three hours of running time is too much to subject this viewer to, however beautiful the National Geographic type of photography is.I can only say that in my case, Out of Africa was enjoyable only for the music of John Barry. "},{"Title":"Classy and Boring","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A tasteful and oh-so-dull film about writer Isak Dinesen and her love affair with a big-game hunter in the wilds of Africa.Sydney Pollack clearly wanted to win Oscars with this one, so that most vile of vile movie terms -- prestige -- is dripping from every frame. Well, he won his bookcase full of Oscars, but the result is a movie that looks better in stills than it does running across your television screen. Who knew that you could make something like syphilis look glossy? Meryl Streep acts up a storm as usual, and practically leaves tire marks over poor Robert Redford, who simply can't keep up with her. Any movie with her in it is worth watching, but give me Pollack's less prestigious but far more entertaining Tootsie any day.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Robert Redford stinks.","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just sat through half of Out of Africa. The first time I saw this movie was when the movie first came out back in the 80's, and I remember then how bad Redford's acting was, and still is. I almost left the theater then as well, but I had heard there was a DeHavilland Tiger Moth airplane flown about somewhere in the movie, and I wanted to see that particular item. It was almost worth sitting through Redford's monotone, flat, lifeless performance to see this one scene on the big screen. Almost, but not quite. I thought Streep's performance was excellent by the way; Of course, maybe it was just the stark contrast to Redford's zombie-like persona that made me think so. "},{"Title":"Out of Africa","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" From Oscar winning, and Golden Globe nominated director Sydney Pollack (The Way We Were, Tootsie), this sounded like a really good drama based on a true story, it wasn't completely to my taste, but I can see it is quite Oscar worthy. Basically Danish woman Karen Blixen (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Meryl Streep) marries a friend, Berkeley Cole (Michael Kitchen), for the title of Barness and they move to Africa to start a coffee plantation. Her husband begins cheating on her and is often away on business, so she stays at home alone a lot, working at the farm and bonding with two men she met first day in Africa. One day while out and about, she is encountered by a lion, and it is Denys Finch Hatton (Robert Redford) who saves her, and who she slowly falls for. As they spend more time together, she also develops a love of telling stories, obviously this is where the author aspect kicks in, but in the end Denys died in a tragic plane accident, and it is then that she left Africa, and never returned. Also starring Golden Globe winning, and Oscar and BAFTA nominated Klaus Maria Brandauer as Bror Blixen/Hans Blixen, Malick Bowens as Farah, Joseph Thiaka as Kamante, Stephen Kinyanjui as Kinanjui, Batman's Michael Gough as Lord Delamere, Suzanna Hamilton as Felicity and Rachel Kempson as Lady Belfield. I don't really know the Danish accent, so I can't say whether Streep is good at doing it or not, but she is certainly a good character, I think it could have had more love story and lost some unneeded material to make it shorter than almost 3 hours, but with a good cast, and magnificent scenery, this is certainly watchable stuff. It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Music for John Barry, Best Sound, Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture for Pollack, and it was nominated for Best Costume Design and Best Film Editing, it won the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Sound, and it was nominated for Best Costume Design and Best Score, and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Original Score, and it was nominated for Best Screenplay - Motion Picture. Robert Redford was number 61, and Meryl Streep number 58 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and Streep was number 26 on The World's Greatest Actor, the film was number 15 on 100 Years of Film Scores, and it was number 13 on 100 Years, 100 Passions. Very good! "},{"Title":"a plain story-telling well-worth-seeing movie.","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" IMDb 6.8 isn't fair for this movie!i watched this movie by pirate DVD, which makes the natural Africa appear less fantastic. though you could still feel the beauty, especially when your imagination fly with the helicopter. i believe this flying is most memorable for Karen, be with nature and loveri would say this movie goes on pretty slowly, telling you a story in a rather simple way without any technic applied. a fighting woman with two men. there's no movie could tell an average woman living abroad in such a masterful way.its thrift style could really freshen up you, who are put barely in Hollywood films. 9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Truly Memorable..","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Recently I have read a couple of bad reviews of this film. I couldn't believe it!! Some people have a very wrong perception of what makes a good film. Okay so there are no bombs or explosions in it, but that doesn't mean this isn't a top-class film. Both Streep and Redford are wonderful and all the Oscars received were well-deserved. The story is unusual and moving and it remains mostly faithful to the awe-inspiring life of Karen Blixen. Slow moving at the start,but stick with it,trust me,it really is worth it. The scenery is fabulous and this film will stay with you for a long time after viewing. For me, the more I watch it, the more I love it. Truly great.  "},{"Title":"Favorite Movie of ALL Time","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is beautiful and moving film about a woman struggling to have herown place in a world dominated by men a world where women areconsidered an arm adornment. She ends up with a coffee plantation and an absent husband who soon vanishes all together. The visuals are breathtaking and the storyline is straight forward yet has a great depth to it. Thecharacaters all have a certain something about them that makes you wantto learn more, at least the centeral ones.I can understand completelywhy it got best picture, as well as 6 other academy awards Meryl Streepand Robert Redford shine in this film. 9.5/10  "}{"Title":"Breathtaking","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favourite film, and I've seen it many times. I think that although it was popular in its time, it is now very underrated. For me, it is one of the definitive romances, and any film that is definitive of its genre is clearly worth seeing. It is a beautiful, beautiful film. Everything in it is beautiful, which is one of the reasons it's such a pleasure to watch. The scenery and the sets and the soundtrack, even the actors are all ridiculously aesthetically pleasing. The film covers many important themes; colonialism, possession, the nature of society at that time, human resilience and endurance, and all of these themes are beautifully woven together, to create a colourful and very intriguing story. The soundtrack is gorgeous, and the haunting theme will stay with you for days; you will want to remember it.The best scene is where Robert Redford takes Meryl Streep flying, and the theme in the soundtrack bursts out in all its glory just as the characters are feeling total and complete happiness.The photography in that scene is stunning;you have to see it to know what I mean. The love story element has been criticised for not being passionate enough. What you get instead is an exploration of the problems that can occur when one person thinks the other does not really belong to them, which is much more interesting if you ask me. This is not the most passionate of love stories, but this by no means detracts from its worth within the genre. Redford is very attractive but makes his character out to be quite dull, although he effectively communicates Finch Hatton's longing for independence and solitude, and the way his character changes.At the end he says to KarenYou've ruined it for me, you know, being alone. Streep is, as always, amazing, and her performance is nicely understated. I thought her accent was very good, too. The supporting cast aren't amazing, but certainly adequate. Bror is good though. This may not be on most people's Top 10 Films lists, but it should be. See it if you want to feel joyful and sad simultaneously.  "},{"Title":"A beautifully thought-provoking film","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers abound!What sticks with me most about Out of Africa is the music, mainly because it is full of the heartache and joy that is in the story. So many times music is just background noise, but here it effectively narrates Karen Blixen's emotions. Her joy in the land, the hurt she feels each time she is abandoned, first by her husband, then by Denys each time he leaves. She needs them more than they need her.Isak Dinesen (Karen Blixen) was a storyteller, and sometimes it takes time to tell a story. So it seems right to me that this movie takes its time. If you don't have time to savour a tale, you might as well read a newspaper. Life of made up of everyday banality interspersed with memorable moments. Only in Hollywood do stories unfold according to a strict timetable.Another memorable aspect is the depiction of the English colonial culture encroaching on the African civilization. Karen is guilty of this, for example when she tries to start a school for the natives living on her plantation. But the love she feels for the people is so apparent, and also the great respect she has for her houseman. While it is tinged with a certain white superiority, you nonetheless feel she is learning to leave that behind and become closer to being a part of the place. But she will always remain outside because she is white. However, she doesn't fit in with the Colonial types, either.I love Meryl Streep in this role. She conveys so much with just the look on her face, the set of her jaw or her body language. She doesn't need words to show the humiliation she feels when she finds out her husband gave her syphilis, or when she looks around for him at the New Year's dance and he is nowhere to be found.I was disappointed with Robert Redford. He's certainly fine to look at, though maybe a bit too all-American. He is somehow off as an Englishman; not due to the lack of an accent (I can get past that), but perhaps because he has that American forthrightness in his lectures on preserving the African culture and land. However the characterization of Denys I find curious as well; he is always trying to show how he truly has the Africans' best interests at heart, even though he is as much an outsider as any other white person living there. It seems somewhat hypocritical, but then, people in real life are rarely all pure crusader, or all self-interested. I suppose the mix is realistic.One theme that runs through the movie is that fate and circumstance have a large part in these people's lives. A particularily white point of view is that we control our destinies, but many native cultures place a much larger emphasis on the things which control us. Perhaps that is because we are so rich with things that we can use to improve our lives (the colonists have so many things; Karen loves hers, and ships them all from Denmark) and maintain an illusion of control. The natives live much closer to the land, and are more susceptible to the hazards of nature. But so are we; we just aren't aware of it all the time. Karen learns it over time, most especially when fire destroys the plantation when her first good crop comes in. Coffee was never meant to be grown that high up the mountain evidently, and nature steps in to rectify the situation.I could go on, but I won't. There are so many things I admire in this movie. I like the fact it is slower-paced; it gives you time to consider what you've just seen, and to consider the characters, their motivations, their growth. I could watch it over and over. "},{"Title":"The Best Picture Winner of 1985","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Africa is a strong film that works because of the strong performances by the two leads (Meryl Streep, Oscar-nominated and Robert Redford).  The film is an intense love story of epic proportions set in the beautiful backdrop of 1910s Africa.  While both people are individualists, their attraction cannot be denied and they will experience love, comfort, excitement, triumph, but ultimately tragedy together.  Streep and Redford have rarely been better and the supporting cast is super.  Klaus Maria Brandauer (Oscar-nominated) does the best work of his career.  The screenplay (Oscar-winning) is excellent and Sydney Pollack's Oscar-winning direction is even better.  Easily one of the best films of the 1980s.  4.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"A deeply moving epic","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Epic in scope and deeply moving, this story of love and loss won a total of 7 academy awards, including best picture.  Most of these awards were richly deserved, especially the cinematography and musical score.  I can think of only two negatives the first half of the movie ran a bit slow and stiff, and the plot was slightly manipulative emotionally.  This was not so much a tearjerker as a tear-dripper... I found my eyes leaking at many points in the movie.  If there's any lesson to take away from the movie, it's this To let come what comes and to let go what goes is the highest maturity and the greatest freedom, a freedom exemplified in Robert Redford's character.  Nothing is ours, nothing lasts; everything in this life is borrowed.  May we always remember that.  9/10. "},{"Title":"An Exercise in Bordom.","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Don't be duped by the starring roles, as I was. Meryl Streep and Robert Redford are two fine feathers on what is otherwise a plucked turkey. It's long and tedious. The outpourings of rhapsodic music are sure to send you to sleep. Upon its release, this movie must have been a theatre pickpocket's pipe-dream. Yes, the sumptuous photography of African landscapes is glorious to behold. But you can see just as good and better on any Sunday evening wildlife documentary. The script is bland, the inter-relationships are predictable; it's like a coffee-table book with an unintentionally erotic centrefold. I'm unsure that anything of interest has come out of Scandinavia since the Vikings. And maybe this movie - or more aptly - the author's book upon which it is based, provides something of an explanation. Recommended only for viewers with sleeping difficulties. "},{"Title":"One of the great epic romances","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Africa is simply a masterpiece of cinematic art.  This film does an exceptional job of delving into each of the characters and creating an understanding of what it is that makes all lovers and humanity itself such a difficult and complex chain of events.  Meryl Streep proves once again what an acting  legend she is by playing Karen Blixen, a Danish immigrant to Eastern Africa and how she learned to fall in love with the land, the people, and of a British hunter named Denys, played by a very American Robert Redford.  Their relationship is unique and genuinely romantic, certainly one of the great epic romances of all time.  Their love is a play between what your heart needs and what your head tells you what you should do with your life.  In the end, their love is not of this world, it is not ours.   It is a lesson in learning that nothing is forever, nothing is owned by us, not even the love we create for ourselves and then discard.  This earth, represented so well by Africa, owns everything we think we have, and ultimately, like Denys, we all go back to whence we come.  Out of Africa is a gorgeously filmed movie, with some of the most spectacular scenery ever recorded on film.  The flying over Africa scene is romance and adventure next to none.  The film score by John Barry is certainly one of the best of all time, and it perfectly captures the romantic grandeur of Meryl Streep and Robert Redford, and their glorious attempt at forever possessing each other's heart, only to learn that their love is not to remain constant, just like the beauty of the African savannah is not to be consistent.  A romantic, visual, musical, and historical masterpiece,   Not to be missed.   "},{"Title":"Another example of a great work of art.","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The art form of the 20th Century, at least in the US, is the motion picture and I say that as a painter and writer.   Of the approximately 1100 copies of movies I own, Out Of Africa is one of the most serious examples of art. Sydney Pollack did an excellent job as both producer and director of this motion picture and I heard on a PBS show that he made this movie as a tribute to Karen Blixen, the author of the book, and possibly the greatest woman author to ever live.   I strongly recommend Out Of Africa to anyone who hasn't seen it and further recommend that the viewer watch the picture more than once as Karen Blixen put an amazing collection of philosophical and theological comments into the mouths of her characters which were included by the screenwriter in to the motion picture.I like The Godfather, and have watched it more than once, as I have watched Doctor Zhivago more than once, but Out Of Africa is an extraordinary work of art that is not only well written from Mrs. Blixen's book which is autobiographical, but which makes it even more of a work of art.  "},{"Title":"A good example of how they used to make epic movies.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based on 5 books of memoirs, a long, slow-moving movie with great scenery and gradual character development. Streep is totally believable as the Danish woman who travels to Africa for a marriage of convenience, meets and falls in love with an Englishman (Robert Redford) adventurer and pilot. Not my favorite type of film, still I rate it 8 of 10, for watching on an evening when you have lots of time and are not in a rush. The scenery and photography are great. The soundtrack is one of the best. It almost puts the viewer there in early 20th century Africa.  "},{"Title":"To a romance dying young.","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't mean to sound cynical but somewhere along the time line I began to wonder if the difference between Out of Africa and a made-for-TV romance wasn't that the former was more expensively mounted and more carefully done.Meryl Streep, in full virtuosity, does a swell-sounding Danish accent as the bride of Klaus Maria Brandauer, who has a coffee farm in Kenya. He's not such a bad fellow, Brandauer, not at heart, but he's a weakling and a money-grubber who philanders, gives her syphilis, and asks her for loans when she finally throws him out.Not to worry. Robert Redford as the Englishman, Denys Finch Hatton, has begun lurking in the background and he's better looking than Brandauer. His figure is thoroughly stereotyped. He's wealthy, but not wallet-burstingly so, just enough so that he doesn't have to bite his tongue. He's brave and adventurous. He is a man of nature. He's a little mysterious. He's sensitive. He listens to Mozart. He doesn't speak much but he speaks from the heart. He never forces himself on her because he doesn't have to. Most important, he listens to Streep and he understands her.This is a familiar figure in narratives about heroines who are misunderstood. They come in, usually at moments of crisis, then they leave for longish periods until the next tumult. I'll mention in passing Sam Shepherd in Frances and Paul Newman in The Helen Morgan Story as other examples.The formula is rather a strict one. There is joy, followed by sadness, followed by joy, followed by sadness, followed by joy, followed by sadness -- sometimes with a little hair-raising suspense thrown in, in this case provided by encounters with lions -- and the ending must be either heavily tragic or heavenly bright with promise. In this case Redford dies as he lived, in a way filled with thrills, and Streep gets to read A. E. Houseman's To An Athlete Dying Young over his grave.I thought the movie was visually splendid, especially the shots of Redford taking Streep for a ride in his airplane, over tall cataracts and vast flocks of water birds stirring to life under the swooping biplane. The racket and clatter of the engine is reduced almost to nothing, in keeping with the romantic nature of the story, and is replaced by John Barry's fully and fulsomely orchestrated score. It's like a ride in Disneyland.Well, I felt sorry for Karen and the rest during the many tribulations, especially the deaths. And I was happy when the characters seemed to be getting it on together, having a good time, drinking and singing, falling in love, bringing in a decent harvest, escaping from dangerous situations. But I was moved only once -- when Karen Blixen drops to her knees after being publicly presented to the High Chief Muckamuck, the First Minister of Colonial Enterprises, or whatever his title is, and begs him to preserve some of her land, from which she's now being displaced, as living space for her Kikuyu tribesmen. The High Governor of Colonialism begins to hem and haw when she asks him to give his word, -- but then the old guy's wife steps forward and tells Blixen, You have MY word. Sidney Pollack is a fine director and Meryl Streep and the rest are accomplished performers, but they seem to have gotten stuck in an African soap opera here. It's not a bad movie but its familiarity is glaring. "},{"Title":"A bore","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of all films that have won an Academy award for Best Picture this is by far the worst choice the academy made.I say this having seen every Academy award winner of the last sixty-five years. The film is a bore. Slow and stultifying, pretentious. Pollock is a fine director but this filmn tried to be artsy from a book that was hard to pick up rather than hard to put down. "}{"Title":"Jackson Pollock's Best Movie.","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is about a group of people who are NOT out of Africa. Mainly because they are IN Africa. Meryl Street And Paul Newman are fairly good in their roles as the dull lovers but the movie doesn't seem to go anywhere.Anyway. Meryl Street has had enough of it all and decides to get OUT OF Africa!- pretty quickly. She can't stand the posturing from Paul Newman, all heroic and clichd. She also has a tendency to call him Robert Redford, which is quite annoying for Newman.So, he decides to escort her down a river by boat and the pair spend the rest of the movie bickering and such. Very predictably, they fall in love. Then fall in the river. Then fall back into the boat etc... "},{"Title":"Creature comforts","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Beautifully photographed but dramatically stillborn, Sydney Pollack's adaptation of Danish baroness Karen Blixen's (Streep) starry-eyed memoirs of Africa boasts some modest creature comforts. Unfortunately, few take form in the blankly written love affair conjured between Hemingwayesque man of action Hatton (Redford) and Blixen. Conceived as an intimate love story amidst the savannah sprawl of her adopted home, the film takes flight in widescreen observations of exotic flora and fauna, given a memorably soft, nostalgic glow by DP David Watkin, which mirrors the obvious affection Blixen has for the country. But by the third or fourth instance of Streep's fawning voice-over ruining yet another glorious landscape composition&#x97;buoyed by a fine John Barry score&#x97;I found myself pawing at a box of Franzia. And there were still well over two hours left to go. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Out of Africa i think is a fantastic movie to watch. This movie was made in 1985. Starring Robert Redford and Meryl Streep. Meryl Streep i think is a fantastic actress and Robert Redford i think is a fantastic actor. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Danish woman recalls her life in Kenya on a coffee plantation","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" An incredible score and incredible cinematography, plus memorable performances by Meryl Streep and Robert Redford, save this film from complete disaster. I personally thought the movie was overlong and dull in the second half. This part of the film contains nothing exciting, but rather long drawn out scenes of Streep's character (Karen Blixen) waiting for her lover played by Redford to return from another adventure, so they can reconcile. Then the very next day he is off again, on some other mysterious adventure. I don't even think that romance film lovers will like this film. However, viewers will enjoy the beautiful scenery and the wonderful direction of Oscar winning director Sydney Pollack. "},{"Title":"Dare I say empty? 6/10","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is no question in my mind that Out of Africa is a BEAUTIFUL film. IN fact, behind Barry Lyndon it might be the MOST beautiful film I have ever seen.  Absolutely luscious.  Streep is wonderful as Karen Blixen -- as you would expect.  Sadly, Redford sleep walks through the role -- and this costs the movie greatly.  The film lacks a type of passion that is required in this type of movie.  Watch The English Patient if you don't know what kind of passion I am talking about.Overall a beautiful film that is empty, hollow, and too long. "},{"Title":"Dull city","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"13 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Karen sets out for Africa to marry Bror Blixen(Strangely enough that name means brother Flash in Danish, i thought she was off to marry her brother!)when she meets Denys (Robert Redford). She marries Bror and the two have this very strange relationship. Their most romantic scene BrorAfter sex I like you.. Karen I like you too... and the two had now been married for a while!Bror prefers to spend time away from Karen. She is deeply disturbed by that and then ends up getting syphilis. She goes back to Denmark and returns again unable to have children. With her husband always away Denys steps in and suddenly the two get involved. Where was the attraction? He too likes to spend his time away, he buys a plane and just sets off in it every 5 seconds. He even moves in with her yet he still isn't there at all except for the small moments when the two have dull conversations. She gets her divorce from Bror and learns that Denys isn't interested in marriage in fact he just wants to be free...and then he tells her he loves her...Don't worry the whole movie just keeps going downhill right from the beginning...Personally I would watch The Thorn Birds with Richard Chamberlain and Rachel Ward 100 times to see what passion and attraction is al about rather to ever watch this movie again. The movie was over 2 hours and it started out dull and ended dull. There was a huge lack of emotions and Meryl Streep had a terrible accent! Her accent was German-English not Danish-English.2/10 only because it seemed heaven lost a perfect angel and that angel was Robert Redford! Yet even then the end is terrible so don't bother renting this movie, if you want to watch it, who knows it might just turn up on TV. "},{"Title":"Best Picture?, what are you nuts?!!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good god, what a boring pointless movie, I cant believe it won best picture, there were plenty other movies I can think of from 1985 that were 100x better than this, such as Witness, Back To The Future, and many more. There is one redeeming fact about the movie that may actually get me to watch it again, THE SCENERY, it was great, probubly the best Ive seen in a movie. But everything else is just a pile ofcow dung. And as for Meryl Streep, I really love her as an actress and she was wonderful in Silkwood, and The Deer Hunter, but she was wasted in this. If you want to see a wonderfulperformance by Meryl Streep in a very enjoyable movie, rentSilkwood. 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"There is definitely something wrong here","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a failure starting from its most important aspect. I mean, mind you, if there is a movie that necessarily had to have a nice photography it is this one. Yet, this movie is unwatchable. The colors are dead, all yellowish, and the light is terrible. Those famous panoramic scenes are dull. There is no air. There is no depth. Even the scene of a train passing by, at the beginning, has no charm at all. I don't think Sydney Pollack has ever excelled in this domain. I can't believe I read some positive reviews on this argument. I think that when it comes to photography there are people who don't know what they are talking about...Merryl Streep is monotonic. No comparison with, for instance, her superb performance in THE HOURS of Stephen Daldry where she was intense. Robert Redford? Unwatchable. In a scene he has a terrifying make-up. He has an absent expression.Jodie Foster declared in an interview that the best movies belong to the sixties and the seventies. I perfectly agree with her. BRUBAKER is the last good movie of Redford, then it is all downhill... Except for a few gems like BRAZIL of Terry Gilliam, the eighties have been a bad moment for the world of celluloid. "},{"Title":"Are we out yet?","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Out Of Africa details Karen Blixen's travels and residency in deepest darkest Africa during the first part of the 19th century, After taking the train to the station to meet her fiance, just to have him NOT meet her, but a chauffeur, I'm guessing that could me a sign. Anyways he fiance is a bit of a free-loader, using Blixen's money to fund his farming exploits, (even he's shafty on those details, saying they're going to grow cultivate coffee when it was previously agreed they were going to raise cattle). He also has a habit of going off hunting without telling her). So ultimately she's got a lot of time by herself, and of course that's where Denys, the mysterious Safari leader comes in. After saving her from being Lion chow, he becomes somewhat of a permanent fixture of the Blixen household.There's no doubt that Meryl Streep, playing Blixen, and Redford, playing Denys have gonzo chemistry with each other, but the story often drags along, and it doesn't help that it's nearly three hours long. With it's high class British hokum going back and forth, the whole thing almost gets boring in some places. So yeah, being it being a best Picture Oscar and all, I somewhat had high expectations for this one, only to wind up somewhat disappointed. "},{"Title":"Somehow I missed something","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK this film is not bad and not as boring as far as 160 minute films get either, but still I cannot get what many people like about this one so much. The acting is OK (nothing Oscar worthy here) and so is everything else. The thing that struck me most though is that this is a real life story. Well anyways, I won't bore you no more now, my verdict is6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Great if you think its National Geo but not for a movie","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok fine.  Now I can stand to watch good performances.  Streep and Redford are good actors in this film, but I found myself  really disinterested in this picture.  It was boring, and aside from the great cinematography (which made me think I was  watching National Geographic rather than a movie), and some good scenes, it was not an enjoyable movie overall.  Some things were done well.  Case in point was the shooting of the lions, and THe duchesse's little coffee chat with the young woman.  However some scenes are also ridiculous.  I couldn't buy that Streep and Redford could have table picnic dinners on and on with wine in the ruggedness of Africa just so they could create a passion between their characters. <<SPOILER>> Also I KNEW the moment Redford said he'd be back for her, he'd die.  And then when she is told, what is her reaction??? pretty lame I'd say. <<END SPOILER>>The story is uninteresting, and I just couldn't keep myself captivated even though the fact she got syphillis and it  added a little something more to her character, it still didn't help.MarginalRating 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Out of patience...","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have thought about this for a number of minutes, twisting and turning in my mind to try to understand how this lifeless, pitying bore of a film won SEVEN Oscars. Here is a list of possible reasons I could come up with - There were literally no other films made in 1985. - A cast member slept with someone on the awards committee and then blackmailed them with irrefutable evidence. - Large sums of money changed hands. - People will literally vote for anything that has Meryl Streep in it. - No one had time to see it, but listened to the one person who did see it, who gave it rave reviews but actually had an IQ of well below 60.This film probably doesn't deserve a 1, it probably deserves a 2 or something equally generous, because there are cows in the film and they make a decent performance (which can't be said for any of the people in the film) - however, it is necessary to rate it as such in an attempt to drag the score down to where it belongs. The whole film is dull. The colours are dull. The people are dull. I could barely understand what anyone was saying, a fact I am quite frankly grateful for after suffering through Meryl Streep's best old woman voice at the beginning, and then hearing such gems as I'll mate for life. One day at a time.How this film is supposed to be an epic romance I will never know. The most romantic thing I saw in the whole film was her black slave refilling her vase with flowers in her African home, while she was in Denmark recovering from the syphilis her husband kindly gave to her. Don't worry though, she only married him for his title so she wasn't too cut up about it.Basically, I have had more eventful afternoons staring at my washing machine than this film - at least my washing machine provides a myriad of colour and doesn't come with an embarrassing faux-danish accent and less sexual chemistry than a pad of frozen butter on a soggy carpet. Just don't bother. "},{"Title":"Slow and tedious.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was one of the most disappointing films I've seen. Critics made me think this was special and it only was especially slow and tedious. The film is pretentious and a poor way to waste a couple of hours. Great people were involved and produced a bloated waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Zzzz","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the worst movies that won the Best Picture Oscar. It's however, perfect bait for movie snobs beautiful photography, art direction, dramatic acting, etc. Time proved another Oscar nominee, Spielberg's The Color Purple was more deserving of the award. 1985's best movie however is not questionable One of the best American comedies in history, Back to the Future, which was seen as just another sci-fi summer blockbuster at the time but decades later is vindicated and considered a classic. Oscar has many films like Out of Africa, beautiful and competent, but ultimately fail to connect with a non-snobbish audience. Some of the Oscar winners I've seen that deserve to be with this movie are The English Patient, Ordinary People and Shakespeare in Love. No one is going to dispute classics like Fargo, The Empire Strikes Back and Saving Private Ryan are not more beloved by audiences. When it comes to quality, trust the people and not the Academy. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't figure out what's more excruciating1. Meryl Streep's garish attempt at a Danish accent-or-2. A 120-minute plot line that moves like Chicago at 500In a film that gives good Africa movies bad names (The Constant Gardener, The English Patient, etc.), Meryl Streep experiences a star-crossed love affair with Robert Redford.Interesting premise, poor execution.The time span feels as long as it is, as both Karen and Denys fumble toward intimacy. The cinematography is detached, and I cared for characters no less than they cared to make me.I finished Out of Africa in the spirit of a personal challenge. "},{"Title":"Academy Award winner?","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... um, no.The cinematography was lush and incredible, the setting in Kenya a beautiful and languid portrait, but if I want to see a portrait, I can go to a museum. This was not only supposed to be a movie, but a Best Picture Academy Award winner, and it just plain wasn't. Well, yes, it Had A Romance, and two A-list actors as well, and you just can't hand out Best Picture Awards for weird pictures like Brazil, Brat Pack flicks like Breakfast Club or pop genre comedies like Back To The Future, can you now? You can't shut Pollack, Streep and Redford out in 1985, you'll be dumped from the latest glitterati canape party, and that just wouldn't do, would it? Unlike Out Of Africa, though, those other movies told stories. What I got out of this movie was (a) a bored rich Danish girl with nothing much to do marries a guy just because, (b) goes off to Kenya to farm because it seemed like the thing to do at the time, (c) dumps the philanderer and has a fling with the local cute sexy white boy, and (d) goes broke and goes home, The End.I'll give it a fair mark for the jewel-like setting, and it was a competent work, but that's about all the praise this movie merits.5/10. "},{"Title":"This is the fiasco that forever ruined my trust in the Oscar!","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"9 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had expected THE COLOR PURPLE to win the Best Picture Oscar of 1985. When this show won it instead, I was naturally curious to know why. After enduring the torture of watching it to the end, I can assure you it was not because of any cinematic value. Rather, it was all politics; THE COLOR PURPLE had caused controversy because of its unfavorable depiction of black men--never mind that that was also the case with the Alice Walker novel that inspired it--, and the Hollywood herd of sheep opted instead for a harmless movie that caused no offense. Never mind that it was as tedious as watching paint dry! This is how I watched this mess I tossed and turned in my seat constantly, struggling to stay awake, all the while checking my watch and waiting for something to happen on the screen. NO SUCH LUCK! This show is almost three hours of ABSOLUTELY NOTHING HAPPENING--no dramatic conflict, no great emotional climaxes, no excitement, no nothing! I would say that this is just a Discovery Channel-Animal Planet documentary of the landscape and animals of Kenya into which Redford and Streep accidentally intrude, except that the two leads are INVISIBLE. Redfordwagon and Streepthroat are a boring and totally uncharismatic team, not fit to be compared to Bogart and Bergman in CASABLANCA, Bogart and Katharine Hepburn in African QUEEN, Gable, Gardner and Grace Kelly in MOGAMBO, or Weissmuller and O'Sullivan in the Tarzan series. The scenery chews THEM up! Altogether--except for beautiful photography and music--, an appalling fiasco, of which I can say only one good thing it made me realize that the Oscar is a worthless institution that is not any good at judging the merit of movies. Instead I decided from then on to rely primarily on my judgment--helped, of course, by the opinions of people such as the ones who contribute to IMDb. And you know what? I have not regretted it; never again have I been disappointed as I was with (GET THE HELL) OUT OF Africa (!). "},{"Title":"Three despicable people","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found I cared little for the fate of these people.  They all seemed rather despicable.  Why lionize any of them?  I guess if you are completely ruled by your emotions than this is a good movie because there are three people you can relate with.  The movie would have been better if periodically throughout the movie the doctor told Karen she had another social disease.P.S. Anytime you see a guy washing a girl's hair in the movies you know it is a chic flick.   "},{"Title":"If the critics love it, it must be crap","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"10 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a long, boring, dreadful piece of a movie.  Even the scenery couldn't save this piece.  How could anyone find this to be entertaining? It lasts way too long, is difficult to follow, and just plain lousy.  Best picture of 1985?  Give me a break.  Worst picture of 1985 maybe.  I can honestly say, of all the movies I have ever been to, this is the ONLY one I have ever gotten up and walked out on. "},{"Title":"Streep will impress you here - if you're high on crack.","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Overlong and schmaltzy drama, not too bad considering the cast and the director. The always stone-faced blond-bimbo Redford fortunately doesn't appear all that much. In an interview, Pollack referred to Africa as a country, and then proceeded to boast how after the movie's release this country saw a huge increase in tourism. A-ha, I see... So, from Morocco to Ethiopia, and from Libya to S.Africa, every part of this huge country saw growth in tourism; what f***ing uneducated morons Pollack, Redford and those other Hollywood liberal nitwits are! Movie of the year?! Well, that's the Oscars for you... 5,000 (left-wing) idiots voting for idiotic films.If you want to read my biographies of Redford, Streep, and other Tinseltown intellectuals, contact me by e-mail.If you like to watch grass grow hence disliked this pitiful review, click NO below. "}{"Title":"This movie sucked!!!","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only redeeming quality I can think of, was that while my wife seemed to enjoy it, I enjoyed a nice nap!  I believe the only people who would really enjoy this are the same pretentious, self-indulged crowd that claim to enjoy jazz, coffee houses, and goose liver pate'.   "}]