[{"Title":"Rosanna Arquette's best work","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's been almost 20 years and there hasn't been another film like Desperately Seeking Susan. At times, the movie feels like French New Wave with its characters and storyline. Even the setting of the crude but artistic background of New York City, the movie lets off an emotion of fantasy. The cast which includes Rosanna Arquette, Aidan Quinn, John Turturro and Madonna create a story like no other. Madonna is both the eye candy and the punch lines as Arquette gives her best leading lady qualities. It's hard to believe that this movie cost less than 5 million dollars to make. A true coming of age drama with moments of comedy and struggle, Desperately Seeking Susan falls under many genres of film. The independent style and its outrageous subject matter makes this an interesting and timeless film. Even though it is full of 80's moments with the clothing and music, the movie is one of Madonna's and Arquette's best. "},{"Title":"Cool girls from the city.","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Desperately Seeking Susan is one of those titles in a catalogue of definitive 80s movies. It is a fantastic little caper directed by the fantastic Susan Seidleman, and unfortuantely, was one movie that got pitched around a long time before someone finally picked it up.Susan (played terrifically by Madonna in her pre-burnout years) is a sassy, flaky, and often witty young woman who's always looking for a good time, even when danger is afoot. Enter Roberta Glass (Rosanna Arquette) who could practically be her alter ego as she is everything Susan is not. She is shy and judicious and stuck in a boring marriage, looking for an escape. She is everything Susan is not, and wants to be everything that Susan is. And she will get her chance.Roberta reads the personal ads frequently because that is how wordly traveller Susan reaches her boyfriend, Jimmy (Robert Joy). They place ads saying hello and telling each where to meet. Roberta is going to tag along when Susan posts a new ad telling Jimmy to meet her in battery park. This is where Roberta takes an interest in Susan, but not that in single white female kind of way, despite the sudden mix up that arises out of all of this. She follows Susan around the city and so forth. Someone else is following Susan, too. A murderer (Patton) looking for a very expensive earring that was stolen from a museum. He is after Susan because he knows she has the earring. But, after an accident at the park and Roberta winding up with amnesia, the murderer is after the wrong Susan. With the help of Jim's friend Dez (Quinn), Roberta slowly has to figure out who she is, otherwise the murderer is going to kill her, thinking she has the find. In the meantime, Susan teams up with Roberta's totally idiotic husband, Gary (Mark Blum) to find out Roberta's whereabouts. Roberta is going to get exactly what she wanted a little fun, a little adventure, and a little escape, that will have her rethinking her own course. Desperately Seeking Susan is really a fun movie that takes place in New York City. Everybody in it, even Mark Blum as the obnoxious Gary Glass and Laurie Metcalf as his compulsive and mistrusting sister, Leslie. Rosanna Arquette is great in nearly everything I've seen her in for her 80s career of movies, and works perfectly as Roberta in her romance with Dez (Quinn). And, it is one of the few things that I actually like Madonna in. They tried to recreate her Susan image (and story) for the movie, Who's That Girl (with Griffin Dunne), but it just couldn't work as perfectly as it did here. Seidleman and writer Leora Barish did some good work in producing a fun film. By the way, if you're ever in Greenwhich Village, 'Love Saves the Day' (the second hand clothing store that Susan goes into to buy boots) still exists. However, they mostly sell retro novelty toys.  "},{"Title":"a decent movie, but not funny","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I fear I may be going against the grain here...Desperately Seeking Susan was certainly inventive, original, and oftentimes fun. The acting was actually decent, even from Madonna (whose acting has won her 6 Razzies). However, I think the movie suffers from being labelled a comedy. While a couple lines brought a smile or a chuckle, I rarely laughed throughout this movie. Not that there were jokes that didn't work; I couldn't tell what was even supposed to be funny! The whole situation was amusing, but I wouldn't call it laugh-out-loud funny. Eh, whatever. I'd still recommend it.  "},{"Title":"One of Madonna's few good movies...","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Desperately Seeking Susan (1985 Dir. Susan Seidelman) Chicks love this movie for the feminist, take charge of your life point of view, while guys enjoy this movie cuz there are plenty of bra shots. Madonna in her first starring (supporting really) role as a street-smart hustler being chased by some small time hoods. Rosanna Arquette gets mistaken for the Madonna character and therein lies the plot of this oh so '80s comedy.Set in summer in Manhattan, the movie preserves like a time capsule so much of the decade the hair, the clothes, the music. And of course there's Madonna clanking her balls from start to finish. Ms. Arquette (in the supposed starring role) had the movie not merely stolen, but ripped out of her hands by the unstoppable force of the 80s Madonna! "},{"Title":"Madonna Rocks NYC","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie has 5 great things going for it Madonna, Rosanna Arquette, the soundtrack, shot in 1984 and in New York City. Arquette plays Roberta Glass, a bored and ignored housewife who is obsessed with a couple she reads about in the personals, Jim and Susan. Roberta reads that Jim and Susan will meet at Battery Park the following day, and goes down to watch the two. As Jim and Susan part again for a few days, Roberta decides to follow Susan (Madonna) though the streets and into a clothing store, where Susan trades the store-owner her pyramid jacket for some rhinestone boots. When Susan leaves, Roberta buys the jacket, goes home and finds a key in one of the pockets. Roberta then puts an ad in the paper for Susan to meet her at Battery Park to pick up the key she left in the jacket. As Susan gets to the park, she is arrested for short-changing the cab driver, just as a thug who is after Susan mistakes Roberta for her. Roberta knocks herself out cold accidentally and wakes up believing she is Susan. The rest of the film is non-stop comedic confusion and madness, played out by some great talents including Laurie Metcalf as Roberta's sister-in-law, Leslie, and Aidan Quinn, Robert Joy and Mark Blum as the hapless unfortunate love interests of our heroines. Directed by Susan Seidelman (Smithereens). Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"actually a really good movie","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" yay! madonna actually does have one good movie! (and yes, we are talking about this one.) she plays susan, who is the definition of a free-spirit. and rosanna arquette is just as delightful as she always is, and frankly i would expect nothing less.the soundtrack is an 80s gem. madonna's song into the grove is proudly featured and really sets the mood in the club scene. and the 80s fashion provides such an effective blast from the past that one really finds himself back in 1985.this was overall a really good movie. it was fun and the characters were likable. i recommend that you rent it for an evening in with the friends. "},{"Title":"Funny, sweet film","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A wonderful film all around, with good acting, and great humor. This movie is most certainly not serious, but it is great fun to watch, and one of the few movies I have enjoyed seeing multiple times. Madonna is quite good, playing a character similar to her public persona. Aidan Quinn and Rosanna Arquette are also terrific. Even the soundtrack is well done. "},{"Title":"Appealing and unconventional","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Desperately Seeking Susan (Susan Seidelman, 1985) is an appealing, unconventional film about a shy, put-upon young married woman (Rosanna Arquette) who swaps places with a free-spirited man-eater (Madonna) after a bump on the head. A dated dramatic device, perhaps, but it's such a sweet, sassy and otherwise well-plotted affair we'll let it slide. The film inhabits a similar universe - and employs the same neon aesthetic - as Scorsese's ever-underrated comedy After Hours, but this is an altogether gentler affair. Sure it plunges its heroine into a seedy world dominated by shady, peroxide hit men and amorous conjurors, but it's in many ways preferable to the yuppie nightmare she's been living with all-time idiot-hole Mark Blum. At least here she's got love on her side, courtesy of kind-hearted Aidan Quinn (the psychotic drug-addled baddie in the Richard Dreyfuss-Emilio Estevez buddy movie Stakeout). Arquette, who played the lead in the classic John Sayles romcom Baby, It's You, is perfect as the doormat desperately seeking excitement, and while Madonna isn't a great actress, she's both hugely charismatic and ideally cast as the manipulative, posing, sex-obsessed Susan. Also look out for John Turturro in an early role as a nightclub compere. A little gem from out of left-field, this one, with an engaging storyline, memorable characters and a disarmingly peculiar sense of humour.Trivia note The new Madonna song on the soundtrack is Into the Groove. Not one of her best singles of the period, but still pretty damn decent. "},{"Title":"New York, Madonna, the 80's. Perfection.","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was THE defining movie of my coming-to-teenage years. I saw a rerun on TV the other night and I still knew all the lines by heart. Thank God for this little gem of a movie, in all its silliness. It takes me back to a time when everything was still possible, and I thought I knew everything although I really knew nothing. Well, now that I know, not everything but a great deal, I still find this movie really likable. It's strange that it's so old, and it still feels quite fresh and exciting. Maybe it's the New York atmosphere, or the sense of excitement that Madonna brings to every one of her scenes. I think she's good in this film because she doesn't yet take herself too seriously and isn't trying too hard. She is a natural performer, after all. How else could you solve the mystery of the one good movie Madonna ever made? "},{"Title":"Rosanna Arquette and Madonna rule!","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Desperately Seeking Susan, still an awesome movie today, a great cast, plot and director.The plot is an interesting one that has mistaken identity in it. Rosanna Arquette's performance as Roberta Glass really shines in this film. Madonna, actually did really awesome as Susan, this is by far her best film she has ever done. Aidan Quinn, who is a very awesome actor, his role as Dez, I give him a lot of credit for his performance, outstanding. Robert Joy as Jimmy, so cool. This movie has a lot of class and still shows how great the 1980s is, the good old days. A lot of movies out today, suck! Rosanna Arquette's character is a woman who is desperate, desperate to have a better life then the one she is having right now. Love the fact that she is a woman who is not too into money cause she is a woman who would like to have fun. It comes to show that money is not always everything. Her hot tub salesman husband, Gary (Mark Blum), not really paying attention to her needs and can't see she is unhappy and bored.Susan, a woman who is a fun-loving woman, who gets into some trouble, steals some ancient Egyptian artifacts from a man in Alantic City, New Jersey, and a man who stole them, wants them back and things get crazy from there and later on.I love this film with all my heart, awesome music, love Madonna's song Into the Groove, there are a lot of other great songs in the film, too. The good old days of the 1980s still live in this film and beyond. "}{"Title":"Very funny and evocative of the '80s","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Everybody is Desperately Seeking Susan, but nobody realizes they're not looking for the same person in this 1985 quirky comedy starring Roseanna Arquette, Madonna, Aidan Quinn, and Laurie Metcalf. The film was directed by Susan Seidelman from a script by Leora Barish.In this very clever story, Roberta (Arquette) is a bored housewife with a rich fantasy life who envies a woman named Susan (Madonna). Susan's boyfriend is always leaving her notes in the personals column about where to meet. Before long, Roberta is showing up at the meeting places and actually starts stalking Susan. When Susan pays for a pair of boots that she wants with her unique leather jacket, Roberta buys it and starts wearing it. All this could have been harmless fun except for three things 1) Susan is a con artist, and she's stolen Egyptian artifacts she mistook for earrings from a guy in Atlantic City, who ended up dead at the bottom of his hotel; 2) Susan was seen (from the back) wearing her jacket in the hallway of the hotel by a mobster who wants the artifacts; and 3) Roberta is in an accident, and when she wakes up, she has amnesia. A friend (Aidan Quinn) of Susan's boyfriend who came to the meeting place to check on the real Susan as a favor thinks Roberta is Susan.This is such a fun movie, with much of the comedy being in the situation rather than in the dialogue. Not only that, it's totally '80s, right down to Madonna's leggings, and brought back a lot of great memories.The acting is very good, and one wonders why Madonna didn't continue in this vein rather than trying to become a great dramatic actress. She's perfect in this off-beat role as well as being beautiful, exotic, trashy, and sexy. She also would have been excellent as Roxy in Chicago if the film had been made back in the '70s, when it was originally supposed to be done. She might then have had a very interesting film career.Though Desperately Seeking Susan was made 23 years ago, Roseanna Arquette hasn't changed much. She's excellent as the quiet, dying to be free, fantasy-driven Roberta. Aidan Quinn gives his usual good performance as a poor sap over his head. He doesn't know how lucky he is - he could have gotten involved with the real Susan! Highly recommended, especially if you were a young adult in the '80s. "},{"Title":"Irreverent, Original and Hilarious","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Luscious Rosanna Arquette is perfect as the naive housewife in one of the most original comedies ever.  Anyone who takes this picture seriously needs a reality check.  Madonna is perfect as herself and everyone else in the cast sets this movie up for maximum laughs.  Mark Blum does well as the inattentive self-absorbed husband, Aidan Quinn as the unknowing love interest to Rosanna, and even the smaller roles (including a funny bit with a virtually unknown John Turturro) make this a real treat.  There are just too many funny lines and scenes to mention.  A 10 for originality.   But Arquette and Madonna being the same weight and size?--C'mon  "},{"Title":"Seeking Rosanna Desperately (dvd)","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every time i heard about this movie, it's about Madonna. Well, if the Madie from 87-90 was my first crush, actually the star is Rosanna. I just like the way she is always away, dreamy, longing for something outside her grasp (By the way, I'm sure John Scott Campbell, the comic books artist, is also a fan because he always draws her).Here, Rosanna goes from middle-class desperate housewife to free punk runaway in the Lower East Side. It isn't the NYC of see sights books but it worth the look. We even go to the Dancetaria, the club where Madonna begins her career. Jesus, it's true, she is everywhere and I can't help writing about her.Well, i will add that this movie was an UFO in Hollywood at this time produced by a woman, written by and for another, directed by another one as well, i am sure that this feminine touch explains it success. Surely, nowadays, we need this badly! Except Boys don't cry, i don't know any other other girl power movie.Another good thing here is the time-machine for the new babies, the 80 were like this flashy, shiny, an explosion of clothes, things and music. In 2K10, conformism seems everywhere and we don't have no more song-tracks like Get into the groove, written by you-know-who! "},{"Title":"Desperately Seeking Susan","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had always heard that in her whole acting career, the popular singer only did one good performance, anything afterwards has been terrible, so I had to see what she was like in the good one, from director Susan Seidelman (A Cooler Climate). Basically Roberta Glass (BAFTA winning, and Golden Globe nominated Rosanna Arquette) is in a boring marriage to husband Gary (Mark Blum), who takes her for granted, and the only way she entertains herself is following personal ads titled Despareatly Seeking Susan, following the progress of a couple. Then she spots that the couple are to meet in New York, so she seeks adventure and follows the ad to its source, and she spots Susan (Madonna), the free-spirit drifter, buys her jacket to emulate her idol and follows her on the way. On her following, Roberta knocks her head into a post, causing her to experience amnesia and forget who she is, when Dez (Aidan Quinn) comes along mistaking her for Susan, and agrees to help her get back on her feet. The real Susan meanwhile gets arrested briefly, and then finds out that her belongings have been taken, and follows any clues she can to find this stranger seeking her. Roberta finds a job working as a magician's assistant at the Magic Club, and also has a run-in with the mob character that wants to get his hands on the real Susan. After this attack, Roberta knocks herself back into her true self, and goes back to Dez to have a night of passion, and husband Gary meanwhile uses the real Susan to look for her. When he finds her, Gary is convinced that Roberta has become a prostitute, well, she has certainly fallen out of love for him, and she pulls herself together to catch the mobster who has stolen some precious earrings. In the end, Roberta and the real Susan finally meet, with the help of the newspaper personal ads, Roberta gives with her new love Dez, and the two women are hailed as heroes in the newspaper for returning the stolen earrings. Also starring Robert Joy as Jim, Laurie Metcalf as Leslie Glass, Anna Levine as Crystal, Will Patton as Wayne Nolan, Peter Maloney as Ian, Steven Wright as Larry Stillman D.D.S, John Turturro as Ray and Anne Carlisle as Victoria. You could criticise that Madonna is almost playing herself, but it doesn't matter, she makes her character likable, while Arquette is endearing as the other woman, the story is reasonable, there are some giggly moments, and Madonna's first number one Into The Groove plays, so while it is a little more for women, it is a fun screwball comedy romance thriller. Madonna was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and she was number 4 on The Ultimate Pop Star. Very good! "},{"Title":"An extremely inventive and funny film","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An extremely inventive and funny film that holds up remarkably well even 13+ years later.  Rosanna Arquette and Aiden Quinn really make this film. . . but Mark Blum as the husband is also hilarious.  Very well directed.  If you haven't seen it in awhile, you should.  You will be pleasantly surprised at how mesmerizing it still is. (Yes, Madonna is good too, but she doesn't need to hear it.) "},{"Title":"The Greatest Female Entertainer of All Time","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This fun-filled ride from the 80's is one of my classics that represent that decade. (the others are Ferris Bueller, Breakfast Club and Beat Steet/Breakin') What makes this movie a classic is not the plot, nor the acting, nor the cinematography. What makes this movie a classic is simply M-A-D-O-N-N-A. Madonna is a sexual revolutionary who changed the feminine, pop and musical culture across the USA, if not the world. The female Elvis. She brought flavors of underground and taboos to mainstream America. She absolutely crushed the sexual restraints that were in place before her and did it with style. Madonna was slutty, sleazy, hot, sensual, bold, cutting-edge, or whatever word you use to describe her. In this movie she plays.....Madonna!Her wardrobe was....Madonna! Remember in the 80s, that lacy shirt with her bra showing and her belly button exposed was lewd. Now, its no big deal. Spears, Aguilera, Lopez, etc all owe their bold sensuality to their pioneer, Madonna. Of course, I must give credit to the revolutonaries before Madonna Mae West and Marilyn Monroe. This movie cleverly portrays Madonna's character (Susan...(Madonna)) as a vagabond and a hustler that is lovable and larger than life...like a cat with nine lives. She simply didn't give a damn and lived carefree. a heartbreaker and money-taker. The story, believe me, is irrelevant. It's just an excuse to film Madonna and sell tickets (DVDs). If you were at least a teenager in the 80's you loved the movie then...and you gotta love it today. YES...we really did dress that way!!!  "},{"Title":"Now about that birdcage...","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  God I love this movie! Easily Rosanna Arquette's best movie...come to think of it, Madonna's best movie too. The story is fun and engaging. The bad guys are really bad, the leading man is handsome Aidan Quinn.The comic relief is top-notch. Oh, go take a Valium...like a Normal person, says a pre-Rosanne Laurie Metcalf. Fun from beginning to end. God bless Susan Seidelman.  "},{"Title":"Desperately Seeking Susan and Do The Right Thing Actors","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" These three actors who appear briefly but prominently in Desperately Seeking Susan also appear in lead roles in Spike Lee's DO THE RIGHT THING John Turtorro who plays the Magic Club MC in DSS also stars as DINO in Do the Right Thing . Richard Edson plays Dino's brother Vito in Do The Right Thing appears as man with newspapers in DSS. Then you have Giancarlo Esposito who played the unforgettableBuggin Out in Do The Right Thing. The patron who points out that there are no pictures of black celebrities on the wall in the pizza parlor where brothers Dino and Vito work. Giancarlo is the third actor from Do The Right Thing to also to appear in Desperately Seeking Susan. He plays the street vendor who attempts to sell the lead actress a hat. Another interesting bit of trivia in Desperately Seeking Susan is that Richard Edson's co-hort in Stranger Than Paradise John Lurie also has a bit part in the film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rosanna Arquette has a secure life with her hot tub salesman husband, but she wants more.  Susan, who lives by her wits and has men paying her way, has a boyfriend who travels a lot with a band, so they keep in touch through the personals.  Arquette sees the ad 'Desperately Seeking Susan,' and, being curious about Susan's life, she shows up at the meeting place listed in the ad.  Later she follows Susan around and, when Susan wants a pair of boots but can't afford them, she sells her favorite jacket.  Arquette buys the jacket (which has the key to Susan's bus station locker), copies Susan's hairstyle, and places her own ad telling Susan to come to the designated meeting place.  This time, she intends to return the key to Susan, but this is when things get crazy.  This time, Susan's boyfriend thinks she is fooling around, and he sends a friend of his, a movie projectionist, to check up on her.  Susan sees Arquette with an associate of a mobster Susan dated shortly before the mobster's suspicious death.  Before she can meet Arquette, she gets arrested for not paying her cab fare.  Arquette bumps her head in a fall and loses her purse.  When she comes to, the projectionist, seeing her hair and the jacket, believes she is Susan.  Arquette can't remember her other life, so she goes along with the story.  Susan shows up at the bus station and finds her stuff missing from the locker, and she believes Arquette and the mobster's associate are out to get her.  Arquette gets to live her fantasy, while her husband doesn't know what has happened to her.  It's an enjoyable story.  Arquette is adorable, especially when she thinks she is Susan.  Madonna is a natural as a street-smart bimbo.  It's hard to believe this is her first major movie role. "},{"Title":"The movie that earned me an A+ on my College Paper (PREPARE FOR SPOILERS!)","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It started with Madonna. I idolized her growing up. And when this movie came out and I was able to watch it for the first time, I became obsessed. It was an 80s cult classic and I loved it! I loved the music, the comedy, the style, the plot....And I would watch it over and over again when I could catch it on TV. Ffwd to college (Back in 2004- 2005), and I'm in a Gender and Power in Film Class. I picked this movie to do my final paper on, and I learned that it's a much deeper film than people give it credit for, which is why I gave it a 10 out of 10. This movie is a prime example of a woman finding her own identity and being reborn. If you look closely enough at the plot, listen to the music, and watch the cinematography, you will notice how the director uses these elements to bring Roberta and Susan's worlds together. The Shoop Shoop song at the beginning of the movie, is perfect for the opening scenes at the beauty parlor where we begin--which is a place of transforming one's appearance in order to become beautiful for our man, who will (according to the song playing in the scene) kiss me. This scene defines the theme of the entire movie being remade or transformed. The question we should ask as we watch the movie, is If you are transforming yourself on the outside, does it make you any different on the inside? In Roberta's case, she has to lose herself on the inside in order to become someone different. No matter how she changes her outward appearance, she still feels bored and unloved.When we meet Roberta, a meek and mild-mannered housewife who is bored and looking vicariously for excitement by reading the personal ads, she is at the beauty salon getting her hair done for her husband's party. She gets wrapped up in Susan's ads and wants to find out more about her. In the scenes with Roberta, we see that Seidelman chooses light and bright coloring to show what her world looks like (Pastel pinks are a big thing in her world). By the time Roberta enters Susan's world, the Rabbit hole (As Seidelman describes in the director commentary), she is surrounded by Susan's colors, which are darker hued greens, golds and blacks. Roberta enters a fantasy world of sorts, as she develops amnesia from a fall, soon after following Susan to Battery Park. She becomes Susan, thanks to Dez's prompting, and therefore loses her housewife identity and takes on a different one. Because of this, Roberta is able to explore her inner being, challenge who she is on the outside, and be able to express a part of her personality she had never been able to express before. By the time the movie ends, Roberta has regained her memory and finds her confidence completely. Screenwriter Barish explained that the confidence Roberta found is not one she is aware of, it just happens by following her intuition, or imagination. Roberta is led towards her confidence without having a conscious drive or aggression. I could post my entire paper on here but it was over 1000 words! ) My goal for this review is to give you a brief overview of what I was able to interpret from this film to give you a better understanding of it for when you watch it. It's not just a fun romp through NYC, but a story about one woman's journey to find her true self and be happy with her own life. "}{"Title":"An Amusing Product of the Times","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Desperately Seeking Susan isn't so much a homage to the screwball comedy as it is a homage to the screwball situation. It doesn't try to be riotous or anything remotely Ernst Lubitsch &#x97; instead, it flutters by with half-smile as it discombobulates the at-first congenial attitude of the atmosphere. Never did I find myself laughing hysterically, but here, that's not the point. It wants to be an amuser in the same mindset as Pretty in Pink, no knee- slappers to be found but charm spread aplenty. Because that's exactly what Desperately Seeking Susan is a charming comedy of errors that likes to get its characters into as much trouble as possible for satisfactory diversion. Rosanna Arquette portrays Roberta Glass, a bored housewife who spends her afternoons watching cooking shows and living vicariously through the lonely hearts in the classified ads. Most interesting to her is the recurring 'Desperately Seeking Susan' ad, which follows the romance between Jim (Robert Joy) and his sexy girlfriend, Susan (Madonna), both of whom are young, bohemian, and fiercely independent. As she twiddles her thumbs for the umpteenth time one afternoon, Roberta decides to act as onlooker, tracking the twosome down and watching their public encounter from afar. She becomes infatuated with the street stylish Susan and, after a series of complicated events I won't bother to explain, she bumps her head, gets amnesia, and falls under the impression that, she is, in fact, Susan.Most housewives would want to be like the free-spirited woman, but Susan, as it so happens, is in a lot of trouble. Her boyfriend has just stolen valuable Egyptian jewelry, jewelry she enjoys wearing, and a gaggle of thugs are thirsty to get their paws on the collection. So as Roberta wanders around the city bearing Susan's name and wearing her clothes, the criminals begin to chase her, while the real Susan causes a ruckus elsewhere &#x97; eventually leading to Roberta's confused husband (Mark Blum). Desperately Seeking Susan is the best kind of amusing pleasant but not so much so that we become immersed in the fact that things aren't as zany as they could be. The film is smartly amusing, after all, with the comic scenario bettering as it grows increasingly convoluted. The screenplay sizzles in its ability to entice us into Susan's world of bohemian style, and the actors are all winning Arquette, in particular, carries the movie with her sincerely warm characterization. But the best thing about Desperately Seeking Susan is Susan Seidelman's great eye for street life I've never been one to figure a movie is better simply because of the decade it sits in, but Seidelman, intentional or not, finds all the best things about the 1980s and seems to cram them into one excitingly snazzy picture. The ghettos are effectively hip, the suburbs slightly tongue-in-cheek, like Wild At Heart if it wasn't crazy. Seidelman's vision is best reflected in Madonna, in her earliest incarnation and her most kitschily well-dressed. Desperately Seeking Susan is slight when it comes to comedy but hugely successful when it comes to pure enjoyment. A product of the times, it has aged gloriously as a nostalgic piece snug in all the right places. And nothing's better than the boho sensuous Madonna (providing the soundtrack with guilty pleasure Into the Groove) before she got all blond ambitious and stopped looking like the chic spunk who stole records as a pastime. "},{"Title":"Are you a Susan or a Roberta","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Can't believe the low rating for one of the best movies to come out of the 80s! I was obsessed with this movie growing up and am happy to see that it still holds up and feels fresh in spite of the dated references (pre-Giuliani NYC and the fact that Des lives in a huge loft on a projector man's salary). It sort of makes me miss the grittier version of NYC. Rosanna Arquette and Aidan Quinn have the BEST chemistry - actually all of the characters play so well against each other - even Gary was likable toward the end. DSS shows Madonna at her prime - they don't make them like her anymore. And the soundtrack is amazing and of course features some of Madonna's best songs. Am desperately waiting for a remake! "},{"Title":"A poignant feminist film, masquerading as an 80s classic (***1/2)","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Simply stating I saw that many times when I was younger is not sufficient enough info to explain a film's quality. On the eve of the 30th anniversary for Desperately Seeking Susan, I revisited the film, curious to see if what fired up on my TV screen coincided with what my nostalgic mind had etched in. The result was interesting, for I remembered everything; as an adult, however, I saw it all differently. Plot-wise, it is a standard film about mistaken identity and breaking out of your shell, and just by watching, you can nearly smell the Aqua Net. History now tells a slightly different story. Looking back we can see that the film is, quite possibly, a landmark- not just for culture and fashion, but also from an oddly feminist perspective in a time where capitalism and machismo ran amok. With memorable characters, great music, and a carefree sensibility, it's an 80's film that actually works.Rosanna Arquette stars as Roberta Glass, the embodiment of the wealthy stay-at-home 80's wife. She's bored, naturally, as her husband Gary (Blum) runs a hot tub business while fooling around. Roberta resorts to sifting through the personals to generate some excitement in her life. One such personal, an ongoing, coded conversation between a 'Jim' (Robert Joy) and a 'Susan' (Madonna) catches her eye, and she decides to 'participate'. First, she not- so-subtly tails Susan to a meeting with Jim, then to a thrift store, where she manages to buy what Susan has just traded in, a sequined jacket. This just happens to be the same sequined jacket that caught the eye of a mob killer (Will Patton), who now tracks her. In a twist, she's knocked unconscious after an altercation with said killer, and Dez (Aidan Quinn) comes to her rescue. Of course, Dez is the aforementioned Jim's friend, and he's just helping him out by checking up on her. Dez now thinks that Roberta is Susan, and since her identification disappears, well, she basically becomes Susan.I completely understand that this film offers no breakthroughs in plot framing, but it does work, even if it asks the audience to pay attention. The issue with amnesia/mistaken identity films always becomes when and where the lead is 'found out', or begins to remember. The writer always knows to place that moment wherever it is needed, not when it necessarily would happen. In this case, the coincidences are plenty, but thematically it works. Roberta, for all intents and purposes, wanted to be like Susan anyway- fate just sort of pushed her in that direction. She becomes attracted to Dez, gets a job working with a magician, and begins to dress how her mind apparently wants her to dress. I appreciate this film's rebellious spirit and renegade fashion sense, not conforming to the entrepreneurial 80s. You can almost feel society moving with the film, as Roberta drops her shoulder pads for a monogrammed leather coat.In that sense, one could classify Susan Seidelman's Desperately Seeking Susan as a feminist film; one that recognizes the jolt that Aidan Quinn's character gives to Roberta, but establishes that it's Roberta herself that makes the choice to leave her husband, and to succeed on her own, establishing her own identity. The rogue, expressive freedom that Madonna exudes through her character and her wardrobe is sexy, yes, but not exploitative. Susan is a character that controls her sexuality, and maintains her independence. Make no mistake- Madonna started something in the mid 1980s, and this film is a fair portrait of her influence. I remember in particular a fellow student raising a ruckus back in second grade when she dressed like Madonna. Certainly, while it was inappropriate wear for a second grader, it's clear that Madonna's personality and style permeated our culture like few stars before- or after. While not a narrative masterpiece, Desperately Seeking Susan is still fun, and quite deserving of its' position as a declarative 1980s film. "},{"Title":"A brilliant screenplay and a clever story with lots of twists and turns","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Desperately Seeking Susan is a clever and extremely well-written comic confection revolving around a bored New Jersey housewife named Roberta (Rosanna Arquette) who religiously follows the postings of a girl named Susan in the personal ads of her local newspaper because she apparently finds some kind of vicarious release in reading about Susan's wild lifestyle. One day she reads in the paper that Susan is meeting her boyfriend Jimmy in the city and decides to go to the city to actually see what Susan looks like and possibly meet her. Just as Susan arrives on the scene (unbeknownst to her or Roberta, she is being tailed by a killer), Roberta hits her head, wakes up and thinks she's Susan and that's where the fun really begins.To try and explain further would be confusing and totally ruin this delicious romantic comedy for those who have never seen it. Susan Seidelman's direction is crisp and detail-oriented and the screenplay by Leora Barish is absolutely brilliant and the real star of the film...the unpredictable twists and turns this story takes are too numerous to count, but be warned that this is one of those rare gems of a movie where if you walk away for five minutes without pausing it, you won't have a clue as to what's going on.Arquette gives a star-making performance as Roberta and she is well supported by Madonna, in her first major film role, as Susan, a character who is pretty much just a fictionalized version of Madonna herself so the character doesn't really come off as much of a stretch for her. I absolutely love the scene where Susan is in a club dancing to Madonna's smash Into the Groove...it feels almost like the 4th wall is broken but it really isn't. Kudos as well to Aidan Quinn as Susan's confused ex, Mark Blum as Roberta's slimy husband, and Robert Joy as Jimmy. And if you blink, you'll miss a brief appearance from ROSEANNE's Laurie Metcalf as Roberta's sister-in-law. This is a comedy/mystery/romance that, due to a beautifully constructed screenplay, on-target performances and a rocking soundtrack, makes all the right moves to an extremely satisfying conclusion. "},{"Title":"Some 80s Fun","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Roberta Glass (Rosanna Arquette) is a simple housewife who is fascinated with Susan (Madonna). Susan is a free-spirited grifter, and her boyfriend Jim (Robert Joy) puts messages in newspaper personal ads for her. Roberta decides to follow the latest romantic ad to their rendezvous. When Jim leaves for an out of town gig, Roberta starts following Susan around. She buys her jacket in a second hand store, and finds a locker key in it. Little does Roberta know but there's a killer (Will Patton) after Susan for a pair of valuable earrings. Jim sends his friend Dez (Aidan Quinn) to look after Susan. When Roberta hits her head, she gets amnesia. Dez doesn't really know what Susan looks like and assumes Roberta is Susan.It's a fun 80s movie and Madonna isn't asked to do too much acting. She is basically herself as the street smart NYer, and she's great at it. That's why this movie is kinda fun. Rosanna Arquette was a relative unknown back then. She's not really a housewife type but her character needs to have a passing resemblance to Madonna. It's also great to see all the NY locations from the 80s.It takes awhile to set up the rom-com with Arquette and Aidan Quinn. Roberta is suffering from amnesia and she can't really commit to the rom-com. Aidan Quinn is too nice of a guy. Together they form a rather bland couple. Madonna is still the more fun part of the movie. There could be more Madonna music. It has her big hit song 'Into the Groove'. Somebody should have told director Susan Seidelman that wall-to-wall Madonna music could have livened up the movie. As a comedy, it has its moments. There are no comedians in the main cast. The funniest line has to be How do you use the birds? "},{"Title":"Cute comedy - and still the best thing Madonna's ever done in film. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A woman's film that became a blockbuster in 1985 thanks to Madonna's rising star, DESPERATELY SEEKING SUSAN is a cute, funny tale of mistaken identity that plays like a Shakespeare comedy.Roberta Glass (Rosanna Arquette) is a bored New Jersey housewife whose marriage to Gary (Mark Blum) is indifferent and unexciting. The most excitement comes from seeing Gary appear in a commercial for his bathroom company. As expected, Roberta seeks solace in the personal columns and begins to take a regular interest in the adventures of a mystery woman known as Susan (Madonna)On an afternoon outing, Roberta follows Susan around and buys a jacket which she has sold to a thrift shop in exchange for some boots. However, the jacket attracts more than it's fair share of admirers, including one man who remembers Susan wearing the jacket in Atlantic City and is interested in something which Susan owned of considerable value. The man (played by NO WAY OUT'S Will Patton) pursues Roberta, just as Susan turns up to reclaim it, but in the ensuing confusion, Susan is arrested for not paying a cab driver, Roberta hits a lamppost and is knocked out and a tale of mistaken identity and mix-ups truly begins....As with all women's pictures and I have to say that it is a common fault on most, if not all, the men are either portrayed as weak if they are dating or married to them at the start, whilst the men the lead women end up with are always a bit more rough and ready.Still, there wouldn't be any point to the film if they weren't like that.Still, don't let that undermine the enjoyment on show. Another classic from the 80's. "},{"Title":"A desperate housewife accidently swaps identities with the wild Susan","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is great! An entertaining, romantic thriller that also has quite a few laughs.This is Madonna's second best film performance of her career. (The other being Eva Peron in Evita). She is being herself in this film, no funny, annoying accents, and the viewer likes her better for it.Rossanna Arquette won a BAFTA for her role in this film so it is not surprising that she keeps the film rolling along with the pace it needs. The sexual tension between Arquette and Aidan Quinn is electric and you just know that sooner or later they're  going to have to give in to each other.Quinn is very good as the confused other guy who has some of the best lines.Overall though this is a two woman movie with no space for male heroes, Madonna and Arquette don't need men to get along and save the day. Which is something that doesn't happen nearly enough these days. "},{"Title":"sets a new benchmark for contrived plotting","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A bored suburban housewife yearning for excitement traces the personals ad of the film's title and is thrust headlong into a series of trendy misadventures in downtown Manhattan. It plays like a more audience-friendly alternative to 'After Hours', released the same year (and, coincidentally, also featuring Rosanna Arquette), sharing the same artsy-fartsy underground NY setting, but with none of the nightmare momentum of Martin Scorsese's black comedy of errors. Unfortunately the already stale mistaken identity plot twist is reinforced by a convenient stroke of amnesia, in screen writing terms a sure sign of a desperate imagination. The film is a slave to contemporary fashions, carried to extremes by the casting of Madonna as the tawdry, streetwise title character. She couldn't act to save her own life (and in a role which should have been second nature to her), but let's be fair the script doesn't give her much to work with, being nowhere desperate enough to qualify as the modern urban screwball comedy it aspires to. "},{"Title":"Take a valium like a normal person!","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lines like subj. make this movie a real treasure. If your you have traded in your dreams for the security of marriage to  the spa king (read hot tub salesman) of Fort Lee NJ -this movie is for you. The rest of can relax as we relish the great performances of complicated female characters. DSS is funny, hip and touching. Not just the Madonna movie, although Madonna fans will love watching pre-Kabbalah-fied Miss Ciccone eat cheese puffs through the East Village, dry her arm pits over a Port Authority hand drier and smoke pot with a yuppie.  "},{"Title":"Overtly irreverent","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The city vs. the suburbs, wealth and commercialism vs. freedom and self expression, Madonna as a Cheetohs-popping street-wait...these are the ingredients of Desperately Seeking Susan, an unabashed commercial project from director Susan Seidelman (whose first major film, 1982's Smithereens, looked grubby but had a jagged heart--that is until the depressive finale, which revealed the heroine of the story as a bad example). Here, we get flighty romance, temporary amnesia, a cool, retro Magic Club, and Rosanna Arquette at her most beguiling (she's totally benign here as a housewife looking for excitement in the city, but she's ingratiating and giggly, like a Greenwich Village Goldie Hawn). It's not much of a plot (and it ain't much of a movie, either) but it has its pleasures. It runs too long and loses focus when Madonna meets Arquette's husband and goes back to his house to goof around and get high, but until then it's kind of fun. The film wants to touch on a lot of issues in a comical manner yet doesn't have the focus nor the drive to do it. However, the kooky ambiance and Seidelman's amateur-with-a-big-bankroll sensibility makes it visually interesting and fairly engaging. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"get up on ur feet yeah step to the beat boy what will it b","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  only average 6 out of 10? aw. this is the feel-good film. i didn't see it when i was a kid but it reminds you of something you'd be obsessed with when you were younger. maybe it's just another chance for madonna to dress up but i love it. the story's cute but it's the characters that catch my attention most. it's a lovely story, fairy-tale like in a poppy-punk 80s kind of way. madonna should have kept the look, but doesn't matter, i'm keeping it for her. "},{"Title":"Mid-80s bonanza","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A high speed funny  film proving that 80s was all that is now being copied...clever director Susan Seidelman is using ultra 80s cast with Madonna singing Into the Groove and Rosanna Arquette playing naive (both act superbly as playing more or less themselves) , parties with Cure make-up,stiletto boots, glitter and fingerless gloves make this movie an era classic...I still enjoy it but it will soon start proving my age... "},{"Title":"A great supporting cast couldn't support Madonna","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Then-ingénue pop star Madonna got top billing in this otherwise enjoyable role-switching comedy that put writer-director Susan Seidelman deservedly on the map.When Madonna's wooden acting isn't being featured (and fortunately, despite her top billing, Seidelman was wise enough to paint her title character into the background wherever possible), it's actually a brilliant and believable romantic comedy starring the underrated Rosanna Arquette and Adian Quinn. Also priceless is Laurie Metcalf, best known for her multiple-Emmy-winning role as Roseanne (née Barr, née Arnold)'s younger sister in the 80s-90s TV series, who makes her screen debut playing Arquette's suspicious and man-hungry sister-in-law. After observing Arquette's husband overeating to combat stress, Metcalf chides, Take a Valium, like a normal person! Her wide-eyed pseudo world-weariness steals every scene she's in.Had anyone else played the elusive Susan, I'd have rated this film a 10. But of course, had anyone else played Susan, would the movie have gotten the hype and audience it originally drew? "},{"Title":"Love saves the day so keep the faith!","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Roberta is lonely housewife who loves to read the personal ads. She especially loves the adventures of Jim following Susan all over the country. After reading that Jim would meet Susan in the park, Roberta goes to the park to catch a glimpse of them. After that, Roberta follows Susan to a pawn shop where Susan sells her jacket and Roberta buys it only to find a key inside. After that Roberta decides to write her own personal ad to return the key. When she goes down to the park, the mess of mistaken identity begins.Madonna doesn't make a whole lot of good movies, but this is probably about average. I loved the role of Gary's sister because she was such a snoop! She was in everybody's business and I loved it when she told Gary that Roberta might be a lady of the night! That was funny! If you get desperate, this isn't too bad. "},{"Title":"INTO THE GROOVE!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  LIKE many others of filmsis from the 1980's, alot of the decoration is in pink. Why? I think 1980's peoples like pink. I remember why I see this film, I love Madona big hit song Get Into The Groove so I want to see where it is in the MOVIE. When I see it, it is in nightclub (this happen in 80's movie alot of it). Roseanne Courgette is too good, and Madona, who have the pseudonomey of Susan, is also too good (but she is still herself), like the scene when she is in bathroom and she put the hand dryer on hair. In this time of the filmsis this was maybe rebellension, maybe wrong, but now many do it and I think for me this is the charm of the film, what is rebellension and how now is normal. Madona is like punk rocker, bad girl, and I think this is funny -). "},{"Title":"Madonna Rocks In This One!","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Seidelman's 'Desperately Seeking Susan' is quite a funny, albeit contrived and incoherent, movie about a young housewife who takes a fascination towards a street hustler's lovelife. The story jumps from one event to another and there are plot holes but there's a certain nostalgia about it. The music, the fashion, the language are very 80s and that's what I liked about it. The performances by the two woman only made it more entertaining. Madonna is brilliantly suitable for the title role. She's carefree, flamboyant, cool and carries off the don't-mess-with-me attitude naturally. Rosanna Arquette is cute and likable but it is her pop star costar who steals the show. The men in this movie are clearly overshadowed although notice John Torturro who is great in an early almost bit role. I liked the soundtrack too as it includes some very popular classic pop numbers that remind me of the 80s. 'Desperately Seeking Susan' has its flawed but it still managed to stay a fun flick that I enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Offbeat and cool","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Totally enjoyable, zany story of a lady's and a tramp's lives crossing with strange results. To sweeten the pot there is also a love angle, a silent hitman, loss of memory and identity crisis, plus the icing on the cake....Madonna's super cool character, Susan. Loads of laughs and a great romp through the city....I loved this film.  "},{"Title":"an 80's classic","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  God I loooooooove this movie. It has such style and an identity all it own and has a perfect cast featuring great performances. Madonna steals the show(how couldn't she really ?) and Rosanna Arquette, well I couldn't praise her fresh faced charisma enough if i tried. The film is a bit too 80's for its own good but is as engaging as it was 16 years ago. Quirky, funny and original is always a good combo don't you think? "},{"Title":"MUST SEE MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You've got to see Desperately Seeking Susan. Madonna gives a excellent performance! She fits the role perfectly. Rosanna Arquitte gives a brilliant performance too. Rosanna won two awards for this movie. If you haven't seen this movie. You've got to Get Into The Groove! and watch it!!! "},{"Title":"Desperately Seeking Susan","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Bubbly farce about a dull housewife (beautiful Arquette) who gets bumped on the head and wakes up believing herself to be a free spirited lady named Susan (Madonna).  Vividly enchanting at points, this is a well made film with great support from Quinn, Blum and Patton.  "}{"Title":"good going strangers!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" All the stars were in perfect alignment for this movie. Laurie Metcalf, one of the greatest comic talents of her generation, is in sparkling form here. Throw in Madonna and you've got a recipe for gay icon heaven. The wit is quicker than in any movie since Preston Sturges was around and no-one, thankfully, takes themselves too seriously, including Madonna who oozes cool through every fishnet. If you want to see why this woman has become the most important female cultural icon of the last 30 years this is the best starting place. Every time I watch this movie, and it's fairly often, I want to be there, with those people, eating popcorn and dancing badly to that brash '80s soundtrack. In a decade known for its bad taste, this is the supreme example of the opposing argument. All this and Into The Groove. Impossible to resist. "},{"Title":"Okay movie, Madonna well?","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie's plot was okay.  It was basically to show off Madonna.  She is not a bad actor really but just needs a little work.  The movie itself was not really great.  It had some funny moments but nothing really worth mentioning.  If you want to see it then see it b/c you like Madonna.  It's about the only real reason to. "},{"Title":"So 80´s","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a Madonna fan the best things in the movie were to see Madonna and to hear her music. You also got a good look at the style and life of the 80´s. The movie itself including Madonna´s role was quite boring. The plot was so simple that it did not wake any interest in me. "},{"Title":"A good cast and a respectably low budget, but such a dumb story","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The thing to see in Desperately Seeking Susan (a film I watched all the way through, for some reason or other, in the wee hours of morning) is the style of its time, the music, and Madonna. While she may have been lesser known when she was shooting this, by the time it was released it showed itself in its colors as just slightly more than a predictable vehicle. The cast that's set up (Rosanna Arquette, Aidan Quinn, Laurie Metcalf, Steven Wright) do what they can, and they show how they would go on to bigger and brighter roles and careers. But there's just something about the script that kept on bugging me. Perhaps it's the device of amnesia- on top of the dopey, cute-to-the-girls guy (Quinn) that bugged me, or the way that situations just seemed to skim around truth in the plot. Then again, it is a suburbs vs. city fable dealing with personal ads, missing earrings, and a Magic Club. As a chick flick fantasy of the times it does work, but there's not a whole lot for the rest of the audience.Or, perhaps, this just wasn't my kind of movie, despite liking the actors, and being intrigued by the time-capsule nature of the lower-east side and attitude of NYC. Although, Madonna was rather appealing in parts, if not as a whole performance (and definitely appealing compared to now, nineteen years later, as she goes through a kaballah phase). "},{"Title":"Good 80's Comedy!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Desperately Seeking Susan is a good 80's comedies. Madonna and Rosanna Arquette both star in here. Now, considering Madonna is such a bad actress and most of her movies are terrible, this is one of her better ones. The best performance definitely comes from Rosanna Arquette though, who is a very good actress. "},{"Title":"More Crazed Nonsense.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Madonna's first real cinematic break came with this little film of mistaken identity and hilarious situations. Rosanna Arquette stars as a bored housewife who keeps track of Susan (Madonna) through personal ads in the newspaper. She becomes somewhat obsessed and decides to meet Madonna herself and actually buys Madonna's coat. Arquette looks at Madonna as a hero and tries to copy all her moves to make her life better. Naturally Madonna is wanted by the mob, but they find Arquette instead and believe that she is the girl they want. A clever little story raises this film to a fair level, but still the movie plays more like a music video or a Bugs Bunny cartoon rather than a real motion picture. Another pure product of the 1980s that tried to dazzle with its music and its good-looking cast. They were only somewhat successful here. 2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"You don't know what you have got until it's gone","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I generally do not like movies with Madonna, but this movie seems to portray her in her natural self. She is basically a slut who will jump in bed with anybody. Unfortunately she (Susan) gets involved with a man who is later thrown out of a window in Atlantic City. While this is happening, Ruberta (Rosanna Arquett) is following a series of personal adds from a guy named Jim to Susan. She basically wants some excitement in her life so she decides to find out who this person is. She goes to the meeting place and follows Susan to find her jacket in a shop. She buys the jacket and finds a locker key in it. When she goes to return it she is hassled by one of the crooks and knocks herself unconscious. When she wakes up, she has amnesia and with Susan's possessions on her, she thinks that she is actually her.I really did not think much of this movie and thus did not see much in it. I do not particularly like movies such as this which go into a portrayal of a seedy underclass in America. The underclass exists, but this movie portrays it in a good light, which is what I do not like. Susan is a part of this underclass very self serving and doing her own thing without worrying about the effects that it will have on other people. She uses men for her own pleasures and does not care about them when she leaves them. She will walk out with no reason simply to pursue her own desires.This also looks at the upper class of society, but portrays it as a boring life. Ruberta wants excitement, and it is something that she does not get at home. As such she follows Jim and Susan's adds in the paper. Her husband, Gary, is a spa salesman, but not only is he naive, does not really care about his wife. As such she walks out. He thinks he knows her, but he does not because if he did he would see the frustration that is in her life. Like Susan, Gary is a very self centered person. He is having an affair, after four years of marriage, and really only cares about his own life. He does not listen to Ruberta's concerns and what is frustrating her. Thus she walks away because he simply refuses to see her. He tries to conform Ruberta into his idea of what a person is supposed to be like, but does not give her the freedom to express herself.It is interesting that when Susan comes to him, she walks right over him. She takes his car, stays in his house, and uses his wife's clothes. Thus not only do we see an upperclass business man, we also see a guy that is easily trodden over. He is walked all over, and thus he does the same with his wife. He is insecure because he cannot control the people around him, which is strange because he is a salesman. Even his add, when the girls pull him into the spa-bath, show us that he does not resist woman. Thus it seems that the progenitor of the affair is not him, but the woman. He probably did not resist though so we can't sympathise with him. Actually, the movie does not let us sympathise with him, and in the end he is left without a wife, who could have served him if he had done the same for her. "},{"Title":"Tries to be fun and light but the convoluted plot really drags it down","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Roberta is bored and spends her time scanning the personal ads dreaming. When sees spots an ad saying desperately seeking Susan with a place and time she heads off to try and spot the people involved. She sees Susan meeting Jim and is taken by how free and fun she appears &#150; taking the opportunity to buy her jacket for herself, only to find a key in it later. To return the key she places her own ad which Susan, Jim and several others take note of. Turning up in her new jacket, Roberta meets Jim's friend Dez who mistakes her for Susan shortly before she gets knocked unconscious. He looks after her unaware that Susan is being sought after by several different people for different reasons and that they are now incorrectly chasing Roberta.A very eighties affair, this film is not as good as its reputation would suggest it is. The plot is far too convoluted and forced to really engage or to keep things light and fun and instead it gets bogged down in ideas, characters and plot threads. It has a bit of energy to it that has somewhat of a screwball air to it but with such a heavy plot it is hard for it to do much with it. It also feels very 1980's, not a bad thing in itself but it does mean that it hasn't dated well visually while Seidelman's direction is fairly ordinary and doesn't add much to it in terms of style.The cast is fairly mixed but relies a bit too heavily on the star power of Madonna at the time. She actually plays second fiddle to the lead character played by Arquette, who is a bit vapid but does alright with the mixed identity chestnut. Madonna is pretty at ease in her character; she has no depth but that is not her fault and it is not really a problem in terms of the requirements of this film. Quinn is an appealing male lead; not a great deal for him to do dramatically but he works quite well with Arquette. The support cast is a really surprising mix as it contains plenty of well known faces in roles of all sizes; it is strange to see Metcalf, Joy, Patton, Wright, Turturro, Esposito, Hell and Argo all scattered over the film as if they were nobodies! Overall this is an OK film at best. It tries to create a real fun air but the convoluted plot makes it hard work to really get into it. The cast are interesting and the star power of Madonna must have helped at the time (and still I suppose) but mostly this doesn't really work and should probably be best watched as a bit of 1980's nostalgia. "},{"Title":"80s overload, and then some!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you absolutely positively gotta see every movie ever made, substitute this one for another 80s comedy/romance! Otherwise, rent this and address your curiosity just like I did! The overwhelming 80s stereotypes come into full play with Madonna's bad girl image and typical 80s score. It's like going through an unpleasant time warp, and realising what used to be cool, just ain't cool anymore! Good thing, I was never a fan of this film and that this was my first viewing in the year 2002, otherwise I'd be sorely disappointed and dismayed that I used to like this movie. Unlike, 'Ferris Bueller's Day Off' which manages to still remain funny and decent, 'Desperately Seeking Susan' is too reliant on Madonna's celebrity status and her 80s image. I can't stress 80s enough, but the film oozes it. Rather than producing a cohesive, funny and romantic comedy, this is a Madonna film, based on her image back then and it doesn't really have much to offer in this day and age. Don't get me wrong, I think Madonna's music was okay back then, and even now- but this film seems so cliché and atypical of that period. It's too self-aware, and the scene when the hit song of the moment comes on Get into the Groove, just didn't work. It felt like a camera filming a fake party. It really came across unnatural. Aiden Quinn was okay as the lover interest, and Rosanna Arquette did an okay job as the goofy but likable lead. All in all, the film isn't that great, and personally, I was desperately seeking the remote control into the latter half of this film. A low ** ½ out *****! "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some good performances and several fun moments were not enough for me to recommend this so-so comedy.  Once the setup is in place, it's basically a series of predictable events that are occasionally funny, but eventually they get pretty tiresome.  The ending was cute, but it was also obvious, and not nearly good enough to compensate for the slow spots that occurred leading up to the finish. "}{"Title":"Dreadful Fantasy","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dreadful 'fantasy' movie about a bored housewife who dreams of having a life as bold, risky and adventurous as Susan, of whom she reads daily in the personal columns.Whatever our director had in mind, and whatever she tries to do, just doesn't work in this unfunny comedy/drama. None of the humour is effective, and Susan Seidelman cannot create tension or any other intense emotion with the lame plot and contrived situations. The 'fish out of water' theme doesn't really hold either, as Roberta was never any good in her own environ anyway.Nobody in the cast, including Rosanna Arquette, Aidan Quinn, Mark Blum, Will Patton and débutante Madonna, can do a thing with material this far beyond saving. One cameo of note though, from now highly regarded actor John Turturro.As I've mentioned, ridiculous plot wouldn't hold water any better than paper bag, and sure won't manage to hold your attention. It's as drab as anything I have ever seen.Even Madonna's catchy Into the Groove isn't worth the wait, and the outfits Miss Cicconi wears....well, it was the 80's!?!?Saturday, November 4, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"Allright.","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Desperately Seeking Susan is an allright comedy. It is not really funny. The film has a good plot and premise and overall a good script. The acting is good. However this film is in some ways just so boring. Hardly anything happens and some scenes are so useless. It is sometimes stupid and hard to undestand and not very realistic at some point. Desperately Seeking Susan has always been looked at as a comedy and though it hardly belongs in any other category I am going to create my own. Comedies that don´t have any jokes. This film is about a bored housewife named Roberta who is obsessed with Susan. Susan is a twenty something girl who has travelled around America in search for something. Her boyfriend who is a punker writes in papers that he is trying to find her and Susan writes back to him that she is coming to see him soon. One day Roberta sees in the paper that they are going to meet somewhere on the coast of New York and she decides to stalk them. She sees them and follows Susan around. Susan sells her jacket to buy some shoes at antic clothes store and Roberta buys the jacket. She does not know that some gangsters are after Susan and Roberta dresses up as Susan to meet with her because she found a key in the pocket that Susan really needs. Susan gets arrested before she could meet Roberta and a man that is after Susan accidently thinks Roberta is her. He attacks her and is trying to get some earing that is worth millions. He is spotted and runs away and Roberta falls down unconsius. Suddenly another man who thinks Roberta is Susan tells her that he is a friend of her boyfriends and tells her that she can stay at his place. He has never met Susan and Roberta has lost all memory and doesn´t know a thing about what had happened or who she is. She still has the key and I am not going to say more you need to see it.The two actresses Madonna and Rosanna Arquette are both good. Unlike other Madonna films. Desperately Seeking Susan was a hit at the box-office and Critics also liked it. Film critics also liked Madonna in the film and the film has become one of Madonna´s most successful movie of her film career.overall grade 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Desperately Seeking Talent","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is about the worst movie I have ever seen, the story is awful, and Madonna?? Totally without talent!It is about the worst story, with no meaning, it is really thin!The cast is about as awful as the story, Madonna has grown a lot since this movie and she must look back at this role to be the worst in her entire life!!Don't see it! Unless you have nothing to do, choose cleaning your toenails instead! "},{"Title":"Madonna is the only bright star in the movie","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was definitely a promotional vehicle for Madonna. Madonna mania was sweeping the country like crazy when this movie came out. It was also, in my opinion, her best look out of all her fashion transformations thru the coming years. Rosanna Arquette was supposed to be the female star of the film but Madonna definitely stole the show. My only, and biggest, regret about this movie was that it had too much early 1980's influence which kept it from becoming a timeless classic, (too much punk rock like scenery). I'll never forget the scene in the movie when Madonna was in the bus depot restroom wearing a skimpy bra drying her under arms, her body was PERFECT. It gave the world a chance to see Madonna with her pre-2% body fat. That scene was the most flesh that had been exposed of Madonna, at that time, you can barely see her nipples poking thru her bra. Also, a very memorable scene from the movie is when Madonna and Mark Blum are in a disco and Madonna is sipping her triple tequila sunrise and gyrating her body against the jukebox to the sound of her own song, Into The Groove. Unfortunately, this was the only memorable movie that Madonna appeared in, the rest of her movie career bombed at the box office. "},{"Title":"Madonna ROCKS, Rosanna Arquette is so horrible","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is not so bad, it is starring Madonna in her Like a Virgin days, back then when she was much more fresh and young. When her breast was perfect and she was so sexual that even a blind guy wanted to have sex with her. She will always be one of the best. Rosanna Arquette, is none other than a no talented and stupid actress who don't know nothing about entertaining. The movie include some nice songs, Into the groove many others. Another good Madonna performance. Here is the story thanks to Jeremy Perkins.Taken-for-granted housewife Roberta passes the time following the progress of Susan who regularly contacts her boyfriend Jim through the Personals. When she sees the two are meeting in New York Roberta goes along, ending up buying Susan's coat. Finding a locker key in the pocket she in turn advertises for a meeting with Susan. Jim sends his projectionist pal along to see what is going on, and when Roberta knocks herself out he assumes she is Susan. Then things start to get complicated. Some nice Madonna's breast, legs and buttom scene make this film a must in any collection.  "}]