[{"Title":"A must-see for fans of campy, cheesy horror","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" As an infant, Jonathan Graves is absconded from his father, Malcolm (Michael Des Barres), the leader of a black magic cult, when Malcolm almost sacrifices Jonathan in a ritual. 25 years later, Jonathan (Peter Liapis) learns that his father has passed away and he has inherited his estate, including a large home that is now in disrepair. He moves there with Rebecca (Lisa Pelikan), and soon after begins acting strangely, instinctively following his father's footsteps.If you're a fan of campy, cheesy horror films, as I am, Ghoulies is a must see. Everyone else should probably avoid this film. This is a Charles Band production. Charles Band means Empire/Full Moon, and Empire/Full Moon is almost a guarantee of some campiness/cheesiness. Not many of Band's films, however, approach the sublime ridiculousness of Ghoulies. We're almost in Troma territory here, but Ghoulies is played much more seriously than the typical Troma production, and in this case, it works to increase the entertainment value.Since Ghoulies was made in 1984, it features most of the mid-80s horror film clichés. Shortly after moving in, Graves throws a party, so we get big hair, tight miniskirts, skinny ties, recreational drug use, and so on. We also get our eventual fodder for our body count, although in this case, it is worth noting that writer/director Luca Bercovici introduces a twist near the end that significantly decreases the body count.Liapis is the focus of the film, though, and without him, Ghoulies might be more boring than campy. His absurd overacting, often in solo scenes, takes up a majority of screen time. Still, just the brief presence of two demonic minions, Grizzel and Greedigut, would alone make Ghoulies a must see, especially given how everyone continues their attempt to play the film seriously when they appear. And I haven't even mentioned the other ridiculous minions, which are obviously puppets and dead props (Band seems to love puppets), and were the beginning of a horror industry attempt to cash in on the success of Gremlins (also seen later in such films as the Critters series and Munchies). We also get zombies, a Star Wars-like battle of wizards, sunglasses as a major plot device, an evil doll, an attack with a 5 foot long tongue, and some probably unintentional homoerotic subtext. Who could pass all of that up? The film gets a 7 out of 10 from me--an 8 out of 10 would have been in order, except for the inexplicable absence of gratuitous nudity.Note that while Ghoulies is tagged comedy/horror, it's very unlikely that it was intended to be a comedy in any way. Even if Band applied the label to the film prior to release, it was probably because even he realized how ludicrous the film turned out. At any rate, it would be misguided to watch it expecting intentional humor. "},{"Title":"This is worth watching","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought this movie was entertaining. Especially, if you like beautiful girls in sexy heels and tight dresses. It truly captures 80's fashion and hair styles and I love the 80's. The Ghoulies themselves looked incredibly life-like with grossed-out slobber and nasty sharp teeth. However, I thought the battle between good and evil could have been played out over a longer period of time. This monk comes from nowhere and saves the day in a matter of minutes. The evil guy's son was also drawn to the dark-side too quickly. He moves into his new mansion and begins practicing the dark arts in the same evening during the first party. How uncool. He yells at his guests and quits school the very next day. He should have at least heard voices for a few days first. "},{"Title":"Puppets with teeth","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A surprise hit in the horror film-drenched 1980s that spawned several sequels, GHOULIES was one ii a long line of puppet movies from the old Empire Pictures, the same folks who would soon bring us RE-ANIMATOR. In GHOULIES, a young man moves into an old mansion and before you know it, he is attempting to conjure up a bunch of hellish critters to do his bidding. Soon enough, he has them going after his enemies. The ghoulies themselves are hand puppets that look pretty ferocious for hand puppets. The conjurer, played by an insufferable actor named Peter Liapus, has been possessed by a dark spirit that resides in the old house. A little too much time is spent on the guy and his conjuring, but once the ghoulies get going, watch out! This comedy horror film stands out among many similar flicks from that era. It was obviously inspired by GREMLINS, but in the end it in no way resembles that now-forgotten classic. Worth a look if you can buy the idea of puppet monsters. PUPPETMASTER had the same theme and look, and was also an Empire Pictures job, if I am not mistaken. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Laughs and seriousness are both in this movie, I think. It holds the attention but demands complete suspension of logic. A young man and his girlfriend move into an man's old mansion home, where he becomes possessed by a need to control ancient demons. This does remind me a lot of Ghoulies II. The comparisons are obvious, and just like that film, I like it enough, but I don't think it's great or all that really good. I happen to know places and people, some that might pass for the world in Ghoulies. That said, the directing, music, editing, etc. are not focused on at all. If you can find it on DVD or Bluray for under $7, buy it, but it won't be worth much more than that to you because it's a bit outdated. "},{"Title":"God Bless The 1980's","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yes indeed the 1980's when I was but a very impressionable teenager, it felt like my every waking hour was spent in my local videostore, and when I was in school, I was always thinking about what movie I was going to watch next.As was the case back then, a cool looking cover was always the catalyst for me to hire the movie regardless of whether or not I enjoyed the movie.So Ghoulies was to be my introduction to the cinematic world of a certain film producer Charles Band, and his company Empire Pictures. Having just recently revisited the world of Ghoulies, and just about to embark on my fortieth year on this earth, I have hand on heart began to realise that what I liked when I was a teenager, has not remained the case as I've gotten older.No matter what the detractors think of Charles Band's riff on Gremlins, the movie does have more plus points than negatives. The overall acting is pretty spot on, Peter Liapis as Jonathan Graves truly devours his part as Jonathan Graves, heir apparent to the supernatural throne left to him by his late demented father Malcolm, Michael Des Barres.Des Barres has never been an actor that I've been to keen on, maybe it's his accent that I find somewhat off putting, but then again if you've ever watched him in Diary Of A Sex Addict, the title pretty much summed that movie up, but let us not forget his turn in Nightflyers.You know when your a teenager, and you just watch copious amounts of nonsense, you tens to forget what you've watched and just who was in it, back in 85, I had no idea who Jack Nance was, but then I still hadn't watched Eraserhead, but Nance participation was a bit of a shock to me, I did find myself doing a double take when I spotted him hiding behind that fake beard, but you never forget that crazy eyed stare.But what about the movie itself. Like I've mentioned previously, viewing the movie as an adult, you still sensed the atmosphere, those pesky Ghoulies, still look as cheap and cheerful and not quite scary as ever, but Luca Bercovici does capture some pretty good stuff on camera.Of particular mention was the scene when Malcolm rises from his grave, quite striking and very well lit.Ghoulies was my first introduction to Charles Band, but it wasn't until I watched Trancers, that my interest in Band's output truly took hold of my teenage years, and throughout the next two decades.Ghoulies 2 was a smart little follow up three years later, ignore the next two sequels, as really you can't hold a candle to the original.My rating is 6/10 "},{"Title":"Bait and Switch","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies kinda threw me for a loop. For years, I had seen the old VHS box moldering away in the backlist at the video store, with the li'l creature popping out of the toilet, and I thought, Gremlins rip-off, figured I'd know the whole plot from scene one, and never bothered. But I finally caught it, and found nothing like I expected. Not that that turned out to be a terribly good thing, but at least it gave me a moment of hope.Jonathan Graves inherits the old ancestral mansion, and discovers that he apparently comes from a long line of satanic occultists. Of course, he can't help but pick up the old family tradition. His friends think this is eccentric, and his girlfriend Rebbecca thinks he's a worthless slacker who's wasting time he could be spending fixing up the house. But he gets results, and soon the mansion is populated with a startling number of tiny demon puppets and two helpful midgets that only Jonathan can see.Rebecca finally puts her foot down and demands an end to all the Satanism, so what does Jonathan do? He mind-controls her, which not only ends her criticism, but allows him to dress her up in slutty outfits. (This is where any remaining sympathy I had for Jonathan went out the window.) Then he invites all his friends up so that he can use them in an occult ritual which he believes will grant him vast power, but which actually resurrects his dead, Satanist ancestor (dad? gramps? I was never really sure), who shows up spoiling for a fight.The puppets go (mildly) berserk, everyone dies, and Jonathan and Gramps have their showdown. Of course, good triumphs (if you can consider a guy who's been summoning demons, bargaining for occult power, and mind-controlling his girlfriend, the good guy). Then, everybody comes back to life in one of the biggest cheats in all slasherdom. Have they no shame? "},{"Title":"Silly nonsense from Empire Pictures' 80's knock-offs","Date":"24 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of the first of the low-budget direct-to-video from Charles Band's Empire Pictures of the 1980s' VHS craze, and its about as silly and illogical as anything you'll see from that era. Peter Liapis (Kyle Mclachlan's evil twin perhaps?) moves into an old house, and in his attempt to restore it, he becomes obsessed with ceremonial black magic. In his rituals he manages to conjure up personifications of the demons; Vepar, Procell and Astaroth in the form of bogus-looking, puppet-like goblins. This is hopelessly contrived and laughable as the ghastly dwarfs hang around and wreck havoc on a group of unlikable, snobbish idiots after Liapis fulfills his final master ritual. Its typical Charles Band stuff as the cast takes the ridiculousness seriously, and one can only suspect that the idea was loosely ripped off from the incomparable hit, 'Gremlins' Its fun if you like to watch slimy, rubbery toys attack people, and some will get a laugh out of the most absurd and incoherent of plot-lines. "},{"Title":"Not The Best Of The Ghouies Series","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I saw this I thought it was going to be great sense I saw Ghoulies two first than three and than this. I saw the whole thing and boy did this movie stink so much it made part four better than this.This movie does deserve to go in the bottom because it was pointless,stupid and not much blood in the horror scenes.Although this was a cruddy movie,at least in this Ghoulies it showed horror parts than the others.But besides that good thing the rest of the movie was so boring I couldn't bear to watch more of this movie. Who ever made this movie possible deserves to die because that company doesn't know good movies and bad ones.All I'm saying is do not ever watch this movie or you will be very bored. "},{"Title":"What a great ad campaign can do.","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie made a nice sum of 35 million at the box office, yet many consider it a poor movie at best.  So how did it make this much money?  With a good ad campaign, that's how.  This movie was the first small creature attack movie to come out after the very successful Gremlins the previous year.  Critters, which most consider the better film, came out a year later and made a lot less than this one.  Then there was the famous scene of the creature coming out of the toilet.  It made it look like a Gremlin type movie...funny with a bit of charm to it.  It fooled my parents and we saw this dog in the theater when I was ten.  We knew it wasn't quite what it was advertised as though as soon as it started as it has a scene where a guy rips out a woman's heart.  It isn't all bad though as there are some scenes here and there that are good, but overall this one is just bad as it is not just about little creatures, but a bunch of other satanic stuff as well as this guy throws a party and does rituals and accidentally raises this one evil guy.  Sounds better than it is though as there are no stars in this one and none of the actors in this one can act.  You do though get to see the little person who played ET.   "},{"Title":"Not enough Ghoulies!!","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If the cover of your movie has a creature popping out of toilet. I your movie, you better have a creature popping out of a toilet. It's Chekhov's gun. There was no ghoulie that ever popped out of a toilet. I was waiting the entire movie for a puppet to pop out of a toilet, and never got it! Aside from that this movie is still pretty bad. The main actor has some weird green eyes that glow when he invokes them (I guess). I don't really know, because they don't explain it, and they show up when he is more menacing than he normally is. I also didn't understand why they had to wear sunglasses towards the end. He could turn his weird green eyes off when he wanted. He didn't need the sun glasses. I also didn't get why the main character decided he had to quit school to clean up a house. Why wouldn't you just clean up the house after school??? It didn't make any sense. The movie is filled with pretty subpar acting. For some reason a female costar that seems like she was already in her fifties, but her actual age hadn't caught up to her yet. The ghoulies were the best part, but you only see them for maybe, maybe, 10 minutes out of the whole movie. There were also these two dwarfs that showed up for no real reason except to drink some liquid, and fight against their original master (maybe?) "}{"Title":"Puppets and midgets and Michael Des Barres!","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't know why people claim to hate this movie, because I love it to death. As a representative of the 80's teenage puppet horror schlock genre, it has no equal. Plus it has -- in addition to the most gratuitous midgets to appear on screen in the entire history of midget cinema, and I'm including The Terror of Tiny Town in that generalization -- a fabulous, frothing, scenery-gnawing performance by Michael Des Barres, who fancied himself an actor for quite awhile despite being continually proved wrong.The movie opens with a group of robed satanists preparing to sacrifice a baby in the basement of a mansion. As the head satanist raises his knife, a woman darts out of the crowd and shrieks No! Not our child! thus revealing the head satanist, Malcolm (Michael Des Barres) as the baby's father. Malcolm gives the woman a poisonous look with his glowing green eyes and summons puppet demons to eat her for her intransigence; in the mêlée, no one notices as Wolfgang (Jack Nance, the artist formerly known as Eraserhead) gathers up the baby and spirits him away.Fast forward 20-something years. The baby has grown up to be Jonathan (Peter Liapis) and has inherited the mansion where he was once almost killed on an altar and where, presumably, his mother was eaten by evil puppets. He must not know the history of the place, though, because he moves right on in with his girlfriend Rebecca (the cat-faced Lisa Pelikan) and begins to clean the place up. They appear to be college students with the usual quota of wacky friends without whom no 80's movie would be complete the slutty girl, the nerd, the stupid hunk, etc.During the cleanup, Jonathan discovers a pentagram on the basement floor and opens a trunk full of his father's satanist regalia. This frees his spirit to leap headlong into the wholesale worship of evil, despite the fact that he has never shown a tendency toward black magic before in his life and was, up to this moment, known as a pretty decent chap.At a housewarming party, Jonathan shows his friends the basement set-up and, having ascertained that he needs seven people to actually do any useful evil, he chants a spell in front of them. They make fun of him and he takes it badly, but the end result -- unknown to his friends -- is the summoning of a dozen ugly little demons of the sort who ate his mother. Oedipus? Can you hear me calling you, son? When Rebecca catches him swanning around the basement in satin robes, she stomps off in disgust. He woos her back, only to scare the crap out of her with some impromptu satanistic S&M action in the bedroom. When she leaves again, he decides the only way to get this party started is to get him some minions. Accordingly, he zaps Rebecca with Satan mind control, invites all his friends to dinner, hypnotizes them so they won't notice the puppet monsters drooling in the soup, and completes the circle. When next we see his friends, they are wearing long white robes and sitting around the pentagram in the basement. For an amateur, Jonathan is pretty good.Suddenly there is a flash! and a bang! and two tiny, ugly creatures appear in front of Jonathan, ready to do his bidding. Thus do we meet Grizzel and Greedigut, surely the worst movie roles ever essayed by midget actors (Peter Risch and the enchantingly-named Tamara De Treaux). They promise everlasting devotion and gambol off to do Jonathan's bidding, while his friends, freed from their spell, wander around the house smoking doobies and screwing in the bushes as the demons pick them off one at a time.Unfortunately, Johnathan reckoned without Malcolm. As the ghoulies happily disembowel his friends, each sacrifice gives the spirit of the Decadent Marquis a little more strength. Eventually he bursts out of his grave on the mansion grounds and strides into the house -- rotting as he goes -- to do battle with the punk kid he should have dispatched years ago in the basement. Hijinks ensue, Jonathan defeats Malcolm at his own game (much to the detriment of poor Wolfgang), his dead friends come back to life, and everyone flees the mansion at a run. Predictably (because there were sequels) the back seat of Jonathan's car is revealed to be full of puppet ghoulies.A couple of things. First, who was Peter Liapis and why didn't I know about him before? He's really hot. I mean, really, really hot. Second, Lisa Pelikan has a place in my heart because she appeared in the schlockiest ever Movie of the Week, I Want To Keep My Baby! with Mariel Hemingway. Third, Michael Des Barres was NOT an actor, and should never have let his wife write I'm With The Band because the whole time I was watching Ghoulies I was thinking, you slept with a Plaster Caster? The Hell? On second thought, maybe this movie wasn't so great after all. "},{"Title":"Ghoulies","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies may be similar to Gremlins with the little creatures but that doesn't make it a bad film. The acting is good especially from Peter Liapis, his performance was great.The film is about two teenagers that get this new mansion since Johnathan Graves has inherited it, the caretaker Wolfgang knows all about Johnathan's history since he rescued him from his Father when he was going to sacrifice him.Soon Johnathan finds a book about magic and finds himself obsessed in finding the power and the knowledge, in the basement he finds his Father's robe and spear and at night he summons the Ghoulies, little creatures that will serve the master who woke them.But his girlfriend discovers this and leaves him for now, meanwhile Johnathan summons two Midgets that will also serve him and give him what he wants and that is the power, wisdom and his girlfriend.She returns to him only to find that he's eyes have gone green, so has she goes to leave the two Midgets use their magic to control her and make her obey Johnathan.That night they throw a dinner party with their friends from high school and Johnathan controls them for his ritual, once completed Johnathan's Father Malcolm rises from his grave and seeks Johnathan to sacrifice him.Johnathan's friends snap out of it to find themselves in the dinning room again not unaware of what happened, John and his Girlfriend go to bed while the friends roam the house and are free to do what they want.Soon it's not long before Malcolm finds the Ghoulies and they obey their true master. They kill Johnathan's friends and his Girlfriend, and it's not long before Johnathan confronts his Father, Wolfgang shows up and fights Malcolm as Johnathan's Girlfriend and friends come to life again.So they escape as Wolfgang defeats Malcolm and the Ghoulies, they drive off leaving the mansion but the Ghoulies are hiding in Johnathan's car.Ghoulies may be a little cheesy but it's still fun to watch. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not particularly great...","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is an mid-1980s horror comedy indeed, except it was lacking both ingredients actually. It is, however, a very typical Charles Band movie, for good and worse. Was Ghoulies a memorable movie? No, not by a long shot. It was just too silly and empty to really be entertaining.Ghoulies is about a young man who inherits an ancestral home. A house where black magic was used to conjure forth demonic creatures. Lured in by the dark magic, the young man unleash the demonic beings once again.The characters were lacking personalities and depth, but fitted right into the rest of the movie though. The acting performances were nothing impressive either.As for the creatures, well they were probably impressive back in 1984, but by todays standards not so much. It was puppets, blatantly obvious, and again typical for Charles Band. And the special effects, well let's not even go there.This movie wasn't particularly entertaining, and I will never watch it again, that much is certain. "},{"Title":"Beseder Eliele!!!","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This picture has the rank of being not just one of the earliest, but also one of the most whacked-out flicks that Full Moon ever produced, and it was one of their biggest ever hits. I do like it but not all that much. It's very cute but it's definitely nothing great. In fact, it's a wee bit of an endurance test! My first and primary annoyance It isn't really about the ghoulies! They're mere window dressing for a strange and complicated story, and the ones that do appear are laughable! They look like s****y old diseased sock puppets, and that's not easy for me to say because the sequel is one of my all-time favourite horror movies, I'd strongly urge you to check out that one it you wanna see a Ghoulies movie done right. It's so horribly in-your-face and dead to-the-max 80s! From the wardrobe to the attitudes and practically everything, particularly when it comes to some of the more cartoony and obnoxious smaller characters, like that old guy who's constantly wearing shades.. What the hell was that asshole on at the time!? Break dancing scene, what the f**k!?! I really can't stand the red-headed Lisa Pelican as Rebecca, she's so embarrassingly melodramatic with all of her lines and whenever the camera's focusing on her face she's always off in a fog and terribly posing as if like Sophia Loren! Awful actress. I also didn't like the two dwarf characters. Now I've nothing against those kinds of people, in fact to me their performances were actually very good, but they weren't monsters, and in my opinion to jerk around with the audience that they are when there's already supposed to be little monsters running around is just bogus. It's the same cheap gag that they would later base the entire rotten fourth 'Ghoulies' movie around. I positively adored the spirited performance of Michael Des Barnes as the delightfully fiendish Malcolm Graves. He really gives it his all and even though he goes ridiculously grandiose with it, it sure works. I can't recall ever seeing another horror movie villain quite like him. I love all of his charmingly bizarre inflections, how he goes from softly-spoken to roaring in a second! And it's so awesomely wrong when he demands to kiss his son to steal his soul!! I thought he was far more charismatic than the guy who played his son, I just found iy plain cringe-worthy whenever he was trying to be commanding. They also should've ditched the silly and unnecessary narrating. It was like I was watching Troll 2 all over again.. I think that I may have liked this better if they'd have just done away with any pretence of it being about little monsters and made it a straight-up story of resurrected sorcerous evil battling against its estranged offspring it could've stood on its own merit surely! I mean they certainly should have kept the ghoulies in it, just not made it out as if the entire movie was about them.. And you know, I'm wrong in a way because the marketing did pay off big time for the studio, and if I don't quite get it then I'm still very glad because it allowed them to create some later gems that I do wholeheartedly love and regard as classics. It's such a weird little mish-mash of a flick. By degrees it's a crazy party horror movie, then a domestic drama, then it's an epic magical fight of good vs evil - it's everything except a solid horror that knows what it wants to be, and that's a bit of a shame. I'm not saying it isn't fun, but it's a mess. It's a fun mess! Everything about it is extremely tacky and rough but that could perhaps only add to the appeal for some fans. It's certainly not lacking in creativity. It's a fun and entertaining piece of horror trash if you're in the right frame of mind and is worthy of a watch every now and then. Shut up, goddammit! "},{"Title":"They'll get you in the end.","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The camp and cheese levels are off the charts with this effort from Charles Bands' Empire Pictures, one of a few movies (and subsequent franchises) to jump on the Gremlins bandwagon. This means combining comedy (which, in this case, is never really that funny) and horror (although the movie sure ain't scary at all) and trying to go for a playful approach. The result is a movie that does have some fun moments, but nothing special enough to make it compare to its inspiration.Eric Roberts lookalike Peter Liapis stars as Jonathan Graves, who moves with his girlfriend Rebecca (pretty Lisa Pelikan of the Carrie ripoff Jennifer) into the mansion he's just inherited. Turns out his dad Malcolm (pop singer Michael Des Barres, in a hilariously unsubtle turn) was one of a group of Satan worshippers, and the mansion has been home to demons in the past. As any moron character in this type of genre movie would do, Jonathan lets his curiosity get the better of him, and he becomes obsessed with wearing robes and performing rituals. The title creatures show up to create mayhem, followed by an endearing pair of little people (Peter Risch, Tamara De Treaux).The Ghoulies themselves don't get to do all that much; they would be brought more to the forefront for the sequels. The human cast - including Scott Thomson (Police Academy), Ralph Seymour (Just Before Dawn), Keith Joe Dick, and Mariska Hargitay in her film debut - is amusing, but it's the Ghoulies who are the most fun. Jack Nance of Eraserhead fame is wasted as the wise old caretaker of the mansion. Bobbie Bresee (Mausoleum) has a bit as a temptress. Special effects and makeup by John Carl Buechler and his company are generally pretty good. The score, credited to both Shirley Walker and Richard Band, is catchy.Ghoulies is indeed pretty ridiculous, but this viewer doesn't see that as necessarily being a bad thing. Just don't go in expecting anything resembling a serious genre film.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"boring, not great even for a B-film","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" GHOULIES 🌕🌕🌑🌑🌑 1.9This was a full moon production, and I've heard they've made worse, but I've seen them make better, so I wasn't satisfied with this boring movie. Not all of it was terrible, but much of the middle is. Which is too bad because the conclusion were the Ghoulies finally come out and do some damage has some cool effects and entertaining kills. The acting isn't great, and neither are all of the unnecessary side characters added in the second half of the film. I didn't actually find the PG-13 rating restricting, as there was still some blood and gore. I would only recommend this to hardcore full moon fans. "},{"Title":"If You've Seen the Movie Poster You've Seen All the Fun Ghoulies Has to Offer","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jonathan Graves (Peter Liapis) inherits his Satanist father's mansion. He throws a party and starts conjuring up Ghoulies, which are sort of demonic goblin things. This is a garbage Gremlins knock-off with no humor, charm, or entertainment value. The best thing about it is that it has one of the coolest movie posters of the 1980's, with the Ghoulie coming up out of the toilet. It's just not a fun movie at all. It's nasty and cheap. Avoid this mess. See Gremlins instead. Or you can just skip this one and watch the better Ghoulies part 2. But yeah, Gremlins is better than that too. So just watch Gremlins or even Critters over this dreck. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The title monsters are a pack of obnoxious demons — enacted by a handful of rubber dolls covered with KY jelly — summoned up by the metaphysical shenanigans of college student Jonathan Graves (Peter Liapis) after he discovers his late father's occult paraphernalia at the family estate. Jonathan later invites a group of annoying friends to participate in an all-night party, during which he intends to perform an elaborate parlor trick — actually a satanic ritual through which he hopes to acquire his father's supernatural powers. This doesn't sit well with Dad, who bursts violently from his grave (a nice touch) to have a chat with his wayward son while legions of ghoulies (well, four or five, anyway) descend upon the revealers.Great movie with cheesy special effects and is worth for any Critters or Gremlins fan. The movie may have a few flaws, but it is worth the time.Rated PG-13 for Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" On his eighteenth birthday, Johnathan Graves inherits a rambling mansion from his long deceased parents. Inviting his friends over for a house warming party, he gets them to join him in performing a ritual. Johnathan feels that by using dark magic, he can discover what became of his parents & who they were (tell me why he thinks this?). However what starts off as something innocent, soon becomes an obsession as Johnathan, slowly but surely becomes more & more evil. He conjures up two midget elves who promise to serve him & get back his girlfriend who dumped him & then conjures up a horde of slimy Ghoulies who assisted his dad in his sorcery. Soon Johnathan wants to attain superhuman knowledge, a thing that both Elves warn him can be very dangerous ritual to perform. But if if he wishes to try it, he must put his friend's under a spell, that will make them follow him & it must be performed under the light of the full moon. However rather than giving him supernatural knowledge, Johnathan soon finds out he's been tricked & it was instead a supernatural ritual to bring back his long dead father, a serious practitioner of the black arts determined to live again! Once resurrected from his earthly grave, he dispatches the creatures, who would rather listen to him & turn their back on Johnathan, to dispatch all of Johnathan's friends. Bringing his son to him, where he will attempt to sacrifice his son to the devil, something he failed to do eighteen years prior.GHOULIES is a pretty fun horror/comedy that has been cited by many genre fans as a rip-off of GREMLINS while I can understand them saying this, since it arrived after GREMILINS, I strongly disagree with that statement. GHOULIES was an idea thought up in 1982 by B movie Producer CHARLES BAND (who planned to direct the film himself) & the late special effects wizard STAN WINSTON called BEASTIES. One of the things that made GHOULIES a box office success (minus coming right after GREMLINS) was the films box art, which featured one of the creatures popping up out of a toilet bowl. Minus one blink & you'll miss it sequence, the Ghoulies are not birthed in a toilet, nor do the creatures have anything whatsoever to do with toilets. The poster was such a success, that the next two sequels that followed it also contained the same poster art. What's funny (maybe it was unintentional?) is the name Ghoulies or goolies is a vernacular expression for testicles. Despite it's cheesiness, GHOULIES is reasonably well acted & has some fun characters on hand. MICHAEL DES BARRES is perfection as Johnathan's witchcraft meddling father, a real spooky individual who makes for a really fun horror movie villain & it's a shame he didn't appear in any of the sequels or even get a horror film on his own. Despite the title & the creature on the box art, the Ghoulies really don't serve the plot much at all, at least until the last fifteen minutes of the movie, when they are dispatched to start picking off the house guests. The Ghoulies are mere window dressing to help sell the film, who's real story concerns Johnathan getting over his head in the dark arts & becoming more evil & his fight with his evil dad, who the caretaker (in narration) has mentioned he died a horrible death, but the film never does tell us what happened to him or how long he has been dead for. ERASERHEAD'S own the late JACK NANCE, stars as the creepy withdrawn caretaker & former member of the old cult, who saved Johnathan from being sacrificed as an infant. Yet despite top billing, Nance's spends a total of five minutes tops, with his role spread evenly throughout the film's beginning & ending. The films comedy is pretty funny at times & some of the dispatches are great. The film is a tad sluggish at times & really does get a little hokey in areas, but overall it remains a pretty fun movie. In the end, maybe it's because I saw this movie when I was little that I have a better appreciation for it than most people, since the majority of reviews from fans & critics clearly outweigh the positive ones. Maybe if I saw it when I was much older, I'd feel the same way as others do, who knows? but as is, I highly enjoyed GHOULIES. Some have come to prefer the next two sequels (not counting Part 4) because the Ghoulies were featured more, the effects were better & they fit the story lines better as the main bad guys & not supporting villains on the sidelines like they are here, but I think I will always prefer the first one. It has some good comedy, I liked the slimy dead serious Ghoulies (they got jokier in the sequels) there was a few nice moments of suspense & tension (Loved the life sized clown doll, who kept popping up all over the house, he was really creepy!) I loved the villain Malcolm & the film mystical qualities helped give it an extra creepy feel. To be truthful, I think many people who hated it, were upset that the film really wasn't anything like GREMLINS, or a film that at the very least surpassed it. If you can look past some of it's short comings, GHOULIES remains a highly entertaining B movie popcorn flick. Followed by three sequels starting with GHOULIES II **** stars "},{"Title":"A Film From Charles Band's Golden Age","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young man (Peter Liapis) and his girlfriend (Lisa Pelikan) move into an man's old mansion home, where he becomes possessed by a need to control ancient demons.This comes from the golden age of Charles Band's producing, despite the film's incredibly low ranking. I am baffled how this could get under a 4, as it has all the fun and charm of the 1980s, and is (in my opinion) far more entertaining than Puppet Master.This movie serves as Mariska Hargitay's film debut (and I am sure she is quite proud). More interestingly, Jeffrey Combs could have starred, but was not chosen during casting. He ended up playing another magician in Doctor Mordrid anyway, so I guess that worked out alright.Why this film has such a poor following, with viewers saying it belongs in the toilet is beyond me. I see worse films than this almost every day. "}{"Title":"They'll Get You In The End!","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies is one of those movies that is just weird. When I first saw this when I was a kid I found it to be very weird. 10 years later it's still an odd movie, but a great odd movie. You've got little ghoulies, midgets, and an ugly undead looking crazy zombie guy. The special effects are great and nothing looks cheap. The ghoulies are very well made puppet creatures. Some of them were pretty creepy looking. One scene that really scared me as a kid was the part when this lady's tongue wraps around this guy. It's a great movie though and just weird. You'll laugh a lot at this movie too. It's mostly about this guy named Jonathan that moves in his dad's old house and becomes possessed then unleashes these little demons and ghoulies. Did I mention there are even midgets lol. If you enjoyed Ghoulies I highly recommend you check out its three sequels they are ghoultastic! I give Ghoulies a 10/10 "},{"Title":"classic 80s trash movie","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A movie from the 80s and the budget obviously wasn't that large. But it delivers what a sensible person would expect from a plot summary like that A horror movie that doesn't take itself too serious, and the trash factor is rather high, which makes it enjoyable. Who expects a serious horror movie or anything that scares anybody is definitely wrong with this movie. I mean Who can expect something serious from a movie called Ghoulies? The acting isn't that bad, although that's a bit hard to tell with German synchronization typical for an 80s trash movie, but I've definitely seen much worse. People who like crappy looking creatures and can laugh about senselessness without Scary Movie being written on it should consider this movie if they don't find anything they definitely want to see. I've had some fun. "},{"Title":"Rubbish...But Very Good","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ghoulies was a crazy adventure which I would only admit to watching after I'd had a load of alcohol to drink. It's rubbish...but it's good rubbish nonetheless.I won't pretend that I've ever understood the plot. But who needs a plot when you've got crazy little creatures running around causing havoc?The movie is very 1980's and suited that era very well. Most of the people I've spoke to have had good things to say about it. It is one of those films where you leave your brain at the door before watching it. It was quite funny but scary in parts (there's this evil clown doll which gave me the creeps).All in all, I would recommend Ghoulies to those who don't take life too seriously. If you liked Gremlins, you'll like Ghoulies. "},{"Title":"the one on the cover looks like Truman Capote painted green","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In this hilarious Gremlins rip-off, a bunch of little green monsters go wild in attacking horny teenagers (whether or not we see them getting it on, you know that they're doing it!). The poster shows a ghoulie emerging from a toilet, and apparently some critics said that the movie belonged there. I wish to assert that Ghoulies is so hilariously stupid, that it deserves as much recognition as Citizen Kane.Anyway, this is one of those cheap horror flicks that you just gotta love. Aside from being an obvious Gremlins rip-off, the clown was clearly a Poltergeist rip-off. Thus, the movie's a really good time. Starring Mariska Hargitay (yes, Jayne Mansfield's daughter, now of the Law & Order spin off) in her debut.Yes, you can call him Dick. And I still assert that the ghoulie on the cover resembles Truman Capote, except green. "},{"Title":"Give This Film A Chance!","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Come on ... most of the 80's horror genre was cheesy. And yeah, most of the cast couldn't act. Especially Michael Des Barres. (Still holds true today.) But Mariska Hargitay has come a long way since then with Law & Order SVU, so I think we can forgive her for that freakish Mariah Carey-decibel screaming she did by the fountain with Toad Boy.This movie was also the first and ONLY time I saw an actual LIVE HUMAN BEING wearing battery-operated windshield wiper sunglasses ... and I lived through ALL of the 80's.I rather enjoyed the rat, the cat, the bat and the green ... well, WHATEVER it was. And those dwarfs were pretty cute too, in a creepy third cousin of Chucky kind of way.Not too sure about the whole tongue thing. I mean, why was his neck bleeding? There weren't spikes or sharp stuff on his/her tongue, so what was the deal? And was this just gratuitous transgenderizing?Oops, I'm trying to psychoanalyze an 80's horror flick. Somebody stop me!!! ) "},{"Title":"Not the Greatest, But Cool Critters","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Negatives The plot was decent but simple. The Picture wasn't the greatest (almost Friday the 13th quality). Obviously very low budget.Positives The Dwarves The GhouliesConclusion Nothing you would miss if you simply read the summary on the back of the box. Unbelieveable it had so many sequels! "},{"Title":"Not scary, but very enjoyable","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first installment in the underrated Ghoulies series is a pretty good start for our mischievious little creatures. One thing I think you should know if you want to see the Ghoulies films is that you should avoid Ghoulies 3 Ghoulies Go to College, but if you must see it to complete the series then I suggest you watch it last.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!! We begin with a ritual in a gothic California mansion. Luckily the young child who is supposed to be sacrificed is spared. Many years later he inherits the mansion and on the first night he has a party. He discovers his father's book of magic and performs some rituals from it...BIG mistake! Out pop little demons who are ready to attack. Two elves are also conjured up to help the young man, but the terror has only begun. The father of this film's main charecter is resurrected and battles his son to the death.Good story, acting, and o.k. effects. *** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Only for die hard 80s addicts","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Having read a number of positive reviews on this movie, let me be brutally honest and say that this is a pretty poor effort. The plot is nonsensical, the acting, though not all awful, is shoddy, the special effects look very dated nowadays, and the ending is truly ridiculous! I'm not even sure why the movie is called 'Ghoulies' seeing as they do so little throughout the film! Okay, for nostalgia fans of the 1980s there are some awful haircuts, and amusing cloakroom choices, but that is not a reason to watch a film. This spends huge amounts of time building up to the ending, which is a total let down. honestly, how films like this got made I don't know - surely the actors must have been sat on the set thinking, 'Why am I talking to a moving piece of snot' (which is in large part all that the ghoulies look like - about as menacing as my nan without her teeth in - no hold on, she's far scarier!). Reviews might compare this film to Gremlins, but they are in a totally different ball-park - don't watch this movie, watch Gremlins instead... or even 'Critters' for that matter. "},{"Title":"Bland 80s cheesefest","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Having inherited a new house, a couple decide to throw a party inviting friends to celebrate the occasion but upon learning of the release of a swarm of demonic beings try to find a way of dealing with the deadly creatures.Overall this one was a decent if heavily cheesy 80s creature feature. Among its best, and worst, qualities here is that ever-present cheese on display which coincides with the whole atmosphere and appearance of the creatures, the house and the incredibly obvious attitudes here showcasing the eras quite well, yet also making it really hard to take the action seriously in here because these make the film quite goofy against the serious subject matter. No matter how badly they try otherwise, the creature nothing more than puppets, which never really convinces all too often yet makes this so fun here by making the attacks quite enjoyable and cheesy. That carries into this one with some incredibly fun moments from the creatures starting with the resurrection in the basement during the glorious Satanic rituals, the continuous disappearing clown doll around the house and fine graveyard sequence where they interact with the guests in some thrilling scenes here to take advantage of the great warped, cuddly look of the creatures. While this is quite fun and full of cheesy charms, there's still a few other flaws here in this one. The other big flaw beyond the cheese is the rather short length of this, never really getting a chance to have the creatures themselves involved much in the film as it spends a large portion of time with them wandering around the house, which takes up a lot of time that could've been used for the creatures. This also manages to hold off the later half here where, once out and about in the story, are pretty much rendered an afterthought in their own movies all due to the short length and diversions away from the central figures. This is really the biggest issue at work against the film outright, even though the film's cheese is another big factor here to overcome with the goofy look and atmosphere being something to get over. These are the film's good points.Rated PG-13 Violence, Language and a mild Sex Scene. "},{"Title":"I miss the 80's...","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was made by Charles Band, before he retreated into bad direct to video and then straight to DVD movies, he did theatrical releases.This film means to capitalize on the popularity of Gremlins by showing small, mischievous puppets doing terrible things to people. Only two problems. Not as much money for the animatronics, so they really looked more like cheap puppets, and a plot that made not a lick of sense.A baby is saved from a Satanic cult, and grows up to inherit the house of the cult leader. He then proceeds to repeat Dad's ritual magic, summoning small demons to do his bidding.Look for a young Mariska Hargitay of Law and OrderSVU Fame, playing one of the Interchangeable Big-Haired Bimbos the monsters proceed to pick off. I'm sure she's really proud to have that on her resume. "}{"Title":"Ghoulies","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies is the story of a man named Jonathan who inherits a house and soon discovers his family were insane satanic cultists. He starts practising the black magic and not too long after that, tiny creatures called Ghoulies show up to terrorize and kill his girlfriend Rebecca and their annoying friends. I'm not sure about what the rest of the plot is exactly, the movie lost my interest about half way through it.The acting was below par, but not hilariously bad. The characters were kind of pointless, and just there to add to the body count. The whole movie is sort of Jonathan and his friends roaming around the estate for long periods of time. I just never got the story of the cult his ancestors were in. There is a scene in the beginning with him as a baby about to be sacrificed by the group before being saved by some man. Maybe it was his father, maybe not. It's never really explained in great detail. Ghoulies is a major disappointment. Picking up the VHS box with the monster in the toilet, I can see why the film made $35 million at the box office. It's a good ad campaign for horror. There are some good scenes involving the clown and I have to give credit for the special effects and the look of the 'Ghoulies' puppets, but it's not enough. I love 80's cheese and campy horror, but this is way to dull and never amounts to anything entertaining enough for a second viewing.4/10 "},{"Title":"An abysmally boring Gremlins rip-off","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two foolish idiots move into an old mansion, where satanic rituals commence. The man of the house gets an overwhelming need to be possessed by demons. I can't be bothered to write more than that for the plot. In all honesty, if you decide to watch this movie in the first place, you're a masochist. I guess that makes me a masochist as well, considering I saw this years ago and hated it then. What made me think I'd feel differently? Anyone that enjoys this movie deserves to be ostracized immediately. I'm all for opinions, but I can't see how anyone can say with a straight face I enjoyed this movie The Ghoulies themselves are not a big part of the movie. When they appear, they look like puppets. I realize this was done in 85, but it comes across as horribly dated. Another thing that bothers me is the cliché of the plot. Why is it that somebody wants to conjure up a demon by doing a satanic ritual all the time? It's been done to death. Nothing much happens in this movie. It's all about boring black magic and sorcery of sorts. As people have pointed out, the box is very misleading and manipulative. There isn't much gore to speak of, unless you count a weird demon chick with a long tongue, and two midget's as gore. This movie was so boring that I was doing other things at the same time simultaneously. The only scene I enjoyed in the movie is the thanksgiving dinner scene. Everybody wears these surreal looking sun-glasses, and Ghoulie creatures start popping out of a turkey. The acting is pretty bad. Lisa Pelikan was solid in Lionheart, but was bland here. Peter Liapis shouts way too much as the lead. He tries to ham it up to no avail. Everybody was so unlikable in this movieHow on earth did this spawn 3 sequels? This was clearly trying to be like Gremlins, but it forgot to add an ingredient. ENTERTAINMENT! unless you wanna be tortured for 80 minutes or so, avoid this movie like you would a chick after a bad date. Three more sequels to go, ugh. 1/10 "},{"Title":"A decent concept poorly executed, but kind of fun for bad movie lovers","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It seems that pretty much anyone can make a movie. It's like if you have a little money, a camera, and know people who want to be a part of it then it can become a reality. This is not necessarily a bad thing, unless the minds behind the movie just don't have what it takes. This is often the case with a lot of straight to video releases, but not all low budget films. There are countless examples of great independent and low budget films. Some find an audience and others either never really do or it happens years after the fact. You can never really know if your movie is going to be a hit I guess, but I'm sure no one in the world expected the low budget horror film 'Ghoulies' to be the success that it was. Many would argue that it didn't deserve it, and considering what a silly movie it is they're probably right, but for those who enjoy a good bad horror movie will probably find much to chew on.Pros The cast does the best they can with the material, especially Peter Liapis and Lisa Pelikan who prove they deserve better. A great old mansion that makes a perfect location for a horror movie. A good score, better than this film deserves. Moves at a decent pace. The humor is pretty stupid, but some of it's amusing. Some good creepy moments. Unintentionally humorous because it takes itself so seriously. Some, and I stress that, decent effects.Cons Apart from the two leads, the rest of the characters are cardboard cutouts who we could care less about. Most attempts at humor fall flat. Most of the effects, including the Ghoulies themselves, are pretty shoddy. A good concept, but a pretty poor script that doesn't do it justice. Hasn't aged too well. Not the least bit scary.Final thoughts 'Ghoulies' and it's three sequels (That's right, three) can only really be enjoyed if not taken seriously. This first installment is not one of the greatest cheesy 80s horror films you could find, but it's still worth a look if that's your thing. And if you do find yourself enjoying it like I did, then I recommend you check out part II because it's actually better.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"not a great movie, but its a good one","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this movie is well dull at the start, then around the last 20 or 30 minutes and the ghoulies start killing people. there are some midgets in it. the plot is a little dull part 2 is way better but its worth watching once or twice, and uhh... well just rent it and see for yourself. out of ten ghoulies gets a 6-clawx- movie watcher "},{"Title":"Ghoulies forever!","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Who ever doesn't like the original GHOULIES, is no friend of mine. GHOULIES is a classic (I say that a lot)! It amazes me how this film was so good, and then all of its sequels were just stupid and pointless. (Maybe GHOULIES II was okay!)Rent or buy this film, but NEVER EVER EVER watch ANY of the sequels, maybe part 2, BUT NEVER WATCH THE OTHER TWO!!!!! SAVE YOURSELF!!!!!! On a scale of ONE to TEN, GHOULIES gets an 8! "},{"Title":"blech","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  'Ghoulies' was just plain terrible.  The first half-hour or so was incredibly dull and boring.  I lost all interest in the plot and characters so much that even when the ghoulies arose and began causing mayhem I was praying for this movie to end.  If you like films about crazy little muppets running around killing people, stick to 'Critters' and 'Gremlins'.  This movie could've been much better if they cut out the cult/ritual/demonic spell crap.  It just made it all the more boring and confusing.  And this is supposed to be a horror-comedy?  I didn't notice anything funny except for some of the creature designs.  This film is horrible.  Please avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"Ghoulies Suck!!","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  this is no doubt the worst, piece of crap movie i've ever seen in my entire life. Imagine Gremlins, 30 times worse. It's about some retard who tries to do some devil stuff and wakes up these stupid lookin' muppet creatures who do nothing but hog the camera, which you get TIRED of really fast!  Then the people in the house realize what they have done...IDIOTIC DORKS!!Overall Ghoulies Suck *#$% . Big time. Don't even think about renting the sequels. Unfortunantly, i did. I made a mistake. Oh well, screw them.PG-13 for some violence, but not that bloody or else it would get a fat R!!0 out of 4Jonathan Yates      --horror movie watcher "},{"Title":"Ghoulies belongs in the toilet","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't believe this movie grossed around $35 million!  I felt like I was watching an extra long installment of Friday The 13th The Series.  So, if you liked that TV-series, then you'd probably like Ghoulies, otherwise AVOID THIS MOVIE LIKE THE PLAGUE!  It didn't even have so much to do with the Ghoulies themselves so much as it did this lame cult.  I thought Ghoulies II was a lot better (but that's not saying much).  I could have made a better movie, or at least written a better script. "},{"Title":"Really stupid.","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Everyone who has seen this must have known it was going to be a rip-off of Gremlins. I knew that, but I really didn't expect it to be as bad and boring as it was. In this horror movie a young man and woman inherit a big spooky mansion that has some secret voodoo spells in it to bring some poorly controlled puppets to life. I think one main reason I really hated this was it was boring. The production values (other than the stupid puppets) were OK, and the acting was good for what it was. It was the plot, dialogue, and stereotyped characters that ruined it for me, along with the puppets. The ghoulies were little creatures that weren't scary at all and appeared to have hair gel in their teeth to look like slobber. From the laughable opening to the annoyingly clichéd ending, this was just awful. The only positive is a pretty lively musical score.My rating BOMB/****. PG-13 for violence and some sexual content. "},{"Title":"this movie blows","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ghoulies should be lost in the garbage because it is so bad. It is about some stupid curse or something by a dark cult that is placed upon a house. A boy boy grows up to move into his house and be obsessed by a lame magic book and talks with stupid puppets and goofy midgets. First off, the guy looks like he's 40 and he's trying to front like a college kid. The effects are cheesey and possibly the best effect of this movie is the video box cause nothing in the movie resembles it. Unwatchable Zero stars "}{"Title":"cast a spell to rid yourself of any knowledge you saw or wanted to see this film","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The rating of even a 1 out of 10 seems to high for this film. Perhaps the 1 would have been more justified at the time when the film was released, watching it for the first time nowadays however just brought a hole in my pocket for renting it and to yours as well if you do too. Its not because of the special effects (the ghoulies themselves were pretty good for the time) but because both the acting and story are so pathetically drawn its hard to find much positives such a blunder. It marketed itself as a funny horror but I didn't find myself laughing once throughout. The ghoulies take their sweet time to show themselves (many viewers wouldn't have had the staying power and would have given up), and the first death comes 3/4 through the film. The final show down was laughable in a sense that it was so lame (lightening). While the comedian for the film (a kiefer sutherland lookalike, the lead was a eric roberts lookalike) were down right annoying. You'd hardly recognised SVU's Mariska Hargitay with big hair the only cast known to me. The one bright spark was the clown which might frighten some viewers, and i think was used from this film for scary movie 2?. I guess I'm just not a fan of 80s b grade horror/comedy dark magic? "},{"Title":"God bless the eighties!!","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let's see what we've got here a big mansion that was inhabited by some Satan worshipers' sect in the past, a big party with drugs, sex and alcohol; university students that look like they're 40 years old and that are permanently on heat; some horny chicks, the typical cocky, and a few demons that look like the mutant brothers of the Muppets. Yeah!! Welcome to 80's b-series.Well, if there's someone out there that takes this kind of product too seriously, man, GET A LIFE. This movies are only good for one thing gather a bunch of friends together, get some beers, and have a nice time... OK, Ghoulies is a complete mess in every possible way, but that's something you can anticipate by having a look at the DVD cover.God bless the 80's!! *My rate 2/10 "},{"Title":"You can't miss this!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You have to be crazy to hate this film!The story line is very uniqe.A lot better than Critters or Gremlins,and is one of those movies where there's a good reason to make a sequel.The movie makes you wanna rush down to the nearest video store and grab 2,but avoid 3 and 4,they were done by lousy people,and has no point,could of been done without!The point is,Ghoulies is a must see! "},{"Title":"Pure Garbage","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, I have to admit - I rented this film because of the cover of the box. It has a Ghoulie climbing out of a toilet with the caption Everyone Gets It In The End right above it. I thought that was sort of funny, maybe even clever and figured what the heck - maybe it'll be funny.Boy was I wrong. I love horror movies. From Child's Play, Wishmaster, Pumpkinhead, Friday the 13th, etc...But this was pure trash. The special effects were horrible and the plot was dull. It earns a rare 1/10.  "},{"Title":"Poor Movie All Around","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies (1985) * 1/2 (out of 4) Lame rip-off of GREMLINS has a man moving into an old mansion where he eventually decides to bring out the title creatures who of course go on a killing spree. Apparently this thing started off as a higher-budget R-rated horror film but then the budget was slashed and they decided to aim at the kid market. Well, this here was obviously a mistake because what remains in the film is a semi-horror film that's too tame to go all the way yet at the same time there's really nothing here that would appeal to children. I think the producers forgot that they were trying to aim this at kids and instead us poor viewers were left to suffer. The story itself is a pretty silly one that takes way too long to get going. At just 82-minutes this film seems twice as long and this might be due to the fact that the actual ghoulies don't appear until around the forty-minute mark. Even when they do arrive they don't exactly bring any excitement with them as they're just not scary enough to have any impact. A lot of the violence is also off screen so gore fans aren't going to get any of that here. Even worse is that there are a couple sexual scenes here that have been toned down and in this condition they just really don't serve any purpose to the film. Of course, in a R-rated film they might have at least been used just to show off some cheap nudity. The performances are pretty much what you'd expect from a film like this. John Carl Buechler does a fine job with the special effects but sadly they're not used nearly enough. GHOULIES might appeal to those who enjoy bad 80s movies but the rest should just stay clear. "},{"Title":"I think I broke my head","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In this, the poor mans Gremlins, some eighties audience members from top of the pops inherit a house, and have a party, which includes the bloke from police academy 3, but with all parties, they go into a room where they haven't been before and find a symbol on the floor.It turns out that years ago, one of the members of Duran Durans project Power station was a devil or something worshipped, and made weird latex animals pop up from nowhere, and also made his eyes go blue.The new family start to become obsessed with the past and decide to wear even funnier clothes than they had in the eighties, and act like goths for no reason.And thrown into the mix, we get two midgets who act like Hugh Grant and Emma Thompson, and fight with the monsters.In the eighties, these films were rife and were released almost every other week. But for some reason, this really became a cult favourite, and for the life of me, I cannot begin to think why.The effects are awful, the acting is very bad, and the story, just doesn't excite or stimulate.It's trying to be Gremlins, and that movie is a bona-fide cult favourite, because it's actually brilliant and highly original.This is just bad.. "},{"Title":"Ghoulies delivers the ghoulish goods! ***1/2 out of 5","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a must see for the horror fan. This is one of Charles Band earlier theatrical works and I think it is truly entertaining.Admittedly the focus isn't entirely on the Ghoulies as the trailers would make you think. But you do get plenty of Ghoulie for your buck.Some of my favorite scenes in the film are when every one is chanting gibberish and the ghoulies jump in and start chanting along. Funny stuff. Also when everyone is wearing shades at the dinner table and the ghoulies come in to feast.Scott Thomson's role as a stoned guy was my favorite. You hardly ever see him without his shades on.Good stuff. See it. "},{"Title":"Not a Rip-Off","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie went into production before Gremlins was ever an issue. The two movies have zero similarities. Its funny how many people still call it a ripoff While it's not the greatest movie in the world. It's a relic from my childhood. And deserves a little respect for it's place in all of our memories. I am watching Ghoulies 2 right now On the Monster Channel. And that my friends is a 10 line comment for a quick thought. )Good night... And well... Thats all.Wow IMDb Really screws you with the sticklerism.Oh well what else to say? I said it all. Do they want a synopsis here?Some one let me know about this. Send me a private message. "},{"Title":"Oh, yes!!!!!","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Oh yeah! How scary can this movie get????? Ghoulies is by far, one of the funniest scary movies ever! It sits right there in the same throne as Gremlins (made one whole year earlier), no doubt about that! I like how those creatures from the living night come out of all sorts of things and places, as suggested by the poster on this page! Movies like this will make you excited for ages to come, and get you psyched for other horror films that are cheesy yet queasy like Critters and any Mystery Science Theater 3000 flick, unriffed! (Oops, did I just admit that? Sorry; my bad.) Anyhow, Ghoulies gets a ten out of ten in my book and it'll be really scary if you hate it! "},{"Title":"They call me Dick, but you can call me Dick!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Aaaaaah...the eighties.  In the eighties, you could make a movie about anything you wanted...and pull it off...and have sequels.  Ghoulies is a fine example.  It's basically the poor man's Gremlins, with evil muppets running wild and wreaking havoc.  And it's loaded with camp too.  You know it can't get much cheesier when the guy from Fast Times at Ridgemont High starts breakdancing.  The material is handled well though.  I think they knew the limits of what they could do, and never attempted to cross them.  I love the score however.  The very Beetlejuice-like intro is great.  Richard Band has a knack for having good music in his films.  Ghoulies adds up to be an entertaining and enjoyable waste of time.  And remember, they'll get you in the end.Note  The actress who played Greedigut actually played E. T.  "}{"Title":"Fun in a campy B-movie kind of way but its story is just too silly.","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This really started off as a fine enjoyable, typical '80's campy horror/comedy but the movie unfortunately became worse and worse to watch as it progressed.The movie realized it wasn't a brilliant one and it compensated this with it's silly fun and camp value. This however doesn't mean that the movie can just get away with everything, especially not when it throws away most of its fun and decides to turn into an occult horror movie, in which just nothing interesting ever happens.What are even Ghoulies? And what do they want? This movie its story is so bad that it doesn't even bother to explain anything. Besides, it isn't being very original in any way and it 'borrows' a lot from different horror movies. But the foremost problem remains the story. It just doesn't seem to have a point in it and it isn't really ever heading anywhere.As an horror flick it also is definitely lacking in some good horror. The movie isn't providing any scares and even though it has a decent atmosphere, it doesn't ever make the movie a tense, mysterious or exciting one to watch. Perhaps they could had spiced things up a little bit more with some good gore but the movie mostly remains on the clean and safe side. The special effects, make-up and puppets and all also aren't always too convincing looking, which adds to the camp-level of the movie but also is a killer for the movie its horror and just story in general.The movie must had done something right though. It became quite a big box office success. It only had a 1 million dollar budget but the profit was 35 times that amount. After this they also made 3 more sequels, which supposedly are all even worse than this establishment, which is a real accomplishment on its own. I'm still gonna watch them though, being the nut I am.Decent and entertaining first halve, pretty bad second halve, make an overall lacking horror/comedy.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A complete and total waste of time.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't believe some people actually like this! This was one of the stupidest, most boring films I have ever seen! Not one second of it was actually interesting or entertaining. The filmmakers must have had some money to waste, because I don't think anyone would actually believe this to be a worthwhile effort. Geez, just plain awful. "},{"Title":"Pretty Bad.","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I like really bad horror, I really do. But not in the way this is bad. I actually like the start of the movie, not the intro with the escape of the baby so much as the introduction of the main characters and the party and stuff.I dug the 80's-ness of this I guess, there were some really hot girls in this, which some GOOD horror movies lack. I can't believe that Marishka Hagity(sp?) from Law and Order-SVU use to be as hot as she is in this (I don't really like Law and Order, but will watch it maybe 6 times a year when I'm bored).Once the Supernatural elements come into the main part of the story it just gets crap. Honestly it feels like a story a kid wrote, the way it flows, and the way things happen. Actually come to think about it, it does feel like a kids movie in a lot of ways.The only thing this movie could be good for would be to play drinking games to it. Otherwise, avoid it.2/10(Reviewed after first viewing) "},{"Title":"GHOULIES (Luca Bercovici, 1985) *1/2","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is another revisit from long ago but, instead of time having added to its luster a' la my recent screening of GORILLA AT LARGE (1954), it has only revealed it as the silly piece of junk it always has been. Sporting several of the same crew members who would later be reteamed for TROLL (1986; see my comments above), it deals with the Satanic goings-on in an abandoned Italian villa perpetrated by the long-lost son of a Cult leader (whose demise occurs at the film’s very start) to the eventual indifference of his goofy, pot-headed group of friends (including Mariska Hargitay, the daughter of Mickey Hargitay and Jayne Mansfield, who had escaped unscathed in the freak car accident which took the life of her actress mum).Unfortunately, unlike the preceding Gremlins or the later Trolls, the titular creeps don’t have much of a personality; they are the handiwork of John Carl Buechler who later stepped behind the camera to inflict on an unsuspecting world such works of dubious artistry as TROLL (which, actually, wasn’t half-bad), Friday THE 13TH PART VII THE NEW BLOOD (1988; which has already receded irretrievably into my subconscious) and even GHOULIES III GHOULIES GO TO COLLEGE (1991)!! Apart from a mercifully brief but equally embarrassing turn from David Lynch mascot Jack Nance at the start and end of the film, the cast is peopled by obnoxious characters – from the hero who turns green-eyed when in the throes of Satanic possession to the clumsy, lock-jawed Morrissey-lookalike hunk of the party. Not that it matters but, for some reason, the end of the film reverses most of the evil that had happened throughout, making this a singularly pointless venture in the annals of screen history (and its being followed by three sequels all the more baffling)! "},{"Title":"Yeah, it bad but that What I expected","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie came on late last night. ( Just came here to review and notice that it say 81 min as IN UK it cut down to 77min, not sure if they cut any good scenes but I very much doubt that they need to cut something from this movie)I knew the movie was going to be bad but well it was really bad but what Did not like it was never really about Ghoulies at all , it more about person who gets the powerWe do get these see Ghoulies , all different from one and other but there don't really attack anyone until about the Hour mark.The attack scenes were a little tame and effects were not too bad but watchable in this movieI did not like the plot of the movie went at all, I wanted more of Ghoulies but it all about the person who had the power.I expecting something bad and that what I got!2 out of 10Clad it was really short movie. "},{"Title":"Ghoulies the worst 80s movie","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This must be the worst 80s movie ever. Because the acting is bad, the Ghoulies don't do much and its another Gremlins rip off. Let me give you a quick summary of the movie. Its about a young man who moves into his fathers house. Who somehow died, we don't really know. As he lives with his girlfriend. Later in the movie he goes down to his basement to clean up as he finds something strange in the basement. As he has a look into the box he finds some cloths I don't know. Then he takes it out of the basement he puts it on he starts to turn evil as he later on summons the Ghoulies, then turns into a bad guy summons his dad back to life as Wolfgang safes him. In the end everyone lives happily ever after. so I give this movie * out of ***** and also please no more gremlin rip offs. "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was pretty bad,the sequel GHOULIES 2 1987 was much better.","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought this movie was pretty bad.A young man moves into an old house which he inherits and starts performing rituals in the basement.He conjures up evil little demons(GHOULIES)to do his biding.A womans tongue strangles a man,a plastic mime comes to life and starts killing people and zombies rise from the grave.The GHOULIES from the title are barely in it.It might just as well been called Black Magic.The acting is average,the creatures look really cheesy and the whole thing turns a bit silly.The sequel GHOULIES 2 1987 was much better. "},{"Title":"Check the math! It don't add up!","Date":"6 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Do you know how hard it is to refinance your home? How hard it is to get a business loan? An estimated million dollars was pooled together to make this movie! What the f*ck? This movie could have become five remodeled homes, or a dentist office or a burger joint, instead it became Ghoulies. I mean, what does that mean? Is that a knock against the human race, y'know like proof that we're all a bunch of pieces of sh*t? If you had a million dollars would you spend it on Ghoulies, I mean you could buy a house and pay off your student loans and still have a fortune left to put into savings for retirement, does this movie seem like a BETTER idea? Are you sure? "},{"Title":"Schlock and Awe","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies was the first (and still the most successful) little creature film to rip off Joe Dante's Gremlins (others that followed included the Critters series, Evil Toons, and the execrable Munchies) and helped put Charles Band's Empire Pictures on the map. I remember seeing this one as a teenager and thinking even way back then that it wasn't much good, but when it came on Turner Classic Movies this past weekend, I couldn't help myself and gave it a whirl, figuring that I could use a blast of '80s cheez nostalgia.Unfortunately, even nostalgia can't save this dog of a movie. The script is absolutely nonsensical (and appears to have been made up as the filmmakers went along), the acting's terrible, and the creatures, though cool looking, don't really get to do much once we finally see'em.Our story (such as it is) twenty something Jonathan has inherited a big ole mansion that belonged to his parents, who were bigwigs in the local Satanic cult. Jonathan starts messing with the leftover black magic stuff in the basement and boom, conjures up a bunch of nasty looking little creatures who begin snacking on his idiot friends. Unfortunately, Jonathan's too busy trying to patch things up with his girlfriend to notice this or the fact that he's accidentally resurrected his dead father (played by rocker Michael Des Barres), who happens to be conveniently buried on the property. Thus, a battle for supreme power ensues, via lots of cheap special effects, yelling and screaming. The ending is not really an ending, it's just one more shock scene to set up the inevitable sequel (of which there were three, if memory serves).Ghoulies has some cool looking (for its time) creature and puppet effects (a trademark of most Charles Band/Empire productions) and Band's combo of Gothic Horror and high camp would serve the studio well in their seemingly dozens of creature features that followed this one (see Doctor Mordrid, the Puppet Master series, Demonic Toys, SubSpecies, etc.), most of which were way better than (and most likely paid for by the success of) Ghoulies. The PG-13 rating for Ghoulies is puzzling, as it's pretty dark stuff. I can just imagine a 1985 theatre full of parents taking their 12 year olds to this sickie, thinking it's going to be another action packed cute-critter flick like Gremlins ... until the Satanic Black Mass in the opening scene! Added trivia notes, apparently one of the midgets in this flick was the guy inside the E.T. suit, and a very young, very hot Mariska Hargitay (of future Law & Order fame) makes her film debut here as one of the teenybopper victims.Worth a look for '80s trash devotees but otherwise there are far better options. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As bad as MUNCHIES. As bad as most of the PUPPETMASTER series (some of the same folks were involved in both). In fact, the movie looks like it started out as a satanic thriller that somehow morphed into a GREMLINS ripoff. And to think this stinker spawned three sequels, each worse than the next! "}{"Title":"Bad.. but I still like it.","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If your going to go buy how well acted it is your going to be sorry. It's a bad movie but I p***ed myself laughing at how bad some of the stuff that goes on in this movie and I must say being entertained is what movies should do and theres nothing wrong with laughing. the plot is some guy named johnaton making demons, the ghoulies come to life or some crap. the first 45 minutes is pretty dull but I laughed my ass off at the last 30 or so minutes. If your looking for a movie to get drunk with you should rent the sequels there more fun, but give ghoulies a try the last 30 minutes are a laugh** out of 4 "},{"Title":"Entertaining hogwash","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The trouble with this movie is the puppet - like special effects and the mumbo-jumbo black magic that permeates the plot. The movie isn't really that bad - its humorous and entertaining provided that you can get over the embarrassment of having to admit that you actually are watching such a bunch of hogwash. I rated it a 4 of 10  "},{"Title":"Typical Inane Mess From the 1980s.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Terrible little would-be-horror film about a young couple who inherit a spooky mansion and conjure up the titled beings using black magic spells with their dim-witted friends. The film is cheap, dark, ugly, poorly written and horribly acted. However the movie would be a minor box office success and spawn several equally bad sequels. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "},{"Title":"Dreadful Gremlins ripoff","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ghoulies is a ridiculous creature feature that is nothing more than a pathetic ripoff of Gremlins. You know you're in trouble when the ads for this movie shows a creature sticking his head up from inside a toilet. Gremlins is a million times better than this. It always has been and it always will be. Gremlins is a classic monster movie. Ghoulies is a classic piece of junk.No stars (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Pretty Pathetic","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the saddest (as in awful) movies I have ever seen. It is a rip-off of a Gremlins apparently thrown together in a week. I actually own the entire series though, because they are so stupid they're funny.  "},{"Title":"Not a Gremlins ripoff--and pretty awful","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A young couple (Peter Liapis and Lisa Pelikan) inherit a huge old house from his family. It's deserted and falling apart so naturally they move in. It seems his dad was a witch and had a coven that sacrificed people. After they move in he starts practicing black magic and doing rituals--just like dear old dad. It seems dad is eager to come back from the dead and start the coven again...As you can see this has nothing to do with gremlins or such--it's a humans vs. witchcraft movie--and a bad one. I started realizing I was in trouble with opening credits Empire Pictures presents A Charles Band Production. Empire made dreadful no budget horror films and Charles Band produced all of them. That should have been enough for me to grab the remote and change channels--but I kept watching.The acting is pretty terrible--Pelikan and Liapis are bad but top honors go to Scott Thomson as their incredibly annoying friend Mike. The direction is lousy--there's not even an establishing shot of the house until 15 minutes in! The script is dull and drags along. As for the ghoulies---they look pretty silly and have absolutely no reason to be in the movie. They were probably added in because Gremlins was such a hit the year before.There's next to no blood, no gore and the attack scenes looks pretty silly (except for one somewhat creepy one involving a killer clown). It all ends up in a silly battle between a good witch and a bad witch with sub-par special effects. Even an appearance by Jack Nance can't save this.This was inexplicably a HUGE hit in 1985 (mostly with kids) and led to 2 sequels (which I refuse to see). This can't even be enjoyed on a bad/good level or as camp--it's too boring! Avoid. "},{"Title":"Ghoulies","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Bottom-of-the-barrel film-making has Jonathan(Peter Liapis), the son of a powerful Satan worshiper, possessed by his dead father's spirit after he inherits the man's estate. Everyone, from his girlfriend Rebecca(Lisa Pelikan)to his other seven friends..all will fall prey to the ghoulies, a nasty group of puppet monsters. Jonathan, and his green eyes, will seemingly bring his father's life back through the conjuring of spells and supposed sacrifices, but really figuring out what the hell is going on is anyone's guess since it's obvious the ones behind the making of this so-called film seemed to have no idea. The story itself is stupid, rife with obnoxious, idiotic characters like Jonathan who act incredibly moronic. Jack Nance, oh boy, gets handed one rotten role as the man who somehow rescues Jonathan(he and the infant's mother who takes his place)from being sacrificed to Satan by Malcolm, the father. There are two other demonic servants for which Jonathan conjures up that do his bidding as well.The film is loaded with silly death sequences and it's blatantly obvious that the ghoulies are puppets guided around by puppeteers so the film has no scares whatsoever. This film will only apply to those who adore the worst kind of bad cinema. Horrible, horrible horror film. May be of interest to those who watch the long-running detective series LAW & ORDERSPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT since one of this film's victims is Mariska Hargitay..heck, everyone has to start somewhere even if it's in this hunk of garbage. "},{"Title":"Total crap.","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ghoulies starts with Jonathan Graves (Liapis) being left his late Father's (Michael Des Barres) large house & he decides to move in with his girlfriend Rebecca (Lisa Pelikan). Things take a turn for the worse though when unseen supernatural powers start to possess Jonathan making him want to perform weird Satanic rituals like conjuring up a rain storm in the basement which Rebecca is understandably annoyed about. As Jonathan continues to dabble in the occult he calls up various small green demons that don't do much except stand around & two dwarfs (Peter Risch & Tamara De Treaux), making sense so far? Good. These dwarfs basically hold the key to all knowledge & power or something like that & eventually Jonathan's dead Father rises from his grave, which happens to be located in the garden...Co-written & directed by Luca Bercovici I pretty much hated this cheap, unappealing & throughly rotten attempt at a Gremlins (184) rip-off. The script by Bercovici & Jefery Levy is real bottom-of-the-barrel stuff from start to finish, it's incredibly slow & boring, despite being called Ghoulies the said little creatures hardly do anything until the very end, they just sort of stand there because the terrible special effects won't allow them to do anything else. The entire film never leaves the confines of the same house which consists of a couple of bedrooms, a kitchen & dining room, it becomes very monotonous & dull. The character's are awful, why would anyone want to conduct a Satanic ritual for 'fun' & where are you going to find people stupid enough to join in? There's hardly any exploitation, there's no gore or any decent horror elements. Apparently Ghoulies is meant to be a horror comedy, well besides there being zero horror it's about as funny as haemorrhoid's. I can't think of one positive thing to say about it, I can't believe there's any people out there who actually like this.Director Bercovici ruins anything the film could have had going for it with some truly awful special effects & puppet shots. Ther's no scares, there's no atmosphere & zero tension as a few lame brain retards are killed off at the end but to add insult to injury Bercovici has them all return from the dead in a hideous 'happy' ending that made me cringe. Also where did the slimy monster that came from the clown outfit go? Anyone whose seen it will know what I'm talking about. Forget about any gore as this is family friendly PG stuff all the way, it says on he IMDb that 12 minutes were cut to secure this rating & while I can't quite believe it's that much it's painfully obvious that it's cut & that this was probably intended to be stronger.With a supposed budget of about $1,000,000 Ghoulies apparently did very well on VHS, I honestly can't think why as it's crap but there you go there's no accounting for taste. The acting is terrible which means it suits the film in general right down to the ground.Ghoulies is crap, watch Gremlins again instead. This film has absolutely nothing going for it, definitely one to avoid folks. Followed by three further sequels, Ghoulies II (1987), Ghoulies III Ghoulies go to College (1991) & Ghoulies IV (1994). Thankfully the series now appears to be dead, there is a god after all. "}]