[{"Title":"Rolling Stone gathers no gross....","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A legendary flop and a legendarily bad movie, this mess is part three in a career-killing trilogy of Travolta's that also includes Staying Alive and Two of a Kind.  It took him a long time to bounce back.  It also stalled Curtis's career for a while until A Fish Called Wanda rescued her.  The story, such as it is, concerns Travolta, a Rolling Stone magazine reporter, looking for a story angle within a huge gymnasium at the height of the aerobics and fitness craze.  He's already working on another more important story, but wants this as a back-up in case an all-important interview falls through.  He zeroes in on high-profile aerobics instructor Curtis who has a huge following (which often kisses her on the mouth following one of her workouts!)  Unfortunately, she's had a major disaster with a reporter in the past and resists being interviewed for his story.  In order for there to be a movie, he must wear her down and get her assistance even though there are 90 other instructors at this mega-gym.  The film is very unfocused and disjointed throughout.  It tries to be too many things  a reflection of investigative journalism, an ethics drama, an examination of self-esteem issues, a music video crash-course in Jazzercise and, most obviously, a jiggle movie with emphasis on lycra-clad spread legs and tight behinds.  The script is so crass and stupid with ludicrous lines like, You're a sphincter muscle... (this one is repeated often!) and unnecessary subplots which lead nowhere.  Travolta is awful.  He speaks his lines with his mouth almost open, stares blankly with no skill at conveying what's on his mind and, in the films most celebratedly horrendous scene, gyrates his bulging crotch at the camera ad nauseam while sweat trickles down his pale, clammy face and body.  Curtis looks very fresh and attractive most of the film (if a bit sexually ambiguous) eschewing the huge hair and heavy make-up of the times.  Her character is a little too self-righteous, but her acting is better than anyone else around.  Wenner, a non-actor, provides a jarring presence whenever he appears because he (along with several other real people cast in the film) hasn't got the polish to really sell his role even though it reflects his position in real life (as the founder of Rolling Stone!)  Most of the other actors in the film either overact horrendously or flat-line.  More importantly, the audience does not care about anyone in the film and so does not care when various events and revelations come about.  There is some inherent camp value in revisiting the hilarious workout clothes of the 80's and in hearing the bouncy, tacky music of the era, but the movie is way too long for it's subject matter and the music montages wear out their welcome very quickly.  And for all the sweating and gyration, there are no sex scenes in the film.  Look out for pansexual Burt Reynolds look-alike (and alleged Travolta bed partner) Barresi in the cast as a gym rat eager to show off his body.   "},{"Title":"Subscriptions to Rolling Stone magazine must've taken a hit after this one...","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" John Travolta tries his best as writer for Rolling Stone magazine hoping to finish an unflattering piece on the faddish California health club scene, but complications arise after he falls in love with a sexy, sensitive aerobics instructor. Perfect-ly awful drama, shallow and dated, is surprisingly cynical about Rolling Stone and its ethics (this despite the fact the producers had the magazine's input and even cast its editor, Jann Wenner, in a supporting role!). Film does get a tiny bit of class from Jamie Lee Curtis, and supporting players Anne De Salvo as a photographer and Laraine Newman as a wallflower are more than respectable in clichéd roles. * from **** "},{"Title":"Perfect? It's anything but!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My Goodness, what a bomb! We didn't drop anything this big on Iraq!Perfect is the story of a Rolling Stone reporter (Travolta) who trips over his ethics, or lack there of while writing two big stories. His first story deals with a computer tycoon in hot water with the U.S. government for selling his products to an Eastern-Bloc country. This angle is played way up considering the lack of details we are told about the situation. No matter, the story you will remember deals with a swanky health club in L.A.. Travolta wishes to write a piece about how health clubs in the 1980s are replacing the singles bars of the 1970s as the #1 place for people to meet. Take that premise and see how long you can stretch it. Director Bridges apparently thought he could drag it out for nearly two hours and still keep our attention.This film suffers from a severe lack of focus. There are too many location changes to count. There is also too much running around and too much time wasted on insignificant little things. For example, what was up with Travolta's sudden trip to Morocco near the end of the film. It had no purpose what so ever! Another problem this film has is its tendency to drag out every scene to last as long as whatever cheesy 80s dance song is playing in the background. That gets old pretty darn quick.This film is also hopelessly dated in terms of fashion. If any guy came into my health club wearing tights or a fish-net tank top, he'd probably get beaten up. Bridges & CO also try to recycle a gag that worked in Urban Cowboy. In that film, there was a scene featuring numerous women dressed up for a Dolly Parton look-alike contest. In this film, we get about a hundred people dressed up as Boy George in a scene at a hotel. In Urban Cowboy it worked since there was a legitimate reason for all the people to dress that way. They were at least trying to win a contest. The scene in Perfect is useless and it only serves to date the film even further. This film was by no means Travolta's worst. Has anyone seen The Experts or Shout? This film did, however, have his most embarrassing scene. In it, he's sweating away in Jamie Lee Curtis's aerobics class and doing a never-ending series of pelvic thrusts to the dance beat. His crotch has obviously been stuffed with a sock, or perhaps the thing Hammer used in his Pumps in a Bump video. Truly hilarious!Travolta is a talented actor, but he has nothing to work with here. Jamie Lee Curtis is also a great talent, but she is wasted as well. She looks absolutely gorgeous, but her character is so moody and abrasive that we can hardly stand her. The supporting cast of mostly unknowns fills out their respective stereotypical roles as well as they can.In all, this is a poor film on all levels. It tries to be an insightful look at journalistic ethics and falls flat on its face. It comes off as being little more than a two hour plug for Rolling Stone Magazine. Too Bad.3 of 10 starsSo sayeth the Hound. "},{"Title":"Come on, its not that bad!","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Really, Perfect is not the tactical warhead everyone seems to be implying. This is not on the same level as 80s catastrophes like Megaforce, Grease 2, Howard the Duck, or (heaven help us) Staying Alive. Perfect is nothing more than tragic misfire from extremely talented director James Bridges (The Paper Chase, Urban Cowboy) that makes the dire mistake of treating the aerobics, health club fad of the mid-80s as a serious cultural phenomenon (ugh).It also helped to derail John Travolta's career for the better part of a decade - sad, because all one has to do is take a look at his outstanding performances in Blow Out and Urban Cowboy and realize that his acting in Perfect was just fine (if a bit low key). It's a shame, he could have made a lot of great movies while he was stuck in dreck like The Experts and strange late 80s Altman theatre pieces like Pinter's The Dumb Waiter (with Tom Conti!).Travolta plays a Rolling Stone journalist hot on the trail of a big story about how health clubs are the new pick-up joints, replacing singles bars. He meets The Pied Piper of aerobics teachers Jamie Lee Curtis, a former Olymic swimmer who was once burned by a journalist over a piece about how she was having an affair with her coach. Of course, she and Travolta hook up and Travolta meets some other folks who frequent the gym, who are like supporting characters in a David Lynch movie (I'm unsure if the director intended to portray them as weird as they come off).Real-life Rolling Stone editor Jann Wenner shows up to essentially play himself (not very well) and, in the film's most laughable detail, Travolta writes a version of his story portraying health clubs as Emersonian watering holes of the future (or something like that).It's all kind of bloated and weird, but really not that bad. Travolta's actually pretty good. Jamie Lee Curtis looks great but comes off as slightly grouchy, but she was probably directed that way.Don't miss Travolta's notorious pelvic thrust sequence (you can't miss it). "},{"Title":"1985....Like a Jackie Collins novel....a bad year","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Hitcher (young C. Thomas Howell) and Risky Business came out, Wes Craven was doing his Nightmare on Elm Street series...so what did we young people have for drama? This.If you need a laugh now, you may want to tune in. While Jamie Lee Curtis tries to elevate this, it is simply not elevate-able.Laraine Newman and Marilu Henner are gym groupies with no self-esteem, (Marilu gets the Chippendale man though, so it's all good). John Travolta as a semi-literate writer at Rolling Stone. (We know he is good, because in the end he goes to jail for protecting a source). There are some scenes with Jann Wenner and Lauren Hutton, apparently the then in-crowd, at a party.The really sad part about this is that there really were people like this; the gym was a sense of self-esteem;(along with anorexia). Aerobics class became the next singles hang-out as the song Masquerade blares out, while everyone obsesses over plastic surgery and the perfect body (The Laraine Newman character is particularly pathetic). We see the superficiality. Has anything changed? Indeed, they could remake this with Jessica Simpson as the lead. Someone get on the phone to CAA!. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally hilarious in places, but Curtis is profoundly likable","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Made during the heyday of the aerobics craze, Perfect seemed like a great idea for the studio Columbia to cash in on a trend and more... . Like Travolta's breakthrough picture Saturday Night Fever and Urban Cowboy, Travolta's other collaboration with director James Bridges, it was based on a series of news articles focused on a trend and lifestyle. But in 1983 Flashdance, maybe the quintessential high concept picture, came out, a movie, with no plot to speak of, which was set to an up-tempo chic pop soundtrack and contained a lot of images with a dancing Jennifer Beals double, that were easily marketable to a big audience. And they went to see it in big numbers. Perfect, unfortunately for the studio, came out in theaters when the aerobics craze had already reached it's peak.Perfect contains the same elements that made Flashdance a big commercial success thin plotting and characterization, an up-tempo pop soundtrack and lots of images of people dancing to the music in sequences that don't seem to further the plot or deepen characterization. But Flashdance didn't pretend to be much more than what it is namely a cheap piece of fluff. Perfect, on the other hand, strives for something a little more worthwhile, but fails on those accounts. Bridges put in some ethical comments on the profession of journalism. And he also tried to put in a potentially interesting thriller-storyline around the McKenzie character. But these are soon discarded for the romantic storyline between Curtis and Travolta, that starts out in a playful way but soon turns tiresome due to bad plotting and characterization. That's not to say that Curtis and Travolta are bad in this. Curtis, who seems incapable to give an unlikeable performance, especially does her best and nearly lifts the movie with her enthusiasm.What's left of Perfect are a couple of hilariously great aerobics scenes, in which Curtis gives her all, a hilariously great male stripper scene and some really bad hair moments. So, bad movie aficionado's, like me, and Curtis fans, like me, will find something to like in this. Therefore my rating is 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Aerobics, Rolling Stone, and a Hunka Hunka Burnin' Travolta!","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, I know this is a bad, bad movie. It's not like I have any diamond in the rough illusions about this actually being a good movie that's merely misunderstood. So why is it that I watch it every time it's on? I honestly love watching this film!Maybe it's the dated 80s setting and the studly guys that look utterly homosexual now. Perhaps it's the great lines, like Anne De Salvo looking directly into the camera and saying, C'mon, guys, make me suffer, or Matthew Reed (in his one and only screen role) saying, It was love at first sight. I took one look at those tits and my whole body got hard! It could be John Travolta going through his aerobics routine with a sock in his jock, or Larraine Newman straddling the leg-spreader, proving that not every woman looks sexy in a leotard.Of course there's Jamie Lee Curtis calling Travolta a sphincter muscle three different times. There's also Jann Wenner gyrating his fat gut during the closing credits. How about the pointless scene where hundreds of Boy George fans storm the hotel, or Curtis deleting Travolta's article by merely backspacing (What kind of word processor is that)? There's even the premise that Rolling Stone is a serious news magazine - HAW HAW HAW!I seriously can't recommend paying money for this, but it's worth a watch if it comes on a local channel just for the sheer badness of it all. This is the definitive nadir of Travolta's career (check that...it is better than Battlefield Earth, but what isn't?) After this, even Look Who's Talking Now looks brilliant. "},{"Title":"Strangely underrated","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While promoting Pulp Fiction back in the 1990's Tarantino while explaining his casting of John Travolta in what would be one of his most iconic roles, resurrecting his career and taking to a new status, the writer and director didn't mention Grease or Saturday Night Fever as why he thought Travolta was a good actor. He quoted loving him in movies such as Blow Out, Carrie and this little gem called Perfect. Such opinions are quite surprising since most of those films (except Carrie) weren't box-office hits neither well criticized, some gaining cult status in the following years of its release. However, even with Quentin's approval Perfect still finds a great deal of unexplainable resistance among film buffs, currently giving to this one of the most absurd low ratings ever given to a quite decent movie. A short way to explain the story is thinking of an Absence of Malice made for the masses it deals with ethics in journalism with Travolta playing a biased Rolling Stone reporter while unsatisfied with the running of a controversial article involving political officials dealing with corruption charges, decides to write a new and apparently harmless article on health clubs and their new function as being a cool dating place replacing the decadent singles bars. Yeah, why bothering going in places where everybody is so down when you go to a happier place, make lots of exercise and meet guys and girls with perfect bodies? There's something worth writing he thinks. Working as an obstacle to this story is a gym instructor (played by Jamie Lee Curtis) who doesn't trust reporters after a career damaging event when a reporter distorted facts while publishing a story involving her. While Travolta's story goes under false pretensions (with a bit of truth in it as well), he can't escape resisting some affection he has by the main character of his article, who each day goes by starts to like this guy, believing he's about to write a good report on the gym and its attendees. The stone in the way of this movie is that its lack of seriousness while the events are being unfolded, often deeply concerned about the romance between the main characters. At times you think something really dangerous is about to happen, he's being followed by someone due to the other inflammable article where Travolta is torn in between telling about what his source said to him on an exclusive interview or go to jail to protect his source, but no, the film doesn't take off much from this scenario except towards its conclusion to be used as a closure to the gym instructor situation, a predictable and not very believable device. But Perfect manages to keep you hold to your seat due to the reliable and impressive performances of Curtis, Travolta, Laraine Newman, Marilu Henner and small appearances from Kenneth Welsh and David Paymer. It drags down a bit when it stays for too long in the work out exercises, fun for the actors jumping up and down to the coolest and energic 1980's soundtrack but tiring for us viewers seeing an unimaginative lack of camera angles and poor editing which shifts from two different angles instead of being more acrobatic.Story delivered some valid points (although it can look ridiculously dated now since gym's are also definitely places for dating and no one questions those things anymore), might not be perfect (no pun intended), it was well balanced and easy to follow and feel interested. So, why viewers think this is one of the worst movies ever? Makes me wonder what some of you are watching these days. There's plenty of quality in Perfect, you just need to open your eyes to see it. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Perfect was a Perfect 80s film","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Being that I was in my early 20s I remember very well the 80s, which was I need to be perfect decade. Smarts took a back-seat to buff & tan. Everyone was pumping iron, getting tan, blow-drying their hair, checking their look in the mirror, and flaunting their bods. Gosh! Darn! It sounds exactly like South Beach today!! Nothing has changed!What is a shock is how badly John Travola and Jaime Lee Curtis have aged. They were both so perfect in 1985. There's no excuse for a sex-Symbol like Johnny T. to have gotten so bloated and out-of-shape. Hey, don't get me wrong, I'm a big fan of Travolta. However his best work(aside from Pulp Fiction) was made in the late 70s and early 80s-Carrie, Saturday Night Fever, Grease, Urban Cowboy, and even for its time, Perfect. And Jaime Lee was so beautiful, so well-built, and so sexy. Oh well, thank goodness for videos.Funny how today's generation thinks the out-fits in this film were so strange. I look at the out-fits today and I think they are really stranger than anything we wore in the 80s. "},{"Title":"Perfect? Not really... Entertaining? Definitely.","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was definitely the final nail in Travolta's metaphorical coffin having been preceded by 'Staying Alive' and 'Two of a Kind'. Upon first viewing of the film, I was dumbstruck to find what I thought was Travolta acting poorly and the story seemed to be absolutely forgettable and pointless! But after persevering with the movie a couple of times more, I enjoyed it. I even changed my mind on Travolta's performance and realised what he actually tried to do-a mixture of anger, frustration, fatigue, mild charm-all of which are attributed to a workaholic Rolling Stone journalist such as his character Adam. The music has a pulsating beat although I do admit some songs on the film's soundtrack are better than others but the music does seem to carry this film along. Curtis is dazzling in her role as the 'Aerobics Pied Piper.'(Her sexy body and amazing legs are a plus for this movie.) Jann Wenner deserves special mention even though he's probably playing himself considering he was then the editor and now owner of Rolling Stone Magazine. This is a real 80s movie, and a strange theme involving both journalism and aerobics somehow merging together. Travolta and Curtis both do a great job in their roles bringing a contrast of characters in their relationship. I didn't however like the beginning or ending credits at all. The beginning was just basic and static-a list of credits against a plain background. The ending wasn't great either--Berlin's 'Masquerade' song (which is, in my opinion, a weak link in the film's soundtrack), plays on while ALL of the key characters do aerobics...Is that realistic? Bizarre. I rather liked it when Curtis meets Travolta at the end and they drive off. There, is when it should have ended. But I guess all in all, an entertaining mid-80s movie. "}{"Title":"Let's Get Physical!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this movie didn't do as well as expected at the box office in 1985, this by no means takes away from the energy and atmosphere of this movie.  The main drawback back in '85, was that everyone had high expectations for this movie since it was directed by the same guy that gave us The China Syndrome.  The main plot of a Rolling Stone reporter (Travolta) trying to get the inside scoop of the fitness boom of the '80s from (Curtis) is the most enjoyable.  The sub plot of white collar crime is a little on the boring side, and doesn't really mesh with the fitness plot.  It's interesting to see all of the aerobic exercises in total '80s style, but by today's standards are outdated.  Everything from the neck rolls Jaime Lee Curtis does, to the high impact aerobics which looks like it's done on a minimally padded floor, really makes this movie dated, but funny in a way.  One thing to remember is that Perfect was made during a time when going for the burn, and no pain, no gain were the buzz words throughout the fitness industry.  Little did people know that trying to be a hardbody could land you in the hospital!  If you are looking for some light entertainment, and you are a fan of John Travolta, Jaime Lee Curtis, Marilu Henner etc, then you will definitely enjoy this enjoyable taste of '80s nostalgia, legwarmers & all! "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised to see that this movie was only rated a 4 by IMBD members. I loved this movie. Jamie Lee Curtis and John Travolta were very good in their roles. The double story lines about the MacKenzie and Health Clubs reports were very realistic and interesting.But I guess the real reason I liked this movie is because I decided two months ago to get into shape. I am already seeing amazing results and this movie with it's health club story and terrific soundtrack help keep me motivated. But even if you aren't currently involved in a fitness program you will find it impossible to keep from dancing to the music in this movie. One song I loved was Masquerade by Berlin.For those of you who are wondering if you should see this movie, please ignore the negative things you have heard and rent it anyway. "},{"Title":"Unreal and underrated","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, I would like to ask those of you who voted for this picture, why you voted so poorly. This is not a bad movie.I saw this movie recently and found myself liking into the first 30 minutes. Energetic music and exhausting aerobic dance scenes were quite enjoyable.Although it is a typically daggy 80's film, it stills captures your interest from beginning to end. While most of the actors are basically average (not-famous otherwise), there were standout performances by both Lee Curtis and Travolta.To add to the credibility of this film, the storyline is very engaging and does not lose its flow. Energetic, fun, absorbing. It has been under-estimated by many viewers, but at least there is one person out here that enjoyed it.**** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Not really (rental)","Date":"23 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie isn't really a stinker but i get bored very quickly  first, I have never liked Travolta as an actor and this movie doesn't change my opinion. Next, the story lacks focus and pace Travolta writes 2 stories at the same time, it's a news movie, a love movie, nearly a judicial movie and maybe a comedy&#x85; It's really too much for a poor actor like Travolta and the aerobic study isn't really interesting  sure it says it's a bit silly as ordinary people doesn't really need to train like professionals but the members are too crazy&#x85; What's left is a good Jamie Lee who really gave all her sweat for this part, the feel of the 80s with the first computer and really great cars and fashion&#x85; "},{"Title":"A fun walk down memory lane","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have a BS in Merchandising and a love of fashion history, so this movie hits it home for me. As a kid of the 80s, I saw this on HBO/Cinemax probably 15 times. I was just hitting puberty when it came out and I wanted to jump inside that movie and live it. Jamie Lee looks phenomenal (would love to know her training and diet program pre-production) and Marilu is just adorable as the very sweet Sally- there's usually one Sally in every group of gals. I recall step aerobics being huge at that time and Jazzercise but this is very dancy- like the off Broadway production of HipThrust! The Musical. Frankly the aerobics they show is injury-inducing and I really feel for their hip flexors after all that thrusting during production. Back to the movie, I really would love to see more of this club and the background characters. In the opening sequences of the club introduction, there are several racquetball courts, a café area, food and pro shop. The health club in my hometown looked *just* like this, so much so, I think they modeled their club after this movie. "},{"Title":"Irresistibly bad. You'll love this!","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Definitely not awful, but I can see why its raved as being so. It's your typical superbly cheesy 80s flick that we've all seen and loved. Travolta portrays a young Rolling Stone reporter who's sent to LA to uncover a major drug case. He agrees to do so, but sees it as an opportunity to write another story on fitness clubs being like singles bars of the 80s. He tries to make both stories big successes while trying to woo a fitness instructor (Jamie Lee Curtis), who's had a bad experience with newspapers and reporters. Travolta, Curtis and the chicks rom Taxi and SNL are the only good actors in the whole thing, the rest sucks. Plus the script is bad and the exercise sequences are cheesy. It's so funny, ya gotta love it. "},{"Title":"If You Blink, You'll Miss the Good Part...","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The good part taking place at the beginning, where Vinnie Barbarino is sitting at a table in a restaurant with Jann Wenner of Rolling Stone Magazine. Carly Simon, who looks fabulous as always, walks in and says to Barbarino, I read that piece of Scheisse you wrote, and heaves a Bloody Mary (in a wine glass) at Vinnie, getting the goop all over him and the surrounding scenery. (The word Carly actually used is prohibited by IMDb's Dirty Word Filter.)For this, Carly deserves an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress, and Travolta deserved to be cast with talking babies and dogs, the latter of which actually happened. By the way, this scene, along with the one that preceded it, where Travolta was writing obits for the Jersey Journal in Jersey City, have zero relevance to the rest of the story, which is about the astounding revelation that gyms, um, health clubs, are good pickup spots, especially the massage tables. There's also some blather about journalistic ethics.BTW, Carly's a lefty. She's holding the glass in her right hand (leave it to me to pick up on such details). Too bad she's not ambidextrous so she could have thrown another drink at Wenner for keeping her out of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, which is just another building in Cleveland until she's enshrined in it.I recommend that after you watch the Carly Simon cameo, you turn off the DVD player and go back to watching Jerry Springer or Jersey Shore, both of which are far more entertaining than this turkey. "},{"Title":"Not bad for its time","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I too have seen this movie, many times. I agree it is not Travolta or Curtis' best work but it was not meant to be Academy Award caliber. It is what it is, a fluff movie that fit the time it was made. I was an aerobics instructor at the time and enjoyed the movie. It is still fun now to look back at the hair and clothes and hear the music. What generation can look back and not say to themselves what was I thinking wearing that?! Curtis has never looked better-well maybe in the movie with Arnold when she did her little dance and who does not mind looking at Travolta for 90 minutes or so?Travolta, for all intensive purposes, plays the same character in each movie so why are we ever surprised. Curtis was trying to shed her 'flat chested, school girl in jeopardy' image and did a good job of it.  "},{"Title":"My lord!!!","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  God was jamie lee sexy in this movie... The first half was very energizing, the middle jamie is out of the picture and it just dragged ass. The ending was very dissapointing to me, I was thinking of a more complicated ending but it it was short an sweet, oh well. Jamie carried this movie all the way, travolta showed no acting skills here. The part where travolta takes classes at the club is very sexy, the cheographer their should get a big ass standing o. Overall it was an ok film. The girl that played sally (I cannot remember her name right off hand) was a very attracted part of the movie. I would give this move a 6/10 rating. "},{"Title":"Jamie Lee Curtis Looks her best","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jamie Lee is enough reason for me to watch this flick. Jamie Lee in tight leotards...Yummy. Good Acting Also. You have to see it.PK "}{"Title":"Flawed.","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" PERFECT reminds you of precisely what you wanted to forget about the mid-80s, including the movie, itself. That's why so many are uncomfortable with it, myself included.Yes, Jamie Lee looks lovely (though she'd go on to look much better -- and much healthier -- in subsequent films), and it's fun to grin along with Travolta and the Tent in His Shorts in that entirely-too-long hot aerobics moves sequence.. But PERFECT is useful for one thing and one thing only, being an send up of East coast pretentiousness and presumptions about the Los Angeles/airhead image. Oh yes, and it's probably the only film on earth to mention the ABSCAM scandal of 1980. Give it two stars for that, alone. There's a not-so-subtle gay undercurrent running through PERFECT be it the impromptu Boy George Fandom conference at the hotel, the pretty blonde fruits prancing around Sport Connection and incredulous Chippendale (i.e. homosexual) boyfriend of the aggressively heterosexual Sally; or the purposely genderless introduction of Jessie's swim coach rumor. Be honest you wait with bated breath until the movie provides you with the sigh of relief that the swim coach was indeed male. It could have been worse all that memory trauma could have been over an allegation of...lecherous PE teacher LESBIANISM...(gasp, the horror!)Before you tell me I'm imposing today's standards on yesterday's film, consider that these were pertinent issues, particularly for gays and gays-to-be, even (perhaps even especially) in 1985.But I found myself actually agreeing with the central message of the film, as articulated by that hokey Travolta analogy on pop culture and individual dreams. Diagnosis if PERFECT is any indicator, the California/LA image is the fantastic, mass-marketed product of the very people claiming to critique it from such an objective distance. Whatever it's funny-ha-ha flaws, anyone over age 35 is acutely aware that we're really only laughing at ourselves, our active denial of blatant, obvious 1980s in your fact homosexuality; our long-spent cans of sparkly rouge, styling mousse, and L'Oreal; synth bass and gated snare dance lines, the wrong-then-and-wrong-now spandex, and pushbutton on-screen/zero-chemistry heterosexual promiscuity.PERFECT is the warped mirror back in our face. That is precisely WHY it was such a monumental failure at the BO. Two stars for that part, too. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think this movie was great, Jamie Lee and John couldn't have been better! Especially the soundtrack, the songs really suited the movie. I have been looking for the soundtrack for ages, but no luck... I reckon it has a entertaining storyline, It's not the best film of JLC and JT but I'ts still worth watching. I've seen it quite a few times and It doesn't get old. I'm one of Jamie Lee Curtis' biggest fans, she has never looked better in this movie, her figure Is just to die for... And yes, she wears leotards for most the movie. Jamie has said herself Jee, I was HOT, when she was watching the movie with her daughter Annie and one of her friends. "},{"Title":"Jiggly Fun!!","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie some years ago on TV having missed it at the cinema, and found it very entertaining. The story and 'visuals', though not fantastic, was I think good enough to hold the shortest of attention spans. Mine included.  The film is set in a health club in Los Angeles, with John Travolta starring as an ace investigative reporter for real-life mag Rolling Stone.  It also features a brilliant funked-up disco soundtrack, featuring long forgotten artists like Jermaine Jackson, Jermaine Stewart, and Carol Lynn Towns, and follows Travolta's charchter as he writes a piece about the health club scene, and courts one of the fitness instructors there, played by Jaimie Lee Curtis.  Unbeknownst to her, he's using her and some of her patrons, in order to write a sleazy story for his voracious boss played by the real Rolling Stone editor.  It's not hard to guess what happens next, as Travolta and Curtis fall for each other, Curtis finds a copy of his article on his computer which causes conflict between them, and we get to see some fine acting from Jaimie Lee during those scenes. Travolta decides to kill the story, but his angered boss enlists the help of photographer played by Anne DeSalvo, in order to rewrite it without Travolta's knowledge.But the best parts of the film, has to be scenes set during Curtis' classes (the visuals I mentioned earlier).  Along with the pumping disco soundtrack, these scenes are excillerating to watch - and not just for the sexy hard bodies.  When this film appeared again on TV recently, I just had to record it, and watch it all over again.  Not because I'm perverted you understand, but because it's so...kitsch, and seems to be indicative of the silly hedonistic LA scene of the early 1980s.  It has some truly funny moments also. Watch for the scene where Travolta searches for Jaimie Lee in a hotel holding a convention, which features Boy George look-alikes. It's hilarious!! "},{"Title":"A terrifying voyage into Style Oblivion!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Trashing Perfect is an act of unnecessary cruelty.  A film where every character attaches serious importance to Rolling Stone articles calls for a depth of insight and cinematic brilliance even Welles would have trouble summoning.  One wonders what projects Godfather cinematographer Gordon Willis gave up to lend his expertise to this embarrassment.  Perhaps this film has value in warning future generations against the emptiness of Trendy Living.If any costume screen tests, outtakes, and deleted scenes featuring Jamie Lee Curtis exist, they could salvage the film for DVD.  At 26, the enchanting Ms. Curtis delivered a powerful performance.  Her dazzling beauty and inner power are the only facets of this creepy time-capsule that hold up today. "},{"Title":"Or...the very opposite of perfect","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! Here it is. Very likely the worst movie I have ever seen. I had read about this film long ago but never seen it. What was going on (if anything) in the minds of the people involved? This must be the movie which inspired Showgirls. I thought that was the worst until I watched this. No wonder so many actors' careers seemed to end with this one. I finally understand he meaning of bad taste. Phew - quel stinko! "},{"Title":"Perfect...umm, that's ironic right?","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Question what do you get when you take Tony Manero and ad body oil and a script that single handedly reminds us of ALL the reasons the 80s sucked? Answer A 'perfect' movie. ...in which our hero trades in his Saturday Night Fever for a pair of leg warmers and a synthesized soundtrack. Where to begin? How about with an insipid script in which a Rolling Stone reporter (who happens to look like a movie star, like most reporters do..)seeks out the truth behind the health club craze of the Reagan years--not exactly Hunter S Thompson stuff huh? Career killing moments abound in this one, including a post-rhinoplasty Laraine Newman who actually says it's a lot safer looking for Mr Goodbody than Mr Goodbar...). No really! She says that! AND Jann Wenner, RS Editor, even gives an unconvincing performance as...HIMSELF! AND a few years later, it took Quentin Tarantino to rescue Travolta's career from forever doing talking baby movies. Redeeming feature a very, very 'pert' Jamie Lee Curtis! If you like unintentionally bad movies, then this truly IS your Perfect choice. "},{"Title":"Perfect puts your brain to sleep.","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now, I've read some comments that people have been posting, and it's just unfortunate.  Nobody's opinion of Perfect could ever hide the truth about this dreary, moldy film.  Perfect is among the worst movies ever made.  If Dude Where's My Car is a 5, Perfect is a 1.  Latham can maybe throw together a few articles, but he definitely cannot write screenplays.  The story is loopy, has holes in it, and contains a failed attempt at a resolution. Jamie Lee Curtis' character is self-righteous and not the sexy aerobics goddess she is supposed to be.  Travolta's character is just lame. In summary, filth and dog hair are better than Perfect. Getting sick from a flu shot is better than Perfect. I'm not saying not to see it.  Please, please see it.  But please, please don't post a good review for Perfect.  "},{"Title":"Different","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like this movie. It is different. Travolta is brilliant as a journalist of the Rolling Stone and Jamie Lee Curtis is just dead sexy!There have been better movies made, alright, but this one is special, entertaining and just enjoying to watch. Nice story (the usual but with a neater touch), and good acting. "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story is well told, but that's it.  James Woods is more interested in showing ten minute exercising montages then the actual plot of the film (he spends about 3 minutes on the climax, tops).  The movie collapses under it's own weight.  Why do so many people hate it?  Look at the closing credits and find out!  Grade D "},{"Title":"Practice makes John perfect","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rather liked this wafer-thin flick although it's not the best John Travolta movie. But it is worth a look, man! Travolta is as sexy as usual, especially in the academy scene. Jamie Lee Curtis is good as well. Lots of gorgeous hunks, but John is still the hottest. "}{"Title":"Leotards","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  James Bridges, the director, was a talented man; he died too young. He had done better, and frankly, this wasn't one of his best films, The movie has a dated look as it shows the worst of the 80s excesses.The casting of John Travolta, an actor who had worked with Bridges before, seemed to be logical. Also, a young, vibrant, and sexy Jamie Lee Curtis, appeared to be an asset. In reality, Travolta and Curtis don't show much chemistry through no fault of their own. The sexy California scene of the 80s is captured in the film, but nothing really comes out of it. One keeps hoping for more, but the picture remains flat. Watching it on cable after almost 20 years since it was released was like taking a trip back in time to the craziness of the era, but nothing more. "},{"Title":"John Travolta had not yet hit the barrel's bottom with this flick...","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Battlefield Earth was, to put it mildly, catastrophic in terms of John Travolta's career. So in comparison, Perfect ain't so bad, but there are enough complaints coming from me to make it less than an average rental. Here Travolta plays a reporter for Rolling Stone Magazine who is currently working on two stories one is a serious piece about a computer salesman accused of drug smuggling, while the other is meant to be a lighthearted puff tale of men and women getting together at health clubs. While working on the health club piece, Travolta (whose character's name is Adam), meets an icy Jamie Lee Curtis who refuses to give an interview based on a previous bad experience with a reporter. Will Travolta be able to break through her frosty demeanor? Could it be possible that these two attractive leads might fall in love? Aw, but I don't wanna ruin it for you good folks. That would just be wrong! In any event, while this may seem like a simple plot line, the fact is that there are so many other elements in Perfect that eventually it becomes too confusing for its own good. The movie never focuses long enough on one angle, instead cutting to multiple stories so that we never get enough development on any of them. For instance, there are a bunch of characters who frequent the health club that are meant to be major players in the film, but actually get very little screen time. So when the idea of having them seem important came up, I just couldn't buy it because there wasn't anything to back it up with. If you were worried that Perfect may not show off all of the horrible fashion trends of the 1980s, don't get too stressed. Every bad fashion choice is here, from the leotard that comes with an extremely thin belt (a BELT, ladies?!) to grotesquely short gym shorts on the guys, this movie is an orgy of neon and spandex. Blech, blech, blech! How does Curtis not get a yeast infection from that leotard she's wearing??? Seriously, it looks like it's going to go inside her at any moment, and that is just not cool. There were definitely moments of pure cheesiness and frustration in the film Some songs are played in full, so for 3 1/2 minutes we are forced to watch Curtis and Travolta sweatin' to the oldies, thus allowing footage of our leading man's nasty package being thrust at the audience to be shown again, and again, and again. In a word Eew. Considering that the movie is two hours in length, I was surprised at how it seemed to drag on forever. Literally, I thought it was almost over when in fact my VCR had clocked in a little under 45 minutes. Groan! Other silly spots Curtis fleeing from Travolta as an 80s version of that old cowboy chase music plays in the background, and Travolta showing up at his office with a baseball bat, ready to kick some butt. Oddly enough, he doesn't get arrested for trashing his boss' office, but he does wind up in jail over his story about the supposed drug smuggler. Speaking of which, I couldn't care less about that part of the movie. With about 40 other characters and subplots to think about, this was the least interesting by far. When it came time for the court to declare its verdict on the drug smuggler, let's just say I wasn't on pins and needles. If anything I was checking the clock again! But compared to other Travolta disasters like Look Who's Talking Now and Moment by Moment (good luck catching that second on video, but I hear it's truly one of cinema's worst), Perfect, again, ain't that bad. 2/4 stars "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I remember.  Plus....LEOTARDS!","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Travolta wasn't bad, maybe even good in this film.  Jamie Lee Curits was very cute and sexy.  What a smile!  Best of all are all the 80's women in leotards of every color.  Very sexy to watch.The love story is predictable, but hey, it is what it is.I guess I like this film more than I remembered. "},{"Title":"Neither perfect nor imperfect","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Many of the IMDb users considered this movie to be of no use spending time on - though i was thoroughly reluctant to watch it - i was glad i did - CAUSE I FOUND NOTHING WRONG WITH IT!! Well it was the 80's the time when compared to today, movies were not that great. Well with that in mind - i believe this movie is quite an accomplishment - i remember reading from one of the users of IMDb that this was a bomb, which almost ruined Travolta's career - but i really don't see why - well it is not brilliant - but it is FAR better than all the other razzie winning movies. Performances were not that great - Jamie Lee Curtis is very pretty - and as for John Travolta, he has a brush of Tony Maneiro and Danny Zuko in this character. Well though people may REALLY not want to watch it cause it has been considered as an underdog movie of the eightees era - those people can watch it just for the aerobic workouts - they really sizzle. "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but how many movies do you know that are?","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this movie seems sometimes lost in too many story threads, it's because it wants to say something about both the ethics of journalism and the pros and cons of attending health clubs as a way of living. And if it seems at times vapid, empty and without substance, that's probably because it reflects the vapidity, emptiness and lack of substance of our pop culture. It's similar, in some ways, to films like Cocktail or Dirty Dancing, but it's better than them, because it takes some distance from its subject. And, thanks perhaps to the continuous change of locales, or the star presence of Travolta, or the beat of the soundtrack, or the scantily clad Laraine Newman, it is an effortlessly watchable (if predictable) movie.      (**) "}]