[{"Title":"A magical movie","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I don't care who you are, this movie is a fun and magical experience for all ages. The actors are superb in their roles and their songs and characters will win your heart.This movie may have been filmed almost 20 years ago but it still carries the message today that it did then. That Christmas should be enjoyed by everyone, regardless of creed, colour or persuasion. I defy anyone, who actually HAS a heart, not to like this movie. I first saw it when I was 3 years old and to this day, I have watched it every year thereafter on Christmas eve.To me, this film holds the very feeling of Christmas. All you need do is watch it. And no matter where you are, no matter what time of year it is, from start to finish...it's Christmas. "},{"Title":"Pure enjoyment","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Me thinks folks protest too much! Sit back, relax and enjoy this cute little movie. The plot is good. The actors do a very nice job of being their characters. Villains are vile and heroes are worthy. There is a continual ebb and flow with who is winning, good or evil. Good wins over evil. The scenery is is beautiful and fanciful. The effects are nifty and somewhat corny. What more could one ask for a short period of fantasy flight from the cares of the world? Don't worry about fitting it into today's problems with society section. Avoid seeing discussions of drug problems, violence in the world, sex in the city. Don't consider deep, hidden meanings. Just have some popcorn, turn down the lights, get into your comfy chair and enjoy yourself. This is a movie made for the cold winter nights. "},{"Title":"I loved this film!!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have long lasting memories of this film from when I was very small.  It was on the television every Christmas, and my sister and I loved.  At one point we actually taped it and watched it again and again and again.  In fact, most of my generation loved it.  OK, so it is badly done, and the plot is predictable and a bit thin, but remember it is designed for kids and was made in the early 80's.  A grown adult watching it for the first time would hate it and think it is just a pile of rubbish, that is how I feel about Barbie & the Nutcracker Prince, but kids seeing that when it first came out loved it!! "},{"Title":"A Christmas treat!","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  While this movie admittedly has its detractors I personally am NOT one of them.  It's utterly charming.  Among it's strengths-it's perfectly cast, all the way from Dudley Moore on down to the extras.  The sets are breathtaking, and the music is engaging (including Sheena Easton's beautiful  Christmas All Over the World).   With all this movie has going for it it does have its drawbacks.  The first half definitely works better than the latter.  It seems almost as if they were trying to make 2 movies for the price of 1, and that does detract from the overall effect.  It gets a bit confusing once it hits the half-way point but it is still worth seeing all the way through. It's the sort of movie that can still hold up after repeated viewings. You can watch it with your kids, or make a guilty pleasure out of watching it by yourself.  Either way do yourself a favor and watch it.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful adaptation of the world's greatest legend.","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have seen this movie every Christmas since I was a child, and I believe it brings explanations of how the fable of Santa Claus, and all of the childhood beliefs came to be. It may be a watered down version of Willy Wonka, but it had great effects for the 1980's, and it brings out the child and Christmas spirit in everyone. It is a grade above Ernest Saves Christmas ( I love watching it as well on a comical basis) especially when it comes to the story line and characters. Dudley Moore was wonderful as Patch the elf, and delivered a great performance without being a drunk or married to two women. It's movie of morals, and the spirit of Christmas. "},{"Title":"An amazing film!","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Personally, I love this film! I've gone out of my way to buy myself acopy from America (as its not being produced anymore)I think its a lovely film for kids and adults of all ages. I watch it every year on christmas eve. The story is simple and easy to follow, no complicated names/locations, just a good film!Get yourself a copy. I know eBay regularly stock it!One to watch 10/10Matt "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"24 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Santa Claus the movie is without a doubt the greatest Christmas movie ever made. This is not to say that its story is one of the greatest ever written, but the film is a stunning piece of seasonal and magical nostalgia for anyone who is enchanted by the its seasonal charm.David Newman has taken a great deal of criticism for his writing styles. Well, whatever the merits of Newman, he proves with Santa Claus that he CAN write an exciting and entertaining epic for the big screen. His script does have flaws and plot holes, but this could be due to editing of post production. Newman comes up with a lovely entertaining script that doesn't sag once throughout. This is expertly handled by Jeanot Swarzc's luxurious direction. Swarzc lets the actors indulge in what is a Hollywood pantomime. Add to this the movie is backed by one of the most impressive sets for any movie, a wonderful Lapland/Northpole, covered in endless snow, a terrific looking Santa's workshop, some of the greatest costumes ever created for Santa and his friends by the master Bob Ringwood, and finally a wonderful Christmas Time New York. In typical Alexander Salkind style, this all gells together marvellously to bring to us what childhood dreams are made of.The movie is Dudley Moores as the hero elf Patch. Moore gets to kid about to his hearts consent, and get payed $4MILLION for the pleasure. His enthusiasm rubs off on the other cast members, in particular John Lithgow as the evil BZ. A few years earlier BZ could easily have been played by Peter Sellers, today perhaps Rowan Atkinson. For what it is worth Lithgow is hillarious in the role, he is very covincing as a real life scrooge. Plus David Huddleston as Santa. An inspired a choice as Christopher Reeve was as Superman, Huddleston is the ULTIMATE personification of Santa. He is how we remeber him. He even sounds like him. In truth he makes us BELIEVE him.With all this plus Magic candy, Wonderfull scenery, Top notch acting. Plus the best Flying scenes in motion picture history of Santas reindeers, and patching cars, wich prove to be better than the Salkinds earlier Superman effects, and also Henry Mancini's best ever musical score, a heart warming piece abetted by some good songs from the likes of Leslie Bricuse sung by Sheena Easton,. Santa Cluas IS underated. Have a heart when you watch this movie. Put on Your seatbelt and join Santa in dreamworld.Thanks to Alexander and Ilya Salkind, Piere Spengler, Jeannot Swarzc and Dudley Moore. "},{"Title":"My best childhood memory!","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I can not remember what age I was when I first seen this movie. But I do remember that it used to be played on Irish TV every year on Christmas eve.My best memory from childhood was sitting by the coal fire to let my hair dry and watching this movie.My favorite part was always when Joe shouts Yo and the raindeer take flight! It still makes me shiver.I am now 24 and only wish I could get it on DVD here in the UK so I could play it on a regional 2 player. I have a baby on the way and I would love someday for my children to enjoy the wonder of Santa Claus the movie as I did all those years ago.This film gave me a lot of happy Christmas' Dx "},{"Title":"Great family fun !","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a fun movie for the whole family.  It is truly the legend of Santa Claus come to life.  One of the must see movies for my whole family every Holiday season.  Dudley Moore, John Lithgow and David Huddleston are perfect in their respective roles. "},{"Title":"Likeable Film for the Whole Family.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Under-rated little family film that works due to a couple of over-the-top performances more than anything else. We get a glimpse into the history of the titled character (played by David Huddleston) and his wife (Judy Cornwell) as they make the North Pole their home. Years and years pass and we get to the present-day, but trouble looms as the toys manufactured by elf Dudley Moore (in a wonderful performance) start to fall apart on all the children of the world. Moore feels shame and decides that it would be better to leave. Thus he falls in with evil toy manufacturer John Lithgow (in another fine role) and this is when the fun really starts. Burgess Meredith also has a short, endearing cameo. A production that is tame enough for young children, but is also interesting enough to keep the adults happy as well. Good overall. 4 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"Santa Claus is for the true christmas lover,a dying breed.Excellent.","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Santa Claus, or Santa Clausthe movie is one of the most traditional and magical christmas films ever made, in my opinion. Despite what others say, this movie grasps all of the fantasy,mystery and meaning of Christmas,and presents it in an entertaining family flick. This film was the basis of my children's Christmas beliefs,who will,might I add,also defend this film strongly. I think that anyone who does not enjoy this feel-good christmas movie either wasn't in the right state of mind while watching it, or is just a scrooge!  "},{"Title":"Enchanting Fantasy for People of all ages","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Remember Christmas Eve as a child & the prospect of Santa Claus being only hours away from your house ? Cookies left out,water for the Reindeer? This Delightful Movie awakens memmories of such a magical time in childhood that is rarely recaptured. Brilliant cast with a superb score from Henry Mancini highlights the Yuletide spirit perfectly. Cynics shouldn't bother watching this Film  as it is pure Fantasy. Expertly written & directed,This is a Winner for Christmas Eve especially if your aim is to sit down on Christmas Eve & snuggle the family together & share memories of the man called Santa Claus "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Well I've seen this movie several times as a kid and I thought it was great. It's a typical children's movie and I thought it had something magical about it. One of those movies where afterwards you go to your room and - being a kid - imagine that the candy cane you're holding in your hands is glowing. Compared to other Christmas movies I think this one is better than many. "},{"Title":"Dudley Moore at his best","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I liked this movie. I first saw it in 1996 and fell in love with it. Dudley Moore is at his best. So is Mr.Lightow and the rest of the cast. It has a lot of fantasy in it. I even watch it during the rest of the year. There are some poignant scenes in it. There are also one or two funny scenes and some good cinematography. For those people who like New York it has some good footage of New York City. I would recommend this movie to anybody. You would want to watch it during the rest of the year. It is a classic along with Miracle on 34th Street and Prancer. There are no regrets or disappointments with this movie. Hi Martha Polly Baldwin and Curtis Smith in St.Louis! "},{"Title":"The Best Santa Clause movie Ever","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the best made santa clause movies ever.  If you ever have trouble getting into the christmas spirit then this movie will shift you. Perfect casting with the magic that only the salkins could provide this movie will not only keep your kids occupied but you will love it also "},{"Title":"I dont understand the low ratings","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was 6 or 7.  I have been in love with the movie ever since then.  I think it is a great movie.  So its not just for kids, do all X-Mas movies have to be for kids?  I dont understand why everyone had such problems with it.  It was funny, and added a twist others didnt.  I was attracted to the car Dudley Moore created.  I just think it was great. "},{"Title":"A film For All Ages","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have seen this film every year as long as I can remember and I still watch because it is a very good storyline and I still love it and I will always love this film.  I saw it when I was five for the first time and 14yrs later it is still with me.  It is a film for definately all ages. "},{"Title":"How is this utterly disgusting?","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  How in this world is this utterly disgusting? People say don't make your kids sit thorugh this trash, but I think it's a great film, so did my older sister, so did my two younger brothers, my now 5 year old cousin loves it and so does almost every kid that I know. And as for classing this as disgusting, I don't think so, although I do think that Arnold Shwarzenegger beating the poop out of another man, just because his son wants a toy is going a bit far, and Macauly Culkin almost killing two guys (hey, i know it was in self defence, but still, not the best thing to teach kids to do, is it?), but kids love it, so do I in fact, so why not let them watch it?. Christmas eve is just not the same without viewing this film. And as for the dull rating this film got, are all of the voters adults?, because believe me (this is coming from a 14 year old, so i still know what little kids think)most kids love, or would love this film, if parents would let them watch it. Parents, please remember, just because you hate something, dont just presume that everybody else does, because, not all of you adults out there enjoy the Teletubbies now, do you? End of case. "},{"Title":"My claim to fame... kinda","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  (I'll explain my summary title in my review) This film has always held a special place in my heart... perhaps its the prescence of that loveable scamp Dudley Moore, or maybe the scene when that fat kid learns to fly using the candy canes (but only to get some cookies from a top shelf), or maybe even when all the mechanically made toys break & everyone starts crying (cruel, but funny). No. To me this film is my claim to fame. My Great Uncle was one of the elves in this film (true, and ironically i'm 6'2), but the whole essence of this film that it was one of the lowest grossing films ever (i think), and is still played EVERY CHRISTMAS WITHOUT FAIL just makes it great for me.  Sigh...finally my family has something to be proud of. "},{"Title":"How is this movie's rating so low?","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I personally love this movie. I know this website is designed for everyone to express their opinions but I can't for the life of me figure out why so many people dislike this movie...or think it's mediocre. I can understand a 7-8 (though I give it a 10) but for it to be under 5 stars is ridiculous. If you haven't seen this movie yet, give it a chance. There's something very magical about it. I fully intend on sharing this movie with my children some day, as it is an excellent depiction of Santa Claus and how he came to be. It is by far one of the best holiday movies out there...A timeless classic that should be shared and treasured every year. "}{"Title":"Great Christmas Movie","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" David Huddleston is probably the best Santa Claus in Hollywood history. He is what makes the movie worth seeing. Seeing Huddleston's Santa Claus will make you remember and miss the good old Christmas Eves where you anticipated the arrival of Saint Nick at your house. Watching this movie makes you feel like Christmas is here, and this movie will make you believe in the Christmas spirit, in the form of Santa Claus. Sure the plot may be cheesy, and Dudley Moore could have done a better job as an elf, but there are many reasons to watch this movie the magical sight of reindeers flying, John Lithgow as an evil toymaker, the love between Santa and Mrs. Claus, and the gorgeous setting of the North Pole and Santa Claus' toy workshop. Watch this movie, if only to see David Huddleston as Santa Claus, you won' be disappointed.It's also fun to watch Daisy from Keeping Up Appearances (The Bucket woman show) as Mrs. Claus! "},{"Title":"Who could hate this.","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  It is just plain silly to hate any Hollywood attempt to entertain children in a manner that is wholesome without resorting to bad language or sexual innuendo designed to keep the adults happy.  I thought this movie delightful, if nothing else for its creative approach for telling the story of Santa Claus.  With as many cynical, inappropriate movies for children, I applaud a movie which enriches a true sense of Christmas and all of its folklore. "},{"Title":"A terrific movie!","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I've just read another review that says Dudley Moore wasn't an incredibly likable character, and I have to completely disagree!  I have watched this movie nearly every single year... as I have the VHS, and it's one of the most terrific X-mas movies out there -- other than Christmas Story, A christmas Carol (any version), and The Night they Saved Christmas. I've watched this since I was a very little girl, and I always loved the character Joe.  I think I might have had the tiniest crush on him, even! The man who plays Santa is amazingly wonderful, and he's definately the type of guy that a kid would just love to leap onto the lap of... and to take comfort and confidence in.  As this Santa befriends a young homeless boy who has absolutely nothing and no one else... until both he and Santa meet the daughter of an extrodinarily rich and disasterously greedy culprit of a businessman ... of course he's the grandfatherly figure we all dream of having!  He's beyond any other Santa I've ever EVER seen -- he even beats Mickey Rooney (though Granted Mickey was only Santa in those lovely little 'cartoons'.)Anyhow, this is a great movie with a beautiful soundtrack, great actors, nice though not particularly wonderful sets, effects that were passable for the year they were made, and most definately a touching and memorable plot. It's for all ages, and I definately reccomend it. "},{"Title":"A movie classic that is wonderful for the whole family.","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I think this movie embodies the spirit of christmas and shows that kindness and forgiveness are the best gifts in the world. This movie is not vulgar and sick like many of the movies of today's directors. A family needs something to be able to show their kids and many adults need a light hearted comedy in these crazy times. This movie is definently a great movie that should be a part of anybody's christmas movie list.  "},{"Title":"Christmas wouldn't be Christmas without Santa ClausThe Movie","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a beautifully designed and technically faultless movie. From the wonderful set and costume designs to Henry Mancini's whirling music, and with some excellently timed and well acted performances Dudley Moore as Patch, John Lithgow as BZ, this really sums up the feelings of a magical Christmas. It is hard, therefore to understand just where things went wrong. Perhaps part of the problem is that the movie is just too over ambitious. The father son team of Alexander and Ilya Salklind had delivered movies of a grand scale numerous times before The Three Musketeers, The Four Musketeers, Superman 1-3, Supergirl and Santa Claus is no exception to the rule. Though their movies are often beautiful to watch, the problems that the producers often came up against were behind the scenes. Bust ups with directors and screen writers hindered the finished results, and the producers had to settle for second best. Jeannot Swarzc is a fine director in his own right, but he is no Richard DonnerDirector, Superman-The Movie. One gets the feeling that if Donner was in charge of this movie all would have gone well. Likewise if the Salkinds had hired a Mario Puzo Screenwriter, Superman-The Movie to scribe then the over excessivness that is aparent in David and Leslie Newmans script , may have been toned down. This is perhaps an unfair judgement. Maybe it were the producers who authorised such things like McDonalds featuring prominently throughout, and advertisements for things such as Pepsi and Coca Cola. It worked in Superman 2, but looks out of place here. This movie belongs entirely to Dudley Moore, who gives his heart and soul. Moore was ready made for the role of Patch and has the time of his life, looking and behaving like an Elf would. Every time an Elf is presented in a Christmas movie, it is hard to except him because one has seen Dudley. The laughs go entirely to John Lithgow as the evil Scrooge like BZ. Pompous and witty and also very funny. And also David Huddleston, perfectly cast Just as Christopher Reeve was in Superman and Helen Slater in Supergirl as Santa Claus. No doubt that when children who have seen this movie, think of Santa Claus, it will be Huddleston they imagine. This will be the case for generations to come. David Huddleston gives a loving performance and deserves special praise. The real spectacle is the presentation of Santa's grotto in the wonderfull opening sequence. This is where Swarzc's direction is at its best, really capturing the feel of Christmas. The design of the Grotto itself is simply stunning and captures all those images of child hood dreams at once. The elves at work scenes are brilliantly directed again with panache by Swarzc. Other good moments are the scenes when Santa flies by the Statue of Liberty, Patches car flight and the final epic race to save patch at the end of the movie. Henry Mancini's music is at its best in this movie, and there are some great songs sung by Sheena Easton. Where the movie fails is in its lack of a good script, and some times patchy no pun intended direction. These things aside the movie is magical, and one that requires a re-release or re apraise. Its a good thing that the movie earned over $100 million in the U.S.A., because this is an American movie, yet its appeal seems to be universal. Pure Magic "},{"Title":"Excellent Christmas Movie","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Santa Claus - The Movie is an excellent Christmas film. I think part of the reason on why it is so good is the simple fact that it is relatively unknown. Many of my friends have never heard of this film which is a tragedy. The film shows Santa Claus as a giving individual who is chosen to serve the children of the world by bringing them gifts on Christmas Eve. Meanwhile after years and years of giving Santa becomes worn down and bored by the same old toys and traditions. It takes a homeless boy, fiendish business man, and a disgruntled elf to show Santa that he has not lost the giving spirit and the world is not beyond generosity. "},{"Title":"What's wrong??!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  How can this movie be that bad? Think about the films target audience. Kids! For them it's perfect. I was once that age and loved every second of the film and for that reason can only say how good it is. Probably one of the best recent Xmas movies. R.I.P Dudley Moore. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest Christmas movies ever!","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie in my opinion is of the best Christmas movies ever! this movie came out when I was just 3 years old. I'm 21 years old now and I still like this movie. I always watch it around Christmas time. This movie is defintley for you if you like Christmas also it tells how Santa Claus became Santa Claus. it even tells how long Santa Claus has been around. also it has beautiful music in it. its stars David Huddleston as Santa Claus, Dudley Moore as Patch the elf, and John Lithgow as B.Z. it also show how the reindeer know how to fly. If you really like Christmas movies and have not seen this yet be sure to add to your Christmas movies list. you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Something to be proud of","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I played one of the elves in the movie. When Santa & Anya are shown the Elf Village for the first time & watch all the toy-making, Patch (the late Dudley More) & a small group of elf musicians are seen playing the music. Watch out for me at the top of an elvish double-bass. The movie has recently become available on DVD in the UK & I purchased a copy, having not seen it since it's release. I think it's a lovely Christmas film that deserved much greater success than it received. I'm glad to see that it is now becoming something of a cult movie, which should ensure it's existence for many years to come. When the movie was released, I felt uncomfortable to be a part of it, because it was not well received. Now, in 2005/2006, I feel proud to have made a small contribution to a film that tells a timeless story with considerable integrity. "},{"Title":"The BEST Christmas movie","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this movie when i was, i don't know how old. i must have been young since this movie came out a year before I was born. I remember sitting in front of the TV and not wanting to leave, i was captivated in the wonderful world of magic and christmas spirit. I tapped it from TV and used to watch it almost everyday even in July. After I stopped watching it for what ever reason which i do not know, my brother tapped over it and Santa Claus was lost to me. But for some reason I could always remember the magic in the movie. Not until a few weeks ago did i finally find out the name of this movie again and i was able to get a copy, not i will never let it leave my life again. i have no idea how people can not just fall in love with it. If i had to only watch one movie or TV show for the rest of my life i know i would choose this one. "}{"Title":"David Huddleston is the greatest Santa in the world ever!","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I've just seen the movie on TV with my kids for the umpteenth time.The first hour of the film is great...it really puts me in the Christmas spirit. The rest of the film...well I can take it or leave it! By the way, David Huddleston who played Santa, is for me, the greatest Santa in the world ever, honestly.    "},{"Title":"One more look back with the Elf Without Jingles","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I, Richard Washington, am the self-proclaimed Elf Without Jingles. Santa Claus The Movie is the major reason why. Since posting my previous comments on this film here on the Internet Movie Database, the web has been flooded with never information not only about this particular film itself, but also about the further adventures, and subsequent downfall, of the father-and-son production team of Alexander and Ilya Salkind, without whom, as I mention on my KringleQuest.com website, the magic of Santa Claus The Movie would not have been possible at all.  Nevertheless, more and more Santa Claus The Movie fans are coming out of their shells, and letting their voices be heard about director Jeannot Szwarc's delightful holiday odyssey, which follows the over-imaginative elf named Patch on a journey of discovery, as he becomes the first among Santa's Elves to experience in depth the full spectrum of the human condition. The visual effects are quite state-of-the-art, given that we are talking about a movie that was made in 1984-85, long before computer-generated imagery ever became so much as a gleam in the eyes of those wizards at Industrial Light & Magic! Derek Meddings makes an excellent effort in supervising these spectacular sequences; aided by David Lane and Roy Field, he leads a team of magicians whose work is best described as --- WOW!!! The performances cannot be faulted, either. Dudley Moore as Patch himself conveys the spirited wonder and tragic naivete of a child just learning the dark side of play; John Lithgow, portraying the instrument of that dark side, chomps the scenes with over-obsessedness; and David Huddleston radiates the wisdom of the Multiverse as the Knight of Christmas. One of the reasons I founded KringleQuest.com was to increase public awareness of the films of the Salkinds; since Alexander's death nearly 7 years ago, the Salkind film library --- which encompasses his pre-Superman films from 1945 to 1977, including the two Musketeer movies and Crossed Swords (based on The Prince and the Pauper); plus Supergirl, the never-released Where is Parsifal?, and (of course) Santa Claus The Movie, are all languishing in various studio vaults throughout the world, abandoned by their original copyright owners. This, to me, is wrong. In the United States, no motion picture should be abandoned because its copyright has expired; and this, I fear, is what is happening with the Salkind Library. Perhaps by increasing public awareness of this senseless treatment of film, maybe more fans of Santa Claus The Movie will emerge and save this very special film. Which, as you might expect, was what I had hoped to accomplish with KringleQuest.com all along. So, fellow elves, anyone out there willing to lend a hand and help an Elf Without Jingles rescue a very unusual Christmas movie? I'm here if you'd like to learn more. The e-mail address is above. Please let me hear from you soon.   "},{"Title":"the BEST christmas movie out there","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie.  It is, quite simply, the best Christmas movie there is.  I discovered it when I was a teenager and have since watched it repeatedly every Christmas season - in fact, I've just finished watching it for the first time as a married women.The story is uplifting and magical and real and is a *must see* for anyone who wants an instant touch of Christmas spirit.  I can not recommend this movie highly enough! "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I am not normally inclined to write reviews for films, but I feel I must. I saw this film in the theatres when I was six years old. I recently rented it to see if it held up, and it most assuredly did. A tale of caring and giving, and how Christmas is not about the media, but instead about the spirit. How anyone could possibly be repulsed by this is beyond me. Is this film the greatest Christmas movie in the world? No, it isn't. But it certainly has soul. "},{"Title":"A Nice Holiday Memory!","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This has been a holiday memory of mine since I was a little girl. Even now, at 23 years old, I simply love this movie. I'm shocked when I hear of someone that doesn't enjoy this unique and sweet story. I learned about friendship, the holidays, giving, sharing and not being afraid to go for your dreams. If those aren't the kind of lessons we want our youngsters to learn, I don't know what are... "},{"Title":"Santa's beginning and a Christmas crisis...","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, so the story line is weak, but I love the origin of Santa, not to mention the actor & actress who play Mr. & Mrs. Santa.  The effects are great for the time, and the music is excellent. Not a movie for cynics... "},{"Title":"The Mystique and the Magic of Santa Claus The Movie","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Lately here on the IMDB, I have seen several people leave horrid remarks about Santa Claus The Movie, the Last Great Fantasy to emerge from the creative team that made Superman (Santa's next-door neighbor at the North Pole) fly. I have to let a few things out of my brain before I get really passionate first, this is probably one of the best holiday fantasy films I've ever seen; secondly, as creator/maintainer of probably the world's only website dedicated solely to this particular film, I have a personal responsibility as far as defending it is concerned, so I shall attempt here to do so without grumbling harshly. By now you know the story behind the Dudley Moore-John Lithgow-David Huddleston starrer Claus delivers toys in 14th Century; Patch sees 20th Century as the next dimension; Patch develops modern toymaking system with fatal flaws; Patch hooks up with B.Z., who's really out to take over Christmas, while Kringle meets two cool New York kids, one homeless, the other B.Z.'s step-niece; together, they try to rescue Patch and stop B.Z.'s plan --- but what a lot of folks don't realize is that this particular Santa Claus epic has been so much a part of my life these last 16 years.... well, let's face it. I love this film more than words can say. Given that Dudley Moore is now battling the debilitating brain disorder called progressive supranuclear palsy, or PSP, there is now a need to re-examine this film as never before. At least, I personally believe that there is. Lastly, the film's presenter, Alexander Salkind, has been gone from us for almost two years now; it breaks my heart knowing that he's not here with us to see what has become of his Last Great Fantasy Movie. Still, I bear no hesitation in urging all my fellow Elves (and Elf-friends and Elves-in-spirit) to explore the wonders of Santa Claus The Movie. Because, this being the first Christmas of the 21st Century, one thing is clear to this Elf Without Jingles --- Santa Claus matters. 'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"A Magical Film","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has been subject to a lot of bad press in the past, all of the bad reviews are from critics who have obviously forgotten about the magic of Christmas. I watched this film for the first time as a child about 10 years ago and I wasn't concerned with a deep storyline or complex character development, I was a kid looking forward to Christmas and this movie captured the mood superbly. I strongly advise watching 'Santa Claus The Movie' in the build up to Christmas. Pure Magic. "},{"Title":"Why put this film down?","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I like this film as it is a proper christmas film with a proper Santa, ok maybe its not the strongest storyline but what christmas film has? If you dont take the film too seriously then its really good, The Santa looks like Santa should look and you can show the film to little kids and adults alike. "},{"Title":"A very delightful fantasy film and a family favorite.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  At the beginning of this movie, it was a little disturbing when Santa, or who becomes Santa, and his wife die.  But then he becomes Santa Claus and from there on, the story is wonderful. I think the set of the North Pole Toy Shop is fabulous and just what I would think of Santa's Toy Shop to be.  You experience a full range of emotions with this movie.  Grief, joy, awe, sadness, love, happiness, laughter and glee.  Dudley Moore is so good as the little neglected elf who leaves Santa to work for the evil B Z.  Such fun!  I loved the side-plot of B Z's niece and her relationship with Santa.  I think this is the best Santa Claus movie I have ever seen and we bought the tape and watch it every year. "}{"Title":"I Must buy this movie on dvd","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have had this movie on video for as long as i can remmember and every christmas i watch it atleast twice because it is such a magical and inchanting film i makes you feel so warm and nice inside on those crisp cold winter days but i must now buy it on dvd. not only because of the extras but because the video is not very watchable anymore o think i will order it now.10/10 "},{"Title":"A Delightful Santa Claus Movie","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't see why some people are so hard on this movie.  It's a lot better than the current Santa Claus films out there.  The film revolves around the origins in Santa Claus, followed by the true-life loss of faith the world has encountered.  John Lithgow steals the movie with his portrayal of the evil toymaker, B.Z.  Dudley Moore is also relatively good in his role as an underappreciated elf.What's so wrong about a story where good triumphs in the end?  Sure it's a lot of fantasy, but so is Star Wars.  Santa Claus IS a fantasy.  Isn't he? "},{"Title":"Chritsmas Movie that dares to point a finger at the danger of the current commerciality of Christmas.","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" For the last few years I've struggled to remember that old Christmas movie I saw when I was 10, the one that I never quite forgot. I only saw it once but I remembered the storyline, what the characters looked like, I could even see some of the scenes if I thought long enough. But after 20 years I forgot the name of the movie, and most of the characters names. It drove me crazy, this movie stuck with me so much it HAD to be something my kids should see!!! I thought i would never figure it out and that the great Christmas movie no one talks about would be lost forever. Then I saw him. Dudley Moore, on TV in some random movie. It was HIM!!! The Elf! I hit IMDb searched for Mr Moore, and searched through his 80's movies till I found his character name - PATCH!!!! Words cannot describe! Yes, its an 80's movie, the effects are going to be a little corny. The storyline is dramatic if a little silly, and some of the acting may seem, well 80's ish. BUT, if I remembered it for 20 years, to the point of endless Internet searches to try to find it for my kids, there is SOMETHING in this movie that captures the imagination of a child. Anything that can do that has merit, especially in this day and age. I will be going out tomorrow in search of renting this movie for my kids, if for nothing more than remembering how it felt to watch it when I was their age! Parents may not appreciate it but most kids under the age of 10 will love it, for its imaginative premise, its exciting plot line, and the message behind it all Anything is possible with a little imagination and determination; Even the goodhearted elf can get mislead and into trouble, and only a kid, a lowly little girl and her friend the almost commercially corrupted elf can save Christmas! Its sad this isn't shown with the regularity of Charlie browns Christmas, or Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer. It should be! "},{"Title":"The Movie which is Christmas!","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Santa Claus the movie IS Christmas! It's shown every year and it's still just as good as the first time you see it. Yeah it's a little dated now, and the acting is a little over the top, but it is superbly over the top!! If you've never seen the film before (and if you haven't where have you been every year???) it probably won't mean as much to you as it is a pure childhood film. But it is a fantastic film, and when it's on TV, you just know Christmas has arrived. Dudley Moor owns this film, he really does make you believe in the spirit of Christmas. Some of the kids are a little bratty, but this is a minor detail in such a cheesy feel good film. Fun for all the family!! "},{"Title":"Just a great movie","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a great Christmas movie and it has a magic about it that just makes you fall in love with it. Everybody is great in their roles. Dudley Moore is excellent as the innovative elf Patch and John Lithgow is both funny and captivating as the evil toy maker BZ. The kids that play Joe and Corny are also very good and I love the entire elf cast including Burgess Meredith as the ancient Elf. Which brings me to my favorite casting and that is David Huddleston as Santa Clause. This guy is simply awesome as Santa, he is what I think the real Santa would look, act, and sound like and he was born to play this role. David Huddelston's beard his more gray than white and his suit is the classic Santa suit with a few twist to it like grey reindeer hair mixed whith the white trim on his coats, pants and hat giving him a classic but unique and authentic santa look. "},{"Title":"Christmas from the perspective of an Industrialist and Arnold Swarzenegger","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie seems like the perspective of Christmas from an industrialist not willing to bow down to the duties of family values. Being an elf must be the same way because of being part of a big family of elves. So when the patron Saint, Grandfather Christmas, see with his wisdom that an elf is not useful or incapable elves take this very seriously. It is a very big insult to deny an elf his productivity standards or usefulness as an elf.This movie looks deep into the life of an elf. Just as another movie Jingle All the Way looks deep into an American family life with actor Arnold Schwarzenegger. Even through Arnold Schwarzengger thinks he is doing his family a favor by substituting his duties as a paternal figurehead with a doll his son loves he almost destroys an entire Christmas parade in the process. Only when the character of Arnold Schwarzengger realizes that both he and the postman, played by Sinbad, must do what is right together does Christmas have a happy ending.So in the end, although the character Patch never really realizes it because he is just being an Elf, he finds working with Santa Claus and losing his ego and pride he can bring happiness to himself and the Santa Claus workshop. "},{"Title":"Favorite Christmas Movie!!!!!","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is one of my all time favorites! I remember my dad taking me to the theater and standing in line to see this movie when it first released. The very next year the movie came on T.V. and my dad taped it for me so I could watch it whenever I wanted (I still have the original tape). This movie has become a staple in my house. I am a Christmas Season lover and could not imagine the holiday season without it.I could not wait until my daughter was old enough to sit through the movie so I could show her how great it is and at 7 she loves it just as much as me (it brings back those childhood memories)! This may sound cheesy but I watch it all year whenever I get in the mood for a little Christmas and it is a must for Christmas! I strongly recommend anyone who has not seen it to check it out; it just may become a Christmas staple in your house too! "},{"Title":"The best story of Santa Clause ever created!","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I am 33 now. The movie came out in 1985 which put me at 13 years old. When I first saw Santa Clause it instantly became one of my favorite Christmas movies of all time. I love watching Christmas movies in December, but this movie brings me back to my childhood of years past. My favorite part of the movie is when Santa Clause(to be) is waiting for Father time(played by Burges Meredith)to approach him and all the elves are bowing there heads and taking off there hats. Then Father time explains to Santa that he will deliver all the toys to all the children of the world in just one night and that Santa will have the gift of time travel bestowed upon him and the reindeer. That entire scene gives me chills and I am a 33 year old adult. I watch this movie and I really feel like a kid again. I have no children in my life at this time, but someday when I do, I plan on showing them this movie year in and year out. Enjoy one of the best Christmas movies of all time and the best rendition of Santa clause of all time.Merry Christmas to all.....and to all a good night! "},{"Title":"aahhhhhh child hood memories...","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  ok, so as a adult looking back probably not the greatest film ever, but this film is the key to my childhood xmas experiences. for some reason here in england the tv stations conspired to make sure it was on tv every xmas eve for the last 15 years, and so it became the film that prepared you for the excitement ahead. not only did it have a great santa and flying candy but an amazing turn by john lithgow as the baddie(ah ha). shaped my view of xmas and opened my eyes to one of the best actors ever, can't be that bad.  "},{"Title":"A Magical Film","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite films, especially in the Christmas genre.  I saw it as a child and have seen it many times since.  It doesn't have quite the impact on TV as it did on the big screen, but it is still a charming movie. I love Dudley Moore and I think he was perfect for the part of Patch. Some of the story where it concerns the kids is a bit dull, but the incredible reindeer and all the visuals make up for it. You will see these scenes in your head any time you think of the film. A great film for kids, it's intended audience, but not so mindless (like many children's films), that a parent can't enjoy it, too.  "}{"Title":"The best Christmas movie ever made","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This has always been my favorite Christmas movie; ever since I was a small child I have thought it was wondrous. There is a sense of Christmas magic I feel whenever I watch it. David Huddleston is the perfect Santa Claus and one of my favorite things about the movie. I also love the way it shows how Santa originated. And the reindeer are PERFECT; they are cute and have a lot of personality and seem so real. The ending of this movie always gives me goosebumps, no matter how many times I see it. "},{"Title":"required winter watching","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  At six, I saw this new movie and was frightened, but delighted.  It quickly became a staple element in my annual preparation for Xmas day.  Watching it then, I was impressed by the movie's mature composition unlike its cartoon companions.  Now that the years have passed and I have been educated in all forms of study, I can appreciate its outstanding, if stylized acting as well as its more subtle themes.  John Lithgow with his rubbery face and textured vocalizations is especially wonderful as the evil toy maker.  A movie the whole family can appreciate, this should definitely be added to everyone's holiday favorite. "},{"Title":"An aging St. Nick must recruit help, but trouble arises from a toy company.","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This film has some of the coolest sets and costumes ever assembled.  It is one of the few true epics of the early-mid 80's.  Sure it's campy, but that's why it's so cool.  There are unwhitty puns, a cool atmosphere (no that was not a pun), and a great cast.  This is not a movie to take seriously, but than again are Scrooged, and A Christmas Story?  The only truly serious Christmas films are It's a Wonderful Life, and Ernest Saves Christmas. (Yes folks, that was a joke). "},{"Title":"A brilliant, magical, Christmas film.","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I remember, watching this for the first time around the age of 7. Back then Christmas was all about the magic, and moreover Father Christmas (or Santa Claus). This film summed it all up for me then, and I remember sitting engrossed in this film, and enjoying it completely.Every year since then, the BBC has repeated it in the few days running up to Christmas and I find that if I haven't seen it, I don't get as excited as I could do. Since about the age of 9 I've never been able to quite get that wonderful feeling that you used to be able to get before Christmas, and this film always makes it seem good. It's a film I would recommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"Twee","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw and liked this as a kid, so I thought I'd see how well it holds up as an adult. The answer is that it doesn't every scene I found charming as a boy I now find embarrassing. SANTA CLAUS THE MOVIE turns out to be one of the most twee and overly mawkish Christmas movies ever made.The problem with the film is the script, which just meanders all over the place, plotlessly and painfully without focus or insight. It appears that the producers realised they could use the same kind of 'flying' special effects from the SUPERMAN series except swap them for Santa and his reindeers flying through the air. But that's no basis for a movie.It takes an hour or so for the storyline (involving an evil toy manufacturer) to get moving, and before then there are just lots of annoying scenes with the elves, who make the Ewoks look appealing. We get Dudley Moore mugging shamelessly in one of his irritating kid's film performances, and David Huddleston overegging it as a good-natured Santa. One of the sub-plots, involving floating kids, seems to have been stolen from WILLY WONKA AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY.Thankfully, the film does pick up a little in the latter stages when there's actual stuff going on (even if it still isn't much), and we do get a scene-stealing turn from John Lithgow as a remarkably slimy villain. Sadly, his presence isn't enough to stop this from being a film that's a worthless watch for anyone over eight years old.NB. I recently watched this film one more time just to see if I was being too harsh on it above. I guess I was - a little. If you're in the mood for cloying sentimental and feel-good Christmas fare, then I guess it's the film for you. It certainly looks nice in high definition and the early storyline about how Santa Claus became Santa Claus is quite well done. A good kid's film then, although adults may want to pass on it. "},{"Title":"A very honest attempt but somehow doesn't quite find it's ground","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A big budget story about the traditional idea of Santa Claus seems like a good idea. I actually think I can pinpoint where the film sort of falls apart. While the film starts as this captivating fairy tale it quickly turns into a original version of Will Ferrell's Elf. The film suddenly focuses nearly entirely on Dudley Moore's character because he was the big star of the time. The problem is his character has very little depth and you feel no attachment to him whatsoever. The characters are good but don't have enough depth whether it be Moore's character or the villain or the two children, they feel underdeveloped. And the focal point of the story should be Santa because they set up a very interesting beautiful story about this man and then it all falls apart. There are some stunning special effects, the animatronic deer are incredible (although some real deer were used) and the scenery is beautiful. It would have been very impressive for its time. It just feels like they had a great idea but when it came to writing the story it didn't fill out properly.Dudley Moore was a comedy icon in the eighties. He had Arthur under his belt and I'm sure he seemed like the right person for this role. The problem is that the character is underdeveloped as I mention and Moore puts in no personality at all into the character. He isn't fun or easy to watch and brings no life to the elf. David Huddleston is brilliant as Santa Claus. He is shot larger than life, with the giant beard and he just looks regal and commands screen presence. If only the film had focused on him. John Lithgow is decent as our villain B.Z. Lithgow is a fantastic actor, comedic or otherwise, but this role is pretty straight forward for him. He pulls it off flawlessly but had to bored by the simplicity of the character. He gets no chance to really stand out which he easily could have. He plays the character very campy which he does well and it was the only way he could have played it. Christian Fitzpatrick and Carrie Kei Heim play the two youngsters who get themselves into danger. Somehow they should have been the focus of the antagonists story but they aren't and the kids are way underdeveloped as characters and basically just background characters.The biggest disappointment for me is that the film shows some potential. The sheer idea of an epic Santa Claus story that incorporates all the traditional legend and lore with big special effects seems like a sure fire hit. And it wouldn't be a comedy but a sweet family drama. I think that was the idea here but it falls apart in a big way. Poor Jeannot Szwarc who has spent years and years in Television but in the eighties was the name behind Jaws 2, and then back to back this film and Supergirl (both big flops.) You can even see a similar style between this and Supergirl (a film I appreciate as a campy fun classic.) Santa Claus unfortunately just feels flat from every angle. I don't think it even sits in the Christmas classic genre. It is underwhelming in many, many ways. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Looks like I've just found myself another favorite Christmas movie!","Date":"10 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" To be honest, I've never heard of this film before. I know it came out at the 80s, but I've recently saw that film, but after watching the Nostalgia Critic review of this film and upon hearing that it was considered to be a cult classic, I wondered, You know what? I felt certainly impressed by this film I would like it as much as anyone else. and it shows why I've found another Christmas favorite.The only problem that I do have with this film is the script. It's not fresh, but not that bad either. Aside from that, everything else turned out good. The cinematography is brilliant and lovely right at the very end. The costume designs are fabulous and the set design was solid. The music from Henry Mancini was beautiful and adds to the atmosphere. The story is engaging and very original with some touching moments. The pacing is well-done and the direction was actually decent.Then, there's the acting. The little kids are appealing and likable enough, but I think David Huddleston as the deep jolly Santa, Dudley Moore's pleasant Patch and John Lithgow as the over-the-top villain steal the show.Overall, Santa Claus The Movie is one of the most underrated Christmas movies and it's worth watching and would always remain as a cult classic for all time. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated Christmas movies","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I was surprised at how much I loved this movie. It is not the best Christmas movie ever made, but it is incredibly underrated as far as I'm concerned. The script is not perfect I agree, it is not abominable but it could have done with more work. However, so much compensates.Santa ClauseThe Movie does have terrific costume and set design, and the cinematography is lovely. The music is wonderful and adds to the Christmassy atmosphere. The story is magical, briskly paced and exciting. The direction is good, not amazing but it does do admirably with what it set out to do. The pace ensures that the film is never boring. And the acting I had little problem with either, the kids are appealing enough and David Huddleston is a suitably jovial Santa, but it is Dudley Moore's charming Patch and John Lithgow's fantastic Scrooge-like villain that steal the film.Overall, this is a charming and underrated little movie, that doesn't deserve the low rating. Seriously, 5.1 is ridiculous, I have seen some bad/mediocre movies but Santa ClauseThe Movie while not cinematic perfection is not one of them. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"peace, goodwill etc, to all mankind....   etc","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Ten lines, i have to write ten lines here! well i would just like to say that i am glad that so many people liked this movie-film. i was a good movie. with many warm felt feelings of Christmas, holidays, coca-cola. and .. if you look closely, on a cool winters eve, about thirty minutes into the movie, just after Santy sets off on his first voyage to deliver joy to all those kids, you will see a little six year old boy playing with a wooden windmill, that same little boy wrote those 'dear Santa' letters you see popping up at that time. and that lad, all those years ago was me. how time moves so fast, yet it has been kind, at times... 'it's a funny old game' they say, but it is good that we can remember that warm feeling we used to get in our hearts, when we were children, for the right reasons. "},{"Title":"a rogue elf's nearly destroys a mans prophecy and his meaning","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" the prophecy has come to pass there would come to a chosen one once upon a time long time ago a toymaker was given amazing powers and was chosen to live in the north pole with elves to deliver gifts all over the world this is the origin story of the big man him self thus Santa clause the most beloved of legends came to pass Santa clause and his wife Anya and patch played by Dudley more live happily in the north pole but because patch is a futurist and likes to stream line but his plan goes hay wire so he leaves for new York where he meets a ruthless but dangerous toy maker bz this is john litgow he likes money and ticks patch into trying to take over from Santa at Xmas Santa finds out his plans and with two children he has befriended over the years and a few sick reindeer out of action Santa mounts a rescue plan as patches car plane over heats with his lolly pop magic so with magic on hand and patch looking for help this magical movie has the spirit of Xmas alive in everyone my 144 film review at 1hr4mins 7/10 this is saw in the cinema "}{"Title":"Modern take on Santa with color, magic and adventure","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Santa Claus of 1985 is one of the first movies to give a modern take &#x96; or update, on Santa Claus. It doesn't go into the true story or the background, but picks up with the fantasy of Santa, his reindeer and the North Pole. The plot has an interesting twist to the beginning of Santa that is mystical. And, another interesting twist is that the elves and the North Pole always have been there -- at least since who knows when, just waiting for the Santa to come on the scene. That's another somewhat mystical aspect. From that fantasy beginning, the movie opens up to a very colorful, inventive and fun story and adventure. The sets for this film were excellent and some of the items were very ingenious. I don't want to give those away. The special effects and design add sparkle, literally and figuratively, to the movie. So, one can say that it is magic. It's sort of a magic show put on film. Of course, there are twists in the plot that work in a couple of Christmas messages. John Lithgow's character, as the mean, villainous B.Z. is just funny enough that he shouldn't be scary to small children. We older children can chuckle at his character. All of the cast are very good in their roles. Without being too overboard, this film gives some colorful and fun treatment to the tradition of Santa Claus that the whole family can enjoy. The little guys might especially enjoy the reindeer as portrayed in this film. "},{"Title":"A Nice Christmas movie, albeit Formulaic and, at times, quite boring,","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Santa Claus is a decent movie with a reasonably well developed storyline and a talented cast, although no one ever gets to show their full potential as an actor. It certainly has good moments and is a very nice Christmas movie that is very strong with the spirit of the season, it is certainly a lot of fun for anyone under the age of ten. The highlight of the entire film for me was John Lithgow, who I believe steals every scene as the villain B.Z., he's ruthless and completely unlikeable, it's an exaggerated performance that easily could have been hurrendous, but Lithgow made it work. My main problem with the film is that the story never really goes anywhere, it's almost two hours long and the adventure only really kicks off at about 75 minutes in, and is resolved by minute 95, the conflict is small and very simple, we never actually lose hope and feel as if the hero may not succeed. Every single character lacks depth or proper arch, none of them are established, not even the title character, we know very little about him before he is made become the Father of Christmas, and Patch the elf is poorly written, despite a good performance from Dudley Moore, the character starts out normal, eventually becomes evil for unknown reasons, and randomly becomes good again, it made little sense to be and it was clear he was just a poorly developed character. It's worth a look if you see it on television, but Santa Claus is definitely not a movie I would insist on watching every Christmas, and you shouldn't go out of your way to see it. A woodcutter soon becomes Santa Claus and must save Christmas from an evil toy manufacturer. Best Performance John Lithgow "},{"Title":"Totally Charmless","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" You would think that it would be difficult to make a movie about Santa Claus that's absolutely lacking in charm - and yet everybody from Ilya Salkind who produced this to Jeannot Szwarc who directed it to David and Leslie Newman who came up with the story pulled that off magnificently. I suppose that just because it's a Christmas movie and people are more warm-hearted at this time of year it's going to get some kind reviews, but really - this was awful. It's totally charmless, and has a meandering, often pointless story and bland performances all around.First - it bears no resemblance to any legend of Santa Claus that I've ever come across. I suppose coming up with a fictional story about a fictional character isn't really a crime, but at least it should be enjoyable - and it should (sort of, somehow) make sense. Here, Santa (David Huddleston) is a kind man who takes toys to children on Christmas Eve apparently hundreds of years ago who's essentially drafted by elves to become Santa. Some sort of elf- prophecy, apparently. We have an interminable hour or so of virtually no importance at all (but full of awful elf-puns) until we get to what the story was supposed to be about, and then it's kind of ho-hum. In the present day, one of Santa's elves (played by Dudley Moore) gets discouraged, leaves the North Pole and teams up with an evil toy manufacturer (John Lithgow). Chaos ensues, bad things happen, Santa has to save the day. Yadda, yadda, yadda. And along the way there's a poor, homeless boy whom Santa takes pity on (while apparently ignoring all the other poor, homeless children, who don't get rides in the sleigh and a trip to the North Pole) and an orphan who lives in a big house and has lots of stuff and whose uncle happens to be the evil toy manufacturer.You know how it will all turn out. Santa will save the day. Too bad he couldn't save this movie. (2/10) "},{"Title":"Underrated Holiday Fantasy!","Date":"26 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This 1985 fantasy stars Dudley Moore, David Huddleston, John Lithgow and Burgess Meredith. This sort of tells the origin of Santa Claus (Huddleston) who starts out as a woodcarver and becomes a Christmas symbol when he comes to the North Pole learning it's magical secrets. The late, Moore (Arthur) plays Patch, one of his elves who decides to leave to better his toy making abilities. He heads to New York City where he gets a job working for corrupt, toy manufacturer, B.Z. (Lithgow) who learns of his special talents and tries to profit from them. Soon, Santa tries to get Patch back, stop B.Z. and save the Christmas spirit from becoming lost. The late, Meredith (Rocky) plays an ancient Elf. I watched this as a kid and think it's underrated. The cast is good, there's neat effects and I like Sheena Easton's Christmas All Over The World song. I recommend this holiday fantasy. "},{"Title":"Sorry But I Hated It","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Santa Claus (1985) * (out of 4) A Christmas favorite to many, this 1985 film starts off with a kind man and his wife being approached by some elves to become Santa Claus. Shortly afterwards we see how Christmas has changed and an elf named Patch (Dudley Moore) comes up with an assembly line to make toys quicker. When they fall apart Patch decides to head out on his own and ends up with a crooked toy maker (John Lithgow).SANTA CLAUS is a film loved by many so I guess I will embrace the hate mail and being called a Grinch by saying that I thought it was pretty darn awful on many levels. I think the biggest problem is the direction, which I found to be really bad as there's no style or flow to the picture. Another major problem is the screenplay, which is all over the place and I found each and every scene just to drag itself out. Even the sequence showing how Santa came to be just ran too long.The biggest offense here is that there's not an ounce of life, energy or laughs to be found. I was really shocked at how plain and bland the Moore elf was as there's just nothing fun about the character. Moore is pretty lifeless in the role and even Burgess Meredith doesn't get much to do. David Huddleston is good as Santa and he's about the only good thing. Lithgow is rather annoying in his part.SANTA CLAUS will find much support from people but I'm not one of them. "},{"Title":"Undeserving Backlash for a Decade-Old Family Christmas Masterpiece !!","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This film gets rightfully undeserving backlash for no straightforward apparent reasoning (at least, not to my knowledge). I saw this back in 1998 on a VHS when I was 7; this meant whatever I saw could be wound and rewound again, and again. I remember my mother and I would sit down on our comfy sofa, curled up by the fireplace next to the tree, with a cup of hot mocha, every Christmas week, every Christmas eve, and almost every Christmas day to watch this beloved rare nostalgic treasure. Every year that I watch it, the heartwarming memories come flooding back to me. To me, it holds a special place in my heart as a timeless tale of warmth, joy, belonging, and togetherness, a feeling that most live-action kids films now adays, especially family pictures, seem to bypass, confuse, or forget. This film does what a number of Christmas Fantasy Films began to emulate the fantasy. It feels like an Historical Family Christmas Comedy/Drama, if that makes any sense. It touches on themes of upbringing, unconditional & unconventional compassion, helping those in need, love, belief, faith in one's self, and most of all, destiny.. that we can choose to follow our own path; a path towards enlightenment, a path towards a better life, a path to a brighter future, for everyone. I know like I'm sounding as if this turned into a paragraph-long sermon for some sort of masterpiece that gets wrongfully accused of being too commercialized, too adult, sometimes, too weird, too strange, too 80s, too much like watching a set, too cheap looking visual effects, too long, too drawn out, too boring.Well, here is my final statement This film, to me, captures EXACTLY what Christmas is all about; not only that, but it can show young and old, children and adults alike, that with a little magic, anything can happen (I know, a corny line, but here me out).. You just have to BELIEVE it will happen.. And ALWAYS hold on to faith.......Final Grade 10/10 --------- A glorious beautiful masterpiece that will continue to transcend the ages as One of the Pinnacle of Defining Christ-mas movies that shows every child should never stop believing. "},{"Title":"On Donner and Blitzen!","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This was my favourite Christmas movie all the way through childhood and I couldn't wait for the video each year to come down from the attic along with the decorations! It's been several years since last I saw it but i'm glad to say it has stood the test of time.Unlike most Christmas movies I seem to see these days which are elf- satirical (running joke), this one is pure and genuine enough to still portray some of the magic and wonder of Christmas.I'm not going to sit here and say it's a master piece but I am disappointed to see it has earned a fairly poor score here on IMDb. More so I think it's a shame that it has fallen into Christmas movie obscurity. It never gets mentioned in the same sentence as the likes of Elf or Home Alone and yet I think this movie does more the raise Christmas spirits than any other.Also, not that it's a major selling point but this movie must have had very well trained reindeer or excellent animatronics. Or both! Half the time I couldn't tell which I was looking at!Great movie with the true spirit of Christmas. More young kids need to be introduced to this movie. "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable Christmas film","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This was always one of my favourite childhood films so I was a little apprehensive about watching it in case it didn't hold up. However, I'm glad to say that it held up very well. David Huddleston is my favourite Santa, playing the role with the requisite level of warmth and kindness. John Lithgow is wonderfully over the top as B.Z., who does not actually appear until almost an hour into the film. The Salkinds were almost always able to assemble great casts for their films and this one is no exception. Of the rest of the cast, I thought that Judy Cornwall, Dudley Moore and, in a great cameo, Burgess Meredith were the best.The Salkinds also made the first three Superman films and this film has certain similarities to the first of those the first part of both films is concerned with the origins of the title character before transitioning to the present, which makes up the bulk of the film, and introducing a very entertaining, over the top villainous businessman who loves being evil.Donner being the name of one of Santa's reindeers goes back in the 19th Century but I couldn't help but think that the fact Donner was the (initially) unreliable one when it came to the Super Duper Looper might have been meant as a dig at Superman and (initial) Superman II director Richard Donner. Speaking of the Super Duper Looper, I found it impossible not to think of 9/11 when they attempted to do it around the Twin Towers. "},{"Title":"Christmas family fun - a heartwarming tale","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This Santa Claus film is one of the best, in terms of heartwarming Christmas films. It's quite twee and hasn't aged well but it's still lovely and enjoyable. The Santa Claus is from the North Pole (of course) and is traditional (post Coca-Cola) and a craftsman who makes presents for children before he becomes Santa. It's got some lovely magical scenes, and beautiful reindeer (animatronic so dated now but still cute and entertaining for children) and the elves - lead by Dudley Moore - are sweet and funny. There are some great music and soundtrack and the sets are quite beautiful. I'm sure it was quite big budget at the time! The bad guy, played by John Lithgow, who is trying to take over Christmas, was hilarious, comic-book malevolent and had one of his most iconic roles with some great one-liners. The two child actors were a little hammy in places, particularly the girl, but all in all they are sweet and accomplished and it is the moral and heart of the film that is so prominent and distracts from any flaws; both of the children are orphans of sorts and need a home and someone to love them, she's from a rich family and he is from the streets. It's heartwarming and suitable for all family members and nicely old fashioned enough to not be bogged down with so much SFX and flippancy that all heart is lost. Dudley Moore is fun and enjoyable, and Mrs Claus simply radiant and charming along with Santa - who is so believable and one of the best, jolly and kindly Santa ever put on screen. Fun for all the family. "},{"Title":"Charming, Uneven, But Very Christmas","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a big-budget Christmas movie that has both considerable charm and glaring weaknesses, but hopefully this review can help potential viewers understand the film (and its oddities) a little better. The main thing to understand is that the film is basically two movies in one. There is almost literally a split in the middle of the movie, effectively separating the first half from the second half.The first half of the film is a quaint, heartwarming depiction of the origins of Santa Claus and his wife Anya- how they came to the North Pole, fulfilling an ancient prophecy from the elves, and various origins of famous Christmas associations (such as the boy who prompted Santa to start the Naughty and Nice list).The second half of the film all but ignores Santa and heartwarming feelings and becomes a zany slapstick comedy involving one of the elves (Dudley Moore) and his dealings with a dastardly businessman (John Lithgow) who schemes to take over Christmas.The curious aspect of a feature film with two distinct parts to it might be slightly jarring to the viewer, especially since both halves of the movie differ so much in tone. If you think of it, however, as like watching two different episodes of a television show, it might help to ease the feeling of unevenness.In short, this is a movie where the ingredients are more entertaining than the actual plot. David Huddleston and Judy Cornwell are very nice as the traditional Mr. and Mrs. Claus, and the North Pole toy shop is how you always imagined Santa's workshop to be. Wonderful John Lithgow is completely hilarious as the comically villainous B.Z., and he pretty much steals the show in the second half of the film. But many questions about Santa Claus are neatly answered in this movie (such as how the reindeer fly and how Santa is able to fly around the whole world in just one night).It's a Christmas movie that both works and doesn't work, but there are many ingredients- the cozy Christmas feel of the first part and the zany comedy of the second- that make for satisfying holiday viewing, and might enhance a Christmas movie collection, as long as you just sit back and let the ingredients of the film carry you through. "}{"Title":"Cheesy Holiday Fun","Date":"18 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is an ambitious movie. It tries to cover a lot of ground, perhaps a little too much, but it's still a fun ride.The first part of the movie covers Santa's origins. It is charming and sweet, but also decidedly lacking in any kind of meaningful conflict to keep your attention. The reindeer puppeteering is outstanding (considering the technology at the time) and David Huddleson is quite convincing as Santa. It shows him settling into the role of Christmas Toy Delivery Demigod in a believable (if slightly overlong) fashion.Then, the second part of the story adds some badly needed plot, but it does a bit too much. Overachieving elf Patch (Moore) disgraces Santa's entire operation one year when he sacrifices quality for mass production. He flees the North Pole, determined to redeem himself and show Santa he is still deserving of the mantle of Top Elf.I must pause here to point out this is the problem with Patch as a character. While Moore (predictably) plays him with considerably affable charm, he seems to have an overblown ego, which is an issue the movie never really resolves.Enter B.Z., a greedy toy magnate who takes advantage of Patch to pull his own sullied reputation out of the gutter and to profit like never before. John Lithgow's turn as the villain is oh-so-very hammy and outrageously over the top, but extremely fun to watch.Add to the mix a sub-subplot of the friendship of a rich little girl and an Artful-Dodger-esque street urchin, and it all starts to creak under its own narrative weight.But the movie is still dripping with Christmas Charm and I watch it every year. Sure, its got problems, but its still a fun ride. "},{"Title":"Most under-rated Christmas movie","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This film was clearly created for the young, and young at heart. It tells the story of how Santa became who he is, sticking mostly to the original lore of England/Germany/Holand/Austria, the tale of Kris Kringle, the gift giver (not the same as Saint Nicholas). and then later jumps to a more modern time frame to tell a tale of Santa's troubles.Its a very light-hearted tale but at times has some serious points which makes it perfect for children and those that still believe in the magic of Christmas.The cast is amazing, Santa is played perfectly and is one of my all time favorites, the remaining cast blends perfectly together in their roles and none of them stood out of place. The bad guys are perfectly over the top as would be expected for a film for a young audience and the film has stood the test of time as my youngest nieces and nephews love the film.I have this right next to A Christmas Story as my two favorite Christmas movies of all time with Its a Wonderful Life, the 1930s Christmas Carol and Miracle on 34th Street as my 5 favorites ever. "},{"Title":"An appealing holiday film.","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" From the makers of the 1978 - 1987 Superman film franchise comes this likable look at the origin of Santa Claus how a gift giving man named Claus was chosen by elves long ago to be a worldwide distributor of gifts, the introduction to the workshop, the reindeer, and all of those good things. Eventually more modern touches are given to the material Santa Claus restoring hope to a homeless boy (Christian Fitzpatrick), and the machinations of a sleazy corporate villain named B.Z., played by John Lithgow at his hammy best. When an elf named Patch (Dudley Moore) has his heart broken as his dreams of being Santas' assistant don't pan out, he journeys from the North Pole to NYC and is manipulated by the heartless B.Z.These touches can't really sour the charm of this disarming fable. It's so wonderfully performed that one does get caught up in it. The under appreciated character actor David Huddleston has a nice warm presence as the man selected to be Saint Nick, as does Judy Cornwell as his wife Anya. Moore is a delight as Patch, a forward-thinking elf with grand ideas and new ways of making toys. Lithgow is a hoot as a completely unsubtle character. Jeffrey Kramer (Deputy Hendricks from Jaws 1 and 2) is fine as snivelling flunky Towzer. Burgess Meredith has a great cameo as a wise old elf who gives Santa a hearty welcome. The kids, also including Carrie Kei Heim as Cornelia, are likable enough.Capably directed by Jeannot Szwarc (Jaws 2, Somewhere in Time, Supergirl), the most impressive asset that Santa Claus can boast is its production design. The 2.351 aspect ratio treats us to a true eye candy assortment of details when it comes to Santas' workshop and residence. Henry Mancini does the music, and Sheena Easton belts out the touching closing anthem, Christmas All Over the World.There's enough of what could be considered magic here to make this decent family viewing.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ultimately Rather Disappointing","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The first half of this film, set hundreds of years ago, shows how the old man who eventually became Santa Claus was given immortality and chosen to deliver toys to all the children of the world. The second half moves into the modern era, in which Patch (Dudley Moore), the head elf, strikes out on his own and falls in with an evil toy manufacturer (John Lithgow) who wants to corner the market and eliminate Santa Claus.This long plot summary really gets to the heart of the problem this is two movies disguised as one. As much as I like seeing John Lithgow as a bad guy, it just never makes complete sense. We either have the story of Santa (as the title suggests) or we have Santa versus a corrupt and naughty toy maker. We cannot have both, and yet we do.That being said... no recommendation. This is not a lost Christmas classic by any means. "},{"Title":"David Huddleston Is Santa Claus! Uneven, but I Like it Anyway!","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The producers of Superman almost kill-off another legend. The movie starts out wonderful, even if Santa and his Mrs. have to go to sleep. The first third of the film is magical with fantastic English sets that show a wonder and fancy equal to the original Willie Wonka. The modern middle of the picture is ho-hum. Product placements are everywhere McDonald's, Pan Am, Coca Cola, Sylvania T.V., PBR Beer. However, John Litgow is such a good villain, his over-the-top performance overcomes it all. Dudley Moore plays Patch the Elf. Basically 3 themes How Santa began, modern-day, and Patch returns to the North Pole. Major plot holes abound If Joe is homeless, how come he attends school? Why do the b-ball players in the 'hood have British accents? There is no such thing as a Step-Uncle! The story is a hackneyed retelling of Annie and Scrooge. The girl is a little red-haired orphan. Joe is an innocent street urchin, much like Oliver. However, there are so many honestly good performances Burgess Meredith, Dudley Moore, David Huddleston. The reindeer are fantastic puppets and steal every scene. The modern day sets are lack-luster and uninspired. B.Z Toys doesn't look anything like a toy factory. Too dull. The ending is some-what predictable but actually perks-up the film quite a bit. It's eerie to see the Twin Towers in yet another old movie. Sheena Easton's rendition of Christmas All Over the World adds a lot to the musical score. John Lithgow drifts off into space, much like in Superman. Not as magical as it should have been-Leonard Maltin. My grown-up kids still like it anyway. "},{"Title":"Incredible movie for it's time","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" If you want your children to see Santa as he might very well be in mood, visage, Character and feel, THIS is the movie for you. From the creators of Superman The Movie,The story of Santa Clause's beginning is touching. The plot is hopeful, the characters have enough depth for even the most discerning 7 year old (and adults with a childlike sense of wonder)While it's true that some of the Duddly Moore sequences need a lot of help still all in all David Huddleston IS Santa to the point of drawing a joyful tear at the mere sight of him. A wonderful film for the whole family. "},{"Title":"One of Santa's helpers sets out on his own.","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie despite its rambling subplots does create a feeling of Christmas. The movie begins with an old man(David Huddleston) hundreds of years ago that mystically becomes Santa Claus and inherits the responsibility of delivering toys to the chosen good little boys and girls of the world on Christmas Eve. The second half of the film is about a hapless elf named Patch(Dudley Moore), who loses his supervisor's position among the toy making elves; so he sets out on his own into the world with desires of creating the best toys anyone has ever seen. He falls into the clutches of an evil toy manufacturer(John Lithgow) and Patch's dreams go haywire.Other players include Burgess Meredith, Anthony O'Donnell, Christian Fitzpatrick and Carrie Kei Heim. "},{"Title":"Perfect Christmas movie!","Date":"11 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I remember watching this movie when I was a child and it always brings back some magical memories for me of Christmas. Here I am watching it again tonight and it still has that magic I felt as a kid. They really did find the perfect cast for this movie. David Huddleston as Santa Claus, Judy Cornwell as Mrs Claus, Dudley Moore as an elf and John Lithgow as the villain. They played their parts with perfection, I couldn't imagine anyone else playing their characters.I highly recommend this movie to anyone looking for a magical Christmas movie. If you don't enjoy it as an adult, then your kids should surely enjoy it as I did when I was a kid and still do. "},{"Title":"The information about the santa clause","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have to too much information about Santa Claus from this film. Nevertheless it is an excellent film to watch. I got an interest to find more and more about history of Santa Claus, the origin of Santa Claus, I found some very useful links about Santa Claus that I want to share with others.History of Santa Claus http//www.sharpeffect.net/video/4c81fc47-a.aspxFunny videos about Santa clause http//www.sharpeffect.net/video/81fd2607-c.aspxAmazing lighthouse on Christmas http//www.sharpeffect.net/video/2e3b7d82-3.aspx "},{"Title":"Both Underrated and Overrated -- as the beauty fades.","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" There are mixed reviews out there on this movie, and the reason being is, this movie starts out very good (not excellent, but very good) as it attempts to tell the story of how Santa Claus got started and established, to his first flight, and a few scenes down through the ages. But when it gets to our own time, the hero elf, Patch, turns against Santa and one of the corniest movie plots ever takes over. This movie is NOT pure garbage, or bad on all levels. It is actually quite good. The cast selection and costumes are excellent (The inside of Santa's home may have a few too many garish toylike colours for adult tastes). The first part of the movie (all the sets, really) are beautiful, and especially the flight scenes, star scenes, our first glimpse of the magic city/kingdom/castle of the elves. But, if you watch this movie, let me warn you to turn it off as soon as it starts getting too stupid for you. Because, whether you hate it from the beginning or like it to the end, it definitely declines in plot, storyline, and standability. I saw most of the way to the end, and it may have had an ending worth seeing. But by that point, I was waaayyy too sick of it to watch any more.Worth seeing is the beginning -- a family in a northern, Germanic/Teutonic house in the forest on a blizzardly-cold winter's night is telling the legend of the elves, little people who live at the north pole beneath the 'north star' (a huge, but beautiful phenomenon, nothing like tiny little Polaris as we know it) -- when Santa Claus (a mere man, but much loved) arrives. The excited children delight at his gifts, and he departs to give gifts to children on the other side of the forest. But the blizzard picks up, and he can go no further. The reindeer halt and lie down in the blizzard, as Santa tries to coerce them to go on. The blizzard nears white-out conditions, when Santa gives up to help his all-but-dead wife. The two seem to freeze to death in the blizzard. Then, Santa and his wife and two reindeer seem to wake up, with the gleam of the North Star, in a magical world concealed by the North Star's magic. An amazingly huge, snow-covered Nordic castle/town, home of the elves, proves to be the thousands-of-years-in-the-making place where the elves had prophesied their 'chosen one' would come to. Santa is given immortality, and soon sets about settling in and preparing for his fist flight, his first WORLDWIDE mission. All is OK to this point. A few scenes down through the ages are revealed, but ultimately, when Santa needs an assistant, the 'loser' of the the top two candidates strikes out on his own, goes to New York, and lands a multimillion dollar contract to produce a magic lollipop that makes people fly. Patch, the elf, usurps Santa in worldwide popularity , whom he has a grudge against. Soon, everyone loves Patch the Elf and Santa is forsaken, in the public's eye.Patch seems to repent a little and want to go home, but is too wrought up in the fame and fortune and pressure of staying in the limelight, and his human agents have a plan to 'do away with Santa' once and for all, and become the new kings of Christmas gifts and commerce.By this point, the movie had gotten so dull and monotonous and un-Santa like that I quit watching. I just cannot fathom the whole world hating Santa Claus over a lollipop by Patch the Elf. There are many breathtakingly beautiful Christmas scenes in this movie the stars, the North star, reindeer flight, New York, etc. But this movie was made in 1985, and while still very pretty, much of the eye-candy is VERY dated by today's standards. The Santa Clause, for instance, has MUCH better flight scenes. Polar Express is more credible, and Santa Claus is Commin' to town has a MUCH more moving Christmas message and theme. My advice is, watch it for the pretty stuff at the beginning and for the novelty and the history. But once the movie gets too corny for you, (cornification is gradual, but it gets worse in definite stages) you might as well turn it off because it will only get stupider and stupider until it's an absolute headache-inducing bore -- like the stupid films your librarian showed the children at a birthday party (e.g. it gets like Santa Claus Conquers the Martians).It was NOT AS GOOD AS I HOPED, but mildly worth watching for the pretty stuff and attempt at writing a faux history of Santa's mission. "}{"Title":"Magical enough for undemanding children...","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Spotting this title in the Christmas TV listings, memories of it flooded back into my mind, so I decided to read what people were saying about it on IMDb. None of the reviews best fit my opinion of it, so I thought I'd chip in my two cents.This is not a classic, nor is it a terrible movie. Some people are likening it to such terrible children's movies as 'Mac & Me', 'Superbabies' or 'Troll 2'. It's nowhere near that bad, despite deservedly earning it's reputation as one of the biggest turkeys of all time. The latter statement purely down to the hideous amount of money it cost to produce and recuperating precious little of it. It's a helluva lot better than Rene Cardona's 1959 movie of the same name, starring a young Pia Zadora.Giving this movie 10 stars is a big head-shaker too. It doesn't have the magic of 'E.T. - The Extra Terrestrial' or 'The Wizard Of Oz', lacks the character of 'Pinocchio', 'Snow White' or any other Disney movie you could throw a stick at, even Will Ferrell's 'Elf' is a title I'd recommend before this, but there are quite a few decent things about Santa Claus The Movie. The casting isn't that bad, and there's some performances that raise a smile, particularly Dudley Moore and John Lithgow as the obligatory pantomime villain. The costumes and art direction are reasonably convincing, and the special effects aren't too shabby for a film made in 1985 (Check out the visual effects in Cocoon, which won an Oscar that year). This is a great movie for undemanding children, providing enough magic throughout the running time to keep them quiet for 90+ minutes. Even adults with the heart of a child could sit through it without thinking how numb their backside is getting.That's probably the best description the movie can be given. It's not a boring dullard, but it's no masterpiece either.It might have even got 6/10 had it not been for the McDonald's advert halfway through. "},{"Title":"Very good,arise the vote.","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" If this movie was Spielberg would have had more. Since these strontium on the assumption that a film must be beautiful to be directed by big names like Spielberg, Lucas, Jackson, Cameron. .. All these assessments are wrong you understand the level of bad opinion of this site. Only films for intellectuals can be saved. This film was produced with many dollars and the optimal use of special effects make the place as among the best science fiction film Americans. Finitela of using double standards when judged as a movie, try to be objective because they give 3.8 a film of its kind and reward a crap how terrible sin city with 8.2 is really a 'offense. Vote 10 "},{"Title":"Cute, but a bit dumb!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember watching this when it came out and was overwhelmed by the special effects and such.  16 years later, nothing's changed.  I bought this movie at a yard sale.  The lady charged $0.25, hey good price!!  I enjoyed reliving all the happy memories I had of the movie.  Granted the plot is a bit unrealistic and drab.. but hey, who cares.  Fun holiday movie!  Out of 5 stars, I give this 2 1/2.  (Great Sheena Easton song) "},{"Title":"Santa Claus The Movie","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I may have seen this film as a kid, because I did recognise tiny moments, but even if I didn't, I had to see the Christmas film that is on every year, from director Jeannot Szwarc (Jaws 2). Basically, it is all about the origins of the world's most famous Christmas character, the has become the staple of many seasonal films, with a little adventure as well. The first half of the film sees Santa Claus (David Huddleston), in the 14th Century, arrive at the North Pole with his wife Anya (Judy Cornwell), and as a kind woodcutter delivering presents to the children of his town, they are found by the Vendequm, or Elves. They are the chosen ones, given immortality, with Santa being the big red suit, sleigh and eight (where's Rudolph) reindeer to deliver all presents to the nice children of the world, throughout the centuries. When it reaches the 20th Century, the second half of the film begins, when elf Patch (Dudley Moore) leaves for making mistakes in present making, and he winds up in New York City. There he meets toy making company owner B.Z. (Shrek's John Lithgow), convinced their toys are fast selling (they weer actually clearing out), and he gives them the secret of his flying dust, which is manufactured into special sweets. Santa finds out about what Patch has been up to, and knowing B.Z. is a villain, he is determined to stop him, save Patch, and retain status as the true toy making magic man, or whatever. Also starring Batman's Burgess Meredith as Ancient Elf, Jeffrey Kramer as Towzer, Christian Fitzpatrick as Joe, Carrie Kei Heim as Cornelia, John Barrard as Dooley, Anthony O'Donnell as Puffy and Melvyn Hayes as Goober. Huddleston seems a suitable choice for the jolly hero, Moore is alright as the troubled elf, and I recognised the voice of Lord Farquaad as an appropriate villain. The jokes I admit are sort of feeble, the first half of the film is fine, but then there's the silly second half, so while it is childish, and won't satisfy all young viewers, it is an alright Christmas film. Okay! "},{"Title":"A Must See For Any Christmas Movie Fan!","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have to say that this is one of the all time greats when it comes to Christmas movies. I know everyone loves the comedy of other Christmas movies like the Tim Allen movies & all, but , it you want to enjoy something about the true meaning of Christmas, this is for you! I have loved this movie since I was a kid & I'm 31 now. It tells the story of a man who delivers toys for children hundreds of years ago & on a night he can no longer make it, the elves save him & he eventually becomes known as Santa Claus. Dudley Moore does a great performance as Patch & the movie even has a villain, John Lithgow. A lot of children will enjoy this even though Christmas has become so cartoonish & commercialized, it brings you back to when you were a kid & toy's were simple & the holiday spirit was there! Something thats hard to find these days. I highly recommend this movie as a family movie or if your just by yourself & want to get into the holiday spirit! "},{"Title":"SANTA CLAUS (Jeannot Szwarc, 1985) **1/2","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This happens to another one of those films I caught while still a kid as a VHS rental; I recall liking it back then and I did so again now, though the film has over the years somehow acquired an undeserved reputation as a turkey or, conversely, a cult classic! In any case, it proved to be the second box-office bomb in a row produced by The Salkinds after SUPERGIRL (1984) which, ironically, had the same director and had co-starred Peter Cook&#133;while SANTA CLAUS features, of course, his longtime partner Dudley Moore!The latter, apparently, had turned down the lead role in SPLASH! (1984) to do this film &#150; thus granting Tom Hanks free passage to stardom, while his own career subsequently never totally recovered! Even so, the film is an enjoyable ride (pardon the pun) and succeeds best in the technical departments where the impressive art direction truly brings to life the Polar abode of Santa Claus and his toy-making factory, while the special effects make the magical sleigh-rides (and amiable reindeers) as convincing as Superman's flights had been. Although not a star name, David Huddleston is well-cast as the benign, bearded titular figure, Dudley Moore is ideal as the elf with the ambitious projects who, inadvertently, nearly brings the downfall of his idol thanks to his misjudged collaboration with ruthlessly greedy toy magnate John Lithgow (also good). Burgess Meredith has a nice cameo as the long-bearded elf patriarch and the music score (highlighted by a couple of Leslie Bricusse-Henry Mancini and Sheena Easton songs) is also very adequate under the circumstances.Initially, I had feared that the film might not hold up all too well after all these years as I generally balk at the 20th century updating of age-old legends but, thankfully, they are harmlessly integrated here in the story of a beat-up street urchin 'adopted' by Santa Claus to help him distribute the presents every Christmas Eve. As befits a cult classic, Anchor Bay rose to the occasion in providing an exhaustive Special Edition DVD with an audio commentary from director Szwarc, a lengthy documentary and a host of international trailers&#133;although, given my busy Christmas schedule, I didn't have time to delve into the more time-consuming ones. "},{"Title":"This is a movie that rocked my childhood","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Back in the 1980s my mother had a friend who had HBO. We didn't even have cable back then so it was a treat to get videos from my mom's friend of the newest movies. I remember when I received this movie--I was so in love with it. Each year as a child I remember Christmas time coming around and me putting the VHS on and watching the movie. I thought the imagery was so magical and stunning (it truly is to this day--some of the imagery used is pretty awesome). The old VHS is still somewhere at my parents house. However I have seen the movie on TV a few times over the past few years and I still get a happy feeling watching it. The plot is somewhat thin but for a child (and children at heart) this movie still rocks!! "},{"Title":"for a  movie base on joyous occasion,i didn't find it very joyous","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" i don't know what to think about this movie.i didn't hate it but i didn't really like it either.here's why.i thought the whole atmosphere of the the movie was sad,almost depressing at times.and i felt the music overpowered the movie at times.it just got to be a bit too much.normally the colour scheme of a movie isn't something i think about.however,this movie seems to have colours that were much too muted for it's subject matter.the colours just weren't very bright.i'll admit that the movie approaches being something close to magical at times,but,for me,it doesn't quite get there.it's also slow paced.i think even children will be bored with it at times.for me,the movie was more of a loud spectacle than anything else.i don't think too many people will be filled with joy while watching this movie.it's bearable at best,at least in my opinion.my vote for Santa ClausThe Movie is a 4/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, amusing Santa vs. Big Business film","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an enjoyable fairy tale about Santa's origin and modern-day travails.  Dudley Moore is amusing as an elf who wants to update Santa's traditional production methods.  When his assembly-line practices result in shoddy toys, he runs off and joins up with greedy businessman John Lithgow, who goes from selling glass-and-nail filled teddy bears to producing magical puce lollypops.The movie starts off serene, with a pseudo-realistic portrayal of Santa's origin as a medieval toymaker who dies in a snowstorm, but is taken in by toy-making elves.  It becomes a little more irreverent later on, when Santa Claus has to compete with big-business toy manufacturers.  Like any good Christmas film, it's cliche-ridden, with the requisite cute-little-kid and Santa-saves-the-day scenes.  It's also strangely devoid of a sense of fun, which is probably why it hasn't exactly become a regular, much-loved Christmas classic.  Nonetheless, it is pretty sentimental, and funny at times, especially any scene with John Lithgow in it.  Not a great film, but enjoyable Christmas fare. "},{"Title":"As a present this film is best left unwrapped","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" As a genre Christmas movies are probably most hit or miss, for every Miracle on 34th Street you have a dozen more like Santa Clause Conquerors the Martians. Now in 1985 the Salkinds decided to take a stabbed at it and with Supergirl director Jeannot Szwarc at the helm that's exactly what we got&#133;.stabbed.The movie starts our promising enough as we pan down from a starry sky to a snowy Scandinavian landscape and wood cottage full of people. They are all waiting for their beloved friend Uncle Clause (David Huddleston) to bring toys for all the children as he does every year. Many are impressed that Clause can cut wood for the whole village and still have time to carve all the wooden toys he provides each year, but it is his love of children that makes it possible. After giving out wonderfully hand carved toys to the children he and his wife Anya (Judy Cornwell) bid their friends goodbye as they have more stops to make, and even though the weather is getting bad they can't think of disappointing the children who live on the other side of the forest. The storm intensifies and soon their reindeer collapse in exhaustion as the snow whips around them. Clause embraces his wife as the winter storm takes their lives.The Northern Star appears and a cone of light descends on the frozen countryside and out of it steps a large contingent of elves. Clause, his wife, and reindeer all wake up as the group of colorfully dressed little people approach. They are led to their new home at the North Pole where they are informed by the Ancient Elf (Burgess Meredith) that Clause is The Chosen One and will fulfill the duties of the prophecy. That is live forever and give out toys to all the children of the world. And this is where the film runs of the rails and into a morass of boring maudlin scenes coated with syrupy crap.At 108 minutes the film really drags with overlong montages of the elves making toys, endless shots of Santa flying around with his reindeer pulled sled, and it's not until about the 40 minute mark that the real plot of the movie starts to rear its ugly head. A seemingly overworked Santa Clause promotes an elf named Patch (Dudley Moore) to assistant, but his radical ideas of mass production results in shoddily made toys and unhappy children on Christmas morning. A now disgraced Patch runs away to prove he is useful. Of course he ends up hooking up with the films villain B.Z. (John Lithgow) an evil toy manufacturer who is being investigated by a Senate committee for producing dangerous products. Throw in a poor little boy who lives on the street and the rich girl (also stepdaughter of B.Z) who befriends him and you may need to take a couple of insulin shots to survive a viewing of this film.About the only real enjoyment I got out of this film was watching Lithgow hamming it up with the evil cranked up to eleven, but as his character doesn't show up until the hour mark it's really not worth the wait. Like Supergirl this Christmas disaster just seemed to meander around without purpose, now Jeannot Szwarc pretty much stopped directing movies after Santa Clause The Movie but has made a decent mark for himself in episodic television (he even directed an episode of the excellent show Heroes). So if you're looking good Santa Clause movie keep on moving as this one is not going to fill the bill. "}{"Title":"As predictable as next Christmas","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Patch (Moore) is put in charge of making the year's Christmas toys but they turn out shabby and so disgraced, Patch heads to New York to prove his worth to Santa.Christmas is a special occasion every year and not many dread the time of year when you hear tales of Father Christmas, receive presents and join your loved ones for the festivities.These typical elements of the festive season are encoded into this 1985 picture and are used in a way that revolves around making a mistake and trying to fix it before it's too late. If anything, Christmas is simply a setting for this conventional storyline.The opening sees a man and his wife delivering toys to villages. Filmed in a dark and old fashioned setting you would think it would be maintained but then up pops a bunch of normal height elves that transport them to their palace. After ten minutes more where we see elves dance and Santa looking around their factory, we see an old man step out from behind a sledge to declare Santa the man to deliver presents to kids for the rest of his life. You will utter a sigh when he mentions the word prophecy which is undoubtedly an attempt to make the legend but is conveyed as a mere convenience as the old guy is on the verge of retiring. Or is this a religious point? There is no indication that it is which leaves us scratching our heads.So after around half an hour of pointless scene setting the story eventually gets going and Patch makes faulty toys and is soon on his way to New York. In what is slightly funny, the elves and Santa aren't seen caring much for Patch's absence until Santa realises he is making a wooden man that resembles the elf, yes it is that sickly obvious.On the plus side when Santa visits New York and meets Joe and Cornelia then the spirit of Christmas and good will appears. Joe the homeless kid and Cornelia the unappreciated step daughter form a friendship that is sweet and when Cornelia gives Joe some food it will bring a smile to viewer's faces.John Lithgow is a fantastic villain and would have been better with more on screen time.There is a cringing last ditch attempt to save the day and as it's a Christmas film there is only one way it is going to go to keep the spirits of viewers up.In conclusion Santa Claus the movie is as predictable as the arrival of next Christmas with an awful take on the legend, some strange settings and a feeling of using Christmas as an excuse to portray a story of right and wrong. "},{"Title":"Boooring","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":" My comments reflect how we watched this movie. On WGN Superstation on Thanksgiving Evening via DISH Network. Bad effects supported by awful sound quality. We had to turn off the sub-woofer because every footstep and bump gave us a headache and the blaring hiss blurred much of the dialog. We have a top of the line sound system that this movie made sound like garbageMan this was a massive yawn with everyone above the age of 10.We watched on Thanksgiving last night. We all found ourselves making fun of the botched continuity,annoying product endorsements (Coke and McDonalds), the stupidity of Patch, and the totally lame, lame, lame dialog.Most noticeable continuity goof Pay attention to the Coke can when Corny gives Joe dinner. DVR settles all arguments about this one. How does that Coke can spin around? It is so noticeable b/c the initial shot of the can is so obviously a paid product endorsement. The second shot is obviously not so well thought out. This was noticed (loudly) by our resident teenager with the drama experience and counted as the greatest laugh of the evening as we jumped back and forth with the DVR with coke can spinning....Even our 10 year old daughter thought it was just OK and she says she still believes in Santa. But she didn't believe that Sanda was so stupid as to give Patch the assistant job after he makes out a bunch of broken toys... and why doesn't anyone notice how messed up they are b/4 they are delivered? Didn't anyone notice the missing nuts on the wheels? Not in this Maybe an OK movie for little kids, who don't see the obvious faults. Rent the Polar Express instead. "},{"Title":"Santa Needs Directions","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  An enthusiastic, colorful project about how the `real' Santa came to be, and the ruthless businessman who wants to take over his trade, `Santa Claus the Movie,' directed by Jeannot Szwarc, stars Dudley Moore, David Huddleston and John Lithgow.  It's a  movie with an interesting concept and a touch of magic to it, but comes across as something of a contradiction in terms of what specific audience it's trying to reach.  Szwarc serves it up as if it were fare for the younger set exclusively, yet the story beneath all the fluff, color and dazzle is geared more toward the adult mind set, with a plot (especially the way it's delivered) that could possibly be a trifle confusing and beyond the grasp of the very young.  It makes a vivid visual statement (especially the first glimpse of what becomes Santa's workshop), but the overall `look' of the film is rather cheesy, and the F/X are reminiscent of something out of the &#145;50's T.V. series `Flash Gordon;' somewhat below the level you would expect, even from a movie made in 1985.Lithgow plays `B.Z.,' the toy manufacturer with more than a touch of the `Grinch' in him, who wants to cut in on Santa's action and take over Christmas.  He approaches the character with zeal-- to say the least-- taking it over the top into what amounts to a combination of his `Dr. Lizardo' from `Buckaroo Banzai,' and `Dick' from T.V.'s `3rd Rock From The Sun;' a caricature that comes off too sleazy to be much fun.  Dudley Moore is `Patch,' one of the cleverest of the Elves, who outdoes himself vying for Santa's attention.  He's colorful (just about everyone in this movie is), but Moore makes him so pretentiously droll that it's hard to like him very much.  It's a character that would fare better on `Sesame Street,' or alongside `Barney,' rather than in a major motion picture.  Of all the actors involved in this film, David Huddleston (Santa), manages to turn in the most notable performance.  His looks and voice are well suited to the role of Santa Claus, though the grayness of his beard and hair are questionable (perhaps the `white' comes with age; this is Santa at the beginning of his career, after all).  And Judy Cornwell (Mrs. `Anya' Claus) also does extremely well with her character; this is the Mrs. Claus I believe most people envision.The supporting cast includes Jeffrey Kramer (Towzer), Christian Fitzpatrick (Joe), Carrie Kei Heim (Cornelia) and Burgess Meredith in a cameo as the `Ancient Elf.'  Szwarc tries hard, but never seems to be able to make that necessary emotional connection with the audience that would've made `Santa Claus the Movie' at least more watchable.  As it is, it's a fairly tedious journey on a road that, for the most part, goes nowhere.  It has all the elements you'd expect in a movie about Santa Claus, but though the attempt was valiant, the filmmakers in this case just spent too much time trying to put square pegs in round holes.  I rate this one 4/10. "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but no seasonal classic","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw Santa Claus when I was about 6 and we'd watch it every Christmas for a few years. Now I'm 17 I saw it again last Christmas. I have to say that it was not as bad as I had read in the years between, certainly not a cynical marketing ploy but certainly no Christmas classic. I especially remember with fondness the truly magical beginning and first half. Unfortunately I was reminded too that from halfway through things start to go down. The main problem is that Santa Claus is an extremely vague legend and the two halves of the film to not really cohere into a satisfactory whole. The magical beginning occurs when a woodcutter and his wife get lost in a blizzard and after awakening, who knows how long after, they are escorted by a group of elves to the magical kingdom at the North Pole. The pair are given immortality and the old man takes up the mantle of Santa Claus destined for all time. This part is excellent Hudelston is perfect as Kris Kringle and everything is very convincing. However things go awry when it tries to develop into a plot in the second half. One of the elves, Patch (Moore) runs away after some shoddy toys are sent back and goes to America. There he innocently joins up with nasty toy tycoon Lithgow to make magic lollipops while Santa meets a poor homeless boy (Christian Fitzpatrick) and a poor little rich girl (Carrie Kei  Heim). Here things go badly wrong. The two young stars are dreadful and the story descends into unbearable schmaltz and saccharine. One is inclined to think that things would have better if the story had followed Santa on one Christmas Eve. Instead the film attempts to preach the meaning of Christmas in an incredible silly and ham fisted way, as Lithgow hatches an evil plan that would destroy Christmas. The sets and special effects are top notch, but I couldn't help agreeing with those who claimed that the film had spoiled Christmas. "},{"Title":"Totally lame.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"     I saw this movie for the first time when I was in my last year of grade school just before we got out for Christmas break as I recall.  Even back then I didn't enjoy this movie.  And I still don't.  The plot is almost totally nonexistant.  It's about Santa Claus and his wife in the North Pole and Santa takes a lazy, sloppy elf named Patch (Dudley Moore) with poor craftsmanship under his wing.   Along the way, Santa meets up with a two kids, a poor homeless orphan boy and a rich girl living with a strict aunt.  Santa has some silly adventures with these kids in this movie.  The elf Patch is nothing more than an inconvienent plot device and he's also the troublemaker of the elves.  Dudley Moore could've been in a better movie for that matter!  And what was a respected actor like John Lithgow doing in this movie, playing an evil toy making tycoon? The tycoon he portrays wants to be more popular than Santa.  Though the whole movie he literaly drools on his tie, chortles, and makes suprise enterances.  He wasn't even halfway evil in this flick!   He even invents a lollipop that can make people fly!  How lame is that?  I even feel sorry for Burgess Meredith for participating in this utterly lame movie!  So, next time the holiday season rolls along, please sit this one out.  Don't expose your children to this replusive, plotless, and pathetic excuse for a Family Christmas movie.  Heck, this movie was even an a B-Movie book that I have!  Watch 'Ernest Saves Christmas' or one of those Peanuts and Garfield holiday specials instead.  "},{"Title":"I hate this movie! Hated it, hated it.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  With $50 million dollars to work with, you'd think a well done movie could be made. It wasn't the case here. The makers of this film should  be ashamed for tempting kids into this boring and LARGELY UNFUNNY film. Ranks up with other duds like 'Hudson Hawk,' 'Battlefield Earth' and so on. Next time ask Santa for a writer. "},{"Title":"What a Waste","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Considering the talented actors and wonderful special effects, you would think this would be a great movie. The problem is that the story line and plot is ridiculous. It is like taking a great idea aand giving it a Saturday morning cartoon plot. The sad thing is that the real story of Santa Claus as a 4th century bishop who became Santa Claus would have been a great story line. I Long for the day that someone actually does a credible movie about Santa Claus. Basically this movie stinks. "},{"Title":"Utterly disgusting","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  One hates to be rude, but this is a truly repulsive children movie. Not a nice scene here, everything seems to be corny (in a way you can't even imagine it), boring and incredibly disgusting (it is in fact one of the ugliest movie of all time). Please please please don't put your poor children in front of this load of trash. "}]