[{"Title":"To take the horn of the Unicorn is to end all hope!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"127 out of 150 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Never did the phrase a beautiful film have more relevance than in this wonderful piece of adult fantasy. Make no mistake, this masterpiece, Ridley Scott's fourth film (it followed BLADE RUNNER) was never intended for children. Those who have written it off as a kids' movie totally betray their limitations and inability to see what is being offered here.A youthful Tom Cruise was such a good choice as Jack, the forest dweller destined to plunge the world into darkness and then have but one opportunity to restore the light. Mia Sara is the beautiful princess, part Cinderella, part angel, all virgin! and Tim Curry? well, what a simply staggering contribution as the Lord of Darkness. Totally unrecognizable both visually and audibly but what a performance.All the Ridley Scott trademarks are here, the back-projected blue light, the filtered scenes of wonderment, central characters in a crisis, the enigma of life itself. If anything, LEGEND is better now than when it was released. In '85 it received critical praise - just no-one went to see it! Well that's not strictly true. I attended the Sydney premiere and sat thru it entranced as others fidgeted, whispered, and generally brought attention to their limited attention spans and lowered perceptions! Certainly it is a film that on one level children could relate to and even enjoy but it is a far deeper film with a host of reflective ideas and quite magical concepts. What really IS the Lord of Darkness? What is the significance of the Unicorns? What becomes of the innocence we leave behind in childhood? If none of this interests you, make sure you avoid this film! "},{"Title":"There really should be two different Legend movies listed.","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"99 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" There's the original version, released in 1986 and on videotape, and the 2002 Director's Cut, available on DVD. The latter version is one of my all-time favorite movies. It compares quite favorably with Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings and is a modern classic.The theatrical release of 1986, shamefully butchered (chopped up and badly re-edited) by the mindless suits at Warner, and with its original Jerry Goldsmith score replaced by the rather trite Tangerine Dream soundtrack, is the version most people have seen. It was released on videotape as a children's movie. What it is, and was intended to be, is a fairy tale for adults. In fact, it's too intense for really young children.It's hard to say that the '86 version deserves any more than the 6 it's rated at on its IMDb main page. It is a disappointment, primarily because it's now impossible to watch without think how much better it could be. The feeling and tone of the film were ruined by its treatment.The Ridley Scott Director's Cut, released in 2002, is a completely different movie. If you haven't seen this version, you haven't seen the movie. It deserves a score of 9 or 10. It doesn't look like a movie made 20 years ago. Scenes which are vital to the tone of the film and the meaning of the story have been restored. The sumptuous original soundtrack, recorded with a full orchestra, has also been restored, and this adds more to the film than can be put into words. About the performances A very young Tom Cruise is excellent as the hero. Tim Curry as the Lord of Darkness is awesome; his costume and voice alone are worth the cost of renting or buying the DVD. Mia Sara is absolutely stunning as Lily. She actually plays two different versions of her character, both wonderfully. This was her first role, a risk for Scott on such a big budget film, and she turned in the performance of her career. She's never been better, or looked more beautiful, than in this movie. The elves and fairies, both good and evil, are incredibly real-looking and believable. The costumes are perfect, and the sets are breathtaking, literally. One of the largest indoor sets ever constructed - a huge fantasy forest - was built for this movie.If you haven't seen this version, rent it. If you have kids, buy it for them; they'll watch it over and over. My daughter and her friends watch it repeatedly, she's probably seen it 50 times. "},{"Title":"LEGEND Gothic, Grim, Beautiful, Enchanting, Magical, Dreamy, Fantastic, and ultimately Constant.","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"89 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ridley Scotts' fallen masterpiece Legend has, in it's own rite, become one of the most infamous, if not fascinating, legacies in Hollywood. In 1984, Ridley Scott, director of the famed sci-fi Alien, set out to tell a defining fairy tale. Once he was joined by writer William Hjortsberg, the duo started off on a creative journey to conjure what would become the beloved film Legend. The film was further more given the appropriate elements for the general fairy tale. The Princess, the Hero, the Villain, the Goblins, the Fairies, and the other magical characters and creatures such as the Unicorns and Honeythorn Gump. Seeing as the film is intended to be a definitive fairy tale, this would also mean tracing the modern genre back to its' roots, Grim style. Indeed, the completed product was pure in it's woven fables. Just as it is tender, and bright, is it also dark, surreal, nightmarish, and ultimately entrancing. More of the film deals with the overshadow of darkness in the magical land. A proper way to show the sudden switch from light and happy, to dark and fearsome indeed.In the story, we have the world, happy, beautiful, completely compelling in its' own nature. The dark truth lies within its' own reality. Darkness once ruled the world, but has since retreated into the lower levels of the earth, to groan and complain of times in a better existence. The world is happy, because the Unicorn, a very dear, and sacred animal, rules the land. These gorgeous creatures know only love and laughter, and thusly, protect the world from evil. They are attracted to one element in man kind, innocence. Princes Lily is pure at heart, as well as mind and spirit. Her soul friend, Jack, leads her to the creatures, as a gesture of love and affection. Quite unfortunately, however, the Lord Darkness has sent his own army after the creatures too. Once both sides are at the right place, and the wrong time, the Unicorns are harmed, and the earth, in danger. Thus begins a journey full of action, adventure, and suspense.Tom Cruise has only performed well in this one film, for me anyway. He is actually quite affective, and believable as the hero Jack. He shows both strength and bravery, to contrast with confusion and fear of the unknown. Very plausible indeed. Mia Sara is so gorgeous, naive, and pure as the Princess. Her characteristics consist of a blind ambition, love stricken playfulness, and of course, Innocence. Never, has this genre seen such a perfect portrayal. Now, Tim Curry turns in one hell of a performance. Thanks to modern film-making, Curry is a frightening, disgusting, and yet sexual portrayal of ultimate Darkness. The three stars are all mixed together in a real Fairy Tale, with a message at the end. (note, this message is only seen in the 2002 restored Directors Cut).I do not feel the need to bring up the controversy that ensued the principal photography, as it is well known by fans and film buffs of all kind. What I can say, is that Ridley Scott was certainly determined to give us the product of his imagination. That said, he gave us a real fantasy. he has given us a real story of magic,, love, hate,adventure, and all kinds of elements that create what a film like this should be. One thing to truly be mentioned, however, is the late Jerry Goldsmith. This master at film composition of the musical persuasion, gave us his ultimate best, and that was being generous and forgetting about getting stabbed in the back during the processing of Alien. Again, the great musician was tricked, and his beautiful score was thrown out the window from US versions, leaving the film to sugary and sappy. Even worse, important scenes were cut, leaving much of the film uneven and seemingly rushed. Sad enough, this kind of treatment happened a year earlier with 1984's Supergirl. Fortunately, however, we were given the true version of the film in mid 2002, and rightly so. The film has since then, been seen, and loved by fans as myself, who loved it way back when....as well as now.The best I can say, is that this movie has a full blown mastermind to it, and the producers and creators etc finally gave the film justice. Same happened with Supergirl in 2000. Bottom line, this film is brilliant, and touching, and an ever- glorious masterpiece! "},{"Title":"A stunning movie .","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"53 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend is one of those movies you either love or hate . It's a fantasy movie but it doesn't really contain a whole lot of action which is probably why many people are turned off by it . But the film is visually stunning and features a good performance by Tim Curry as Darkness , Tom Cruise on the other hand looks a bit confused throughout the movie . Also Rob Bottin's Make up is just amazing .Now things weren't helped by the fact that there are so many versions of this movie and some are vastly better than others . The weakest and shortest of the all is the US theatrical cut because it misses many scenes and ads a few that seem tacked on but worst of all it contains a score by Tangerine Dream instead of the original one by Jerry Goldsmith .The European cut is better in that it is longer and it features Jerry Goldsmith's score .The best version however is the Director's Cut featured on The Ultimate Edition DVD . It runs alot longer than any of the other cuts and it is the most coherent cut as well and it features the score by Jerry Goldsmith. "},{"Title":"Violation of innocent, virtuous flesh","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"53 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The Lord of all that is Darkness (Tim Curry) tries to take over the world by slaying two unicorns. He is distracted by the temptation of innocence, which comes in the form of pretty little Princess Lily, played by Mia Sara in her film debut. The Dark Lord decides he would like to have his way with virgin princess, while her true love Jack (Tom Cruise) tries to rescue her and save the world. Long, dark, murky, loaded with black humor and undeniably well crafted. A beautiful film to look at that is hopelessly chopped up in the American version which replaces Jerry Goldsmith's original music with music by Tangerine Dream. Cruise is alright as the hero, as alright as he's ever been anywhere else. Mia Sara is very lovely as the virgin princess whom this film revolves around. Curry sounds like he's having fun as the villain.  "},{"Title":"A film for special people","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"37 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" As often happens I have again bucked the crowd. A fine director has given us a charming morality tale for adults. It is lush, sensual, sweet perhaps naive, certainly it is charming. I am sorry that I did not ever get to hear the Goldsmith score, but I thought the Tangerine Dream score was very fitting. The youthful Tom Cruise was perfectly cast as the forest boy Jack and Mia Sara was just right as the girl. But the makeup job and prosthetics that made Tim Curry the Lord of Darkness was outstanding. a film with brownies, fairies, Unicorns, goblins. What more could a fantasy film deliver, and a a bonus the plaintive voice of YES front man Jon Anderson singing the song over the final credits. I am sorry that there so many people that were not mature enough to enjoy the artistry of this film. I would still like to get the DVD version to see the cut I missed. "},{"Title":"How Americanization ruins...","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"70 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend...I can only say that this film, at least the European version, succeeds into the creation of a fantasy world that very very few other films have. And NEVER has a fairytale forest been realised so vividly and fantastically as here. The production design at Pinewood Studios is truly outstanding.Of course, this film was a considerable flop. And looking at it, it isn't too hard to see why. A film that retains some semblance of morality - in this case the most basic, good versus evil - will not play to young audiences of the late 20th century. The tone of the film is perhaps too dark for young children, the overall theme of the film perhaps too juvenile for most adults. And so Legend finds itself in a cinematic limbo, a place without a core audience.Of course, a cult audience has evolved around this film as it does around anything that misses its major target, and so Legend is a film that is either loved or loathed. Either way, Ridley Scott's stunning visual imaginings are realised with undeniable skill.In addition to Scott's and his team's visual successes, this film - at least for European viewers - is embellished with one of the most beautiful scores ever written. Jerry Goldsmith has, during his transition from traditional to synthesied orchestra, created one of the richest scores ever bestowed on a film.Quite what Warner Bros thought they were doing when they removed this score and cut chunks out of the film (and re-edited what was left) I will never understand. The film would and did flop in both versions, but that doesn't necessarily mean it shouldn't have been made.If you are knew to this film, do yourself a favour and never watch the American version, unless it is the revamped widescreen version with the Goldsmith score back in place.A visual dream, a beautiful score, a moral tale. Is there any wonder it flopped? "},{"Title":"A fairy tale on film.","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I've read a lot of opposing views here and there are valid views on both sides. I guess it boils down to what your imagination can be hopefully transfered to film for you enjoyment.I've seen my fair share of fantasy films in my life and Legend probably reached to that part of me quicker than any film of that genre than has been done before and since. Lord of the Rings surpasses it on many levels...but Legeng still has the ability after all these years to make me think of pure fantasy, and that's what I believe this film is about. Good vs evil is what most films are about, but Legend is what fairies and goblins and a mystical forests are! Visually I doubt you can find much better even 20 odd years later! Good vs evil in a setting that is set in a purer forum. Character development here are not too strong, but they're not meant to be. They are strong enough to portray love vs evil vs good and bad, and they do it well in the context of the story. Tom Cruise did a good Job as the Nieve and yet courageous Jack, Lily was a the prize of his longing and it came across as undeniable. Mia Sara as lily is the stuff of youthful longing.Tim Curry played the spoiler and he did it to the point of stealing all of the film. He is the stuff of fantasy. The costume was spectacular, and his portrayal of the character was commanding...And over the top cause that what he does well! I enjoyed the directors cut film more as it is longer and tells the story just a little better, but I enjoyed Tangarines Dream's score more as it captured the mood of fantasy ( for me) as set in a mystical place! Jerry Goldsmith had some very good moments, but TD for me layed out a fairytale with my eyes closed better. But at the end you either see this for the pure fantasy it is about or you see it as something deeper that it doesn't pretend to be. It's much purer in it's view on good vs evil and to my taste it hits on every level of that platform. And not to mention it's ability to make for a great dream filled with hope and danger.Pure fantasy...and should be viewed with that intent. "},{"Title":"The Director's Cut is Gorgeous!","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I will join the chorus... This is a beautiful, and thoroughly enjoyable fantasy film as long as you watch it in digital widescreen and do not bother with the 1hr 30min version. The Director's Cut(better known as the European release) is worthy of an IMDb rating of 8. The American theatrical release is worthy of a 6.5.This is a fairly straightforward fantasy conceived and directed by Ridley Scott, one of the greatest mainstream directors of our time. The story follows a young man who lives in a forest (Jack, played by Tom Cruise) and a spirited young princess (Lily - Mia Sara) who is in love with him. The lord of darkness (Tim Curry) has sent forth his minions to capture the last two remaining unicorns so that he can banish light from the world forever. Unicorns are attracted to innocence, and so they find themselves in Jack and Lily's company just as the dark lord's play begins to unfold. Before long, Jack and his magical forest friends must save Lily, the one remaining unicorn and the world from the grasp of the dark lord at any price.Even the lengthier director's cut goes by just a little too quickly. But it's pace is not comparable to the incredibly hasty studio chop-job of the American release. The story is epic, but the medium is not. All considered, however, the production team did a great job given the length limits afforded for the film.Cruise does pretty well with a role that must have been a little hard to interpret. Jack must behave as a hero, a young man who has learned most of his lessons from nature, and a teenager to varying degrees throughout the film. Mia Sara is delightful a Lily. Tim Curry and David Bennent (Honeythorn Gump) get pretty close to stealing the show. In all, the acting is fine, but the star of the film is really the camera.Scott has often proved his ability to create immersive experiences in worlds which are somewhat alien (no pun intended) to his audience. Legend does this perhaps as powerfully as his most far-out films (Alien, and Bladerunner). The cinematography, editing, and special effects are exceptionally good, and make the fairly average plot glow. Each scene is a work of art.Highly recommended for fantasy fans, Ridley Scott, Tim Curry and Mia Sara fans and those interested in artfully presented effects. Recommended for fans of Pan's Labyrinth and Mirrormask. Weakly recommended for Tom Cruise fans. "},{"Title":"Watch both versions and make your OWN cut","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"61 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" As a huge fan of Tangerine Dream and Jon Anderson, I praise the fact that their music is in the American cut of this film; their music has always sounded like they were trying to do soundtracks to a movie. You hear a song, you get visual images in your head and make a movie of your own.However, ...I do have to say that the American Version with Tangerine Dream's soundtrack only makes this movie into a Cult film. It could have been great, but (well, you fill in the blank).Fortunately, I've seen the way it was SUPPOSED to have been released in the States (which you can find on the 2-disc DVD, which has both versions).The Non-American version has a story which is much fuller, and the music (with a full symphony orchestra) is much better and adds more drama and punctuates the mood of each scene more properly.I do find the American version's end much more climatic musically and story-wise with Jon Anderson (singer of Yes)'s angelic voice thundering with Tangerine Dream's score in the background.So, pick an afternoon when you got about 4 hours to spare and watch BOTH. Then, take parts of each version and make YOUR OWN wonderous story.And another thing, keep in mind that this movie came out a whole 20 years ago. The early 80's. Next year it can buy it's own beer (if it was a person). So, Tim Curry and a lot of others would have been just voices over CGI characters instead of being in actual makeup and there would have been MORE to the story and script if CGI was as available back then as it is now.There IS such a thing as knowing limitations, you know.American Version, good enough to make one wonder what was more.International Version, done much better and fuller (though I like the American ending better)As I said, watch both versions and make your OWN version to enjoy.Aaaaannnd ... CUT!That's a wrap. "}{"Title":"Mediocre Film That Looks Great . . .","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" 'Legend', The Director's Cut (1985/2002), Unrated, One Hour & 54 Minutes --and-- U.S. Theatrical Version (1986), Rated PG by the MPAA, One Hour & 30 Minutes. Content includes Mild Adult Language, Some Mild Sexual Innuendos, Violence and Some Disturbing Imagery.My Take ** (Out of ****) or 6/10 on the IMDb Scale.'Legend' is triumph of art direction, make-up, costume and set design. It's a great movie to look at, but not much else. That goes for both versions of the picture, The Director's Cut or the U.S. Theatrical Version.'Legend' wants to be a mythical fairy tale. It tells of Darkness (Tim Curry), a demonic overlord, who has been banished from the world to his dark kingdom to reign in exile. The world is a beautiful place of perpetual springtime, complete with sunshine, tweeting birds, pollen in the air and tree blossoms in abundance. The world is kept pure and protected by two unicorns who both harbor goodness, truth and light.However, Darkness is plotting his return to the world for a hostile takeover. If his lackeys can take out the two unicorns, then Darkness will once again rise to dominate the world. This is not very appealing to Jack (Tom Cruise), a young man who lives in a storybook forest. Jack shares a romance of innocence with the lovely maiden Lily (Mia Sara). When Darkness makes his move for world domination, the world is plunged into a chaotic dark winter. Darkness kidnaps Lily to corrupt her and make her his dark bride. It's up to Jack and his motley crew of fairy friends to put the kabash on Darkness before all hope is lost . . .Sounds like the groundwork for a fun picture, doesn't it? Unfortunately, that's not the case. For as visually arousing as the film is, it's highly underdeveloped. 'Legend' is all style, with no substance. That's too bad. Everything looks great and the adventure could have been a really great one too.One problem with 'Legend' is you don't care about anyone or anything in it. There's nothing interesting, funny, witty or imaginative about any of the characters, except for maybe Darkness. We've all seen this kind of story before Evil is out to vanquish good, the young lad becomes a hero to save the girl and set the wrong things right. It's a timeless story. No doubt, we'll keep seeing it time and time again. When it's done right, we love it. A good example would be the original 'Star Wars' (1977). But 'Legend' doesn't do it right. We're not gripped in the slightest.Tom Cruise as Jack spends a great deal of the picture looking scared or bewildered. Sara Mia, better known as Matthew Broderick's girlfriend in 'Ferris Bueller's Day Off' (1986), is an adequate damsel in distress. Naive, but nice. The scene stealer is Tim Curry as Darkness. He looks great! He is layered in make-up and paint, but he truly looks like the devil, complete with gigantic horns, goat ears, red skin, yellow eyes, a Charles Atlas figure and goat legs. Oddly enough, Curry's performance shines though the latex making Darkness convincing as a sinister presence.As indicated, the rest of the characters are fairly one dimensional clichés from other (& better) fantasy tales. They're only here as plot devices, completely devoid of any other purpose, to get you through the movie from Point 'A' to Point 'B'. You don't care for them or empathize with them in any way or about their plight. To make a movie like this work, you should at least care about the outcome of it's characters. If you don't, then what's the point of watching it in the first place? The Director's Cut is more whimsical. It's about 24 minutes longer and has extended dialog with longer scenes. Most notably, this version firmly establishes the lovely Lily as a princess, while the American version is decidedly ambiguous about her background. Also notable is Lily's singing in the forest and to the unicorns. This is more storybook like and I suppose this behavior is to be expected of maidens.The Director's Cut boasts a lyrical score by Jerry Goldsmith. It's beautifully done and serves the storybook aspect of 'Legend' very well.The U.S. version is scored by the rock group Tangerine Dream. What I liked about this score is that it's a departure from what is traditionally heard in this kind of picture. I thought this score was a fresh approach to the 'fairy-tale'/'storybook' genre.Director Ridley Scott has described his director's version of 'Legend' as being the more sophisticated of the two versions. In some ways he's right. Then again, both versions of the picture are rather muddled and lack coherence or any real direction. Both pictures feel choppy, unrealized and cobbled together from other fantasies minus the spark that makes the good ones work in the first place.Does 'Legend' have a saving grace? It's a visual roller-coaster. It's great to look at. It reminds me of fantasy paintings that have come to life. Too bad that the life we see in the movie is lifeless. If you can get around that fact, then either version of 'Legend' at it's best will be excellent eye candy with terrific cinema-photography and great music, whether it's Goldsmith or Tangerine Dream as the music provider. In my opinion, The Director's Cut and the U.S. Theatrical Version are on they same par in terms of quality. One is not better then the other. 'Legend' isn't that good to begin with. To be fair, it's not bad either. If it wasn't for the film's visual style, there would really be no reason to even consider watching this picture. 'Legend' is a missed opportunity that left me wanting more from it then what I was given . . . "},{"Title":"Like a root canal, but without the anesthetic...","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is easily the worst film ever written, proving that good actors, a great director, and a decent score can't cover up a truly pathetic script.  The plot of the film is a poorly disguised redux of The Lord of the Rings -- Dark Lords, innocent heros, mystical powers bound up in unlikely objects -- and could not possibly have been conceived by anyone over the age of six.In fact, judging by the excruciatingly painful dialogue, a six-year-old may indeed have written the script.  The only reason my wife and I continued to watch was because of the macabre curiosity that grips anyone watching a disaster, and watching this film was about akin to watching a slow train wreck, surgery gone wrong, Adam and Eve eating the Fruit, or the slow plummet of a crippled airliner.  It was that bad.  This film is worse than most which have gained infamy -- think of Ice Pirates or Mac and Me, but then think of having your nails pulled out while watching them.  It's on that level.  The opening scroll gives you a clue as to just how painful the film will be, and it just gets worse when people actually appear on the screen.  Without a doubt, this film had a bright future behind it.However, for those who loved Plan Nine From Outer Space, Mars Attacks!, and The Scorpion King, this movie might just provide you with a moment of distraction.  For anyone seeking a top-notch fantasy film, go rent Conan the Barbarian or Lord of the Rings; you could even get a better viewing experience out of Krull, DragonSlayer, and Dungeons and Dragons.  As for Legend, the only thing legendary about it is the amount of money and celluloid they wasted making it.   "},{"Title":"Cinematic masterpiece of fantasy","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  the story though a simple tale of good versus evil, has spectacular cinematography, and the score and soundtrack flow with the movie in perfect syncronisity, the imagery gives the full impression of an epic fantasy world, filled with interesting and unusual characters, Tim Curry gives a wonderful portrayal of the personification of Evil. Though not a movie for young children, it is a must see for anyone who is an avid fan of the Fantasy genre. "},{"Title":"A fantastic classic","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" What I loved most about this movie is that it pertains a happy medium. What I mean by this is that, while the effects, sets, and visuals of the time were outstanding, the movie was not meant to attract just anyone. It was not a movie that claims familiar sensations and thoughts (except the good vs evil basis), but that branches out into the most wild reaches of the imagination. This is a 'cult' movie because its display is fantastic.The themes are simple. Good versus evil, hero and villain, a world of fantasy, true love. But what the director accomplished was deeper, more disturbing, darker, and so much more pleasing to the eyes then you could expect from a 'fairytale'. Even when the scenes are cheerful and bright, you sense how fragile it is, and how mortal the characters are. And when the scenes are dark and evil, you can not shield your eyes or feel afraid. You are drawn and can not look away.It was these effects that played with the mind just the way a fantasy should. You must be left in awe and confusion, and still curious for more.The actors were great (Cruise, unfortunately, being my least favorite choice, and Tim Curry and the boy who played the Forest Sprite being the absolute best). The costumes, makeup, and set are superb.One of my 'must sees' for those who not only love 'cult' movies, but who love to feel the movie, to be a part of it, and to be left inspired. "},{"Title":"A great film in its right.","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend (1985) has to be one of the greatest fantasy films I've ever seen. It's better than Willow (1988) which I didn't really like that much. Ridley Scott's talent is just mind-blowing. He knows how to make a film from scratch. After seeing Alien, Blade Runner, Black Rain, Gladiator, Black Hawk Down and finally Legend, I've just seen how great this guy is with his vision and style of film-making. When I first heard of the film, I didn't even know Tom Cruise was in it. The score composed by Tangerine Dream fits the film perfectly and helps tell the story. Ridley Scott's brother, Tony Scott has also made great films TOP GUN, Beverly Hills Cop II and True Romance. The make-up effects are brilliant for the time. Tim Curry's reincarnation of Satan is quite disturbing and he plays a brilliant performance which is unforgettable. Legend is a film that you can't miss out on so if you see it anywhere on DVD, buy it and you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Classic fairytale without the need for cg effects?  Is this legal?","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This was one of the first fantasy films I ever saw growing up and it had a lasting impression on me for many reasons, least of all the visuals, which are (like all of Scott's films) well-crafted and almost illustrative in their design. What really stuck out was the mythic quality of it all, and even at a young age the undeniably sexual overtones in the exchanges between the Lord of Darkness and Lily. I think people don't give kids enough credit but they do pick up on these things. I remember being taken aback when Lily's character dons the rather revealing dress late in the film and being shocked at her general demeanor afterwards; how her personality seems to change. All seemed right in the world when Jack and Lily return to their platonic relationship at film's end! Having viewed the director's cut recently I've found my own perspective has changed dramatically with time but I still like this movie for much the same reasons. A lot of the intensity I felt seeing it back then must've been due to my age, and feeling one with the character of Jack -- something I can sadly no longer do. The fight scenes play out to me rather comically now but back then they were frightening. Its a testament to Scott's direction that this film wasn't too violent for children, while really walking the line of what is acceptable.The Lord of Darkness make-up is simply outstanding and has only recently been topped with the likes of Hellboy. Once I was old enough to understand it was in fact an actor in a suit I was blown away to learn its actually Tim Curry underneath all that. There's no shortage of wonder on display here, but I think his was just the perfect idealization of evil, or Satan, EVER put to film.Overall the director's cut leans a little towards the over-long side, and while I haven't heard the tangerine dream score in years I'm sure it suits this '80s fantasy better than a stuffy orchestral score. But as Scott says in the commentary, it is an operatic film and that is how I see it now; almost more like a ballet or a play than a historical fiction like Lord of the Rings. Thank god I was in good hands, or I may have been turned off of fantasy forever! This is one to be passed down, and I look forward to seeing it light up the eyes of my future children. "},{"Title":"Not What You'd Expect From Cruise or Scott,","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend is a below average movie.The storyline is promising,but not at all what you'd expect.I am a huge fan of Tom Cruise and I also like a lot of movies Ridley Scott made,but I didn't really like this one at all.It was a very early movie for both of them,and its definitely not a movie that Cruise would star in if it was made today.It isn't necessarily a long movie but if you're like me you will still get very bored.The movie is rated PG,but it is very dark and creepy and I definitely wouldn't recommend you show any child under the age of ten this movie.Fans of very dark fairy tale and fantasy may enjoy Legend,but anyone who watched this because they like Tom Cruise or Ridley Scott movies wont appreciate it.Jack (Tom Cruise) is deeply in love with a woman who is kidnapped by the Lord of Darkness (Tim Curry,with the only impressive performance in this movie) to be his wife for eternity,its up to Jack save his true love. "},{"Title":"Fun-filled fantasy romp","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" One of Ridley Scott's 1980s films, Legend has a lot going for it in terms of special effects and performances. The simple fairy-tale storyline sees a brave young elf Jack (Tom Cruise) rescue the beautiful Princess Lily (Mia Sara) from the vile clutches of Darkness (Tim Curry).That's really about it, story-wise, although there's plenty of fun along the way. Some fantastic design gives real life to the forest world where the film is set, along with the fire and shadows of Darkness' lair. In his quest Jack meets, befriends and occasionally has to outwit elves, trolls and sea creatures. It's played pretty low-key most of the time but it's still good fun.Jack is brought to life well by Tom Cruise. He isn't much of a leading man presence in this picture (that would come when he made Top Gun) but he still captures the character and fits in well with the movie environment. Mia Sara has the typically thankless role of the damsel-in-distress, but she acquits herself well in a good scene where Darkness seduces her. As for Darkness himself, not only does he look fantastic but he's played with absolute relish by Tim Curry who savours every moment. Character actors Billy Barty and Robert Picardo have two very good supporting turns.A good movie for a night in. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Like most other European things, great in Europe, horrible in the United States","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ridley Scott's Legend is a terrific bit of fantasy, a stunningly surreal look into a mythical world of wonders.Unfortunately, I don't believe what we got here in America *was* Ridley Scott's Legend. It was an impostor. It was a goofy, clunky nightmare full of plot holes and ridiculousness, armed with a wacky Tangerine Dream score that ruined the whole thing. That movie was cut down from a perfectly entertaining 114-minute movie with a story that *made sense* and a purely beautiful Jerry Goldsmith score.Does something not seem right to you, too? I have no idea why, for Sagan's sake, Universal Studios mangled this movie for its transatlantic journey. They chopped nearly 25 minutes. They did unspeakable things to the soundscape, and not just by changing the musical score. And tragically, they still kept the scene where you can see the Lord of Darkness' horns flopping up and down.The American version is hideous (even though I still like to watch it). So if that's the only version you have seen, no wonder you don't like it! I suggest you go out and rent the Director's Edition before it's too late! Because the American Version really only goes to prove that some things (including The Office) should stay on the proper side of the pond. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Fantastic movie, especially considering the era from which it came. No CGI was used in its creation.If you loved Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings trilogy, you should love (or at least strongly like) this movie.There is the American version and the Director's Cut version (which strongly follows the European version).If you have never seen this movie, I strongly recommend the Director's Cut/European version. I cannot stress this enough there are scenes in the American version which, to placate the American audience (for happy endings), will spoil the enjoyment of the movie.Also, the American cut uses the Tangerine Dream score (which, personally, I enjoyed immensely). The Director's Cut/European version uses Jerry Goldsmith's score, which, in my opinion, is okay.The best of both worlds scenario would be if they incorporated the Tangerine Dream score with the Directors' Cut/European version. "}{"Title":"FANTASY!","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  legend is the greatest movie of all time I love it I recomend anyone to wacth it. it's beautiful,magical and full of meaning!! The soundtrack is great it includes the song is your love strong enoughwhich I love. Wacth the movie it will transport you into a world full of fantasy and love!! "},{"Title":"The best of its time... only minor flaws in an otherwise classic film","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Fantasy movies were rare and poorly done in those days. I was a teenager then, and as a fantasy fan, I can't tell you how many times I was disappointed. Take a look at the animated versions of the Lord of the Rings, or the Hobbit. Even filmmakers who took fantasy seriously contributed to its stigma, because they couldn't get a few bucks to do a movie right. Now the grand success of 'Rings'and 'Harry Potter' has changed everything, Hollywood is throwing billions at fantasy movies... and still missing the point. Hollywood, for all its glamor and controversy, will never change. Tom Cruise' aforementioned apathy towards this film is testament to that fact. He started out in the business doing a movie that was phenomenal in the genre and a true classic, as time has shown. But he regrets it? That's because Tom IS Hollywood. In fact, I suspect that as 'Rings' was peaking, Cruise was starting to think Legend may not have been all that bad. But after a few more 'Eragon' style flicks, the stigma will be safely back in place, and fantasy can go crawling back into its closet, tail tucked firmly between legs. And fantasy fans can follow, with their novels by Tolkien, Lewis, and Howard safely hidden in their backpacks. Thanks Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Legend 25 years later... hit or miss","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I first saw this celluloid fairy tale back when I was a kid in theatres. I don't remember liking it much at the time (made me uncomfortable and queasy actually) and in fact, the only thing I really remembered from the film itself was the big red devil. Perhaps I wasn't sophisticated enough then to enjoy it properly so why not see it again as an adult and give it a second shake...My main opinion during and after the screening (of the director's cut) was that although the decors and the makeup of the creatures are great even by today's standards, that the movie dragged, mostly in the second half. It felt long and I even yawned a few times. I don't know if it's because the pace is wrong, the film lacks action or the story is not engrossing enough but I was bored too often. I also expect some kind of sense of wonder in fantasy films. It happened with the unicorns, although unfortunately their horns were wobbly at first breaking the illusion, and it did happen with the grand entrance of the devil (seen on the cover). It did not happen much other than that. I loved the devil played by Tim Curry in heavy costume and makeup making him unrecognizable. His deep operatic yet comforting voice (slightly modified) is perfect, his expressions are very good and his movements are quite believable. He's the best representation of a traditional devil I've ever seen. Although the main human actors are played earnestly and rather well by Mia Sara and a young Tom Cruise, I was mesmerized by the character of Honeythorn Gump, the apparent leader of the small fairy-folk. He looks like a child but his big expressive eyes, his often severe facial expressions and the way he moves are reminiscent of someone older, kind of appropriate for an elf having lived for a long time. The actor playing Gump was 19 years old which would explain some of his performance. I found him fascinating yet somewhat sinister. I didn't find the comic-relief goblins and gnomes particularly appealing or interesting. To be fair, they were buried under tons of makeup making them less expressive.I watched the director's cut on DVD and the normal shorter US version afterwards. I will not go in details on the differences here but those interested can check this link  http//www.figmentfly.com/legend/different4c.html . Neither version is perfect but I think I preferred the director's cut in part because of the classical music score (instead of Tangerine Dream's new age synthesizer remade soundtrack for North America). The relationship between the princess and Jack (Tom Cruise) is also more ambiguous, my favorite character other than Darkness, the elf (?) Gump, has more screen time, the appearance of Darkness is not spoiled right at the beginning making his first real entrance a lot more dramatic and the fun swamp sorceress is there longer. On the other hand, with the shorter US theatrical version, you are less likely to find your mind wandering or being bored In closing, Ridley Scott the director said he was proud of his film despite all its problems (main set burning, big commercial flop and critically panned at the time being a few) and that at least, he managed to get that kind of film (fantasy fairy-tale) out of his system. Not the most ringing endorsement if you ask me... Scott might be proud but I would not call Legend really good even today. it's passable but it pales in comparison to other fantasy films of the eighties (Willow, Princess Bride, Neverending Story (only the first one), Labyrinth, etc) that should be rented or purchased long before Legend. However, Legend has several redeeming features pushing it above the lower dregs of that genre. Legend was middle-of-the-pack for that era but suffered from expectations that were too high.Rating  5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of Ridley Scotts best films!!!","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I just cannot believe what comments pop-up on this site! This movie is 100% perfection!!! I grew up on it, together with The Labyrinth and Willow. For me it is one of the symbols of the '80s. Everything in this movie is beautiful, the story, the cast, effects, costumes, masks, music...literally everything!!! One of Ridley Scotts best films!!! First, those who saw this film for the first time after they turned 18 are too late to enjoy it's magic!!! When my kid is old enough to read, this will be one of the first movies he will watch. You cannot appreciate the story if you don't believe in the values this movie promotes. You have a princess, a hero and his friends, the villain and his minions, a quest, a clear distinction between good and the bad and their eternal struggle. What more can you ask from a fantasy?! So don't judge this film by todays standards when movies are made just for profit with a weak story and tons of CGI! If you are under 18 years old, you can watch it alone....if not, take a kid with you and ask for his views of the film after it is over, and then come and put a comment on this site!!! A must see!!! One of the BEST!!! "},{"Title":"Full review available at http//www.sorryimlate.com/reviews/legend.html","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend is director Ridley Scott's attempt at 80's style fantasy, starring Ferris Bueller's Mia Sara as Princess Lili and as her love interest a pre-Top Gun Tom Cruise as forest dweller Jack. In a convoluted series of events, Jack takes Lili to see some sacred unicorns - which he shouldn't for some reason &#x96; and then she proceeds to touch one &#x96; which she shouldn't for some reason. This turn of events leads minions of the Lord of Darkness (Tim Curry, in top form) to chop off the stallion's horn &#x96; an item of coveted power &#x96; and kidnap Princess Lili, both to be brought before Darkness in a master plan to bring eternal night to the world. Now the 'heroic' Jack, aided by his misfit band of elves and dwarfs, must rescue the princess and save the world from its inevitable pitch-black doom.The massive problem with this movie, and there are copious issues, is the fact that it takes so much pleasure in being so damn dark that there's minimal fun to be had &#x96; a crucial element of fantasy. Take similar genre films from the time &#x96; Labyrinth had the music, Willow and Princess Bride had charm and characterisation, and the one thing that they all shared was a sense of wonder. Legend is too dark and scary for children yet the plot and pacing is too juvenile for adults.Which leads me to the plot &#x96; or lack thereof it would seem. We have some basic thematic elements such as good versus evil and all that crap, but it's amazing that with such a simplistic storyline that nothing that is happening on screen is ever really clear, instead it seems to rush through the motions of the plot without focus. This is partly due to the fact that these characters are just so damn one-dimensional that we as an audience simply don't care.The acting by the leads is really appalling. Mia Sara is just plain terrible with an accent that slips in and out constantly, and it's amazing that the fledgling superstar career of Tom Cruise was not affected by this. The major, and dare I say only, highlight of Legend comes in the form of the Lord of Darkness. Tim Curry is super intimidating as the red-skinned demon, delivering an awesome performance with a really fantastic makeup job to boot &#x96; Darkness is one of the greatest and most iconic villains in cinematic history.I do also need to point out the elf Honeythorn Gump, played by David Bennett &#x96; I was constantly creeped out by the fact he looks like a tween Anthony Hopkins, running around in a loincloth.I understand that this was a troubled production &#x96; the sets located on the legendary Pinewood Studios were completely lost in fire and replacement sets were thrown together at the eleventh hour &#x96; but it doesn't really excuse this abortion of a film. Although Ridley Scott has made some masterpieces (Blade Runner, Alien) his track record of films such as this make me sceptical of his revered status in the film community.And I am also aware of multiple versions of this movie existing as well. The one that I have viewed does not seem to be the patented Ridley Scott director's cut, but a 90 minute offering with a score supplied by composer Jerry Goldsmith &#x96; the original European release if I'm not mistaken.The Lord of Darkness alone cannot save this heaping pile of unicorn crap from being one of the lamest and boring films of the genre. Legend = 100% ironic title. "},{"Title":"A Classic Of Children's Cinema. Definitely Watch The Superior Director's Cut Version","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" 'Legend' is a beautifully done and whimsically magical work of children's cinema that doesn't leave out the cinema. many children's work is often superior children's entertainment but don't always compete effectively with cinema masterworks. i don't know if i would go as far as to say 'Legend' is Cocteau, but you compare it favorably. seldom has anyone attempted a children's film with such intelligence and ambition, or infused one with such sophisticated beauty. this film can definitely be described as serious cinematic artistry.i have seen very few people outside of Jim Henson who can effectively make a film like this. it has all the medieval, Gothic folklore feel that Henson brings to his magic. it even at times surpass s Henson in doing what Henson established as his trademark fantasy look. maybe not as cute or funny as 'Labyrinth' or 'Dark Crystal', but a good deal more sophisticated, and still just as whimsical in nature.Tom Cruise is aptly cast as a teen age woodland sprite. there are times when you look the twenty something actor and you could swear he was no more than fifteen or sixteen which would probably be the age of his boyish character in the film. Mia Sara is sweet and attractive as Cruise's little princess and also equally conveys a sense of teen age youth.this was also one of those rare film's that employed the iconic Billy Barty as well as a lot of other little people actors and dwarfs. much like the film 'Willow' which hosted real little person's and not faked, CGI simulated ones like in 'Snow White and the Huntsman'.i have seen few films that deal so much in symbolism that are as easy to decipher as this. although it's story is told with lots of archetypal and religious symbolism, nothing is ever lost or difficult to grasp, even for many young viewers. like the eerie and atmospheric sequence when the princess waltzes with the darker nature of her personality. symbolic and artistic in approach, but simple and straight forward enough to be wholly comprehensible.'Legend' is a contemporary children's classic that truly elevates children's cinema to a much higher level of sophistication than is usually attempted. still it doesn't sell out by being too adult or cynical in it's appeal. in fact it strives for simplicity, which is one of the reasons this mega-budget production never seems over blown or over done. it never loses sight of the 'fairy' element or it's simplicity.like the films of Jim Henson, this is evocative children's fantasy at it's very best and a must for every child while growing up.i also must note that the director's cut is far superior to the butchered U.S. theatrical release. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film","Date":"27 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Just to clarify here, I'm talking about the director's cut, not the original American release. I'm not going to get in to the whole argument over which is better.This film contains some of the most stunning imagery I've ever seen. Some of the shots are art pieces in their own right and are capable of standing apart from the film. An example is the shot following Darkness' entrance through the mirror, when he bends down and his cloak twists out behind him. Pure magic.Ridley Scott and his crew built an entire indoor forest complete with real birds to make this film come to life. He puts an extraordinary amount of thought and planning behind the visual design and each of his shots which is the reason they look so amazing. The design of Darkness' character, especially the prosthetics and make up, is truly great. Poor Tim Curry must've sat in that make up chair for hours!Don't get me wrong, the film has flaws. The script isn't perfect and comes across a little cheesy in parts. However there are also some great moments (the scene between Lily and Darkness in his lair comes to mind). The design is definitely the strong point of the film though, and who can resist a film so dedicated to exploring the struggle between good and evil, with a few unicorns mixed in to keep the kiddies happy of course. Basically, it's pure fantasy in it's most self indulgent form. "},{"Title":"Thank goodness that cineastes ignore the  critics . . .","Date":"24 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The critics I have read in the paperback compendia all agree that this Ridley Scott opus is a turkey. Well, maybe commercially and critically. But not as either cinema or art. Those self-anointed arbiters are victims of their own prejudices and preconceptions. Because an auteur of Scott's stature is always several jumps ahead of their blindered reactions, forget responses. How could the author of The Duellists and Blade Runner among others NOT be challenging AND stimulating? Whatever, those critics missed the lush and stunning vistas captured by the camera, not to mention the layered subtexts behind the visuals. It's gratifying that your lead assessment of this outré effort in the fantasy realm is absolutely on the mark. I am sending for the full director's? version on DVD from Amazon instanter, and look forward to re-viewing the purely visual, if nothing else. And at such bargain prices. "},{"Title":"this film is awesome for fantasy lovers","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  All i have to say is i really enjoyed this movie.  Pretty much everyperson between the ages of 6-13 during this time period probably saw it and most likly enjoyed it.  Of course it isnt going to be as good in 2004 as it was in 1985 but who really cares, you watch the movie for the entertainment, not to point out flaws(such as the string).  And by obviously renting the dvd or vhs you can see on the back that yes there are bubbles and yes there are unicorns, but remember this is a fantasy and not meant to be taken too seriously.  So if you are getting this movie re,member its genre and watch it for what it is "},{"Title":"A good movie for the family","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" There are very few movies out there that are as mystical as this one here, and the movies I have seen that are mystical only show dragons. In today's world dragons seem to be more popular than unicorns, unicorns have always been a symbol of love and purity just like white doves have.When I first saw this as a child at seven or eight I never found it dark, and this is what I have read in other comments that it seems too dark for children. Maybe not all children will understand the movie, although many children such as myself when I was young loved unicorns and dwarfs and even trolls. So what is so dark about the movie, I've watched far worse movies that I see children watching and being afraid of? The opening of the movie was beautiful with the bear wandering about and the waterfall, it looked like a pure fantasy like forest with plenty of sunlight.The trolls make up was well done, I'll definitely say Blix's make up. His curved beak like nose and the scowl on his face, even the pig troll was well done, he looked as if he was half human and half pig almost like a centaur.The Dark Lord his make up was truly excellent, many people always see the devil as having hooves and a furry body from the waist down. I don't remember seeing a tail on him though, no matter the bright red body and the frightening face made him look like a real Satan. In any fantasy movie with a demon or devil that is how many people portray them to look. Tim Curry did a great job voicing him and in his acting, not all actors that play dark parts sound as dark as Tim Curry did in this movie.Whatever breed of horses played the unicorns, it was a good choice they caught the eyes of many horse lovers. I believe they were Andalusians, if they are not please correct me. When unicorns are portrayed in paintings or movies they always make the horn look as if it's a stack of rings, in this movie the horns looked as if they could be real. They didn't glow, it wasn't solid gold it just looked real which made the movie look as if this world could exist in our past.The music had to have been my favorite, it was mystical and it made me feel as if I was right in the movie. And when the music is that good than it means the movie was well done, the special effects, the characters and the directing was all wonderfully done. Too bad there aren't more movies like this today. "}{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The director's cut of this movie with the original soundtrack is so much better then the movie originally released in the U.S.A., one has to wonder if movies are intentionally dumbed down for american audiences. Just for kicks, get the director's cut and compare it with the original american version - it's like two different movies. Ridley did make an excellent film with this, it's too bad corporate america had any input into the final release of this movie. "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning, But Not Terribly Coherent","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I finally got to see Legend in its entirety from start to finish in one sitting. Previously I had only seen bits and pieces. Sad to say this is a film whose parts are greater than the whole.Technically it's a stunning masterpiece. I don't think there was a film like this since Paramount took most of it's players in 1933 and put them all in makeup for its version of Alice in Wonderland. In fact the only two in the film who go without any make up because they're the only humans in the film are woodsman Tom Cruise and princess Mia Sara.Tom looks a little lost in this part. Fantasy certainly is something he never tried again in his career. Probably he was wise not to. Mia Sara comes off a bit like a spoiled Jewish American Princess. If her dad the king was around, she'd have just ordered him to buy her those unicorns.However the rest of the cast looks like they're having a grand old time. Especially Tim Curry who steals the film. He overacts with relish his role of the Lord of Darkness, he's the main reason to see Legend.Legend is photographed well and the makeup is in a class by itself. Why it didn't win an Oscar in the only category Legend was nominated in, is beyond me. Still it's a film best consigned to the juvenile audience. "},{"Title":"If only Mystery Science Theater had lampooned this horrific film!","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I subjected myself to a viewing of the Director's Cut of Legend tonight. How I wish there were a MST3K version of it, because if there was ever a film deserving a skewering, this is it.Costuming in many cases looks laughably, muppet-like, and cheap. Tim Curry is the movie's only saving grace, but turn the sound off to avoid regurgitating at the campy, laughable dialog... I offer you this rose, my princess...I love the hubcap assembly-line to bring light to darkness. Laugh out loud funny.Much has been said about the rich set design/cinematography. Right.....if you get weepy and moved by this, you probably were also weepy playing with your My Little Pony. This movie looks like VAN paintings. C H E E S Y. "},{"Title":"This film was truly awful Really regret renting it.","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film was truly awful. I am a Tim Curry fan, but he was not enough to save a film which just made you cringe one moment and make you wish for some kind of plot/humour the next.It might have been beautifully photographed, but this can't save it from the script. "},{"Title":"Just Die Jack...","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  so that this utterly horrid movie would end faster!! I had to watch this on my sister's birthday as it was her birthday movie. Never before had I so hoped the bad guy would hurry up and kill the good guy so I could get out of the theater! Luckily for Cruise this stinker was bookended by two really good movies or his career may have flamed out.Most of the other actors did a decent job, but I think the story was just horrible. Hard to create a diamond out of pig s**t, and they really shouldn't have tried. I know it sounds like I'm being really harsh, but watch the movie and you'll understand what I'm saying. It really is painful to watch! "},{"Title":"Beautifully photographed fairy-tale, but the theatrical version is seriously botched","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" First of all, I must admit that I haven't seen the much longer director's cut with Jerry Goldsmith's original score, but I will definitely check that one out and perhaps come back to re-evaluate Legend. The director's cut of Blade Runner completely shifted my opinion about that movie, and I see a lot of potential here, as well. (Moreover, the extended cuts of both Kingdom of Heaven and Gladiator are also better than their respective theatrical versions, and having seen what he cut out of Prometheus, it is safe to say that it's always worth giving a chance to the outtakes and long versions of Ridley Scott's movies.)Legend is a gorgeously designed and photographed dark fairy-tale, but unfortunately the theatrical version gradually sinks into boredom and falls to pieces by the end. The beginning, however, is stunningly beautiful. Thirty years later, the visuals are still jaw-dropping and for that alone, the film is definitely worth a watch. No other fantasy film has such a dreamlike quality that carries the sense of fairy-tale magic.Ridley Scott's fourth feature film could have been his fourth classic in a row &#x96; or is it? It all depends on the additional 30 minutes I have yet to see. "},{"Title":"The version we should have grown up with","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It's really frustrating when a studio butchers a film. Why hire great talent and invest all that money then? A number of films have suffered this fate, sometimes never to be seen the way the filmmakers intended. There are however a lucky few directors who've been given the chance to get their version to the public. For nearly two decades, the only cut of Ridley Scott's 'Legend' most saw was the heavily edited theatrical cut. The film still gained a cult following, which likely had something to do with the release of this longer, not to mention superior version.Pros Great performances across the board. Top notch direction. Beautiful score. Rich cinematography. Incredible make-up and visual effects. Stunning production and costumes designs. Several memorable sequences. Steady pace.Cons Plot and characters could've used more fleshing out. Story told before and better.Final thoughts Though still not perfect, this cut of the film is a more satisfying experience. And unlike some other effects heavy films of the time, it's held up beautifully. It's also more coherent and gives the viewer more room to breathe. A shame that Scott hasn't returned to the Fantasy genre, because this isn't a bad first foray into it.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Wonderful  movie filled with fantasy , adventure  , feats  and amazing  monsters","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is such stuff as dreams are made of ; this is Legend . Jack (Tom Cruise , though Johnny Depp, Robert Downey Jr. and Jim Carrey were all considered for this character) and his partners such as Screwball (Billy Barty) , Blunder (Kiran Shah) and Gump (David Bennet , recently his Tin Drum) are disposed to do everything to save the world and rescue princess Lili (Mia Sara) who Darkness intends to make his wife from the hands of this evil devil . A young man must stop the Lord of Darkness , the personification of evil , from both destroying daylight and marrying the young girl (Mia Sara was only 15 during the filming of Legend , she was actually born in 1967, so she was 15 in 1982, which is when production for the film began) he loves . There appears demons , Elfs , Unicorns , fairy , and goblin as Blix (played by Alice Playten whose face was designed after that of Keith Richards of The Rolling Stones) . As Darkness (Ridley Scott was inspired to cast Tim Curry as Darkness after seeing The Rocky Horror Picture Show , he had also considered casting Richard O'Brien as Meg Mucklebones) plans to spread eternal night in the land where this tale takes place , by killing every unicorn (the sound of the unicorns at play is actually a recording of humpback whales) in Earth .This breathtaking film contains imagination , magic , thrills , fantasy , adventure and many other things . This is an incredible fantastic movie which features elves , fairies , dwarfs and other mythical creatures . Ridley Scott drew most of his inspiration for Legend from the 1946 version of ¨Belle and the Beast¨, as well as such Disney animated classics as ¨Snow White¨ , ¨Fantasy¨ and ¨Bambi¨. Impressive production , the production was filmed on the Pinewood Studio sound stage that had been originally created for ¨The spy who loved me¨ . However , filming was interrupted twice, firstly by the studio burning to the ground and secondly, by the death of Tom Cruise's father. Composer Jerry Goldsmith's original score was removed by the studio after the first round of test screenings. In an effort to appeal to the kids, executives commissioned Tangerine Dream to create a replacement. Until 2002, Goldsmith's original score was heard only with the film's European release. Special mention to brilliant and colorful cinematography by Alex Thomson .Ridley Scott admits that comments made by some pot-smoking attendees at a screening got the director second-guessing himself, and influenced him to cut the film from 150 minutes to 98. The director's cut reveals an alternative ending where Jack remains in the forest and Lily goes home alone with plans to see him again soon. The motion picture was marvelous and glamorously directed by Ridley Scott , at his best and as stylish as ever , similarly his previous film ¨Someone to watch over me¨ and others as ¨Blade runner¨, ¨Black rain¨ , in which his visual style is impressive as well as his speciality ,the historical genre , as ¨Robin Hood¨ , ¨Kingdom of heaven¨ , ¨Duelists¨ and ¨Black Hawk down¨ . Rating  Above average . Essential and indispensable watching for Ridley Scott followers "},{"Title":"Stunning To Look At But Suffers Greatly From Production Weakness","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" It's impossible to watch a fantasy film nowadays without comparing it to Peter Jackson's LORD OF THE RINGS TRILOGY . In fact even Jackson's adaptation of THE HOBBIT suffers in comparison with his earlier masterwork . I went in to Ridley Scott's LEGEND not expecting much . It's a film that rather mediocre reviews on its release in 1985 and cemented the director's reputation as an artist only interested in visuals to the detriment of emotion and narrative Certainly on a visual level there's little that can be criticised even in a cinematic post LOTR world and one can't help thinking that perhaps Jackson has borrowed the visual look from Scott when he adapted the Tolkien books . There is a subtle difference and that is Scott shoots a few too many medium shots in comparison to Jackson . Jackson concentrates on an ambitious sweeping spectacle that shows off the sets and locations to the best of their function where as Scott seems to lack this ambition . This isn't perhaps not a fundamental criticism since one doubts if Scott was allowed the laissez faire artistic control Jackson was allowed . The New Hollywood attitude of film making had ended in near disaster for the studios about three or four years earlier and one can understand the studio producers wanting to be charge of a production rather than the director And this is where LEGEND fails . It's a film that gives the impression that the producers don't know who to market the film for. LORD OF THE RINGS is a rare film that celebrates Aglophile culture where as LEGEND seems to be a film that is trying - and failing to appeal to a trans-Atlantic multiplex audience . Tom Cruise has never been prettier but seems miscast as a hero who is rather rather wet as opposed to heroic . Likewise the whole file suffers from a lack of focus as to who the film will appeal to . The somewhat unrealistic nature fantasy based nature of the film won't appeal to a more mature audience while the very impressive make up and demonic characters will absolutely terrify young children . Interesting too that a common complaint on this page is the incoherent plotting of the narrative . Quite often I found myself asking where the story was heading Insummary this is considered to be one of the weaker films of Ridley Scott . By a bitter irony the directing and visual aspects are in fact the best thing about LEGEND which is a film that strikes the audience that the audience as being a film that is confused as to its market . Certainly it owes more than a bit to Tolkien but by the same token Peter Jackson may very well owe a bit to Ridley Scott "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Fantasy Films!","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Tom Cruise, Mia Sara and Tim Curry star in Ridley Scott's 1985 fantasy. Jack (Cruise) is a boy who lives in the forest where his beloved, Lily (Sara) visits him. One day he decides to take her to see 2 unicorns until a group of goblins are sent by demonic figure, the Lord of Darkness (Curry) to capture one of the unicorns so he can turn the world into a icy, dark void. Lily is also taken and Jack must rescue them both from him with help from elves & fairies. It becomes a battle of good vs evil and light vs darkness. I've always liked this film and Tangerine Dream's score. Curry is amazing as Darkness and Rob Bottin's make-up effects are terrific as usual. The film has 2 versions plus different scores by Tangerine dream & Jerry Goldsmith which are both beautiful. It's one of the best fantasy films I recommend. "}{"Title":"A Cult Fairy Tale Film","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend is a fantasy film about a young man named Jack,who must stop the Darkness from destroying light and marrying the Lily,the woman he loves. It was directed by Ridley Scott.It stars Tom Cruise as Jack;Mia Sara as Lily;and Tim Curry as Darkness.It maybe not the most famous film of Hollywood icon,Tom Cruise,but it definitely has a cult following.The movie start in the forest with Jack, a young recluse.He meets Lily. As forest dweller,he is able to locate the unicorns and he takes her to see the creatures.The unicorns appear and Lily ignores his pleas not to touch them. As she approaches them, the goblins attack with a poisoned blowpipe dart, hitting the stallion. The unicorns bolt, with neither of them noticing the attack.Jack chastises Lily for ignoring his warnings. Unaware of the consequences of touching the unicorn, she engages him in innocent chatter and sets a quest for Jack by throwing her ring into a nearby pond and claiming that she will marry the one who recovers her ring. He dives into the cliff into the pond to find it.Unable to locate the ring, he breaks through the ice and resurfaces, to find the world transformed into winter with Lily nowhere in sight. Frightened by the storm, Lily returns to her village and enters a cottage owned by her friend Nell, a woodland dweller. However, she finds that Nell and her family have frozen as part of the curse brought on by the theft of the unicorn's horn. Meanwhile, Jack meets a fairy,an elf, and two dwarfs. Due to Jack's great crime of allowing a human to touch a unicorn, Gump is unwilling to lend his aid. Lily runs back tell and tries to help him, but they are discovered by the goblins. Unfortunately,Lily is captured by Darkness.The movie looks futuristic back at the time of its release. Although the production quality of the film is great,the story and plot is predictable from beginning to end.A 7/10 rating is good enough!!! "},{"Title":"The Director's edition is sensational...","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In my opinion the director's cut of Ridley Scott's masterpiece, Legend, holds up with every single CGI fantasy epic(including The Lord of The Rings)released recently. It saddens me that this version did not make it into theaters. With the exception of the ending(the whole It was all a dream feel)Legend was a brilliantly imagined fairy tale. While the original theatrical release was good(as was Tangerine Dream's score)I thought it was marginal compared to the intended version. Ridley Scott is such a masterful director. I cannot explain it except to say that whenever I watch a Ridley film I BELIEVE in everything presented before me. I truly believed that a world like the one in LEGEND could have actually existed. Whilst viewing the movie I felt immersed in the story and the forest itself. The production team took so much time and care in cultivating that forest. And don't even get me started on the make up and acting. Today's Hollywood should rely less on CGI and get back to men in suits and make-up. I cannot wrap my brain around the fact that Darkness is none other than Tim Curry from The Rock Horror Picture Show. As a fantasy film fan I rank this as one of the finest. I am just saddened that the powers that be in Hollywood did not give American Cinema goers the benefit of the doubt. The movie could have been more successful had it been told in its original format(sans the ending)... "},{"Title":"Innosense Lost","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The 80s were a time when the fantasy genre became more mainstream. Dragon Slayer, The Neverending Story, Legend and Willow to name but a few opened the flood gates to a long list of clones and fantasy animations. Legend was up there with the best of them.The basic story revolves around the basic story of good vs evil, the loss of innocence and the manifestation of this evil by the Lord of darkness himself. There was no cgi as it was the early eighties and it gives the film a very authentic feel. All the cast give good performances but Tim Curry steals the show as the lord of darkness. I don't think his character could be anywhere near as terrifying if it was made with cgi.The score by Tangerine Dream (who Scott also used in Blade Runner)completes the experience and gives the everything a dream like quality almost like your watching a dream unfold on screen .It uses a lot of self depreciating humor to lighten the mood for the young target audience it was originally aimed at. Unfortunately this doesn't always work and lessens the escapist fantasy experience somewhat.Just like Scotts masterpiece Bladerunner, watch both versions (theres a lot of extra footage in the directors cut) to fully appreciate this little gem. "},{"Title":"Dirctors cut better than the cinematic version","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If you see this movie, and you should, watch the directors cut not the cinematic version. The directors cut holds a superior soundtrack in that it isn't stuck in the 80's not to mention; this version isn't as americanized as the cinematic one. But as 80's music goes this movie's pretty good. If you, like I, have a fondness of Tom Cruise this too is a movie for you! This shows the Young Tom Cruise before the success, and I do believe this was his debut in a starring role. Before you watch this movie though, you shouldn't have too high expectations from it; if you do it might disappoint you. But if you just watch it with an open, and slightly romantic, mind, it should sweep you away for just a while... "},{"Title":"One of the best Fantasy movies of all time.","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a must see for fantasy fans! The special effects, scenery, costumes, music, and cast all work magic together to create an astounding journey from a magical medieval landscape into the depth of evil darkness as our heros seek to vanquish the Lord of Darkness and save the day!There are fairies, pixies, elves, unicorns, trolls... this well-crafted film has the most wonderful creatures of magic, represented VERY well through special effects, costuming, and the actors' talents.I have literally seen this film dozens of times, and I'd not turn away from watching it again. Great movie, quality filmmaking! If you enjoy fantasy films or fiction, don't miss this movie. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time.","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie it is my favorite of all time. I enjoyed the story and the music. But my favorite part was where Lily was in the room with the statue and it started dancing with her and she got the black wedding dress. I love that dress. "},{"Title":"Watch the Director's cut","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I just watched the director's cut on DVD.  The film is very good.  We have top notch set design, costumes and even acting.  The only fault of the film is perhaps the story--I wanted more.  It is a fantasy film after all, so we should have seen tons of loose ends for us to fantasize about.  Oh well. The visual experience makes up for it... Don't ruin the film by EVER watching the theatrical release, however. (The history on how the film was butchered on the way to the big screen is very interesting.) Overall, worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Wow - what a cut!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I just bought the directors cut last night!  It is so spectacular -- although I am so used to the Tangerine Dream score that the alternate one was a vague disappointment.  Oh it didn't disturb me -- the music itself.  It was when music was MISSING ALTOGETHER for certain parts of the movie where the Tangerine Dream score added to the atmosphere was the disappointment.  The only REAL disappointment in the original score was the difference between the scores in the Dancing Dress Scene.  That was IT!!!!!Out of the different movie openings, I like the Mother Night Monologue far more than Tim's other monologue.  Yet that's about all that's really different.  Blix sounds different in it too so it's odd and throws you off, but not big time.  The part that I really liked was where -- in the directors cut -- Lily asks Jack to teach her Rabbit.  She seems so ... I don't know the word of it!  But it's a great deal of fun!  She's just snappy!  At least her voice is.  I can't believe she's only fifteen.If you have the chance to see the directors cut, I think it would be an intense experience for the fans out there.  This movie kicks butt no matter which version you look at.  Give it a try!!!! "},{"Title":"A rich fantasy where Tim Curry personifies darkness.","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ridley Scott tried his best to cover every outcast genre he could and Legend was his Fantasy. Scott has said that he encountered the same problems with this film that he did with Blade Runnerhis cut wasn't connecting with people. The general audience wasn't getting it. So it was recut, a new score by Tangerine Dream was added, and it was released. A great movie for all people, the theatrical release was all I could've asked for. Until I saw the  newly realeased director's cut, that is. If you're a general audience kind of person, you will love the theatrical cut. If you loved the director's cut of Blade Runner, and you're looking for a little more in a film, check out the new release cut. Both are worth you time. Heather "},{"Title":"Director's Cut brings out true vision behind Legend","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Just recently Legend was released in the Ultimate Edition, a 2 disc set of DVDs.  This includes both the original US Release and Ridley Scott's Director's Cut.  Some people I know, bit 80's fan I might also say, really loved the original US release, but to me at least the tone of the movie isn't set properly, especially in the music. With 24 more minutes of added scenes and a completely new score for the movie, the Director's Cut brings out Legend as the amazing fantasy it was designed to be.  The movie has absolutely amazing cinematography to bring the wonderful scenes to life.  Just the first scene of the forest just left me saying wow. All and all, if you thought the original release came off a little corny and didn't quite feel right, give the Director's Cut a chance.  If you are one of those in love with the original release, pretend the Director's Cut never existed ) Beautifully filmed fantasy adventure, check it out. "}{"Title":"Director's cut is excellent","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I've always had a fondness for this movie, even though it has a very pedestrian plot and underdeveloped characters.  There are just so many memorable and striking images and a great Tangerine Dream score to make it a joy to watch.  Having said this and having just watched the Director's cut of the film with the original Jerry Goldsmith score, I must say I enjoy Legend even more now.  In comparison, the U.S. theatrical version now seems a bit weak to say the least.  Almost every scene is fleshed out more in the Director's cut and the movie is paced so much better because of this and the Goldsmith score makes the film have a more epic feel to it.  In watching Legend again recently, I couldn't help but make comparisons to Lord Of The Rings which I saw this past year and it surprised me how well Legend holds up visually to LOTR, even though it was made at least 15 years previous to it!  It just shows what a master artist Ridley Scott is with regards to his direction and vision.  Bravo! "},{"Title":"Tim Curry's Greatest!!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is Curry's greatest role ever. His depiction of darkness is masterful. Pure evil in every aspect of the way. The movie itself is decent, but far from good. Tom Cruise is made out to be a hero who is much weaker than Curry. The movie revolves around the good vs evil, or light vs darkness aspects constantly. The fantasy scenery is good, and the music is mesmerizing. You should see this movie only to witness the best evil ever created in a movie, because the other characters and the plot leave you wanting a lot more. "},{"Title":"The day I have been waiting for","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"      Well After three years of reading about the Directors cut for the movie LEGEND, the DVD is out.  Is this even the same movie?  I had fantasied about what the movie might be like with the Jerry Goldsmith score (which I have owned for a while) and the new cuts, but I did not imagine this. This is what the movie should have been from the day which it was released. ENCHANTING, I thought that LORD OF THE RINGS had become my fav fantasy movie, but not anymore.  I loved the original, and know that alot of people do not like LEGEND.  PLEASE, do yourself some good and watch the director's cut, you will be amazed. "},{"Title":"Watch the Director's Cut","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The new Legend DVD, which features not only the US version (which is the one that everybody has voted for here), but the extended Director's Cut (which features half an hour of new footage as well as Jerry Goldsmith's original score) which is far superior and really makes Legend a different, better movie.  The Director's Cut offers more insight into the characters, and a darker perspective on the events of the film.  It was almost like watching Lord of the Rings, which this film reminds me of greatly.  The new cut is really great, and much more deserving than a mere 6.0 rating.  I hope IMDB makes a new page for the Director's Cut so that people will know there is more than one, like with Blade Runner. "},{"Title":"Marvelous!","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I just love this movie! One of the most romantic movies ever! Scott at his best + the mounting and costumes are just amazing. This is the only fantasy movie which deserves to be called a fantasy film. Haven't seen LOTR yet, but any other fantasy films are just hollow plastic crap. "},{"Title":"I love This movie","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie.  This was just before Top Gun that made him a star. I thought this movie had beautiful scenery, beatiful music, and probably the most basic story(but great one).  Tim Curry and Mia Sara were great too. I love this movie too because it was the first fantasy, good versus evil stories before Harry Potter and Lord of The Rings.  "},{"Title":"A fantasy movie that touches all the bases","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a paradoxical movie.  It is bad and good at the same time.  The music is fantastic, the scenery/cinematography is spellbinding, the makeup is out of this world, the acting....mmmm....well, it is the downfall of the film, though the roles did not provide much room to maneuver.  Good wins over evil in the end and all is well, and yet, somehow, it manages to capture that Brothers Grimm-esque dark side of fairy tales.  It weaves a spell that has caught me more than once killing two hours on a Saturday afternoon on the couch watching it yet again.  Submit to the wonder, ignore the thinness, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"*A Masterpeice!*","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ridley Scott's Legend is a masterpiece that will be remembered by fantasy lovers for all time.  The production was fantastic and the characters are forever.  Tom Cruise's performance is one of his best.  If fairies and fantasy are your cup of tea, then let Ridley Scott take you to the land of Legends.   "},{"Title":"The best makeup for its time.","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I thought the movie was provocative.  It really brought out the evil versus good aspect.  Darkness was sooo scary that I was terrified as a kid.  The accent blended in well with the makeup effects.  Overall the makeup effects were ahead of its time, and brought out all the great categories this movie has to offer. The lighting was also very great.  I really recommend this movie if you are a fan of the devil!!!! haha. "},{"Title":"Saved by make-up","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I don't think this film is very good.  It is dogged by cheesy, over-sentimental fantasy that tthe Americans excel in (even though it's a British film), and all those pixie things are really quite ugly.  But I would buy this film if I saw it at a car-boot sale, for one reason.  The character Darkness.  Played by Tim Curry, he is the finest example of make-up transformation I think I've ever witnessed.  He looks like he's wandered out of Hell and straight onto the set.  Those reptile eyes, over-sized horns, hairy arms and legs, cloven feet, blood-red skin.  Run in fear, Tim Curry is here!  Otherwise, this is tosh. "}{"Title":"A good description of the movie.","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a pure example of Ridley Scotts talent at making a beautiful film. Although this movie didn't do too good, its cinematography is some of the best.  It also stars Tom Cruise as a young forest boy who's love, Princess Lily, is kidnapped by a sinister devil-like character played by Tim Currie.  One of the best fantasy movies around. "},{"Title":"We are all animals my lady","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I thought Not bad, but later bought it to add to my movie collection.  I have probably watched it a hundred times.  The acting isn't all that fantastic, but the story telling is.  The music adds a nice mood to the movie.  The goblins are done very well as this movie stays away from puppets (thank God)  Tim Curry stole the show as Darkness. "},{"Title":"darkness steals a unicorn horn","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is the best example of pure fantasy brought to the screen.  The movie pervades with Ridley Scott's characteristic darkness, and is replete with his unique style and creativity.  The young Tom Cruise is his usual self, but Tim Curry is wonderful as darkness, clad in an excellent representation of darkness. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest fantasies ever put on film","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This fairly standard sword and sorcery tale stars Tom Cruise (who was just as boring before rising to super-stardom) as Jack a peasant boy who falls in love with the beautiful Princess Lily (wondefully played by Mia Sara). The crux of the story is that the Lord of the Darkness (Tim Curry) has captured one of the two magical unicorns that keep the sun shining and has plans to marry the Princess so he can rule the world. Along with a fairy, an elf and two dwarfs, Jack takes it upon himself to stop Darkness and restore order. As one might guess,the story is not only standard but also muddled and not particularly exciting but this is just a gravy complaint when one looks at the film more broadly. The make-up, production design and special effects are simply breath taking and Tim Curry delivers the best performance of his career (sorry Rocky Horror fans) as the Lord of Darkness. With the sole exception of Cruise, the entire cast which also includes Billy Barty, Robert Picardo and Alice Playton deliver some terrific performances.As an example of the film's beautiful make-up, I must admit I'm still shocked that Robert Picardo, AKA The Doctor from Star Trek, is the one playing Meg Mucklebones. the same goes for Tim Curry who is flat out unrecognizable as Darkness.With all due respect to Jerry Goldsmith, I prefer the American score with Tangerine Dream and Bryan Ferry as their score and ending songs provides a rousing finale to this amazing film. All in all, check out Legend. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Love/Hate","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I've got a real love/hate relationship with this movie. I never before in my life watched it until a few months ago. The first time I watched it (original theater version)it didn't interest me enough to prevent me from taking phone calls, doing other things, surfing IMDb, etc. Upon reading different readers reviews and the message boards on IMDb I decided that I wouldn't write my review until I had viewed the much acclaimed directors cut. so now having watched both versions i'll post my review.I must say I prefer the Goldsmith score, Tangerine Dream isn't horrible, just hokey in most spots and that song at the end is horrific. The only time I preferred the Dream score was during the mushy parts. Otherwise, Goldsmith's score was more appropriate for the action and fantasy parts of it.I also prefer the director's cut..BUT there were certain parts of the theater version that were better than the directors cut. The opening of the theater version was better than the director's cut IMO. The entire scene spent with Darkness talking to his father is him in a chair with the creepy green eyes (theater) vs. unseen off-screen voice talking to a shot of the fireplace (director). (I can understand that perhaps Scott wanted to save his villain for a grand unveiling towards the end of the movie, but I still prefer the theatrical version.)There are also extra scenes and extended scenes in the directors, that fill in the story to make in more coherent, interesting and questy feeling. This is why I prefer the director's cut, it managed to hold my attention this time.There's plenty more than I wanted to see of Cruise squatting and crouching, and close ups of both Sara & Cruise with unibrows, but these are minor annoyances. The make up and effects are excellent (Goblins, elves, Darkness etc.) before movies started getting CGI'd to all hell. Tim Curry is without a doubt the best thing about this movie. As Darkness. He's decadently evil & seductive. (And unrecognizable underneath all the makeup & prosthetics.) The only thing recognizable is his voice (and even then you sometimes have to really listen to hear it.) He's not in the movie nearly enough.I believe a IMDb poster recommended to watch both versions and make your own cut. I'd have to generally agree. It's a decent movie, but does leave you wanting more. 6/10 "},{"Title":"director's cut a treat for the eyes, if not so much overall, in Scott's one and only kids movie","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend would probably get, on the 10/10 vote scoring, a full 9/10 for the sheer plastic quality of the picture. Plastic, I mean, in the purely technical and, damn if I say it, magic of the special effects and design. Even when it should be too sickeningly sweet and innocent, or perhaps on the flip-side too dark and hellish, director Ridley Scott and his production team of designers and art decorators and effects men and costume and creature designers (main one 'Thing' creator Rob Bottin on one of his very best jobs) make this delightful to look at. Scott did accomplish one thing, if nothing else, which was to recreate with sets and actors and make-up the experience of reading fairy tales or watching a Disney movie. It is one of the director's best-looking pictures, and that is saying something for the former production designer's films like Alien and Blade Runner. On that front, it's not only exemplary of what can be done with both imagination and (rightfully laid) homage but what can look almost ahead of its time.This being said, the story and especially the dialog would get a 5/10. Maybe I just can't speak for myself in finding the characters not very engrossing aside from the sheer conventionality placed in the peril between light and dark, Jack (Tom Cruise) vs. Darkness (an awesome devil played by Tim Curry), gnomes and trolls vs. gargoyles and big galoots. The writing is so stuck in simple terms (which for some may work) that it's hard to look past the fact that it is, straight up and down, a pure feat of style over substance. And it's HIGH style, the likes of which give a good name for style and technical prowess, against so-so substance that could be found in any picture book. This goes without saying that Jerry Goldsmith's score (included, thankfully, on the director's cut) fits in very well even when such characters are speaking without much interest, and rises some scenes to emotional heights. But the script, with some bits of exception, lacks the spark of soul needed for great fantasy, and what a director like Jim Henson- working at the same time on Dark Crystal and Labyrinth- understood intuitively.By the end, it's a wonderful marvel that, perhaps, wasn't entirely meant for me as a section of the audience. In my 20's now this was the first time I had seen any version of the film, and yet even with my reservations I could see the film playing very well for young children ready for the bright, sweet innocent side and cold, grim, brimstone-laden dark side (look ye elsewhere for grays), and if one is totally obsessed with fairy-tale fantasy it might strike even as greater. It's a pleasant experience that's magnificent to see (it's definitely *made* for a giant theatrical screen), however lacking in some ways that keep it from true brilliance. "},{"Title":"A much better film than Legend has it","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" British director Ridley Scott's film Legend is a visual marvel, full of beautiful imagery and sounds. It has a fantastic script by William Hjortsberg that remains faithful to classic fairy tale lore of good vs. evil, even while discarding some of the more extravagant (but all too familiar) elements of fantasy such as black magic, dragons, and all manner of sorcery. This is a darker and more brilliant vision of the fantasy genre, something that it desperately needed when we've become so used to bright lights and magic - you know, stuff for children. But in all the beauty and magic, it's easy to see how things such as a complicated story, uneven scriptwriting, and mediocre performances can seriously undermine what could have been a truly great fantasy epic.Legend concerns the classic good vs. evil, light vs. dark, Heaven vs. Hell battle common in most fairy tales. Jack (Tom Cruise) is a young forest dweller who one day invites his beloved Lily (Mia Sara) to join him in watching two of the last unicorns, the most mythical of all forest animals, we're told, as a gift for her. Conflict arises when three goblins sneak into the forest and slay one, stealing its horn, thereby throwing the world into darkness, and turning this once-beautiful landscape into a frozen wasteland of death and despair.It's at this point that I must stop describing the plot. These opening scenes are some of the rousing and beautiful special effects sequences I've ever seen. They're full of life and light, sounds and imagery, that are certainly unlike any other fantasy film I've seen before it. Players Cruise and Sara fit nicely into the forest scenery, and the emotive and surreal score by Tangerine Dream matches it gracefully. Closing my eyes, I can imagine myself in the forest with them, surrounded in this beautiful fairy tale land of special effects. I found myself playing these scenes over and over again because I just wanted to envelope myself in the scenery.In the chaos, Jack and Lily are separated - Jack getting trapped and forced to wander through the blinding snowstorm, while Lily is kidnapped by the three goblins and taken to the depths of the Netherworld. Jack is then allied with his four forest friends - an elf named Gump, two dwarfs, and a fairy - and together they set off on a dangerous trek to the Netherworld to rescue Lily from the hideous, would-be satanic, the Lord of Darkness (an unrecognizable Tim Curry), who wants Lily to be his bride.It has to be said over and over, but Legend is a beautiful-looking film, with some strong writing and poetic dialogue that are compliments of writer Hjortsberg. The production and makeup effects (by effects wizard Rob Bottin) really bring Hjortsberg's world to life on screen under Scott's careful direction, and that is a strong plus on the part of Legend. In the sights and sounds, however, it's easy to lose track of the characters and their performances, and our feelings for them. It could be said that Scott's direction only focuses on the special effects rather than the players, so it's difficult to really care for anything that happens to them (although there is one eerie and surreal sequence where Lily dances with a demon in the Lord of Darkness's chamber that is deeply affecting upon my second thoughts of that scene).But nonetheless, I found the characters and the actors to be alive and graceful (and occasionally very humorous), even if they are sometimes relegated to the background of special effects. The most impressive of all these characters is Tim Curry as the Lord of Darkness. As I stated earlier, he's pretty much unrecognizable under Bottin's heavy prosthetics, though I wonder how such a light-built actor was able to carry on his performance under such heavy makeup. Regardless, Curry pulls it off and succeeds in being a truly memorable villain.Legend is far from being a failure, but it is something different from what we're used to seeing when it comes to the fantasy genre. It's a brilliant exercise in ideas and imagination, brought to life by a talented cast and crew that knew their roles and knew them well. This is what Legend is made of.7/10(Note A two-disc ultimate edition DVD director's cut of Legend, which includes never-before-seen footage and runs approximately 24 minutes longer than the 1985 theatrical version and also features the original score by composer Jerry Goldsmith, was released in 2002.) "},{"Title":"Fantasy Masterpiece","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Now, I know what you're thinking,Isn't Legend the best fantasy movie ever made? The answer is damn skippy.Legend is part of my 80's fantasy holy trifecta; the other 2 movies being The Dark Crystal and Labyrinth.Legend is about The Lord of Darkness (Tim Curry) trying to create total darkness on earth (aka Goblin Paradise) so he can be all-powerful. In order to do this he must kill the 2 existing unicorns on the planet. Well, he doesn't necessarily have to kill the unicorns, rather remove their alicorns. It is up to the nature boy Jack (Tom Cruise), The Gump (a little German dude), 2 elves, and a sassy little fairy to stop him.That is the main plot of the movie, which I think is solid. It's the perfect fantasy formula. The sub-plot is about the relationship between Jack and Princess Lili (Mia Sara). She is a princess for those of you who refuse to acknowledge the director's cut. But we'll get back to that issue. To further the sub-plot, the Lord of Darkness is also after Lili, probably because she was the hottest princess in any movie ever made.This is 1 of 2 movies I like Tom Cruise in. His performance is fine. I think the movie makes him seem better than he actually is. Tim Curry was born to play the part of Darkness. I can't think of anyone better. Mia Sara was the second girl I fell in love with all because of this movie. She was great and really showed some range. She had to play sweet and innocent at the beginning of the film, frightened and confused in the middle, and dark and evil at the end. But my favorite performance of the whole film was Robert Picardo as Meg Mucklebones. Classic! The characters of this movie are rich and vibrant. This is in part due to the acting, but maybe even more so due to the atmosphere and f/x of the movie. The atmosphere is something that Ridley Scott excelled in during the 80's. The sets and cinematography are grand and really bring the viewer into that world.The special f/x of the 80's are my favorite kind, meaning no CGI. The makeup for Darkness, Blix, and Meg is some of the best ever. If this movie were made today (by people other than Jackson or del Toro) then those characters would have been completely CGI. The slime on Blix's face during the beginning while talking to Darkness, oh how it glistens! Now let's get down to business Theatrical release versus Director's cut. This is my favorite part to talk about. If you're like me, you grew up with the American, Tangerine Dream, theatrical release. I fell in love with this movie. Although I've always thought the soundtrack seemed out of place. For the longest time I thought I was going crazy though. I remembered a scene from this movie from when I was young but wasn't in my theatrical release VHS when I was older. I remembered the Meg Mucklebones scene being longer than the one on my VHS. After years of research, the version of the movie I had originally seen was the PBS cut which is basically the theatrical version with a few extended scenes including the MM scene. I also found that there are 5 confirmed cuts in all.I was introduced to the director's cut in 2005. This version has extended scenes all over the place as well as just flat out new scenes. It also had re-edited versions some of the same scenes. The first time I watched this version I thought it was stupid and thought I never would watch it again. But I had to watch it again mainly because it has the extended Meg scene which is my favorite. After about 12 viewings, I find the Director's cut superior. The only thing I really don't like about it is Lili's singing scenes. While I miss the Tangerine Dream score, the Jerry Goldsmith score is much more appropriate for a fantasy film and adds to the ambiance. The Tangerine Dream score dates it. And we finally find out that Lili is a princess! This has always slightly confused me in the theatrical release. I new she was upper class but wasn't sure about her specific status. Also, on the bonus materials on the Ultimate Edition DVD, there are deleted scenes that I wish were included in the actual movie. Fun fact There were actually 4 goblins at the beginning who were searching for the unicorns. We see how the 4th one dies as well as how Blunder gets his claw hand.The only real complaint I have about the movie is this When the heroes enter the layer of Darkness, the goblins are no where to be found. They are literally never seen again in the movie. It would seem to me that they would be protecting the unicorn or the tree from intruders. I never have really understood what happened with them.Again, this movie is the best fantasy movie of all time; yes, even better than any of the Lord of the Rings movies. Comment if you disagree, I dare you. This is my second favorite Ridley Scott movie. Director's Cut 9 out of 10. American Theatrical Version 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"about the new DVD","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Well, i liked it. I do miss the Tangerine Dream soundtrack, but seeing as how the 'original' version is included, i think that Goldsmith adding his input is A-OK by me. It's not the same, but that's good.The added scenes really make the movie better, and those scenes that are either re-arranged or restored to their original order are good too (Nice and sweet, but not nearly as nice as rotten meat). And i _knew_ that the scene with Meg Mucklebones was cut short - it just seemed too edited and quick. Back in the mid 80's, it was taboo for a film to be over 90 minutes - was it really worth cutting that minute out? I don't think so.For what it is worth, i saw this film in the theaters when it was released and really enjoyed it back then. I still enjoy it today, but i realize that it is flawed here and there and could have been a bit more ... 'meatier'. Being an avid Dungeons and Dragons fan, i do like more battle scenes and less fairy tales to my fantasy. But i can't complain.8/10 (both versions) "},{"Title":"A mess of a movie whose director's cut is as bad as the edited version","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend is a legend of film-making because, similar to films by Orson Welles and Sergio Leone, it was assaulted by editors against the director's wishes and transformed into an entirely other picture. The difference between Ridley Scott's Legend and the other directors' films is that both versions of Scott's films are poorly made.The theatrical version released in America dropped the Jerry Goldsmith soundtrack and was cut from 150 minutes to about 90 minutes, and Goldsmith's symphony score was replaced with Tangerine Dream and Jon Anderson (of Yes) on vocals. Tangerine Dream fits the film's fantasy storyline and brooding cinematography - if you've heard their music, you'll already know why.The film as a whole is rather unspectacular, though. Tom Cruise plays Jack, a commoner who has to embark on a quest to defeat the Dark Lord (Tim Curry), who plans on destroying the last of the Unicorns and unleashing infinite darkness on the world, as well as marrying Jack's girlfriend.Watching Tom Cruise run around in leotards for two hours isn't exactly my idea of a fun movie. Over the years Legend has achieved a cult status (thanks partly to its numerous edits) but I've found myself equally underwhelmed by both the American version and the director's cut. "}{"Title":"simply awful","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" alright, i didn't choose to see this movie, my girlfriend wanted me to watch it because she really liked it as a kid. but within 10 minutes into the movie, i was wishing i was doing something else. anything else. the movie is slow paced, the acting is terrible, and the climax is not worth it. spoiler good beats evil in the end of this heaping pile of stinky goo they call legend. but in my opinion, if good had really won out, this little baby would never have seen the light of day. that being said, if you find yourself about to watch this one, i recommend you go out and watch manos the hands of fate, or maybe plan 9 from outer space. i found both to be much better than this one. "},{"Title":"Lavish but uninvolving","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend is fun to look at but a chore to sit through. I wonder if I watch it again with the sound muted I might like it better. The visuals in the film are stunning. Ridley Scott has always been a director who focuses on dazzling imagery, and this is no exception. The way he paints the forests around Mia Sara and the unicorns is sensational, and we soon wish we were there, prancing along in the trees and rivers. Alas, there is one thing that ruins it, and that is the story. The story is a clunky, disjointed mess that makes us turn away just when we are getting interested. It involves a young kid who must rescue his lover and a unicorn horn from the demon Darkness, or else light will be obliterated forever. This is a good setup, but unfortunately the movie goes nowhere, and provides us with so many uninteresting characters that we stop caring about anything. Tom Cruise's little friends, especially the little boy/pixie thing are the worst things in the film, and we root for them to come to harm somehow.Tim Curry has the best role in the film as Darkness. He makes the most out of a thankless role, where he is stuck under pounds of makeup and is barely recognizable. Curry is sinister and charming at the same time, and you kind of like the guy even though he is kinda evil. Which brings up another point. It's always a bad sign in a movie when the villains are more appealing than the heroes. Shouldn't we be rooting for the good guys? Why do they give us pixies that we hate so much, then make the villain a badass?If this film had had a better story it could have been great. I'd watch it again just to see the brilliant imagery. Ridley Scott made Blade Runner, a film in which the visuals were more prominent than the story. But what made that film great was that, even though the story was secondary, it was still interesting and it still supported the film. In Legend the story sucks, so the visuals are all alone.  "},{"Title":"A children's book come to life","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is a review on the theatrical version, I have not seen the director's cut. I find it likely that I would prefer the director's cut over this.For good and for worse, this movie is like a children's book come to life. One without fantastical drawings of unicorns, demons, and other creatures you'd expect to find in a European fairy tale. And it's done beautifully. The make-up is fantastic, and holds up perfectly. The sets and locations are all stunning. The cinematography as well. They've taken the wonder you get by quickly browsing through the images in such a book, and made it into a full movie.But that's also the problem. The characters are uninteresting, and you don't really connect much with any of them. The plot is unimaginative, and could be summarized in a couple of sentences, without skipping any major details. This is also similar to some fairy tales and fantasy stories, but they are usually only a few pages with little text on each - this was a one and half hour film. It's just too thin. "},{"Title":"Awesome Film!","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Spoiler Alert! I watched and loved this movie ever since I can remember. In fact it's one of the first movies I've ever seen that I remembered beginning to end besides Dumb and Dumber and a handful of others. The only thing that I didn't really like at all was Tom Cruise's acting in the movie. I mean if you notice there are several times in this film where he overacts which kinds of ruins his character. I thought his character should of been silent through about 3/4s of the movie. I mean was there really any point of him yelling out in the most annoying way possible, Lilly! The whole movie is pretty awesome and very fantasy-like kind of like a Zelda or Castlevania game where the hero is in search of ending a curse. If you haven't seen this movie I highly recommend it. I mean I see some of the script is kind of confusing but it is pretty awesome and satisfying to see. I'm surprised they never made a sequel with the open ending it had. I give it a out of 10 because again Tom Cruise's acting wasn't quite right for this film and also some of the story is confusing. "},{"Title":"One of the ultimate fantasy camp films","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend is not a film you'd expect from director Ridley Scott, more known for historic and scifi films, yet when you look closer, you start to see the resemblance to his other films. The definite epic scope, the endless struggle between fluttering good and overpowering, almost invincible evil, the use of heavy shadows and colours, the amazing production values.Legend is an important film for the fantasy film genre because of how it looks. It was one of the first films of its genre where real money was spent on set designs and special effects. And it shows. It's a gorgeous film with a unique look that has influenced most films that succeeded it. Even if that unique look means making the whole world glitter worse than all of the Twilight films combined.The costumes are also some of the best we had seen until then and they hold up pretty well even today. Tim Curry's devil costume is especially impressive on all levels. It's iconic, scary, yet expressive design that's sure to leave a lasting impression.Unfortunately, it's not a perfect film. The story itself is not bad, but I get the sense that Scott bit off more than he could chew or simply couldn't properly transfer his idea on to the silver screen. It has the makings of an epic, but the stages do not reach suitable heights to impress and the characters feel flat.This last point is not helped by the actors. This was one of Tom Cruise's first film roles and while it's not one of his worst, you can still definitely see some of his worst habits and mannerisms in display. Mia Sara as Lili, the resident damsel in distress, is also not all that interesting or captivating, though she has her moments and is hold back by the clichéd script more than anything else.But then we have Tim Curry. And by gods, is he a sight to behold. His character, Darkness, is perhaps the only reason why this movie has gathered a cult following. He defines the trope darkness is sexy, with his smooth voice, ridiculously corny lines that he still makes work, somehow, and general presence that has never fitted him better than here, in an eight feet tall devil getup.Legend is worth a watch for fans of the fantasy genre. It helped move the genre forward, contains some amazing moments and is also very pretty film in general. The story and most of the characters are not amazing, but they're not bad either, and most everyone should find something they like here. "},{"Title":"A Classic for the Fantasy Genre","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This was my favorite fantasy movie as a child, and has continued to stay with me through out my years. This movie is actually not that well known despite the fact that this is a Ridley Scott film. The practical effects are stunning especially considering this movie was released in 1985! Nearly Thirty years after it's making I am still amazed with Tim Curry as Darkness. This film allows you to enter a magical world filled with Demons, Elves, Fairies and Unicorns and watch a short battle between good and evil. This film is easily enjoyed by the entire family and should be in everyone's library. If you have never watch Legend before, then you really are missing what I believe to be a timeless classic! "},{"Title":"Sometimes 'less' is better","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" As a big fan of fantasy films, I remember watching Legend as a child in the eighties. I recently watched it again and the one thing that struck me was how long it was. Apparently, I'd watched the 'director's cut' (or extended edition - I forget). Anyway, it ran at over two hours and, although I normally enjoy the director's cut more, this time I found it really boring.What was a pretty tight fantasy adventure had its first half dragged out, with long periods of little speech or where anything happens.Directed by Ridley Scott, Legend is naturally beautiful to watch and the make-up deserves a special mention for the hideous demon who's trying to slay the last unicorn. Tom Cruise (pre his meteoric rise to fame) plays the young forest boy who's destined to rescue the princess well.Although I'm not sure whether Legend will find many new fans. It's too dark to appeal to the majority of children and too lightweight to be classed as an adult's film.But for those of us with an affection for eighties films set in the days of make-up and story telling over computer-effects and Michael Bay, should still sit back and smile at the classic adventure.Personally, I'll stick to the 'trimmed' version.Good, harmless, Saturday afternoon fun. "},{"Title":"A Pretty Good Fantasy","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend has a good fantasy story to tell about the mystical creatures called unicorns. I will not say anymore about the unicorns because it would ruin the film for the first time viewer. I will say they are beautiful and realistic looking in this movie.I really loved the story as well as the costumes, sets and overall look/feel to the film - it is quite a magical cinema. The creatures in the film are great looking - some extremely creepy in appearance.There are two highly trivial things I did not like about the film 1) The voices of some of the creatures sounded to much alike. It was like these similar sounding characters had high pitched voices as if they were sucking on a helium balloon then speaking (examples Gump and Blix). That really bothered me - it's a trivial complaint I know but it did get on my nerves for some reason.2) The other minor thing about the film I became irritated with was the relationship between Blix, Blunder and Pox - they were to much like The Three Stooges for me instead of being as terrifying as they look.My complaints are extremely minor about the film - I will tell you outside of my two trivial gripes the movie is good.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Manimation masterpiece...","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Although this is going to sound like a negative criticism, it's not really meant to be. (Crom knows, I've already had half a dozen comments deleted from the IMDb...) LEGEND is the fourth and (as far as I'm concerned) final Great Film from director Ridley Scott. Sure, there are some okay movies scattered here and there throughout his filmography from this point on, but no more truly GREAT movies are to be found. Besides the airtight direction, it's the stunning MANIMATION of the Fantasy Characters that makes LEGEND a Classic the head-to-toe makeups MAKE the movie. Willis O'Brien and Ray Harryhausen used stop-motion animation to give Life to their Creatures, but here we have Manimation- Creatures brought to Life, from head to toe, by Monsterwear to rival THE CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON and GODZILLA to ALIEN and PREDATOR and everything that's come down the pike since (the Monster in John Carpenter's second episode of MASTERS OF HORROR, PRO-LIFE, certainly gives most Monsterwear a run for their money). Tim Curry takes top honors as The Lord of Darkness, but Robert Picardo as Meg Mucklebones is just as impressive in his/her own right- and let us not forget Blix and all the rest. Rob Bottin hit it out of the ball park on this one. "},{"Title":"The best Zelda movie you're ever gonna get","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" (64%) One of the most terrifying family movies of all time that I remember had a VHS cover (of the bog witch) that really wouldn't be out of place with an 18 certificate in its corner next to Nightmare on Elm street 2 and From beyond in the hallowed horror section of a video rental shop. The make-up and practical effects in this movie are truly sublime, Tim Curry as the devil is jaw dropping, and the dream like set design is really quite magical, you can see why and how it inspired the Zelda video games. Some of the characters do come off as a little annoying at times, but I still consider this to be one of the more underrated fantasy movies ever. "}{"Title":"A Simple Story With Mesmerizing Results","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ridley Scott's Legend was released at time when fantasy adventure stories were really taking off. Such films as The Dark Crystal, Labryinth, The Never Ending Story captured the mind and the imagination to many places that can only be dreamed upon. Legend was a bit different than the three fantasy stories that I have mentioned. For one thing, it did not do very well at the box office at the time. The characters were one-note and the story was thinner than a spaghetti string. But there is something that makes Legend stand out above the rest. It is the fairy-tale atmosphere goes very deep and in the end you'd be amazed at how well crafted this movie really is. This simplistic story is about Princess Lili (Mia Sara) and her boyfriend Jack-of-the-Green (Tom Cruise) were enjoying a fairytale atmosphere together. Then all of the sudden, Jack points out to Lili two gorgeous unicorns standing together that cross balances the lines between good and evil. As a precaution, Jack tell Lili not to touch them. But Lili's temptation get the best of her as she walks over to the unicorns, a group of goblins take advantage and successfully confiscate the unicorn's horn. Shortly after that, winter comes into effect as and the balance is now messed up. Lily and the other unicorn enter a dark world and are held hostage to the Lord of Darkness' chamber where he becomes smitten by her purity and uses that purity so that she becomes corrupted before destroying the last unicorn. Meanwhile Jack joins forces with a group of faeries to rescue Lili and to prevent this demonic miscreant from blocking out the light. A very young Tom Cruise's character Jack was very painfully underdeveloped. Sure he looks like the typical warrior fantasy hero sporting loincloth clothing and carrying a mighty sword, but overall this is Cruise's most forgettable character in his career. There's no history or any background to hold one's interest. But still his voice and his way of carrying the character makes Jack a definitive hero. The real characters that truly carry the story was Mia Sara's Lili and Tim Curry's Lord of Darkness. Underneath all that heavy makeup and over-the-top dialogue, Curry adds the right amount of malice and yet can also come across as sympathetic. Sure he's as evil as they come, but deeper inside, we see a very lonely devil who think his darkness balances the good and the light. And that is why he's asking for Lili's love as she becomes attached to his dominion. Lili's transformation from the fantasy light-bright princess, to the runaway bride to the Gothic-laden princess was engaging to say the least. Lili's transformations are handled with precision and care and teaches the lesson, that to get by in a fight against evil in fantasy environments means to break some rules and go against moral issues and as she goes deeper to becoming evil, she still manages to keep her humanity alive. And whether good or evil, Lili is eye candy the whole way through. The cinematography was best thing that makes this movie stand out very well. The fairy-tale flowers and forestry is saturated with many vibrant colours. As for the Darkness' chamber, the dark colours is what I would have expected coming from an evil fiend like him. It's not a mainstream film at all, and many people might be turned off by its bizarre ways, but I think it's execution is terrific in terms of trial, temptation, lust, and the fight for good against evil. When I was a child I was totally freaked out by the presence of the Lord of Darkness. He was and is still to this day, one scary looking dude. This is no way a kid-friendly fantasy adventure story. I haven't seen this movie in years, but just today I rented the DVD and it brought back so many memories and the story itself, though thin and very short, but entertaining and enthralling. I highly recommended to children 9 years and older, mostly because the bad guy is one scary demon. "},{"Title":"Grim fairy tale","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A feast for the eyes, less so the brain, is Ridley Scott's dark fantasy fairy-tale. At several points in the film, the viewer is drawn to the wonderful make-up, set design and special effects, but rarely to the actors or even action, in the drama.The story uses the battle between the darkness and the light as obvious metaphors for good and evil but for me was disjointed and haphazard in its wanton introduction of characters, scene progression and narrative drive. It also doesn't help that there's little chemistry between the two star-crossed lovers in the leads or that they're separated for much of the film. Modern eyes too will have reservations about the use of lightly-clad very young child actors as fairies and in particular the scene where the Tinkerbell-type Oona demands a full kiss from Cruise's Jack.Cruise is athletic enough in the lead but lacks presence and doesn't even try to neutralise his jarring American accent. Mia Sara is better as the young princess whose innocence Tim Curry's big bad, cloven-hoofed Lord of Darkness tries to corrupt, although in actual fact she probably looks more attractive in her dark-side transformation.The big pay-day for big-budget fantasy movies about magical little-people and epic quests in some picturesque never-land was some still 20 years or so away, but I hesitate to call this particular movie a false dawn. Lacking even the slightest touch of humour, it's a rather misshapen, unnecessarily bleak movie which summarily failed to reach the inner-child in me. "},{"Title":"The forgotten movie","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Jack pursues his abducted love Princess Lily into the kingdom of the Lord of Darkness, who has plans to bring darkness and winter to creation via a stolen unicorn horn.Legend appears to be the forgotten movie from both Tom Cruise's and Ridley Scott's CVs. This is a little unfair on Cruise because he is quite good in an early hero role. As for Scott - well, for me, this typifies his work. Right from the start of his career he has been a genius at bringing to the screen impossible worlds. Alien, Blade Runner, Legend - all look absolutely authentic. And the other aspect which Legend typifies - poor storytelling (where, I realise, I am going against the accepted wisdom). I think Scott has problems with clarity of narrative and pacing, and Legend suffers from both of these.A shame - the visuals are great, the cast is fine, and Tim Curry is outstanding in the best makeup ever. "},{"Title":"A classic 80's film... i loved it.","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" LEGENDWell... I had never seen this before, but I must say that everyone who loves 80s movies should see this. It is so much fun.The movie is about the Devil taking away the daylight and controlling the planet by killing the innocence of the last 2 unicorns alive.I love fantasy films and I love 80's movies... so this is great for me. The action is classic 80's and the make-up and effects also feel nice and retro. The feel of the whole film is brilliant.I mean the effects were not brilliant compared to todays effects, but for a fantasy film they were great. It kind of had the same feel as The Never Ending Story... another classic film. Every now and then you can see the strings helping the fairies fly. But the make-up was great. The goblins, Devil, fairies etc all looked amazing. I always wished I was part of a world like that. The action and adventure is just such fun.The acting was quite good really considering it's age. The movie stars a very young Tom Cruise, Mia Sara, Tim Curry and Billy Barty. I could never imagine Tom Cruise in a movie like this... but he actually suits it quite well. He did a good job. He made this just before Top Gun. Mia Sara also did a good job as the princess. This was her first movie before she appeared in a few other well known films. But Tim Curry is the star of the movie. Tim really is a legend. I love him in a lot of the movies he has made. And this is another one to add to the list of great performances.This film is great escapism which is the reason I love movies so much... it is the perfect way to forget all the worries in your life and escape into someone else's adventure.I will give this film 8 out of 10.Another classic film from the 80's.May be innocent, may be sweet... ain't half as nice as rotting meat.For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Let's travel to a magic world","Date":"23 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I remember when I saw for the first time this movie when I was 7 years old and I remember that The Devil scared me so much! But now, I saw it again and I think it was an amazing idea to confront Good and Bad. Also, even when it continued with the same typical legends of magical creatures (like unicorns), they have new characters with new stories that made the plot different, but not unique, because the movie still being the typical story of the princess and the charming warrior who will safe her from the bad guy. However, I think that this movie knew how to create new things that couldn't be boring for audience and it catched your attention every time. I really loved it! "},{"Title":"Stunningly Little Exploration of the Main Themes of Evil vs. Innocence, but Great Visual Imagery","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I personally feel that the film contains only a rather shallow, stereo-typical, and one-dimensional exploration of its major themes of good vs. evil, loss of innocence, and so on. In fact, much of the film feels stereotypical--strange forest boy; silly & naive girl who does something seemingly perfectly harmless and then gets blamed for ruining everything (and who does an awful lot of crying out for Jack and seems unable to actually take care of herself very well..); and then the pack of fantasy stock characters that almost randomly appear, with little purpose other than spurring the other characters and moving the film along. The character development is quite poor, we never really see into their deeper motivations; and the opportunities to explore questions regarding the deeper nature of evil and innocence, lust, greed, hate, love, and desire are left void--the film brings these things up, only to leave them sitting there at surface level; there is so much here that could have been explored, since it really is not a black-and-white or simple issue, but the film treats these things very simply as just that--a very shallow exploration. A deep exploration could have really been the wind in the sails for this rather standard plot, and really made the film shine; but from a film whose whole premise is based on these struggles, I was definitely expecting a bit more; unfortunately, the treatment falls short of the film's lofty themes and visual imagery.The acting itself was good, and the actors seem well cast, even if the characters were rather shallow and stereotyped. The special effects were pretty good (perhaps almost even overdone) and the photography was also good, if a bit dark and dim (in many scenes) for my taste. It's the very beautiful fairy-tale landscapes and the unicorns that really shine in this film. I give this film a 6 out of 10 for it's decent character portrayal (the actors do a good job with what they're given) and memorable imagery. "},{"Title":"Shocked at how much I liked it, but it still wasn't Ridley's best by a long shot.","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend is the story of Jack, who must prevent the world from being torn into darkness with no return where the wicked rule, and also must prevent the Lord of Darkness from marrying a princess named Lily, the woman whom Jack loves. Jack gains help from characters like Gump, Blix, Screwball, Brown Tom and Oona. They team up and try to save the one last unicorn from which the Lord of Darkness will rule the universe if he obtains it. Let me start by saying, I only watched it because of Ridley Scott. He's a great director and he does very well in this too. That's the only reason. Not because the premise intrigued me, or because of any actors, nothing. Just because of Ridley. And I must say, I actually kind of enjoyed it. It's short, Tom Cruise and the rest are decent in it, it looked really well for the time and it was well directed. Granted, there was a lot of stupid things in it but I didn't mind them because, after all, it is a PG film and it was made in 80's. If you're looking to watch every Ridley film, you might enjoy watching this. It's not for everyone and so I wouldn't recommend it to anyone unless they're like me. But I assure you, it's not terrible. It's pretty decent and I actually was surprised at how much I enjoyed it, especially from the start I was thinking Oh no, it's this sort of film. But yeah, it's pretty decent. "},{"Title":"Magnificently crafted but underdeveloped and too scary for children","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" After a unicorn is killed darkness falls across the land and a forest boy named Jack must save the world and his love before last ray of sunlight disappears forever.1985's Legend is simple fantasy tale of good versus evil that unusually leaves room for interpretation. Debatably it lacks any likable characters which is possibly the reason why Labyrinth (1986) and The Princess Bride (1987) fair better in comparison. Tom Cruise, Mia Sara and co are surprisingly subdued and William Hjortsberg's screenplay is missing the required attention-grabbing dialogue and a sense of journey and adventure. That said, what legend does have is atmosphere, and abundance of it. Many of the visuals in Legend are far superior to the aforementioned and there is no doubt this is due to Ridley Scott's handling of the production.Tim Curry's brief performance and make up design as Darkness is fantastic, as to is the makeup as a whole. A notable cast also include Billy Barty (Masters of the Universe) and Kiran Shah (The Chronicles of Narnia). Alice Playten's Blix is sorely underused, Annabelle Lanyon is the peculiar fairy Oona and David Bennent is excellent as the eerie elf-like Gump.The sets are wonderfully constructed this coupled with lighting create a enchanting environment. The Meg Mucklebones is segment is truly creepy reminiscent of the witches featuring in Clash of the Titans (1981). Jerry Goldsmith's score (reintroduced in the director's cut) gives the film a timeless feel and underpins the mystical element.Ultimately despite being magnificently crafted it's a fantasy that is too straightforward and underdeveloped for adults and too scary for children. "},{"Title":"A lush fantasy. Light on plot.","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" One thing I'm coming to realize about director's cuts is that they seldom add much to the original film. It had been over 20 years since I'd seen this film, but one could clearly notice some padding in this new version. Much of it is totally unnecessary, but not bad in any way. Also, they seemed to have done away with the contemporary music from Tangerine Dream. I kind of missed that. I guess the film is still overall a decent effort worthy of a look.The story is hardly complicated. There is an evil creature known as Darkness played by Tim Curry. In an attempt to end all light on earth, he enlists some goblins to kill the last two unicorns and deliver the horns to him. He should have hired better goblins, as these oafs basically botch the job and kill only one of the magnificent beasts. Darkness sends them back to kill the other, and in the process, a beautiful princess is taken captive as well. Darkness plans to sacrifice the remaining unicorn and marry the princess. It is up to Tom Cruise and a group of fairies (no jokes here, please!) to rescue the princess and the unicorn, and use the last glimpses of sunlight to destroy Darkness.Tim Curry, as the devilish villain steals the show. And that's a problem since he has little screen time. His absences are particularly glaring in the director's cut since no new footage is of him that I could spot. He has all the best lines, too. Considering the extent of his costume and makeup, one would guess he had to spend hours upon hours in the makeup chair each day he was on set. Hats off to you, Mr. Curry. You've always been one of my favorite actors that isn't a huge star.Tom Cruise had not yet become a huge star, but he was on his way. Top Gun the following year would take care of that for him. Here he looks kind of overwhelmed by this magical world Ridley Scott has created. He looks more sure of himself in romantic scenes shared with Mia Sara who plays the princess and his love interest. She is quite good in this film and its a shame her career seemed to peak when she was so young. There are other well-known character actors here and there, but they are pretty well covered up by Rob Bottin's makeup and costumes.The film is a beauty to watch. The sets are so lush detailed that some of them just swallow the actors up. This film was critically lambasted and now really only considered a cult film. Apparently it took much longer than anticipated to make, and was not an enormous box office hit. But great directors like Sir Ridley Scott always soldier on, and make at least two successful films for each one that misses. 7 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A dark fairy tale, but not a dull one","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Along with Krull and Dune, Legend was one of the worst received films of the eighties, but it's not actually a bad movie. Legend chooses a very dark approach to fairy tales and the one mild problem with this is being more focused on atmosphere than both story or originality. Beneath all the creative and expensive work from the art department, the story is a gimmick, but if that doesn't bother you, you might enjoy Legend.Jack is a young woods-boy, who must become a hero when The evil lord of Darkness plans to destroy sunlight so he can rule the world in darkness. He also has his eye Princess Lily, the love of Jack's life.Legend clearly had quite a bit of money. The production offers large, very beautify sets, great make up, and lots of physical effects including, pyrotechnics, smoke and steam, and showers of glittering snow and sparkles. Sometimes the film resembles a kiss concert (with a bit more plush). There are also, elves, goblins, unicorns, trolls. When we think of Fairy tales we think of light and chirpiness. We do not consider how dark and sinister they can be. On the light side you have films like, Labyrinth, and The Princess Bride, and on the dark side you have films like Willow and this. In the end Legend becomes, an atmospheric, eerie fantasy, occasionally charming, not terribly exiting or adventurous but kind of amusing. "}{"Title":"Not For Everyone","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I must say I had mix feeling for this film when my sister told me about it. I wasn't sure what to really think. For the 80's I think they did really good with the effects and some of the create in this film. Though the music is a bit distracting at some points in the movie. I'm sure it was just the area of that age. The only thing I think lacked was the characters Lilly, she was a bit irritating though I'm not sure if that's how she was meant to be. All so there is Tom who just....interesting. My final word is cute. If you want to watch a movie with A LOT of fantasy, fairy's, and the good .vs. evil deal then watch this movie. Not great not horrible....O.k. "},{"Title":"Visually-stunning and attractive. Think nothing much of the script.","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" My Take Although a slight disappointment, Ridley Scott did drown me with his excessively imaginative visions. If we get a hold of Ridley Scott's paperback-thick portfolio, it's no doubt that this fancy yet admittedly bloated 1985 fantasy will probably at the very least pages. LEGEND, a minor why-not-I-got-a-big-Hollywood-star vehicle that probably suffered immense flaws of not fulfilling the same amount of greatness we expect from a director of Scott's caliber. Still, It's a good look for pure curiosity sake. Besides, are you gonna pass up the chance to see Tom Cruise play a forest dweller? Younger kids love a good fairy tale before getting tucked in at night. Some adults love watching their own fairy tales, adult-oriented fantasies of course. Legend is one film the adults can enjoy, that the kids won't regret. It's an adult-oriented fantasy film, with child-like visions of a fantasy world. A world with dwarfs, goblins, evil dark lords, unicorns, fairies and other fantasies straight out from a storybook. But director Ridley Scott fashioned it in a story that the adults will mostly benefit from.Legend stars a very young Tom Cruise, a role before he became a superstar with Top Gun, who stars as a forest-dwelling young man who most save a beautiful young princess from the evil Lord of Darkness with the help of a couple of woodland creatures. Okay, the story isn't exactly like an adult fairy tale, but much of the dialog is fashioned for the suit older audiences. The film itself is very fantastic, it's really like living in a world of magic, wonder and desire. Rob Bottin's Oscar-nominated make-up job on the creatures (especially on Tim Curry) are excellent, the score by Jerry Goldsmith is whimsical. William Hjortsberg's screenplay may turn off a few viewers (and occasionally, there are moments of witless dialogue), but I found it exquisite and rather interesting. It's a slight disappointment to be sure. More could have been done to something as visually stunning and deeply poetic as LEGEND. But no one says what came out isn't worth a look. I was entranced with the film's glorious, dream-like visions. Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Basis for the Best Video game ever!","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have loved this movie since I was a kid, and just recently got the new double disc DVD. It is worth noting that this movie was the basis for the critically acclaimed LEGEND OF ZELDA series...anyone familiar with the Zelda series will see where the creators got there inspiration...KUDOS all around! This movie sparked a generation of RPG players and a revolution in game play and strategy...it is completely remarkable to me...to any Zelda fans out there check out this movie...to LEGEND fans, check out ANY (except maybe the second one) Zelda game for Nintendo, you will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Very good fantasy movie","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie for the fantasy aspect. Tom Cruise's role may not be memorable, but the Dark Lord has to have the best makeup of any large demon like creature of any movie I have seen to date (which are a lot). I am not a big horror movie watcher so maybe that has limited my exposure to demons, but I don't fell that is my loss. Give it a look at and post your opinions on the flick. "},{"Title":"There is no good without evil...","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie came out the year I was born.  I'm used to CGI, fancy effects, not to mention kick-butt action scenes.  But I saw this movie and fell in love with it.  The story is deep into the old myths, and is an echo of some epic story long forgotten.  The music, the drama, and especially the story pulled me into a world of the surreal.  I was enthralled by it from begiming to end.  I say this movie is a definite classic that all could enjoy.  "},{"Title":"enter a world where nobody wears pants","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  let me start off by saying that the movie is sincerely awful for a lot of reasons, but i gave it a 7 because there are just too many things i absolutely adore about it.ridley scott and some fabulous art direction and set design went all the way after they figured on titling this thing 'legend.' maybe i'll get some disagreements, but the film is just spectacular to look at. every shot looks like a very lush painting from a fairy tale. very romantic, in that it was like nowhere i've ever seen. it looked like they pulled a 'moulin rouge' and used interiors for all shots -- even the forest scenes. the result is a forest i've only seen in dreams i've had. there is also plenty of detail in the evil lair. statues, pillars, weird light sources, etc. someone put some overtime in.i also liked the fact that there was always something floating in the air -- snow, sprites, fairies, fantasy-bugs, bubbles. like i said, dreamy.i liked that darkness has the two biggest horns i've ever seen. might as well go over-the-top in makeup and costume design if your movie is called 'legend.' wow... that thing is pretty evil.and of course i liked the reason i decided to rent the thing in the first place -- mia sara. where's she been? ferris didn't even know how lucky he had it.anyway, there's a lot of silliness too. the dialogue is like the journal of that weird 6th grade girl who just sat under a tree at recess. sort of like a junior high assignment to try and sound as much like a cliched shakespeare as possible. i knew going into the movie that it wasn't known for dialogue or deep characterization. i figured that the visuals would make up for it, but as much as i loved the vision, the action made me lose interest a few times. and the dwarves and the weird dubbed kid -- yeah, weird.also... couldn't they find some pants for tom cruise? ick. i guess they felt that since 'risky business' was a success...7/10 "},{"Title":"If you didn't like it, try the DVD.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  One disc is the American theatrical release with the Tangerine Dream soundtrack-- and the other is the director's cut with a real orchestral score by Jerry Goldsmith. The plot is still fluffy and the dialogue unmemorable, but with the right music and with a few plot holes filled in, it's overall a more beautiful and less cringe-worthy film.  "},{"Title":"One of those classic eighties cult films.","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend is by far one of the best fantasy films of the eighties. The story begins with a beautiful princess who tempts fate by touching a sacred creature of the forest, a unicorn. Bad timing on her part because on the same day evil lurks in the forest. The Lord of Darkness (played expertly by Curry) wants to destroy sunlight, forever blackening the earth so he can reign unchallenged. To do this he must kill the last of the unicorns. His mignions kill one, and capture the other forcing Jack (Cruise) to go on a quest with other mystical creatures to put things right, including some funny dwarves and a love crazed fairy. Lily (Sara) is captured by the Lord of Darkness as well and is persuaded to turn evil and marry him. You will have to see it yourself to find out what happens, but for anyone who liked films such as The Dark Crystal and Labyrinth, this movie is for you. It has everything! A princess, a hero, fighting and true love! Not to mention the visuals and music are stellar as well. Cute, funny, unique and magical. A must see! "},{"Title":"Fantastic Fantasy","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Quite simply,regardless of which version you own,Legend is a magical fairy tale of adventure,charm,romance,and fantasy.It combines classical elements of storytelling that we grew up with when we were children.Some may even consider it a dark fantasy,since it deals with scary elements.I mean look at Tim Curry!Could you find a more intimidating villain in a PG film? I have seen a load of horror films,but Darkness still ranks up there with the scariest and most unique characters played.Tom Cruise and Mia Sara have fantastic chemistry,and play their roles with heart and character.Not many films have done or dealt with unicorns that much(though Blade Runner does add a dash of unicorn to the mix)but this film is a one of a kind fantasy that ranks right up there with NeverEnding Story and the best fantasy trilogy of all time,Lord Of The Rings.Do yourself a favor and check the film that inspired the nintendo classic Legend Of Zelda today! "},{"Title":"It did HAVE potential...","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I am a huge fantasy nut but Legend never really had an effect on me.  It does have great fantasy elements more than you could ask for but the problem is that it doesn't use them well enough.With most great movies you have a plot and then you have 1 or 2 sometimes more little minor plots going on.  So say you don't care for one character you still have scenes to look for with the more interesting storyline or character.  With Legend that doesn't happen, we are given the central plot and that's it.  So basically if you don't like Tom Cruise's character then you aren't going to like the movie because it's all Tom Cruise here.  Another downer is that we are given no background information or character development for any of these characters.  We don't know why Jack lives in the forest, is he an orphan or what?  We never know!  We don't know what Lily is princess of, a real country, a made up one... it's anyone's guess!  That is the key problem with Legend, we aren't given enough to actually care about any of these characters.  Like I said it has great fantasy elements and some good scenes that I enjoyed so props to them for that and the visuals are beautiful at times but sadly it's not enough to carry this story.  Also it may be too scary for children under 9 or 10.5 1/2 stars out of 10. "}{"Title":"Good fantasy movie, but whats the big deal about the directors cut.....(very very minor spoilers)","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  After seeing LOTR2 I was in the mood to see another fantasy movie, I remember reading years ago that the studio that green lighted Legend made Ridley Scott cut it to peices including the soundtrack to make it have a wider appeal in theaters. I liked Legend a lot as a kid so I picked up the special edition dvd.The original score does fit the movie better, MUCH better. Thats for sure, but as for the actual content of the movie......um whats really different? The pacing is slightly slower in the directors cut which I liked but its not different enough to feel like you are seeing another side to the movie or to give you a much altered perspective on things, it certainly wasn't chopped to peices for the theaters as I had read, color me disappointed. From 1-10 I think the DC deserves a maximum .5 higher score maximum rating over the theater version.That said there were some changes in the DC, one of them I liked very much even if it was small.Very Minor Spoilers Follow.Anyway, in the theater version the two main characters make out while laying down in the very beginning,in the DC they don't, Princess Lily just kisses Jack on the head. I guess you could say that makes them more innocent in the DC but I don't think its that big of a deal.There is an evil chair with eyes in the DC that talks to Darkness and watches Lily later on in the movie, Lily is asked to sit in the chair and talk to Darkness and she refuses, again, its not a big deal and doesn't really effect the movie.The one thing I liked most in the DC was when Lily touches the unicorn in the beginning, the scene was longer and more suspenseful.Also Lily seems to be slightly less innocent in dialog then Jack, I don't remember exact quotes but you get that feeling from what she says.End Spoilers.Visually this movie is beautiful, 2nd to only LOTR as far as fantasy goes, many frames from this movie would make a great picture for a computer desktop, great looking DVD.It also hads interesting Directors Commentary.If you want to see a good family safe fantasy flick then pick this up but if like me you just wanted to see the Directors Cut you will be let down. "},{"Title":"Tim Curry is the man!","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is alot of fun, and has a ton of eye candy. The special effects in this movie are first rate and Tim Curry is fantastic as the evil red demon. The story is very involving and you don't even notice that Tom Cruise is in it. Mia Sara looks really good especially in that black dress. 5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Great Film for it's time, not just the actors.","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film contains many small inferences to sex, love, life, and religious beliefs. The writer shows that you do not have to side with Good at all points and that even the most innocent may be turned to a darker side to some extent. This film has 3 main players in it that later became well known actors and furthered their skills, yet some of the lesser actors and actresses fell away into obscurity. Take Oona played by Annabelle Lanyon for example. This film shows alot of care in making for an 80's film of it's time, and still captures me today. "},{"Title":"One of the strangest movies ever made","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Without a doubt, this is one of the strangest and most peculiarly bad movies ever made and was virtually impossible to sit through.  Visually and in demeanor this movie most closely reminded me of James Bidgood's Pink Narcissus, with it's immensely crowded and cluttered forest set filled with a riot of glitter and junk, although apparently it wasn't enough to cover absolutely every square inch of surface with fake greenery, trees, flowers, and rocks, but the very air, too, had to be packed solid with the inexplicable disturbance of constantly blowing pollen, leaves, flower petals, butterflies, dandelion seeds, and for all I know, party confetti and ticker tape.  It's a wonder each actor didn't die from hayfever asphyxiation, and it was like they were in the middle of a relentless mosquito infestation or a swarm of drunken moths.  This was supposed to be an innocent paradise, but only if paradise is the aftermath of a pillow fight inside Sleeping Beauty's briarpatch.The music, too, was relentlessly awful, the worst effect of all being whale songs as a musical illustration for the unicorns.  Yes, one can argue that whales have an innocent mystical quality, but their songs immediately put one in mind of the ocean, not horses with horns glued to their foreheads!There were some plusses to the movie--the appearance of a devilish Tim Curry was amazing and all of his evil henchmen were well-created, particularly Brix, with his smarmy demeanor.  Both the Tom Cruise character and the Princess were well cast and appropriately beautiful-looking (if a bit too clueless) as representatives of the forces of light.  The Princess had the additional good quality of demonstrating a slight distrustability about her, like it actually would be possible for her to succumb to the charms of the lord of darkness.  I thought the elf that helped Tom Cruise was sufficiently involutionary in his appearance, except I believe the character's voice was dubbed in by someone other than the actor playing the part...it just didn't fit him at all.The story itself was just plain stupid and ultimately meaningless, with not one sense of wonder, danger, bravery, cleverness, or triumph.  It didn't matter the slightest what happened to any of the characters and actually what did happen, I think, was in violation of the structure that the story attempted to set up, that the two opposing forces HAD to coexist, so how could one ever triumph over the other one?In short, I felt that this had to be Ridley Scott's very first film (and I couldn't imagine that he would have been given the chance to ever make another), and was surprised to discover that it was his second or his third!  Whoever green-lighted this project and actually let it be released the way it ended up probably was, themselves, lost in a swirling cloud of too much substance taken up the nose. "},{"Title":"Each version has it's good points..","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I've liked this film ever since I first saw it (I'm 20 now), however Darkness scared the daylights (what the hell, pun intended) out of me when I was a lad LOL.  I hadn't seen the film in years and decided to look it up on the net.  After hearing that there was a director's cut on dvd with both the US and Euro versions, I had to pick this one up.  Now many of us in the US and Canada have only seen the US cut with the Tangerine Dream score. We're used to this version.  It holds memories for some of us. Technically, the Euro version is superior, and actually defines the characters a little better.   And while an orchistrated score is much more fitting for a fairy tale film such as this, I'm so used to the synth score of Tangerine Dream that I had a hard time getting used to the new one.  The scene when Tom Cruise had to face the unicorn and apologize for what had happened had a much more moving musical piece by Tangerine Dream.  It almost brought tears to my eyes.  The Jerry Goldsmith score didn't move me as much during this scene.  But aside from this, after viewing both back to back (which I suggest to all who have or haven't seen the film), the director's cut is the way to go, in my opinion.  I'm just glad that both are available.  "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have just watched this on DVD. It is stunningly beautiful. And considering it was made fifteen years ago it is as alluring and appealing as any current fantasy on film. A must see. Lots of extras on the first and second DVD. Particularly interesting is the forest they built on the sound stage. "},{"Title":"Great Fantasy Movie (especially for Lily's and Tom Cruise fans)","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  As I was a D&D player in my youth, I loved this movie.  17 years later, released in DVD, it still enchants me.Although this is a fantasy, fairy-tale-esque movie, I would not recommend it for young children...some of the special effects and characters may scare them.  I would say ages 10 and up would be better suited for this film.If you are watching this movie, I recommend you take it as it should be taken - as a fantasy tale with cool special effects.  The dialogue is not particularly strong, but it does have some funny catchy phrases (watch the evil elves- they are a hoot in a twisted sort of way).  Over the years, several films have tried to top this movie, however, this one is still #1 to me.This was also my first introduction to Tom Cruise as a kid...his next movie was Top Gun.   "},{"Title":"The original version sucks, the dir. cut is a fantasy classic","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Since I VHS-recorded Legend (in the European version) from television about ten years ago, I've seen it quite a few times it had, and has, a wonderful mood to it, reeking oldschool fairy-tales in the Grimm tradition. That is, pretty dark! In the original script, Darkness (the big, red, horned Lucifer-like arch-villain) even f***ed the captured (and seduced?) princess; there's dark for you! That never made it to celluloid, but it is still hinted at (the dancing scene).The forest, where much of the tale takes place, is incredible, and I was stunned to find, watching the DVD featurette, that it was a built set. That forest has a wonderful golden glow to it, with a constant swirling of pollen through the air achieving a great effect.The Goldsmith score contributes to and completes the mood. Not much to say about it, it's just perfect for the film.So, now, I've bought the two-disc Ultimate Edition DVD, where both the US and the European versions are on - so how is the aforementioned?Well, do yourself a HUGE favour, and watch the European version before the US same, if even bothering to see the US one! The Tangerine Dream score is just plain boring (and not at all dark, as I have seen it described) and many scenes have been cut out - because the people behind the movie panicked, and deemed it too complex for American teenagers!!! This notion must be one of the biggest insults to American youth I've ever heard of! In the US version, scenes, that made perfect sense before, have been cut ruthlessly, to the point where they are either diminished in beauty or now simply stupid. I'll spare you of a reeling off, and settle with two examples(SMALL SPOILERS, we're talking the beginning of the film)1. When Lily (the princess) approaches the Unicorn in the European version, she sings a quite beautiful song, to calm it. It makes the scene believable (a magical beast like that should be lured in some way, and startled if you just trample up to it - princess or no princess!), and you begin to understand why the protagonist, Jack (a fittingly naive Tom Cruise) thinks Mia Sara is a hottie! In the US vers. oh, two Unicorns, the only beasts of their kind in the world, can I clap you, horsie? Pah!2. Starting with the US vers. this time When Jack faces Gump, sort of a head pixie (or whatever) of the woods, Jack immediately tells the truth of him bringing Lily to the Unicorns; Gump freaks, but is all right a second after when Jack says he did it for love. In the European version Jack tries to hide the truth, forgiveness comes much harder, and a riddle game has to be won to achieve this redemption; you sense that the consequences for Jack, should he loose, would be dire indeed!(SMALL SPOILERS end)All in all go for the director's cut, with great score plus whole scenes and all, at all costs. I honestly don't understand people who recommend the films the other way round - but perhaps due to fond childhood memories of the US version, likely?US 5/10Euro 9/10 - the best pure fantasy film after PJ's The Lord of the Rings (which is 10/10 in my book) "},{"Title":"Visual Masterpiece","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ridley Scott's seriously under-rated fantasy masterpiece finally gets the recognition it deserves now that his Director's cut is released onto dvd!..Have been a fan of the film for some years anyway..but have found an all round more appreciation now that i have seen it as..it was intended..before studio systems cut the film to a mostly incoherent mess! The plot is relatively simple,The Lord of Darkness banished to his underworld hatches a plan to bring everlasting night to the world on the condition that the life giving energy harboured in the souls of unicorns is destroyed..using innocence as bait in the form of Princess Lily part of his plan is ful-filled and it is up the forest dwelling folk to thwart his plan,led by Jack o'Green and various elves,sprites,fairies and dwarves! Ridley Scotts imagination for visual presentation is in itself the stuff of Legends..previous film Blade Runner displays this..but here he really lets his creative juices flow..and whilst the film does lack in its narrative it is more than compensated with its beautiful score and cinematography...for a film made 17 years ago it has aged incredibly well...and compared to recent fantasy flicks like the abysmal Dungeons and Dragons...the effects...with not a hint of c.g.i..are far superior!! Performances are a mixed bunch..Tim Curry as Darkness walks away with acting honours...Mia Sara is also rather good in this her apparently debut role..Tom Cruise however looks rather embarrassed and his reluctance to participate in the feature documentary to accompany the dvd release more than confirms this theory! Criminally underated in its initial release..with the emphasis put on the rather drab script..however in its full and extended version..it still may not be in line for any screenwriting awards but it certainly does make more sense! Highly recommended to fantasy fans!!! "},{"Title":"There's no place for Darth Vader, The Darkness is the best villain of ever!","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The Legend is a fantasy with air of fantasy. It is not a pretencious film; maybe a simple and universal metaphor, or not even this, but it remembers us, or at least makes us desire,  the good times of tales told by our grandmothers in the warmth of a hearth. In this case, it's a beautiful tale to be enjoyed by people eating popcorn in their seat. It tells a mission of a not strong body hero precipitated by the love, and, unconventionally, a little guilty of his own incumbency, trying to salve the beauty- in all its meanings (the sun, the unicorn and the princess Lily). It can seems just a sweetness for little girls, but The Lord of Darkness gives all the evil that a faery tale never had. The Darkness looks like the Satan i used to imagine when i was a child; in my opinion, there's no place for Darth Vader, this is the best villain of ever! The Legend wouldn't be the same without the great visual inserted by Ridley Scott. The ambient of the wood is always full of vapour and flying petals, like in a dream, and the character's skin are enchanted by shining dust. The make-up of Tim Curry (the darkness) is amazing. By the way, taking back this character, i think that he has just became more important than the hero (have i already mentioned Darth Vader?). And i can't forget the dance of princess Lily with a mysterious person (who we could call shadow), when she turns her innocent appearance to a dark appearance, and then becomes the big red dreadful's lady. "}{"Title":"Scary fantasy","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This isn't by far one of Ridley Scotts most successful films but it certainly has a lot of imagination and style. Scary from the outset it is full of fantasticly evil creatures and the most cleverly created sets (although some of the sets look like they've been stolen from the film 'The Neverending Story'), still I was hooked. For a childrens film it's a bit macarbre but it holds enough interest for adults. Tom Cruise is a bit bland as usual but overall it's wonderful. Tim Curry is fabulous as the evil Darkness.  "},{"Title":"The best fantasy of all-time just got better...","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  With the release of LEGEND on DVD yesterday, fans are treated to a letterboxed version of the original American release.  Exciting since, we've never been able to see that...but that's just on the second disc of this Ultimate Edition.  The first disc contains a 113 minute director's cut of the timeless movie concerning Good vs. Evil, light vs. dark.  We've got the original Jerry Goldsmith score here.  We've got Lili as a princess.  We've got everything that Scott had imagined in 1985, but didn't release due to poor test audiences here in the states.  So, after 17 years of waiting and wondering, here it is.  And it is breathtaking.I didn't think that having the Goldsmith score and adding a bunch of extra, 'trivial' footage would have that great of an impact on the overall story.  I was completely wrong.  I loved the original American version of this movie.  I loved the Tangerine Dream score.  I thought there were places where it was out of sync sometimes, but overall I thought it was very good, especially the unicorn theme (which I still think is better than what Goldsmith has).  But overall, the Goldsmith score is more effective and in tune with the movie.  It is gentle at times, and rough when it needs to be.  Adding more scenes with Jack and Gump upon their meeting each other is fun, but something I had already seen much of (I have the taped version from way back in 88 that included this and an extended scene with Meg Mucklebones).  In this director's cut, we don't see Tim Curry as Darkness until 3/4 of the way through the movie which is nice because it builds up our anticipation to behold the beast.  Curry and the makeup crew deserve a round of applause.  This is by far the best envisioning of the Devil ever.  So, in conclusion, if you were ever a fan of LEGEND, buy this DVD.  If you've never seen the movie, rent it, and then feel bad for yourself, because you could've saved the 4 bucks you spent to rent, when you could've just bought.   "},{"Title":"Perfect Fantasy!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie, and is, in my humble opinion, the greatest Ridley Scott film after Gladiator. No one plays Darkness better than Tim Curry, and a young Tom Cruise begins his journey as playing an action hero (I thought he needed to grow into his nose though) All the other little elves and dwarves and everything were so cute and funny! This is a complete classic, and is the best example of a fairytale that has been made into a film. Harry Potter barely holds a candle to this great film, and you won't find many others to match. "},{"Title":"A great fantasy flick","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Long before Tom Cruise met Nicole Kidman or even got his teeth fixed, he starred in this wonderful little fantasy flick. I think it shows great imagination and hard work went into this production and how only about four or five characters actually used their own faces. The rest were put into extensive makeup. There are elves, goblins, demons, and fairies, as well as humans. (Cruise does a great job showing love even though it was rumored that he and Mia Sara did not get along too well.) Tim Curry does a fantastic job as Darkness, a centaur-like demon decked out with hooves, horns, fangs, and red skin. For anyone who enjoys a 'love conquers all' movie with a bunch of imagination, adventure, and fun, this is definitely for you. I've loved this movie ever since I was a youngin' and will love it for a long time after. Anyone else that loves a romantic adventure should watch this. "},{"Title":"Pure Fantasy, finally!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you want a complete fantasy film, filled with fairies and goblins and and ethereal surroundings, then this is the movie for you.  I was mesmerized by the incredible beauty of the sets and I feel that this may be Ridley Scott's finest effort. The acting was perhaps less than perfect but one can easily overlook that by the sheer enchantment of the story. This movie will take you away to a land and time that is mythical and otherworldly. Tim Curry was awesome as the Dark Lord.  What a horribly marvelous costume. Tom Cruise and Mia Sara were finely matched as Jack and Lily. I think the music by Tangerine Dream was perfect in setting the mood as the movie progressed. The massive column scene with Lily running through the Dark Lords' castle really added to the mysticism of his black powers to draw her to him.  Also the great room was creepy yet fascinating. It brought about a dream-like quality that at times left me breathless.  The only other movie I can compare to this one for pure fantasy fun is LOTR. A word of advice, critical thinkers wanting reality, stay away from this one.  It would only disappoint. I give this one an 8 out of 10 for great fantasy. "},{"Title":"Beautiful...could have been so much more.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Having seen all three edits of the film, I must say that I would dearly love to see a director's edition of it.  To see such a magnificent flick in its entirety would be any movie-lover's dream.  Beautiful effects.  Lovely music.  Ridley Scott works magic in an early piece, just as dark as his modern-day classics.  If Legend had not fallen prey to the demons of screen-editing, it might have been much greater; as is, it is a striking film, with moving themes and a setting of pure fantasy.  A very beautiful film, especially in the HBO/Television edit. "},{"Title":"Flawed but enchanting","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  LEGEND is far from perfect.  The goblins' slapstick antics and rhyming lines are really awful and inappropriate for the mood of the film.  Some of the pacing of the film is strange and laborious for the casual viewer.The ideas guiding the film, however, are incredibly powerful.  The ideas on the nature of absolute evil and good are refreshing and spellbinding.  The whole flavor of the film is one of both reverence and aestheticism.  Every scene is visually and aurally indulgent, awash in color and sound and...glitter.In the end, enjoyment of LEGEND comes down to a willing suspension of disbelief.  If you do not wish to be taken away from reality, you will not enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Tim Curry as One of the Greatest Villains Ever!","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I first saw Legend a while back when it was announced that there would be a Darkness figure and I thought the story was original, though flawed in places, the sets and costumes were very well designed, and the acting by Tom Cruise (you can tell from this and Risky Business that he had a nose job afterwards) and Mia Sara, but the best thing about the film was just one thing Tim Curry's performance as the menacing, yet seductive Lord of Darkness. The make-up for Darkness was greatly designed by Rob Bottin (if Chris Walas' astonishing makeup for The Fly wasn't unveiled that year, I would have totally wanted this to win the Makeup Oscar) and the score used when he steps out of the mirror to meet/seduce Princess Lily (Mia Sara) is well done and reminiscent of Vangelis. Besides that, I'd recommend Legend as a good fantasy film or a good drinking game.B+ "},{"Title":"Possitive perceptions.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I recently wrote a review on 'Willow' which said that my viewing of the recently released 'Lord of the Rings' movie had seriouly dented my perception of the Ron Howard film. It made me see it as simplistic. Lacking scope and vision. A quick fantasy fix you might say. However whilst the Lucas influenced epic went down in my estimations, 'Legend' went up. Something about the Peter Jackson directed movie seemed similar. Something to do with the visuals- from make-up,to costumes,characters,sets,dialogue and atmosphere. Then it came to me. I was watching an offspring(in terms of visuals-not story) of 'Legend'. I think most who liked LotR will love this. It has a really similar feel as well as appearance. In fact 'Legend' is probably darker and more elaborate with a superior soundtrack. I'm not saying it's better because it's not. LotR is more epic and engrossing with better F/X(though the later is for obvious reasons). Tom Cruise is also mis-cast and his accent is really annoying. Rather like Pip in LotR but the differance is that he is seldom seen whilst Cruise is the main character. This picture provides us with the greatest ever visual and audio depiction of the Devil. I know he is never directly referanced in such a way but lets face it- hooves, red skin,yellow eyes,fangs,horns and a black jacket- that is who 'Darkness' is. Tim Curry's amazing voice in the role(which sounds like pure evil) adds to breathtaking visual representation. Can i also say that the Orcs in LotR are to say the least, very similar to the horrible goblins come troll creatures which serve 'Darkness' and in one case, inhabit the swamp. The differance is here they have personality(wit and fiendish plotting) unlike their Tolkein counterparts who simply serve as target practice and make up the bodycount. 'Legend' also offers some first rate humour amongst all the bizarre madness. This was something i foung greatly lacking in LotR. Scott's direction is typical poetry. However i'm not going to be tempted to say Scott would have been a better director than Peter Jackson for the LotR movies. It would probably have been just the same as Jackson also brings a very dark quality to his films and in previous works was well known for his humour.I am shocked and disturbed that Americans did not get the same version we did. From the sounds of it, for once we got lucky in the 'uncut version' stakes. I'm even more upset to hear that it isn't coming out on DVD. Hopefully the huge success of fellow fantasy masterpiece 'Lord of the Rings' will create a shift in the thinking. It could push the execs to put out on a limited release and if it did well, which i'm sure it would in the current thirst for fantasy, the release would be more wider. You yanks would also get your own back on us as there is zero chance of us getting it if you don't.Overall i think this is a superior fantasy film(in it's British release form that is)and encourage all LotR fans to try and see it as i think the similarities will blow your mind as will the film on it's own merit. Similarly if your a 'Legend' fan with reservations about the hype surrounding the current box-office phenomenom then take my advice, don't believe the hype just go and see it and i think you'll find that it is right up your street and is another fantasy classic.  "},{"Title":"what this movie is REALLY about","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this film i thought it just looked incredible. I never really gave it more thought than that until it was released on video the following year. After watching it a hundred times I realized it was a masterpiece of classic story telling of a familiar theme from a different point of view. When looking at the characters represented in the film you may begin to think this is the exodus of Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden,not the expulsion. Why do you ask  ? Did Adam and Eve actually leave ? They might have. After Eve takes the fruit (Lily touches the unicorn ),She realized something has changed , the world has changed ? No Lily/Eve's point of view has. Where Eve received enlightenment from the fruit, Lily's comes from the touch of the Unicorn .......Wait it gets deeper.... much deeper . Jumping back for a moment to the prologue about the balance of the universe ,light without darkness good without evil ...etc. With this in mind you may begin to think Oh My God !what is happening here ?Is this Buddhism 101 ? Remembering everything changes the balance of the universe right ? right ! To the point where Honey Thorn Gump actually says to Jack do you think you can upset the order of the universe .....and NOT PAY THE PRICE ? His reference to a mortal(Lily) touching the unicorn. Lily touched God/unicorn and Eve got it from the fruit .....   Ok following this train of thought for a minute,Lily gets the blame and so does Eve for all that goes wrong form here on in. Now that you get the drift of my ramblings follow the rest ot the story with this in mind. Getting to the end which is extremely important the actual last lines Jack says to Gump we'll miss you and Gump says but dont forget us and he grins ,the last shot you see is Jack and Lily waving goodbye to Gump ,Oona .Brown Tom ,and of course the unicorns .This is telling us okay so we left the Garden but we dont have to forget the lessons we learned .That includes the myths and the legends that we use to tell a very important story. Originally 'LOVED BY THE SUN 'WAS NOT INTENDED to have any vocals by Jon Anderson and Tangerine Dream objected but im glad Jon did anyway .I know this because Jon told me himself plus its known anyway.Listen to the song again and you'll see how perfect his lyrics are for the film and consistent with the theme of the story.           I know this is totally my opinion and it might sound a bit heavy hearted but it helped me realize many possibilities in everything within me and without me. So my last words would be  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE ,Whoever is responsible for the release of this film please consider some people like myself consider this more than a fairy tale  In closing I also know some religious groups have found this film offensive......I now know why.....thank you Ridley Scott p.s.dont forget all the deleted scenes and extras  on the dvd . "}{"Title":"One of my favorite films, a simple plot of greed, lust and lost innocence against a backdrop of the fight between good and evil.","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Such a shame that this film has been so derided, its story is simple enough but beneath it lurks a host of issues.  Lily's innocence, but the danger that lurks beneath it.  She is a spoilt Princess used to getting her own way, thus she is tempted by the trinkets that Darkness attempts to woe her with.  Darkness craves her innoncence wanting her for his Bride, but at the same time you wonder if it is a desire to corrupt her innocence that drives him.  Within the whole plot there is the subplot of Unna (the sprite) and her love for Jack which is unrequited since he only loves Lily.  Very formulaic but it works with the brilliant effects, Curry is a formidable character in his role as Darkness with only his voice giving any clue to his real identity (he was also the original Frank N. Furter in the Rocky Horror Picture Show!)  With a soundtrack by Tangerine Dream the prog rock band which went on to spawn Jon and Vengalis, it is a perfect film for curling up in front of late, on a cold Saturday night.A word of warning, avoid the Warner Brothers home video version unless it is as a comparative exercise, is a different version of the same film.  With poor editing, it loses the wonderfully moody lighting for something much greener, and has Lily singing for no apparent reason at all.  There is no Tangerine Dream soundtrack either, which as it played such a strong part in the fantasy feel to the film, strips it of all its atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Where has all the fantasy gone ?","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I love simple yet well done bits of fantasy as Legends is an excellent example. I am somewhat dismayed at the general public in slowly steering away from such beautiful tales of mythology and the encompassing genre of fantasy in general. I actually enjoyed this film more than The Hobbitt of many years ago. I believe I heard of a new version of Tolkien's trilogy is in the making, if so, I look forward to it with todays special effects abilities. If you enjoy works of fantasy, I believe you will find Legends to be a delightful mix of love, adventure and enough 'story' to keep it interesting. I feel the director Ridley Scott did an excellent job with the tools available to him in 1985. So, pick a rainy day, cuddle up with your love one and sit back and enjoy a journey into a simpler yet exciting world of fantasy ! "},{"Title":"DO NOT think of this as Ridley Scott's film!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Some truly warped dolt at Universal tried to turn this film into something for the TOP GUN crowd, and managed to make a mess of it.  Ridley Scott's movie, as far as I know is still only available in PAL format in England. The running time is the same, but you could teach a class on how not to make a film by showing the two versions.  The American version, for instance, threw out a Jerry Goldsmith score - Scott's choice thanks to Alien - and replaced it with some techno-pop junk from Tangerine Dream which does nothing for the film, droning along as it does, since the T.D. boys NEVER SAW THE FILM, they just provided x-minutes of this & x-minutes of that. This is a gossamer film in the original - thin and wispy - ready to disappear into smoke.  The re-cut inexplicably removes as much of the fantasy as possible - Mia Sara's a princess, for example, all of which references are gone.  Try to find someone with an English copy they've had converted, or get one yourself and have it done. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece caught between two worlds","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When Legend was released in the United States, it had its soundtrack by Tangerine Dream and was comparatively short. This cut, made by studio executives on the premise that it would make the film attractive to young teen audiences, resulted in it being lambasted by reviewers, and it fell into disastrous box office oblivion shortly after release. Meanwhile, in Europe and the Asia Pacific, the film was released with its soundtrack by Jerry Goldsmith - a beautiful, haunting score that complimented the rich, velvety texture of the film's visuals, far better than Tangerine Dream's contemporary score could have ever managed. The film, with more footage than the US release, was a critical success, achieved in part by the far more innocent angle on its two leading characters, Jack (Tom Cruise) and Princess Lily (Mia Sara). Tragically, most reviews and the film's legacy rely on the US experience, which dooms this masterpiece - made hot on the heels of Scott's Blade Runner and to no less a technical or creative standard - to being less than what it truly deserves. One hopes that when it is released on DVD this sad tale is told (as it is in the recently re-released Goldsmith soundtrack CD booklet), and that the European cut with its sublime soundtrack is made available to US audiences.  "},{"Title":"A must for Fantasy Lovers!","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This a well-done & beautiful to watch fantasy.  Ridley Scott did an excellent job in interpreting the fantasy world & its rich, colorful characters. Tim Curry is at this best playing Darkness!  I was so impressed by him the first time I saw it when It first came out.  This should be a definite addition to any movie collection.I have not seen the European version but would love to compare. "},{"Title":"Shame on Universal Pictures, We want Legend on DVD!","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a truly great film and another example of how Ridley Scott can any theme and transform it into a visualistic and entertaining picture.  However it is very disheartening and upsetting that Universal Pictures after long delaying the Legend Collector's Edition has decided not to release it at all.  If you are p***ed as much as I am, please tell Universal that canning Legend was a big mistake. "},{"Title":"A Gorgeous Masterpiece!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend, is a tale of an evil dark lord, known as Darkness, who seeks to eliminate the last two Unicorns left on the planet, breaking the balance of the universe, allowing evil to consume the world. A beautiful princess, Lili, has fallen in love with a forest boy named Jack, who shows her the purity of the Unicorns. At the same time, evil goblins break the peace, killing one of the precious animals, stealing it's horn. Lili believes it was her fault, so she tries to save the other Unicorn. When she finds the mare Unicorn, the goblins conveniently capture them both, taking them to Darkness' castle. Darkness desperately wants Lili as his bride, wedding her on the same night of the Unicorn's sacrifice. Honeythorn Gump, the sprite, and his fellow fairy friends help Jack on his quest to infiltrate Darkness' lair, to rescue the Unicorns, and Lili, returning goodness and light back to the world...I believe this film is an incredible masterpiece, because the storyline is fantastic, the make-up and costumes are stunning, and the actors do great performances! This is by far, one of my favorite movies ever, and Tim Currey does a marvelous performance as the lord of hell. I say this movie is definitely a must-see!!! "},{"Title":"Underrated cult classic,or just more fairy glammor?","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ledgend is probably the last time movie fans will get this kind of combination of artists in this manner.  The film was released a good five months before Tom Cruise became the next box-office draw in Top Gun.  Cruise plays the instinctive and nature born Jack, the forestboy who is in love with the lovely princess Lilly (the lovely Mia Sara).  In their perfect and innocent world lives another realm ,that is the ultimate antonym of things, the land of darkness ,black magic ,human torture and down-right evil.  Things are so black there that even the lord of this realm goes by the name Darkness.  There is a constant struggle between which realm must outlive the other , even though it is stated that neither one can exsist without the other. The fate of the realm of good and the realm of evil is in the hands (or hooves) of two magical unicorns that Jack must protect.  Now that that is out of the way, let's get to the review.  This film was the collabarative work of the some unique and gifted artists.  Tom Cruise and Mia Sara more one of the most sweetest Hollywood pairings on the screen.  The Demonic Darkness ,played by the versital and heavily under-rated Tim Curry, is not only chilling and intimidating but also romantic in his own evil way.  Curry is so convincing in this role, you'ed swear that Darkness is being played by someone else.  The storyline is your basic Good vs Evil ,but with a twist.  Instead of the an old testament style story that represents Good with attractive characters and Evil with unattractive characters, it digs a little deeper with the concept of what is good and what is evil.  Jack, Lilly, Darkness and lovestruck fairy Oona all go through their own inner struggle between good and evil.  One character ,in particular, Blunder make the effort to mend his ways to join the good fight. Speaking of fairies, this film is chock full of things that are found in a good fairy tale.  Everything from fairies to goblins, elves to monsters, unicorns to the undead zombies, heroes and villains, a beautiful princess and a foul witch. The film was not short on comic-relif.  These duties were handled well by the characters Brown Tom and Screwball (played by the late great Billy Barty).  The Irish elf Brown Tom had the most memerable lines like She was alive still when they killed me and I'm not as old as I used to be!  He even did his best Mark McGuire impression in one scene.  All of these elements are seriously underplayed by the masterful direction of Ridley Scott.  If there is one director who knows how to compose an elaborate and captivating backdrop for a film, then it is Ridley Scott and this film is no exception.  Everything element of his backdrop is so pleasing to the eye that is borders on intoxicating.  From the wilderness mountain cliff, to the black gown dance invites the audience to get a little lost in these visions.  even the oscar nomminated make-up effects boggled the mind on how genuine and surreal they looked.  You'll start clapping your hands was soon as Oona makes her entrance, to make you believe in fairies.  All of this in wrapped up in the stirring score ,done by the rock group Tangerine Dream.  Unfortunately ,no film is as perfect as the land that Jack and Lilly live in.  The film did suffer in a few areas.  The climactic sword duel between Jack and Darkness was something to be desired of a Phantom Menace or a Princess Bride.  Cruise seemed as if he merely did piroets with a sword.  Much of the fight scenes were too criptic and dark-lit.  The same goes for Jacks' confrontation with the goblin Meg.  The directors-cut shows a more complete version of that sequence.  (Yes, Cruise did all his own stunts) Honey-Thore Gump is just a little to annoying and self-ritchous to appreciate and his voice sounds a little too similar to the witch Blix.  The ending is a little confusing.  We are not to know why Jack and Lilly had to leave their community of forest dwellers or wheather the last vision of Darkness was another demon of Darkness himself sporting different color eyes.  I personally like to think that this was just a reminder of the recurring theme that there can be no good without evil ,instead of a plug to leave the door open for a sequel, because the film does fine without any kind of follow-up.  To sum up, this film is one of the more underappreciated gems that was made back in the decade of decadence (the 80's).  Knowing that a film like this was made before the digital age is a big plus.  Secondly this film is ,as said before, the last time a film like this will ever be done.  An elaboratly made fantasy film ,starring one of the biggest actors in his prime, by one of the best directors of our time ,without the use of digital technology.  True one can be optimistic about the upcoming Lord of the Rings trilogy, but for now, well can only harp about poorly done films with inept WB-type actors , all digital sets and effects ,for a less then popular film genre, with stories that have no heart and no direction , like the recent Dungeons and Dragons     For the time, one can be glad that the film in on DVD was just enjoy this masterpiece, or complain that it's just more fairy glamour.  "},{"Title":"Simply wonderful","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in the european version (since I'm from Austria) and it captured me completely with it's images. This forrest at the beginning... This movie is one of the most athmospheric I've ever seen. Mia Sarah is is very pretty, and Tom Cruise proves sexy legs! The Jerry Goldsmith score is wonderful, maybe one of his best work, altough I've listened to some of the Tangerine Dream score and must say it's not bad, either, it's just a different approach, and I think it's interesting to have two different soundtracks for the same movie. I hope the DVD with the directors cut is coming out soon! "},{"Title":"Spot the references","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A feast for the eye look out for Aubrey Beardsley dwarf, Salvador Dali faceless dancer and barley sugar  columns courtesy of apocalyptic 19th century Brit painter John Martin. Lily looks much better in her 'dark'  outfit. It's also quite sexy. It stars the most beautiful small person ever - not Tom, but elf David Bennent.  What happened to him?  "}{"Title":"Legend of all Legends","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What else can be said about this movie except for wonderful!  From the beginning to the end the movie is mind blowing.  The scenery was great and the makeup jobs were great.  Every moment of the movie captured my eye, and I can't stop watching this movie.  Lily (Mia Sara), to me was one of the best characters in the movie.  I liked how her attitude changed as well her costumes.  If I were a film critic I would give  all of them get some type of award.  The theme of it set if off for me, it had sort-of a loving, dark, fantasy, imaginative, and romantic type theme.  I especially loved the language they spoke, I craved for more.  This really made me wanna go into the film industry and show my imagination.  This movie laid it down for all those other movies like  Labyrinth, Neverending Story, and Hook (etc). They picked the perfect title for the movie, cause this movie will always be a Legend.  I loved how evil, (Darkness) feel in love with Lily. Cause evil usually doesn't fall in love with good. We need to bring this movie back to the theaters, (I'M SERIOUS). This movie like I said will always be a LEGEND. "},{"Title":"One of the Best!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  We truly need more of these types of fantasy movies!!  I have seen it probably at least 10 times, it's one of those you just don't get tired of watching.  The special-effects for those days were GREAT, the makeup, costumes, and especially the main Demon's makeup was very realistic.  I thought the characters were wonderful and the topping on the cake was the music by Tangerine Dream (I have 4 of their cd's).  Thanks for an all time super movie!!  "},{"Title":"beautiful and fun film","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend is a classic that seems to have been forgotten. With its actors and director you'd think it would be more well known. Still, unless you specifically have something against fantasy, you should like Legend. It's a fun adventure with interesting characters and a great bad guy. Not only is it fun, but it's uniquely artistic, from the cinematography to the plot and thematic elements. I'd say almost every scene could be a painting in itself. It just draws you in, and there's no reason to resist. And I should mention that the music is quite good considering the movie was made in the mid 80s (you all know what I mean). So if you haven't seen Legend, take it out and enjoy. You can think about it and discuss it, or just watch and relax. "},{"Title":"A stunning mess","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best looking fantasies ever made but there are some very dodgy touches.=* The day glo ski paint favoured in the opening titles of A View To A Kill may have been all the rage in 1985 but scuppers the chances of this being a timeless fairytale.* Jerry Goldsmith's perfectly fine soundtrack was rescored by German mood merchants Tangerine Dream, much to the anger of the Oscar-winning composer who never worked                        with Scott again.                       * Having worked with Vangelis on his previous movie Blade Runner, Scott turned to the                        Greek maestro's chart partner Jon Anderson (of Yes fame) for this project. Alas, he                        provided an insipid closing song called Loved By The Sun. No matter how strong your                        teeth may be, they are bound to suffer a cavity after this assault on the ears.                       *During the first test screening, a group of potheads are believed to have ruined the                        movie in the eyes of the suits. Scott smelled marijuana during the screening and wasn't                        happy with the result. He was tempted to bring the lights up and throw them out. In                        retrospect, it's a pity he didn't as Scott spent a fortune re-cutting the movie into the                        American mess that resulted.                       *The movie was written by William Hjortsberg who had also penned Fallen Angel, the                        inspiration for Alan Parker's 1987 Faustian tale, Angel Heart.                       *One of England's most unusual fans of the film was Dave Lee Travis who spent a                        morning on his radio show in the mid-Eighties plugging the film like it was going out of                        fashion.                       *Choreography for the dance scene was provided by Arelene Phillips, the woman behind                        notorious Seventies dance troupe, Hot Gossip.                       *Geoff Capes, one of Britain's strongest men at the time, played one of the guards.                       *As ever, Scott's casting was impeccable. A year before his career went through the roof                        in Top Gun (directed by Ridley's brother Tony), Tom Cruise played the hero, Jack. He                        gives a fine performance as the wild man and still maintains this is one of his favourite                        films.                       *Mia Sara made her movie debut with Legend. She went on to play the love interest in                        seminal Eighties teen flick, Ferris Bueller's Day Off and has gone on to carve a career for                        herself in the low budget world of TV movies. Occasionally she made a return to big                        genre projects, such as the enjoyable Jean Claude Van Damme offering Timecop. But on                        the whole, is usually wasted in offerings such as Stuart Gordon's lame horror thriller                        Daughter of Darkness, in which she starred with Anthony Perkins.                       *Tim Curry had been a jobbing actor for years until The Rocky Horror Picture Show                        thrust him into the mainstream. Although a mere slip of an actor, he was made to look far                        taller by make-up artist Rob Bottin who made him wear stilt-like leg attachments. Curry                        went on to star in a string of hit and miss vehicles including The Hunt For Red October                        and Roseanne.                       *The movie was first shown on British TV on BBC2 - the American release. In fact, to                        this day, the original UK version has never been seen on British TV. The differences are                        many, but in the American version, Darkness' face isn't seen until he walks through the                        mirror (a far better version in the UK release as Mia Sara's mouth is open when he steps                        through and a second later, it's closed.)                       The day glo effects are also thankfully missing from the UK version but the closing                        monologue from the horny old devil was never featured in the British release.                       There is one advantage to the US version Bryan Ferry's sublime closing track, Is Your                        Love Strong Enough, gets a welcome airing.                       *Many of the special effects were provided by Terry Gilliam's Peerless company. Gilliam                        made many enemies in Hollywood at the time of production. While his movie, Brazil, was                        deemed uncommercial, studio boss Sid Sheinberg fought a media war with the American                        director, superbly catalogued in Jack Matthews The Battle of Brazil. Conversely, Scott                        states Sheinberg as an ally during Legend's production. However, there's no denying that                        Legend is the weaker of the two films.                       *The set, a huge stage used to house many of the 007 movies, burnt down one lunchtime                        in 1984. Many of the doves featured in the film were roasted.                       *Darkness was inspired by Disney's over-rated film, Fantasia and the demon featured in                        the Night on Bald Mountain sequence.                       *Scott has for many years refused to talk about the project. During the 1992 BBC                        documentary Ridley Scott Eye of the Storm, there was no mention of the film. "},{"Title":"Interesting Concept","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film was such a trip. All of its nods to Adam and Eve, the heroic epics and even perhaps A Midsummer Night's Dream made for a familiar, yet well-woven story. Aside from the excruciating squeakiness of the fairy voices and the annoying nonsensical rhymes of the evil sprites, this film had many things going for it.    First, it had the element of foreshadowing. It was chilling to see Lily watch the clock where death pursued the maiden, and how it was covered in snow in the broad daylight. There was the acceleration of images when the Fall occurred, with the flowing petals, the trotting unicorns, the advancing clouds, and the imminent approach of darkness. That brings me to another of the film's strengths, Tim Curry's performance as the Prince of Darkness. He was incredibly frightening in his devilish headdress, thick makeup and evil smile. Hell was almost Dante-esque with human barbecue, ravenous flames and  screams of agony.  At the opposite end of the spectrum, we had the innocence of Jack and Lily, our medieval Adam and Eve. It was fascinating to watch Lily's transformation from innocent into queen. I loved the scene where her white gown and simple makeup became an elegant upswept hairdo, luscious purple lipstick and a gown that looked ahead to the 90s and Eyes Wide Shut in terms of fashion. Even the uneven acting performances of the 2 actors was forgivable here because the film had such a fascinating concept. I loved the allegorical elements of the unicorns and the use of light and darkness and such. I would recommend this film to anyone who is in the mood for something different. Try to ignore the cheesy effects and concentrate on the concept. Clichéd it is, yes, but it is also a fun ride.  "},{"Title":"Best Tom Cruise movie ever!!!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was awesome, not only did Tom Cruise do a good job, but Tim Curry as 'Darkness' was incredible...could not even tell it was him...then there is always Mia Sara..ahhh enough said!!! I recommend this movie to anyone who likes good entertainment and especially Fairy/medieval type movies...just good fun.... "},{"Title":"One of the true classics of the genre","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you like pure fantasy films then you can't really beat this film. Tim Curry, who steals every scene he appears in, plays 'Darkness' and is the ultimate devil (who can forget that amazing costume?!).You'll never regret watching this film, it is a true 'feel good' movie that you'll want to watch whenever you are feeling down.If only Hollywood would make more of these kind of movies! "},{"Title":"This is the most under-rated movie in the world!!!","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When I was a lad of 6, I watched this movie on T.V. and not only did I love it, it gave me nightmares. Years later, I had forgotten what the name of the movie was and all I could remember was the best scenes (there's a lot) and that I loved it. So I went on a quest to find the name of this movie and after extensive searching, I finally found it. So I rented it and popped it in the VCR and shut off the lights. When it was over I came to the decision that this movie kicks much @$$. I still loved it, though it didn't give me nightmares the second time. That was when I was 14. Now I'm 17 and this is still one of my favorite movies ever. And it pains me to see critics give it such a bad score. I think it has something to do with the fact that when it was brought to America, it was destroyed in the editing room. The European version is more complete and the Directors Cut on DVD is even totally complete. I think this new cut should be rated, I'm sure the critics will like this version better. If not, then I hope they get nightmares... "},{"Title":"beautifully made fantasy with images, characters, magic and a good/evil confrontation","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If fantasy, fairies, demons, beauty, elves, and the triumph of goodness is your bag, then this is your movie.  It is Fellini and Bergman together with a great editing; an adult Never Ending Story.  If you like detective, car chases and explosions, you're wasting your time.  If you have the heart of a poet and and appreciation of grotesque beauty, you'll hunt to buy it. "},{"Title":"Great fantasy movie!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend is one of the best fantasy movies to date and it's over fifteen years old now. It has the regular plot of good vs. evil but the cinematography is perfect. The story fits the movie and the acting is exactly as it should be for this type of film. You couldn't ask for a better fairy tale on film if you dreamed it up in your own mind.  "}{"Title":"Storybook nightmare that would make the Brother's Grimm proud","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend is probably one of the most visually interesting films I've ever seen. It's a fairy tale, filled with beautiful and horrible images and it left me breathless. Funny, I've never really been a fan of fairy tales, in cinema or in story books as a child, but give it to Ridley Scott to direct and you have quite an experience. I've been a fan of his for a while now, and it's good to see him back on top with last summers hit Gladiator. RIDLEY RULES! Okay, I'll try to refrain from any more fits of orgasmic glee about Scott, back to the film at hand. Lotta eye candy to be seen. Opening with the forest full of flower petals (?). Goblins wadding through snow drifts up to their necks. But most of all, the castle of Darkness. I had forgotten how gruesome the devils' kitchen actually was. Was this movie originally intended for children? It seems a little unlikely, though I know both children and adults can enjoy it. I liked it as a kid, and if anything I probably enjoy it more as an adult.Cruise and Sara both do well enough in their roles. This is almost the &#145;forgotten' Tom Cruise movie. But the star of this show is Darkness, no &#145;ifs', &#145;ands' or &#145;buts' about it, baby! Is that really Tim Curry under all of that make-up and prosthetics? Can't be! Did he work out for this role? One of the most stunningly beautiful villains in the history of film, the work that must have gone into his costume alone... it boggles the mind. Those horns are just incredible. Darkness is the most visually interesting cinematic interpretation of the devil that I've seen (though if he's the devil, who is his &#145;father' that he is seen speaking to?). I'm torn as to whether the &#145;humpback whales mating' sounds that play when we see the unicorns is neat or annoying (I'm leaning towards annoying). I've also heard that they replaced the original musical score with something more &#145;child-friendly', which is disappointing. But this works mainly as a visual feast. This one deserves an 8/10 stars, so see it if you haven't already. G'night!  "},{"Title":"The best fantasy movie","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Fantasy movies are all about scenery and cool characters and good action. This movie succeeds on all levels. I watched this movie a long time ago and just recently had the opportunity to view it again.  I am amazed as to the sets that this movie used.  I always wonder if it will start snowing and freeze over whenever i go walking in the wood.This probably won't end up your favorite movie of all time, but it is still definitely worthy of viewing.  You'll remember some scenes forever. "},{"Title":"Near perfect. Still has one major flaw.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This has to be one of the most visually powerful movies ever. It's Ridley Scott gone over the edge. Every shot is a painting in itself, demonstrating Ridley Scott's art school background.  The story is interesting and classic too. An unrecognizable Tim curry as the Darkness is pure genius.Tom Cruise is good as the hero (And I hate Tom Cruise) Mia Sara is good as the love interest. Rob Bottin's makeup is some of his best work.Everything is good but you want it to be great. That's the problem. It should be great but it's not. The movie suffers from apparent truncating. It's also a bit sleepy. Maybe from the visual overload.Now supposedly the story is this movie was a great deal longer and it was cut and cut and cut till we are left with a rather short movie. (See liner notes for Jerry Goldsmith's version of the Soundtrack)Being a fan of this movie for a long time I would love to see the full version on DVD if they still have the print lying around, which they probably don't. But this is number one of my DVD wish list. A director's cut of Legend. With the Jerry Goldsmith score as an alternative audio track. Not that I don't like the Tangerine Dream version with the Bryan Ferry theme song. It's just that Jerry Goldsmith's music fits better.Anyways, good movie. Incredible visuals, which is my prime reason for seeing and liking this movie.  "},{"Title":"My comfort movie!","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  OK, let's start from best to worst *Tim Curry as ANYTHING, especially Darkness... He's the reason I started rooting for the bad guys. Of course anything this man does is absolutely fabulous and always a bit campy, but this is definitely one of his best roles. I couldn't imagine anyone else playing this part. *The set was exquisite. I meditate to these images. I immerse myself in that world when I daydream. It isn't supposed to reflect reality people!! Let yourself enjoy the aesthetics for what they are meant to impart.. a time that we haven't experienced in this dimension, a place that allows room for fantastical creation and behavior. This setting is loaded with enough beautiful images that I would like to get a still and hang it on my wall. *The soundtrack by Tangerine Dream and Bryan Ferry (who I love even when he sings Rescue Me) complements this movie interestingly. In 1987, It's definitely not what I expected from a fantasy movie. Very progressive at the time. I own it. *The costuming was beautiful as well. *Everything else was icing on the cake for this movie. *I have seen this movie countless times, and every time a major event in my life happens (death, birth, marriage etc) I crave a fix to immerse myself in fairyland.It is nice to just let yourself believe the fantasy, even if some of the lines (Tom Cruises mostly) are supercheesy. Just do away with the film theorist snobbery and enjoy yourselves... "},{"Title":"Are fantasy fans that desperate?","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I hate to say it about something coming out of such an ignored genre that I love so much, but this was pure tripe. The American version looks like nothing more than the cobbled-together Frankenstein monster that it is, and I can only pray that the European one was better. Tim Curry is completely wasted in any creepy role if you obscure his eyes, and they did. While the prologue hints at some sort of universal balance, it is never achieved. The ending is an open non-conclusion and hints terrifyingly at the possibility of a sequel. The music seems to try to be like The Neverending Story, but never achieves the same level. And whose idea was it to use whale sounds for the unicorns? It may have sounded pretty on its own, but in the film it's jarring and unnecessary. And I beg of Hollywood, never *ever* put Tom Cruise in another fantasy epic! I wish I could say something in coherent paragraph form about this movie, but it doesn't deserve the effort. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Eye Candy","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie as a child because Darkness really scared me.  Now, I still enjoy the movie, but more for its fairy tale quality and scenery.  I love how the whole film has a hazy, almost dreamlike quality that allows you to believe more readily in this magical world.  Tom Cruise is excellent.  My favorite scene is that of Jack diving into the lake to fetch Lily's ring. I like to pause the tape and just stare at the beauty of the image, so wonderful and happy.  Even in the corny parts you still want to believe that its all real. "},{"Title":"So much better than the Phantom Menace","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  That's all I could keep thinking of while I watched this. Here you have a movie made like 15 years ago and it was better than the top of the line version they put out now. This is the reason CGI graphics are stupid. The make-up and costumes in Legend are flawless. You can see shadow, sweat, texture, and a lot of effort put forth. If George Lucas was smart he'd hire this sfx team for his next project. Um, the story is very simple like a fairy tale but this is a children's movie anyway. Hopefully, Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings will be more in the style of Legend and less Phantom Menace. "},{"Title":"Overlook of the film Legend","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The movie Legend is a prime example of evil verses good.  The imagry of the unicorns and the leaves blowing around is unforgettable as are the characters.  The sets provide the perfect background for the story line.  A great film for anyone who is looking for a spectacular get away kind of film. "},{"Title":"a battle against good and evil","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  this is a great movie. possibly the best!! i think everyone should go and rent or buy this video. it has tom cruise playing the 'good guy' and tim curry playing the 'bad guy'. it's a fantasy movie with adventure and romance in it as well. not only girls will like it but guys will too!! "},{"Title":"A nice thought, but still a failure.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I haven't seen the version of Legend with the origional soundtrack-maybe i's better-but as it stands now, this movie is pretty much for children. Jack, Lily, and most of the other characters are flat, superficial, extremely corny, and dull. The poor acting doesn't help. The set, though perhapse a bit over the top, was very nice and helped the movie tremendously. The plot, like the characters, was flat and dull. Legend did, however, have a few saving features. The first, as I have mentioned, was the amazing sets and the atmosphere that they created, and the second is Tim Curry. He was really what kept me watching this movie after the novelty of the sets wore off. Trust him to add dimensionality to any movie he's in. Besides, Tim Curry is simply made for the role of villen and Darkness is exactly that. "}{"Title":"An Underrated Fantasy with Real Charm","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" All but overlooked when it was released in America, after a hiatus of several years, in 1985, Legend is one of the most beguiling, charming fantasies ever released on film. Tom Cruise is his usual hunky, goofy self as Jack, the nominal hero, and Mia Sara (Whatever happened to her?) is ethereally lovely as Lily, the heroine. But it's the performances of Tim Curry as Dark Lord and the young David Bennent at Gump that dominate this film. Curry, in a role that easily exceeds his Dr. Frankenfurter for sheer bizarreness, is as scary, menacing a figure as has ever been seen on film as a thinly disguised version of the Devil. And Bennent, better here than he was in The Tin Drum is utterly beguiling as Honeythorn Gump, a Puckish character who's always hep for a new adventure and always willing to help out a friend. Annabelle Lanyon is a charmer, as well, as Oona, Gump's fairy girlfriend who secretly has a yen for Jack, and Billy Barty is his usual enjoyable self as Gump's assistant fairy, Brown Tom. Finally, was there ever a more utterly loathsome creature as Alice Playton's Blix, Curry's nefarious goblin assistant?Highly recommended, all around. See it "},{"Title":"Every frame is a work of art","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Though the plot is sometimes lacking (maybe it was just me, but a few times I was left going Uh, why'd they just do that?), this film is one of the most visually pleasing films I've ever seen, more than making up for it. I've seen a lot of comments here about the soundtrack being changed and it being edited, but I didn't know that when I saw it, and I wasn't bothered by it for the most part (except, as I mentioned, those scenes where I was a little confused as to why something just happened). We don't see many films made like this anymore, and seeing how nicely this one turned out, it's a shame. All in all, I was very satisfied by it.  "},{"Title":"Simply put, a beautiful movie","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is a tale of majestic beauty that proves that movies can still be grand in all aspects. Though the acting and plot don't stand out as amazing, I cannot the deny the movie the honor of being enchanting. A world like that can't be that bad; especially now that Darkness is gone.Tom Cruise is somewhat believable as Jack and Mia is quite gracious as innocent Lily. All in all, the movie is entrancing to anyone who seeks to escape mundane reality. "},{"Title":"the greatest movie i've ever seen in my life!","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  this has to be the best movie i've ever seen in my life!!!! this movie is just  too good for words!  Legend is right near my other fav movie which is In Dreams.  I loved the costumes, and the scenery. the actors, did a great job, especially David Bennent who portrays Gump. This is a most see!  "},{"Title":"The book that TOLKIEN never wrote !","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I feel sorry for the people in America, who had to watch that horrible version with that awful soundtrack instead of the magnificent European and true version, wich has a totally fantastic and atmospheric soundtrack by J.Goldsmith.That´s a perfect example of how a bad soundtrack can ruin a movie. Who had that idea of replacing the soundtrack in the first place ?!!!! This is almost totally unbelievable !!!Once again, someone in Hollywood must have thought that Fantasy stories were just for kids and teenagers. How stupid can this people be?!!This movie in its European version is one of the best Fantasy movies ever made, and the best American fantasy movie without a doubt. Willow , was good, but it tried to much to be  STAR WARS meets INDIANA JONES stealing from Lord of the Rings   and so, it became too much of a teenage film instead.On the other hand  LEGEND , is a magnificent work of fantasy, wich despite having mostly a teenage cast, it manages to achieve a totally believable atmosphere of another world without turning into a  politically correct All American family movie  like most of all Hollywood fantasy productions are.Despite having a young cast in leading roles, we always feel this is an adult movie, for adult people who love Fantasy books. And just that, it´s a great achievement, by Ridlley Scott!I would love to see a movie from  Lord of the Rings , directed by him, because with  Legend  he has proved that he´s the man to do it.Besides the dwarves in  Legend , always remind me of Hobitts anyway. That´s one of the reasons I love this movie. Each time I watch it, I feel like as if I were watching something adapted by some TOLKIEN forgotten book.The atmosphere is incredible, the story it´s not bad and the characters are fabulous and very realistic. Specially the dwarves wich look amazing. Everyone looks excellent in fact.I don´t know what else to say, if you like fantasy novels this movie is the one to watch, along with  NEVERENDING STORY I.This must be the most underrated movie in years. Completely unfair. This film is a true masterpiece ! "},{"Title":"Mystic and beauty","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend is a gem among a pile of rubble produced these years.  It's devastating visual feast of fantasy, full of mystery and drama that is quite unique.  The cast is perfectly chosen and Tim Curry's voice as Darkness is unforgettable.  For all true fantasy lovers, this film is a must. It is my favorite 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  One of my favorite movies of all time, Legend has everything you could want in a fantasy movie (I would prefer a more violent R-rated version, but hey...)  Ridley Scott has never made a bad film, and I hope someday another movie is made like this one.  There are too many positive comments about this film, so just go out and see it.  Tim Curry gave me nightmares for years after I saw this film when I was a kid.  The imagination and enthusiasm put into making into this movie went into overload, creating a stunningly beautiful motion picture.  I'll admit that it could have been improved with more action, but it's still cool the way it is.  Try and see the alternate version if you can, it contains different music AND more action.  VERY hard to find though. "},{"Title":"Let go and enjoy the fantasy","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I actually liked the TDream soundtrack and Tom Cruise's acting. I mean, it's not like he had to have any real depth. He plays guy in love well I think. I really enjoyed this movie and recommend it highly "},{"Title":"A great movie that got messed up by the greed of the industry","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time. It has everything a fan of fantasy could want. It would have been even better had not some dumb suits gotten the idea to change the message and some of the basic elements of the movie in order to make it appeal to the teen market. What was done to the movie was horrible and totally destroyed almost all the integrity the movie could have had. It was a huge failure at the box office and many feel this was because of the horrible cut up job that was done to it. Perhaps if it had been kept intact it would have done better but who knows? Even if it had flopped it would have at least flopped as Ridley Scott's vision and not as a shadow of what could have been. I own all the versions of this movie that are available and if I was able to put them all together they would make a beautiful, classic movie that many more people would be able to enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of my favs","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you like high fantasy this movie is for you. Ridley Scott does a tremendous job directing this movie. The shots are reminiscent of blade runner with shadows and moving light abounding. even the soundtrack by Tangerine Dream is great if you like fantasy you'll like this movie guaranteed!!! "}{"Title":"Cruise's poor performance ruins Legend.","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What COULD have been a reasonable movie is ruined by twodisastrous choices. The first is the feeble Tom Cruise, who istotally out of place. The second is the director's crazydecision to employ a soundtrack by Tangerine Dream (on the USrelease) in place of Jerry Goldsmith's superlative fantasy score(which WAS used in the European release). I urge readers to hearGoldsmith's score (available on Silva Screen label) which is oneof this composers' very finest ef "},{"Title":"Yeah but which version?","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It makes a major difference whether you see the American or European release. The Euro release has about 20 more minutes of action and a totally different score. By all means, check out the Euro (if at all available, that is)...vastly superior. "},{"Title":"When you're having a bad day...","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When you're having a bad day...see a bad day to Jack and Lili in Legend. I love this movie so much when I'm having a terrible day. It's all fantasy about love vs. evil. Tom Cruise is kinda dull in this movie and Mia Sara will get on your nerves but Tim Curry as Darkness is really good. All in all, great settings, okay acting, dumb storyline. But, hey! It's just a movie! "},{"Title":"Bloated fantasy from Ridley Scott","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" There is good. There is evil. And there are unicorns. Jack (Tom Cruise) is a forest dweller who loves innocent Lili (Mia Sara). When Darkness (Tim Curry)'s minion takes the horn of an unicorn, the world becomes unbalanced. The world freezes over. Lili and an unicorn are captured. Jack and his newfound ragtag gang must come to the rescue.This is a bloated fantasy starting from the bloated opening text. None of the text is necessary. So much of time is over the top. The acting is weirdly mannered and stiff. The costumes are noticeably fake. This is director Ridley Scott's big white whale. He tries so hard for ethereal fantasy that all he gets is clunky surrealism.This was a troubled production. One could almost sense the problems from the film. Scott is throwing every fantasy conventions at it. It becomes overloaded. I see this as an ambitious undertaking from Ridley Scott that mostly fails. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I have been watching this movie since I was a very young child and I have loved it ever since!I just recently watched it for the first time in a few years and I still find it to be among my favorite movies!The makeup and special effects is absolutely astonishing, especially for that time period. I think the fact that they didn't over-do it makes the movie easy to watch. Some of the dialogue is pretty strange, watching it in this day and age, but I find that it draws me in due to it's uniqueness. It definitely works well for the movie.I will always see Legend as a classic in my book.I will admit that the Director's Cut is a million times better than the first version that was created. It has so much more depth than the original. "},{"Title":"The visuals rule this fantasy","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I've heard critics use the expression, art direction run amok, and I can think of no better example of that criticism than Legend.Ridley Scott's foray into the fantasy genre is the story of Jack (Tom Cruise) and Lily (the adorable Mia Sara); two young lovers in a world where light is controlled by two unicorns. Things go horribly wrong for this enchanted land when minions of Darkness (Tim Curry) steal the horn from one of the mythic beasts. The world is plunged into bitter cold and eternal night unless Jack can retrieve the horn and restore light.On a technical level, the film is superb. To say that this movie is well-lit is an understatement of the highest order (on par with Blade Runner). And Rob Bottin's creature effects are truly top-shelf. Actors disappear into other beings through makeup, alone. The shining example of this is Tim Curry as Darkness. That headpiece will have the viewer analyzing his face just to see how it was done.But it's a film that's (for lack of a better word, and I hate saying boring) . . . uninvolving. It is a movie that tends to drag when Tim Curry isn't in the scene, and things honestly don't pick up until Jack finally does battle with Darkness (basically the last 15 minutes of the film). From an acting standpoint, Curry is the shining star in the group, mostly for his ability to relish the over-the-top aspects of a demon with ridiculously large horns. Cruise puts in some great effort, but the poor guy just doesn't have a lot to work with. The surprise of the film is Mia Sara, a first-timer, who really does sell the purity and innocence of a fairy tale princess.But in trying to come up with a way to describe what detracted from my enjoyment of this movie, it finally hit me it has the feel of an '80s concept music video - like someone took a Tangerine Dream music video with multi-million dollar production value and stretched it to 90 minutes.It's my understanding that the filmmakers, in their attempt to appease test audiences, badly recut the film and replaced Jerry Goldsmith's score with that of Tangerine Dream. I'm curious to see Scott's Director's Cut, as I'm told it's almost a completely different film. I think Tangerine Dream's score ... not necessarily dates the movie, but adds to the '80s fantasy feel of Legend (and an '80s fantasy this film most certainly is). So I look forward to seeing this film recut.5/10 "},{"Title":"It looks good but....","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ridley Scott's sumptuous fantasy film about darkness trying to take over the world and get his hands on a unicorn's horn. The original US release of the film was a messy affair cut by a half an hour and re-scored by a studio that didn't know what to make of the film. The film was released in tact in Europe and which lead to all sorts of stories about how much better the directors real cut was. Eventually the studio relented and they released the film on home video. I saw the original US cut in the movies and I loved the look of the film. Its one of the most beautiful films, fantasy or otherwise ever made. As an example of set and character design the film is tops. Even in these days of CGI the film still is amazing to look at. The trouble is the film as a story is kind of weak. Things kind of ramble along and there seems to be things that could be sped up. I think the studio was right to trim the film but I think they cut the wrong stuff. It also doesn't help that Tom Cruise is somewhat miscast in the lead. His performance is fine but his boyish good looks shine through and he seems too modern even in fantasy clothes. I like the film I don't love it. It's a great film to see once, but I don't need to own it.(then again I own the special edition DVD and don't see myself giving it up.) Worth a look. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie came out over twenty years ago and there still has been nothing like it since. The look of the movie is gorgeous. Every detail seems to have been addressed. The forest looks alive and full of wonder whereas Darkness's abode looks dark and dangerous (yet mesmerizing). The movie also deals with several themes such as temptation and love. It also has the usual theme of good verses evil but it is handled with expert care. The acting is very good too. Tim Curry is fantastic as Darkness. He delivers his lines perfectly. It is a wonderful performance that makes that character stand the test of time. Now Tom Cruise as Jack and Mia Sarah as Lily are a little more straightforward but they fit in the overall context of the story.Now the two different versions are different. The U.S. version is superior in my opinion. The tangerine dream score fits the movie better. It gives it a dream like quality, almost haunting. Whereas the longer director's cut has a Jerry Goldsmith score which in my opinion is not as good (especially when you hear the tangerine dream's score). The U.S. version is also shorter (about 90 min.) but it seems to work. The director's cut runs almost 2 hours and there are places where it drags and has singing and an ending that is not really satisfying when you consider all the characters have been through. There are a few scenes from the director's cut that should have stayed in the U.S. version (especially the scene with the swamp witch Meg) but it does not detour you from the overall viewing experience.My score is for the U.S. version alone. It is a fantastic movie. Yes there are a few flaws and character development is not as strong with some characters but all in all it is a great movie. I would love to see a sequel or a reboot of this. A PG-13 rating would not hurt either. I am surprised no one has even thought of doing it (especially with the success of Lord of The Rings). There is a audience for good fantasy films if done right. This movie is a good place to start especially since it has a heart to its story that a lot of films seem to lack. "},{"Title":"A Decent 1980s Fantasy Film, But Not Nearly the Best","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A young man (Tom Cruise) must stop the Lord of Darkness (Tim Curry) from both destroying daylight and marrying the woman he loves (Mia Sara). Cruise, along with a forest gump and some elves, have little time and nothing more than hope and love on their side. Will that be enough? In Cruise's early days, some of his films stand out more than others. Risky Business stands out, Legend does not. Although considered a classic by many people, the film really is not very good. Cruise is average, Curry is fine as the devil but largely unrecognizable (it could have been any actor with little difference) and Mia Sara is beautiful but rather limited in her acting. You have to love the Gothic outfit, though. Beyond that, it is just a typical story with little surprise or luster. I expect better from director Ridley Scott. He created an interesting world, but refused to explore it. And that is really the big flaw... we have a story of boy must save girl, and that is it. No subplots, no complications... no family drama... barely even character development... nothing. We have the devil who could take over the world at any time by killing a unicorn he has captured, but instead waits until an arbitrary time. How many times do villains sit and talk about their evil plans when they should simply just execute their captured enemy (such as James Bond)? Same concept here... big plans, long speeches and whatnot rarely work.Maybe the full 150-minute version clears this up, but in the shorter version I was simply not impressed either time I saw the film. Although one must single out Rob Bottin and his crew for some amazing makeup and effects. If nothing else, the film has that going for it.If you are a die-hard fantasy fan, check this out. But otherwise, really, do not bother. Not the best work of Cruise, Sara, Curry or Scott. And not the best fantasy film of the era. Rent Willow. By far the better film. This one is just lame. I am sure there is something about the story that people adore, but it was lost on me. "},{"Title":"A fairy tale for adults?? Please...","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I cannot for the life of me understand the gushing over this movie (the Director's Cut). It's supposedly dark, deep, with a message, a fairy tale for adults. Those epithets all describe Pan's Labyrinth, a fantastic movie. But this movie, Legend? None of those apply here. It's a silly, slapstick, goofy movie, and ultimately boring.Tom Cruise, normally a fine actor, is unbearably wooden in his role. The girl who plays Lily veers from time to time into a Southern accent from her quasi-British princess accent. The film's silly, ham-handed, slapstick battle scenes belie its supposedly serious nature. Lily's inane songs are intelligence-insulting. The long, tedious scenes with the unicorns are not beautiful, just long and tedious. The dialogue is eye-rollingly cheesy.Now, I do appreciate good fantasy. I loved the Lord of the Rings films, Bakshi's Wizard, the aforementioned Pan's Labyrinth... But this film, Legend, is appallingly trite and goofy. Heck, even Dark Crystal compares favorably. I can only suppose that those who laud this film to the skies are looking at it through the eyes of nostalgia; I, having not seen it until now, in my late 30s, am unmoved. I love magic and stories of the wonder of childhood, but I found absolutely no magic in this movie. "}{"Title":"Good-looking but ultimately hollow fantasy by Ridley Scott","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" As revered as it is today, Alien was famously criticized for being more about the eerie mood than the story or the characters. Fair enough, but at least the plot and the cast were good enough to ensure Ridley Scott's blend of horror and science-fiction turned out to be the unique masterpiece it is. The same can't be said of the director's fourth feature, Legend, a fantasy film that aims high but misses most of the time.There's nothing wrong with the picture stylistically speaking as always with Scott, the visuals are a feast for the eye, totally justifying his claim that, in terms of images, Legend is the live-action equivalent of a Disney movie - a gorgeous spectacle from start to finish! Even the plot seems to be perfect for an animated feature there's an adventurous youngster (Tom Cruise) living in the enchanted woods, there's a beautiful girl (Mia Sara) he is in love with, there are magical creatures (unicorns, to be more precise) and of course, there is a villain worthy of the name, a demon (Tim Curry) bent on casting an endless night over the entire world. And naturally Jack (that would be Cruise's character) is the only person who can stop it all.So far, so good. Why, then, does Legend fail to deliver something remotely close to a thrill for most of its running time? The story, although basic, has enough appeal, and the pace is practically faultless, so Scott is not to blame. No, the picture's flaws stem from miscasting as handsome as he may be, this time Cruise simply doesn't have the charisma he generally masters to perfection - even the trademark grin, normally a nuisance, is missing, leaving Jack a two-dimensional hero few will root for. Sara is similarly bland, depriving the romance of all its life force. Only Curry, in a role that sort of anticipates his slimy work in It, looks like he is completely at ease in the otherworldly environment Scott has crafted around him, and delivers an excessive but completely enjoyable performance, as opposed to Cruise's controlled complacency. The movie can be seen once for his effort, but otherwise fans of the director or the star should look for more satisfying products.5,5/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Tom Cruise Ever Made - And One Of The Few In Which He Actually Acted","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" First of all, these were different times. You could still make an Excalibur or Dark Crystal or even a The Sword and The Sorceror and be taken seriously. Really. So a young and basically untested Tom Cruise got to work with Blade Runner Ridley Scott on a fantasy film that was his Magnum Opus. Tom, Tim and Mia Sara did a film you couldn't do today, didn't joke or parody it, and it was a morality tale for the ages. My only spoiler is that people reading this review will see it on a TV screen. Poor SOB's. I saw it on a 70MM screen, and you will NOT experience the same film I did. If you ever see it being shown on any size movie screen, get there. It's a one of a kind. A double feature of The Company of Wolves and Legend would send you home with your head spinning.The 80's were the Sixties redux in many good ways. "},{"Title":"Only dead meat waits for the stewpot&#133;","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" For me, Tom Cruise has two distinctly separate but equally encompassing personas &#150; the unstoppable, eternally cool flyboy that he became the year after this film was released, and the kooky scientologist nutcase that he has become. That being said, I find it difficult to fit a third personality onto his overflowing iconography, that of a sprightly, forest-dwelling manifestation of innocence that he plays in this movie, although there are times in the movie where he really inhabits his role.I will admit that the first half of the film bored me almost to tears, but it is impossible to deny the set design, the fairy world that was created on sound stages for the film. The atmosphere is simply astonishing, and although many of the costumes and situations are a little too cartoonish (Tom Cruise, for example, punches Satan in the movie), the characters are all clever, there are amazing performances, and Ridley Scott takes one or two opportunities that he still knows how to make you cringe with creepy, slimy, long-fingered creatures. Tim Curry, as the Lord of Darkness, is absolutely phenomenal. This has to be one of the best performances I've ever seen from him.Also in the movie's defense, it is brilliantly written. It is full of powerful statements whose meaning goes far beyond the film as a whole (What is light without darkness? What are you without me?). My understanding is that the movie was a box office disappointment, and I would just like to say that, despite this movie's popular failure (and I do think that it is better than it's popular reputation), I am certainly glad that they decided to go ahead with the production and release of Labyrinth the following year! "},{"Title":"My opinion.","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I feel kinda stuck here. I'll just start here....when I was oh...16-17 I used to have this on VHS. I used to come home and veg out and watch it .Over and over again. I also used to watch it at my friends house where we would become totally enthralled by how beautiful it was. Well, a few years down the road i think i lost the movie and kinda (sadly) forgot about it. Well recently...on You tube they have clipsof movies you can put on your myspace. Wow...i would have never thought to find legend here but....one of my friends surely had a very specific clip from the movie. One that I remember very clearly. A few days later ...I was at a local music/video/DVD store and wouldn't ya know it....there it was. LEGEND on DVD! Of coarse I had to have it. So I bought it and it was the directors cut. Which seemed fine to me at the time. Until. I know the director gets the utmost power here. And I have great respect for Ridley Scott but,,,there were changes to the movie that I was disappointed by. (Remember I grew up on the I guess it's called the American version).Whether it be right or wrong....I loved this version the most(The edited version)..(with a totally different musical score by YES). And being from a generation of Legend,blade runner,dune,...labyrinth...I feel cheated( Simply ...I prefer the edited version. It's still a favorite. ~C "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie...","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ... but if you're going to buy it, spring for the two disc set. I have loved this film since I was a little kid, back before the era of DVDs when I all I could do was watch a battered VHS copy over and over again. The sets and artistry are just gorgeous. Just recently, I purchased the DVD set with the Director's Cut. Honestly, it's almost like watching an entirely different film. And a better one. The story is more complete, many scenes that were chopped to bits are back in their entirety and more coherent, and the ending has changed (and, in my opinion, the new ending makes a great deal more sense). That said, I still have a fondness for the shorter Tangerine Dream version as well. Luckily, the DVD set includes BOTH versions, plus some interesting extras. "},{"Title":"Ridley Scott's Legendary Fairy Tale","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend, directed by Ridley Scott, has become something of a cult classic. It stars a young Tom Cruise as a sprite named Jack. In the story, Jack must go on a quest to protect the world's last unicorn from doom at the hands of the Lord of Darkness, who is out to wipe out all light and purity from the world. It's a kind of campy story, but still it makes for a beautifully told tale. The lush locations are a feast for the eyes, as are the amazing costumes. Some standout performances include Billy Barty as the tough dwarf Screwball, and Tim Curry makes a wonderful devil as the Lord of Darkness. For all fans of fantasy and whimsy, Legend is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Done","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I was born in 1988 so I grew up with this movie. It was and is such a wonderful movie to watch any time of the day, week, month or year. It was beautifully made . Wonderful costumes , such as Jakes armor and the Dancing Black Dress. Not the mention Darkness' ( Tim ) makeup and suit. I would have to say that my favorite people were the dwarfs . Brown Tom most of all . Oona was wonderfully played and beautiful in her own way . I recommend this movie to anyone who believes in love . Weather you are 7 or 70 , its a wonderful movie and it will make you feel like nothing is wrong in the world.Hope I helped out in your decision on this movie.Legends can be now and forever ... Loved by the sun . "},{"Title":"Legend is a visual treat","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I hadn't seen Legend for many years and recently showed it to my little girl, who loves unicorns. This movie is visually stunning. It lives up to its PG rating, although I did have to cover her eyes for one brutal scene near the beginning of the movie.Like all good fairy tales, this one has plenty of life's lessons wrapped within its dazzling pretense.Tim Curry is magnificent as Darkness. His accomplishment in bringing this entity to life is even more impressive considering how much makeup and costuming he labored under. Tom Cruise and Mia Sara are very believable in their roles as innocents in love.I highly recommend this film to those who enjoy fantasy and fable and don't require sex and excessive violence to be entertained. "},{"Title":"Wonderful.","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is the kind of movie where you can immerse yourself in the world of fantasies, and when its over, you can't believe it was so short. There are so many things inside this movie that all have their own special meaning. Tom Cruise played the innocent boy to perfection, while Tim Curry's awesome display of talent left me wondering which side I was really rooting for. I love the part with the dwarfs (is that what they were?) where the one was shot in the head with the arrow. It was quite comical. Does anyone know who the artist of Loved By The Sun is? I absolutely love the way that song makes me feel. I would suggest to anyone who will listen that they give this movie a chance, if not a space of honor in their DVD collection. "},{"Title":"These movie is a good date movie!!","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I think this movie shows a light on love and how love can triumph over everything! Besides that all the special effects and make up for this movie were outstanding specially for a 1985 movie!! The reason this is a great date movie is because some of the scenes scare you, but at the same time they help you and your date grow closer to each other because of the way love and purity are shown in all the scenes!! Most guys have to admit that they like taking girls to horror movies so they can protect them and girls like to take guys to sappy love stories, this movie has both combined its perfect!! This is one of my all time favorite movies of the 1985 and the funny thing i was born in 1987! "}{"Title":"Excellent story line and costuming, great cast.","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This fantasy story is well written. The costuming is amazing, esp. Tim Curry's full-body prosthetic suit of Darkness. You can purchase this in a two-disk set where the second disk is a Directors cut. It is the film as Ridley Scott originally visualised. It is also called the European release as it is the theatrical version released seen in Europe. The story line is a bit darker, the music score is more of a classical theme but for me it is an excellent re-working of a classic. The director's cut spends a little more dialogue and time giving background on Lily being royalty. The ending is a bit different as Jack waves goodbye to Gump and the other forest people, and then Jack and Lily separate with plans to see each other the next day. Both versions are worthwhile to view. jeffP "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE RULZS","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I don't care what anyone says  I thought this was the most fascinating movie of the 80's The plot was very well put together The acting was superb Definitely a chick flick, but if you are a guy with a soft side you will like it "},{"Title":"A Flawed, Beautiful Masterpiece","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  At least in the Director's Cut with Jerry Goldsmith's original score. That version of the film is by far the ultimate and most elegant experience.The reason it's flawed is that it could never be perfect, no matter what could be tweaked. It just doesn't feel like the grand masterpiece it should've been, and I know of no way to give this film that feel.Ridley Scott is a true genius filmmaker. He incorporates so many experiences and questions and dilemmas that the common man and woman go through when they age. Jack and Lily's adventure is the personification of those childhood experiences that turned boys into men and girls into women.Tim Curry...the best one dimensional character in cinematic history. He is an absolute joy to watch and listen to in this film. His voice is chilling, his image is nightmarish, and he is just amazing to see.This has always been one of my favorite movies. But now that I've seen the DC on DVD, it has cemented its place in my list. 8.5 out of 10 (Mainly because I feel flaws, but really can't explain them well) "},{"Title":"A legend that can be now and forever One of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  (I have seen the European version) Legend has a very poor script which makes the plot thin.I would recommend spectators to see the director's cut, I think that might include a bit more story and depth that the version I saw might miss.Tom Cruise's acting in Legend is not as bad as some say. He makes a better performance here than in other trash-movies he made in the late 80's. Overall the acting in Legend is good, but maybe I am not convinced about Mia Sara's part Lili. Tim Curry ... at his peak, of course. Legend is the proof that one dimensional characters can be entertaining as long as the direction and acting is good. Legend has great Cinematography by Alex Thomson, good costumes and make up, superb set decoration and production design. The only problem is that Ridley Scott uses a bit to much close ups instead of using distance shots which is more common in fantasy-movies. But all the close ups creates a feeling of intense and suspense. And all this together makes Legend more beautiful than you can imagine. You can find many weak spots on Legend, but you can also find much quality in it - visual quality, which I think is important for any movie.If 'Legend' would have been done in the 90's, it would have been more famous, more popular and a movie that people remembered. It was made in a time when fantasy didn't have the status it has today (even if many fantasy-movies was made then). Legend might have been inspired by one of my favorite movies - The Dark Crystal. It is not as good as The Dark Crystal, but still good enough for any fantasy-lover. Rating 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Hard to believe that was Tim Curry.","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This film, while not great, is still worth checking out.  The make-up is great...I still can't believe that was Tim Curry, and the atmosphere is good as well.  So is the scenery and the shots in the snow and everything.  They are really well done and add to the movie's mood.  It could have used a bit more action maybe, but this is a fantasy movie that leans more on the romance side rather than the action side of things.  The story is a gal meets boy in woods, touches unicorn and all hell breaks loose as the minions of the Lord of Darkness seize the opportunity to steal the unicorn's horn and capture the other unicorn (there are two).  Jack (Cruise's character) along with other enchanted creatures go to the Lord of Darkness's lair to free the unicorn and Jack's loved one who is also captured by the minions.  Darkness really fancies her so he tries to seduce her.  The movie could have used a bit more, but all in all it was a pretty good movie.   "},{"Title":"A big letdown","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  *possible spoiler*On a technical level, Legend is a visually stunning film. It boasts excellent production values, gorgeous cinematography, and seamless special effects. Sadly, it is also a failure of storytelling. Ridley Scott knows how to paint a pretty picture, that cannot be denied; it is simply impossible for him to make an ugly-looking movie. However, his grasp on plotting and characterizations is less certain. Prior to this unfortunate project, he already had Alien and Blade Runner under his belt, so one would hope that his ability to make good science fiction would translate well to the fantasy genre. No such luck. Legend draws visual and thematic inspiration from classic Grimm Brothers tales and J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, yet he fails to capture the awe and wonder of the best fantasy literature. It looks just right, but the pacing is slow, the plot is thin, and most of the characters are not well-defined. The conclusion is too perfunctory to be of much interest, and as a whole the film is cold and aloof.Most of the actors are lost in the movie. Even Tom Cruise's thousand-watt personality is overwhelmed by the setting and turgid pace. Mia Sara is perhaps the most visually appealing element of the film, but when you think about it, her role as the princess is rather thankless, especially when you consider that her ill-advised actions were partly responsible for everyone's problems in the first place. However, David Bennent manages to escape this fate, as the leader of a band of elfin. His character is one of the few that truly come to life. Likewise, Tim Curry is effective as the charismatic villain, who deserves more screen time. Much has been made of the edits forced upon the project by the studio, but even with a director's cut finally available, it is still clear that Legend should have been subjected to additional rewrites before being filmed. I have little doubt that from the start they put a great deal of effort into what it looked like, but not nearly enough into what it was about. Scott seems to have forgotten that you also need a heart and soul for this type of project, so that the viewer is emotionally invested in the characters and their plight. Otherwise, you're left with an uninspiring technical exercise, great to look at but hard to care about. I admired it on a technological level, but would not care to watch it again.** (out of ****)Released by Universal Pictures "},{"Title":"Stunning fantasy film, full of beautiful images.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend has always been one of my favourite films. The look of the film is just pure magic, as if Ridley Scott had visited a place and time just like the one portrayed, and re-created it effortlessly.A young Tom Cruise stars as Jack, a forest child, who is in love with Lily (Mia Sara). Both are young, beautiful and innocent.But in the beautiful simplicity of their world, exists the other side. Darkness (Tim Curry) is a hulking great red demon, determined to destroy the only 2 remaining Unicorns, and therefore banishing light from Earth totally, and ruling forever. It is up to Jack and his imp-like friend Honeythorn Gump (David Bennett, assisted by two dwarves, Brown Tom and Screwball to stop Darkness` plans, and rescue Lily from his clutches.Tim Curry has always stuck in my mind as playing Darkness. His acting is superb, and shows what a huge range he has, comparing it to his amazing character portrayal in The Rocky Horror Picture Show.As far as I know, this film has more different versions than a dog has fleas, but why? Why can`t censors leave a good film alone and let us all enjoy what was meant to be shown. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous on the surface, Hollow at its heart, Legend is a Cinematic Bimbo","Date":"30 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend has long lived in my consciousness. It was obviously visually arresting and it couldn't help hold a fascination for me with its incredible set design, cinematography and the greatest makeup effect ever committed to screen in Rob Bottin's Darkness. I've never really enjoyed watching it though, I found it boring with the exception of the aforementioned aesthetics, makeup effects, Tim Curry's performance and Meg Mucklebones. Having read about a Director's Cut I was eager to revisit the film after not having seen it for probably 20 odd years to see if it could be redeemed as I felt it deserved to be.I found the 'Director's Cut' to be little more than 30 mins longer in length and the film as a whole to suffer the same problems I intuited as a kid; creepy and shallow characters, a deeply tedious and unheroic resolution to the crisis set out in the first act and a puzzling rehash of the Director's own work in his depiction of the antagonist's exit.Despite its scope and grandiosity of production, the film just feels small, as illustrated by Jack's 'quest' which consists of putting on some armor, crossing a swamp and fumbling around in the dark with some big trays. Despite Cruise's best efforts in his first scenes, Jack just flatlines as a character for the rest of the film, and the cataclysm proposed by the corruption of the Unicorns never seems to weigh that heavily on the rest of the film. Similarly the henchmen's threat (such as it was) with the underbite-Goblin and his pigfaced accomplice dissipates as Darkness himself is showboated for the last half hour.In spite of the prodigiousness of its personnel and their technical might, Legend is, ironically, an exhibition in the power of good storytelling - in that it is completely devoid of it. This film should be screened to aspiring screenwriters as a cautionary tale of how useless riches are in the hands of artisans without a heart to hold the work together. Despite the Director's Cut this sumptuous looking film has about as valid a claim to a 'soul' as Darkness himself does. "},{"Title":"Tim C. & Tom C. Star In This Medieval Movie TimeBomb","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Let's face it (fabulous make-up effects aside), a screaming queen like Tim Curry, as Lord of Darkness, truly sucked. And, yes, Tom Cruise, as junior Jack WTF, was nothing short of total embarrassment. It's true.Yes - Legend may have been lavishly mounted. And, yes, it may have been incredibly handsome to behold. Yes. Yes. Yes. That it was.But, with that all aside, it absolutely astounded me that, after having to endure the utter monotony of Blade Runner, Director Ridley Scott actually had the blasted gall to come up with yet another ultimately boring movie (such as this one) to foist upon the unsuspecting movie-audience. And I can't stand it! I can't! This dream-like fantasy, presented in the mold of a Grimm's Fairy Tale, concerns the doings of the demon Darkness who tries to gain control over a young, virginal princess who represents the epitome of absolute innocence.Unfortunately, with characters that are not at all well-defined, Legend's ambitious story lacks any real momentum. And, this, in turn, reduces the whole production to the inevitable bore that it is.P.S.If nothing else, it's sure a great film to scare the pants off of the kiddies. "},{"Title":"Beautiful visuals, but the script lacked the sense of true danger!","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This film can be considered a tragedy in the sense that it's truly one of Ridley Scott's most beautiful films, and I have seen all of them. The costumes and set design were amazing as well. However, with the amazing visuals comes a script that feels almost under developed. I feel like there was never a sense of true impending doom which the characters would be facing. I can't put my finger upon it, but something was terribly off. And that is such a shame, because with the proper script, this film could be a true legend instead of a cult classic.I think I spotted an error as well in the film. The elf people were shown waving towards the camera, with 2 unicorns beside them. However, one was killed, the other survived. Didn't the prince of darkness say the surviving one was the last of it's kind? I'm sure he said that. And if he did say that, why are 2 being shown during the credits? I'm also getting the feeling the writers and Mr. Scott, wanted to hint that the events of the film could have been a dream all in the mind of the princess. Anyone else get that? P.S. The distributors really need to remaster this film for a blu ray release. I just watched the standard DVD on my hi def TV, and this disc just doesn't cut it anymore. "}{"Title":"Great visuals do NOT a movie make.","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I am an avid fantasy fan even as a 26-year old adult so after reading the glowing reviews on this site (and a few bad ones) I decided to give Legend, the longer director's cut version with the Goldsmith soundtrack, a try as I somehow missed it growing up. Oh dear.. after watching this, for the life of me I couldn't understand how people could possibly rate this a 10. Although there are great costumes/makeup and beautiful visuals, especially in the first 10-15 mins, the film rapidly deteriorates thereafter. The characters come off as extremely hollow, and the script is at times atrocious even for an 80's film. I actually felt embarrassed for the actors at some points. But what really annoyed me more than that was all throughout the film things were happening with little explanation or continuity. The characters' motivations are never explored and they continuously do and say things for no reason at all. Because of this, it makes it very hard to care about any of them.There was one unique scene involving Lily and Darkness which other reviewers have mentioned that could have been jaw-droppingly great had it been set up and executed better. While it was a cool-looking scene, I didn't really appreciate it because I was too busy trying to figure out what on earth was going on. And that is how I feel about the whole film, to be honest. With better character development, an entirely new script, and the same gorgeous visuals and costumes, this could have been a masterpiece, but unfortunately it falls flat and loses appeal after around 25 minutes once you have said to yourself Oh, what gorgeous scenery, that must have taken them AGES and lots of $$$ to do.. but what about... um.. well.. EVERYTHING else?? Sorry people, but great visuals do not a movie make.BOTTOM LINE I have come to the conclusion that the people who have rated and reviewed this so highly are those that saw it when they were kids back in the 80's; therefore it holds special childhood nostalgia for them. But, if like me, you haven't seen this up to now and are all grown up, take my advice and AVOID. "},{"Title":"Legned The Last Ridley Scott Fantasy","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Dear Readers,From reading my reviews of Black Hawk Down and Gladiator you'll probably agree that my favorite director is Ridley Scott. He's a genius with making epics and fantasy movies. His early work is just as good as his latest, and he never fails to fill a theater. His earliest work have become the stuff of legend. His fantasy series consists of four incredibly popular films The Duellists, Alien, Blade Runner, and Legend. Today I will tell you why Legend is one of the finest Ridley Scott films ever made and how it stands up there with Gladiator, Black Hawk Down, and Kingdom of Heaven.Trouble is brewing in the land of Legend. The Lord of Darkness has hatched a plot most sinister. If he succeeds there may never be another dawn. He's sent his goblins to locate and kill the mystical Unicorns, who hold the power over the seasons and day and night. At the same time, Princess Lily is visiting in the forest with her friend Jack, the wild boy. Jack shows Lily the Unicorns and Lily tries to stop the Goblins from killing one. Captured by the goblins, Lily is taken to the Lord of Darkness's castle and is being forced to become his bride. Jack, along with the help of fairies, spirits, and a group of hearty dwarfs, goes after Darkness to save Lily, who's being forced to kill the last Unicorn.Legend is quite an interesting film. It's a little darker than say Hook or The Adventures of Robin Hood, but it still is a good family film, especially the Director's Cut with Jerry Goldsmith's haunting score. Ridley Scott unleashes himself completely, creating a magical world with impressive special effects and amazing visuals. Cast-wise, this film has three great stars. Tim Curry is outstanding and perfect as the Lord of Darkness, a monstrous creature made up of incredible Makeup effects. Tom Cruise is swashbuckling as Jack and plays his final role as a small-time actor before becoming flying into the Danger Zone in Top Gun and Risky Business. Mia Sara is quite lovely in her first role and holds her own against Cruise and Curry.Signed, The Constant DVD CollectorParental Warning This is actually a good film for kids to watch. There's only one swear word and the violence is not graphic or brutal. "},{"Title":"Could have been much better","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Darkness (Tim Curry) seeks to destroy every single unicorn, thus ensuring his timeless reign. It's up to Forest boy, Jack (Tom Cruise) must stop him and save princess Lily (Mia Sara of Ferris Bueler fame). Welll the film looks beautiful and as for the acting and plot, well the film looks beautiful. In only what could be describe as a classic that could have been, the sets are stunning, the make-up exquisite, but the film lacks heart and is hampered by mediocre acting. The Director's cut hinders further what it should have helped. The pacing is tighter in the theatrical cut, I prefer the Tangerine Dream score more too actually. Also the ending is far more fulfilling, and come to think of it the voicing of Darkness' father is just plain wrong in the Director's cut as well.That said, it is STILL better than anything Ridley Scott made in the 1990's.My Grade C+ 2 disc Director's cut DVD Extras Disc 1) 114 minute Director's cut with optional Commentary by Ridley Scott Disc 2) 89 Minute Theatrical version with optional Isolated music score by Tangerine Dream ; 51 minute Making of Retrospective; 2 Deleted scenes; 3 storyboards;3 huge Photo galleries; Is Your Love Strong Enough? Music video by Bryan Ferry; Production notes; Cast & crew biographies; 4 TV spots; and US & International theatrical trailers DVD-Rom features Original Screenplay, & Shooting Script "},{"Title":"A childhood favorite.","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" For me, this film is some sort of a guilty pleasure as I first saw it at a young age while growing up and remember enjoying it immensely. Upon viewing it again very recently, while I realize it's not that great of a film, it's not necessarily a bad one. Also, given the extremely different material compared to his previous work, it is simply mind-boggling to think that the same director also created Alien and Bladerunner.The film fails for being simply, how do I put it.....gay, particularly in the beginning. The romance scenes are way over the top to the point that it's hard to imagine Scott watching this film without feeling some form of embarrassment. During several moments during the beginning sequences, I thought an overly-eager elf of some kind would bust out of the woods, bend Tom Cruise over a log and mount him....much to his enjoyment. That's how gay the beginning is. The acting isn't necessarily terrible, the direction is simply off. More than needed to set the rest of the film up. As it moves further it gets better, especially the end which is why I like this film and don't bash it into oblivion.If there's one single redeeming quality for all of those who feel this movie is bad, they would have to admit that the Lord of Darkness played marvelously by Tim Curry is simply amazing. Quite bluntly, the very best personification of any devil or Satan ever put on film; the epitome of such. It's enough to give one chills. Marvelous costume and makeup job. However, without this, there's not much here other than a little kid movie with decent costumes and some impressive imagery. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Melancholy tale of life, love and fantasy.","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I highly recommend the Ultimate edition of this movie on DVD. The director's cut is par excellence! The re-added scenes, the restored footage, the creative soundtrack was WAY worth the money spent.This is a tale of balance darkness/light, love/hate, good/evil. What is also is; however, is a marvelously Ridley Scott-ian directed dark fantasy.This movie is almost 20 years old, so I won't bother with the storyline/plot here, but if you like fantasy; ie unicorns, elves, goblins, and the like, you will LOVE this movie.The direction is beautiful, the cinematography and filmography are wonderful, the acting is convincing and the portrayals are rich. The character development is deep and well done and the extended DVD version is absolutely the BEST. I couldn't believe my eyes when we first plugged it in. Amazing. Simply amazing.A most excellent movie!! I also wanted to add that this is by far one of the best Tim Curry movies. He plays the Prince of Darkness in a most convincing portrayal. The effects just KICK in this movie. From the unicorns to the goblins, everything looks dead ON. I have always loved this movie, but the DVD Ultimate edition is just that; ULTIMATE. You get all that is promised (for once) in this edition. As a fan of the movie, I am more than satisfied with this version. I literally could not believe what all had been left out of the original!! In this edition, there are no slow spots, no wasted film whatsoever. It's simply a marvelous fantasy, through and through.If you liked The Dark Crystal, Willow, The Last Unicorn, Leprechauns, Addams Family, or Labyrinth, check out Legend the Ultimate Edition.The standard release of this movie rates an 8.9/10.The Ultimate Edition of Legend rates a full 10/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"excellant fantasy","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"   In a fairy tale world where unicorns and goblins exist there is a young man named Jack who loves the beautiful Lily. Darkness sends his goblins to steal a unicorn's horn but before that happens, Lily makes a mistake and touches the unicorn. This causes a freeze and the goblins are after her. Jack goes on a journey with a fairy, elves and Gump to find Lily and defeat Darkness. I was really impressed by this movie as a child and it still holds up. I cant believe people dont like this movie. It's dark and fascinating. A good touch is having the goblins speak in rhymes. Aside from Magnolia and Jerry Maguire, I think this is one of Tom Cruise's best movies. Mia Sara is good but Tim Curry steals the show as Darkness. **** "},{"Title":"really cool movie","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was really cool. And in my opinion the best fantasy movie ever made. Tom Cruise and Tim Curry was excellent. The whole plot was great. The music was mystical and beautiful. This is one of them movies where you can watch over and over and never get tired of it. I love movies that are mystical and magical. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a magical movie that has a good theme. Love conquers all "},{"Title":"Legend","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Spectacular fantasy with the devil trying to take over a girl who represents innocence. The look is sharp, but the story lacks punch and only Curry keeps your interest in the character department.  "},{"Title":"It's a wonderful film that isn't much good.","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure that you can rate this film in the traditional sense. It's not a good movie, let's get that out of the way. The theatrical cut borders on downright bad, even.The plot -a dark lord seeking to kill the unicorns in order to bring never ending darkness on the world- is about what you'd expect. I mean, it's more or less standard fantasy fare, intentionally utilizing archetypes and fantastical settings rather than realistic, well-rounded characters or a believable world. And this is one of the strengths of the film. It's attempting to be a prototypical legend and appeal to that part of us that created these kind of stories so long ago. It's not supposed to be realistic and I'm not even sure you're supposed to be able to relate with the characters, just identify them.The acting is excellent in some places (Tim Curry pwns j00) and lacking in others (Tom Cruise and Mia Sara). But really, the weaknesses in their acting are highlighted by the brilliance of Curry, some cheesy lines they can't deliver convincingly, and poor pacing. The plot is what it is, but because it is, it has to be executed near perfectly in order to maintain interest. Unfortunately, in this film wasn't. The first part of the movie drags and drags and to make it worse, it's focused on Cruise and Sara who just aren't up to the task of carrying such weight. A couple of scenes and dialogue were just a little over the top in terms of establishing the purity or revolting natures of characters, or just too silly considering the greater context of the film (blocking arrows with a frying pan?), and these didn't really add anything to movie. The latter half or so was better, but the climax wasn't quite as... climactic as I might have hoped. And none of the flaws were lucky enough to be covered up by a moving score, which listening to now, reeks of 80s synthesized pop.So this is a pretty mediocre film with some strengths and a lot of weaknesses. But it's still one of my favorites. Why? Because Ridley Scott is the director, and no one creates cinematic art the way he does.There are a couple of shots in the film that are just visual poetry, literally breathtaking. Lily's run through the columns, the dance with the black dress, numerous forest and winter scenes, and pretty much anything with the Lord of Darkness in it are beautiful and unforgettable. The physical presence of Curry in the make-up combined with his unholy acting talent! would redeem Street Fighter, much less a Ridley Scott film. Legend is flawed in so many ways that I doubt it could be made into an actually good cut, but that almost makes it better. To echo some other reviewers, this is the flawed masterpiece, something approaching greatness and filled with promise that it just can't reach. In its own way, this movie is itself legendary.For all of this -nevermind the forty-thousand different cuts that have come out of the years- rating Legend from one to ten just doesn't work. It deserves a three in some places and in others it's a ten. It's a wonderful film that isn't much good. But whatever it is, it's definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Ridley's Fairy-tale 8/10","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  It's surprising how enjoyable Legend is.  It has music that will make you say, what's up with that?  As well as an uninspiring performance by Tom Cruise.  However, the film is lucky enough to be directed with great visual flair by the great Ridley Scott.  This film is gorgeous, with wonderful sets and how about that makeup for Tim Curry's Darkness.  A fun film, that has aged nicely. Mia Sara is HOT! "}{"Title":"Hardly a 'Legend'...","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sometimes the biggest names disappoint. Sometimes even the mighty fails to impress. Well, Ridley Scott - the legendary filmmaker, disappoints big time in his 1985 box office flop 'Legend'.'Legend' is set once in time of unicorns, fairies, goblins, and demons. It's about light and darkness. It's about Good and Evil. It's about Love and Hate. Sadly, none it's intentions left me awe-struck. 'Legend' is a body beautiful of minus soul. Having seen the director's cut, this film is amongst the weakest efforts by Scott.Tom Cruise does an okay job. Mia Sara is passable. Tim Curry as the Lord of Darkness is wonderfully made, though his performance is hardly a 'Stand Out'.'Legend' has some amazing make-up for it's characters, but script wise... blah! From this writer, A Thumbs Down! "},{"Title":"You'd have to be a complete Idiot to hate this.","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" You would very much have to be well, how can I say this unappreciative of dark tales and fantasy to understand. I mean the movie does leave a few things in Shadow but you get the point. It's not a flop it's just many people don't use their imaginations anymore. I personally love this movie it is as great as Labyrinth was, maybe better. The score of the film doesn't define it, the score is beautiful and empowers the theme. I believe that this movie should be recommended to all ages. Legend doesn't have to be an actual Legend to be great, not all Legends are what they are supposed to be. Legends are only as true as the Hero in them, in this an innocent young man named Jack has to fight to maintain Life,Love, and Light. What Darkness says is true however there is no love without hate, no life without death, No light without Darkness. "},{"Title":"Director's Cut...much better movie!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching the director's cut on the new ultimate DVD edition. Makes the film much more smooth...and, just better throughout. Superb picture and audio on the DVD, the lost scenes and 50+minute documentary make it even more worthwhile to own this 2DVD set. Too bad this extended director's cut wasn't released in theaters on it's original release. I'm quite sure it would have been received on a great scale in the critic's and public's minds. "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The look of this film is astounding.  It is simply a gorgeously photographed picture, and any words to describe just how great this film looks would not do the movie justice.  Unfortunately, once you get past the spectacular visuals, you are left with one dull movie.  The story is very thin, and it would probably have been wiser to make this a half-hour special.  As it is, I just got bored.  The music was an occasionally pleasant distraction, but really, the only good thing about this movie was the look.  So, watch the first ten minutes to appreciate how beautiful the scenery is, and then stop watching. "},{"Title":"Ridley Scott one of my favorite directors. Legend one of his worst movies.","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ** out of ****It's because of the fact that Legend is so weird, weird to a point of even being misunderstood (my case, for example), that makes this movie, one of the least spotted to gather the family and watch a true spectacle. And that is even weirder to have as a conclusion to it, since the movie is directed by Ridley Scott, director of classics such as Alien, Blade Runner and Gladiator. Unfortunately, after the success of Alien and Blade Runner, it wasn't this time that Scott proved himself once again author of another masterpiece. This fantasy movie can get a little confusing, since we don't really know how to absorb it.The cast includes actors such as Tim Curry, Tom Cruise and Mia Sara, mainly. There are credits also for David Bennent, who plays Gump, the leader of the forest group which gathers the protectors of the unicorns.The movie tells the tale of a prince of darkness, lord of evil, who cannot live under the effects of the sunshine of the dawn. He commands his goblin slaves to destroy the unicorns living in the forest, beings that contain so much power, that one could rule the universe with it.We meet the main characters, Jack (Tom Cruise) and Lili (Mia Sara), he, a young warrior, who there's not much to tell, since the movie can't explore the main character in a significant way, she, the princess of the kingdom which rules the region, visits the houses of the forest, where she meets her friends, poor residents of the place, who inspire sympathy for her, as she is sweet and of good heart. These are the actors who almost don't have a job in here. Sometimes, seems like guilt of those bad elaborated productions of the 80's. Some actors play so insignificant roles that we even think we're staring at mannequins. That's well shown, in the scene where Lili enters the room and finds a man on a sleep. No, he doesn't have any lines on the movie, only snoring.Legend could be a much more interesting movie, if we could see beyond what we actually can, a horizon with borders not so distant, limited by sets that almost look like theater stages like forests without skies, the inside of caves and castles and swamps with such concentrated fog that even the actors might have had difficulties walking through it. We could have seen the princess' castle, the dining room with the king and queen, we could learn more about the characters. That's what the movie, mainly, lacked.On to some other characters. Blix, one of the lord of evil's goblins, captures one of the unicorns, one of them falls victim of his own horn's cut. It is part of a sacrifice done by the lord of darkness in order to eliminate light once and for all so that he can become immortal. The trailer almost convinces. Looks like we're dealing with a movie that will present us a truly living hell, sinister and dark as the spaceship Nostromo or as the constantly nocturne city of 2019's Los Angeles. But no. In the beginning of the movie, there are thousands of musical scenes, practically, all of them, uneven. The unicorns are captured and Jack and friends must go to the lord of evil's castle, find a way to destroy him, rescue the princess and save the unicorns. But almost nothing of what happens on screen is acceptable. Jack finds a gear composed of a sword and an armor in the middle of nowhere. Thank god if a had that same luck and have found a bullet-proof vest in the middle of a gunfighting.When Lili meets the prince for the first time, she doesn't convince, making it clear that her character can't control her emotions, once she smiles, once she cries, a completely artificial performance. Brown Tom and Screwball are other two characters who are so clumsy, that have a horrible synchronization between them. Oona is a fairy who doesn't know if she must helps or if she bothers. In a scene where our heroes get trapped in a dungeon cell, she refuses to set them free just because of a kiss that Cruise denied giving her. Two seconds later, she is opening the doors. The flaws go on forever.Credits go only to make-up and art direction/set decorations categories, which are perfect as always. The special effects are forgivable, but it is only with Gladiator and Kingdom Of Heaven that Ridley Scott proves he has the talent to direct an epic movie. "},{"Title":"Directors Cut","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I have never seen the origional butchered version, were the ******** at Warner Bros punched Mr. Scott in the face, but since it was never intended to be that way... Well I hope the people who tried to ruin this great masterpiece rot in hell, wait they already are in hell, the hell of the small minded, ignorant people.The Directors cut, is one of the greatest movies of all time, a timeless masterpiece. Everything is perfect. The movie has no flaws. It really deserves to be under the top 250s, and not have a rating of 6.5. The music is enchanting, the visuals are enrapturing, everything was build by hand, absolutely no computer animated effects. And The Lord of Darkness, is one of the most intense performances in the history of film... and it can be said for sure that today they would just lamely computer animate him instead of using an actor. A must see for all people who appreciate great and beautiful movies. A real marvel, a priceless gem, something that broadens the horizons of the mind. 10/10! Oh and did I mention the fantastic score ;)?!? "},{"Title":"Good for it's time...","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If there ever was a modern day marvel of a film that is in desperate need to be remade and it would be justifiable, it's Legend. In fact, I already have a cast in mind; Joseph Gordon Levitt as Jack, Alexandra Daddario as Lili with Tom Hardy as Darkness. So I caught the Ridley Scott directed 1985 film the other night on Encore and in spite of the lack of any spectacular special-effects and out-dated technology which almost made the leads, lovebirds Lili and Jack (played by Mia Sara and Tom Cruise) seem out-of-it and ridiculous perhaps because my eyes are so used to the technology of today or as many have suggested that it's the 90-minuted-butchered-editing of the US edition of the film which is what I had the misfortune of viewing, though I must add that I did get the feeling that I may have seen the European cut when I was much younger. Tim Curry brought such theatrical terror to his turn as Darkness that trying to find any technical flaws in his delivery of this character, would be an adventure in itself. The scenes involving Lili after she is captured by Darkness' minions and he falls in love with her are quite note-worthy. Sara gave her better acting when she went to the dark side. "},{"Title":"GRIMM INDEED - Style over substance Team Bottin scores for the dark side in Scott's mixed bag of fantasy.","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" LEGEND (1985) *** Tom Cruise, Mia Sara, Tim Curry, David Bennent, Alice Playten, Billy Barty, Cork Hubbert, Peter O'Farerll, Kiran Shah, Robert Picardo, Style over substance par none in this overwrought yet beautifully designed fantasy fairy tale come alive that's either pure magical hokum or the most expensive Summer's Eve commercial. Filmmaker Ridley Scott once again his uncanny knack of incorporating all his filmmaker skills to muster much-ado- about-a-trifle of the basic Good Vs. Evil Grimm-like story about a spritely young hero named Jack (a seemingly miscast Cruise looking uncomfortable altogether) who must save his beloved, Lili (the ethereal Sara) after her unwitting upsetting the balance of Dark and Light by interfering with unicorns - the epitome of all things good and light - and awakening the Darkness Himself (Curry having a field day in the first of his many hammy evil villains). With elves, goblins and other supernatural ephemera the film coasts solely on the grandiloquent production design by Leslie Diley and Asshteon Gorton; a synth heavy score by the usually sublime Tangerine Dream -with emopop tunes by Jon Anderson and Bryan Ferry; splendid cinematography by Alex Thomson ; William Hjortsberg' (ANGEL HEART) s purple prose leaden screenplay ; and the truly marvelous wizardry of make-up god Rob Bottin for some remarkable creature designs, particularly the aforementioned Darkness of The Devil In The Flesh mixed with Disney's demon of NIGHT ON BALD MOUNTAIN. "},{"Title":"This could be a spoiler...","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is a story about good vs evil, light vs dark. Love conquers all. The American version with Tangerine Dream, I had my kids watch quite a few times to even out watching Willow(1985 another good kids movie). There is death in this movie and life and rebirth so be prepared to answer any questions if your little ones get scared. There are unicorns, goblins, faeries, The Devil, a fawn, gnomes and I think a quite a few other beasties. This one you might want to wait until they are at least 10 so they don't wet the bed. Good morals to this story to be had so don't let it go to waste because it is fantasy. It is pure entertainment "},{"Title":"The most underrated fantasy movie of all time!","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this movie,on DVD, I was like wow! This movie is gorgeous to look at, a famous trademark of Ridley Scott. The main flaw in this movie is Tom Cruise. He looked confused throughout the movie, but he was still likable. The other flaw, is that the storyline takes a while to get going. But all this actually managed to pick itself up, and do bear in mind it is theme driven film. I was impressed with Mia Sara. She started off a little uncomfortable, but when she turned evil, she came alive. In fact, the personifications of good and evil were one of the main reasons why I like this movie, other than Tim Curry, who is one of my favourite actors. The performance of Tim Curry is what makes this movie. He was unrecognisable, underneath all the Oscar-nominated makeup, but what a performance, it blew me away, in perhaps the most definitive portrayal of Satan ever on screen, both frightening and sexy at the same time! Even more amazing was that he is only 5'9 or so, and he had to wear stilts, also that he was in his late 30s when he took on this role, and I am glad he did. I felt as though I was in a different world when I saw this movie. The supporting actors David Bennent and Alice Playten offered solid support. I also liked the script, a little inappropriate with the goblins perhaps, but not that bad. The outstanding music score by Jerry Goldsmith is without doubt one of his finest and most underrated works. This was evident in the dress scene, Lilli's song, the final underwater scene and the very end. Magical! I liked the American version, but I much prefer the version I have on DVD, the European version, somehow I like less the score by Tangerine Dream . One definite thing that I liked about the American version was Darkness's Mother Night speech, in the European version he is a lot more mysterious. When this is on TV, it always shows the American version, but my personal opinion is that the European version is better (this is the one I have on DVD). If you are a fantasy fan, watch this movie, and either version. It is just beautiful, and definitely under-appreciated! 8/10. Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Only visually stunning","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I found the story to be wanting. It is too simplistic and inconsistent. That is it raises more questions than it (is supposed to) answers. E.g. Lily is a bit of a temptress and is supposed to be pure??; Jack is a bit clueless trusting Lily who immediately breaks his trust??, the lord of darkness is emotionally confused (he loves?? has a heart?? and a soul??? - too much).It's just a fantasy story which has no basis in reality and only serves to entertain - a true definition of escapism. Visually this is stunning, and the makeup in general was fantastic, but the makeup on Jim Currey is phenomenal. The lone actor who was convincing in all of this mess was Robert Picardo. His portrayal of the character Meg Mucklebones was both comedic and fordobing - a true actor cannot be better made. (I remember his portrayal of the Doctor on Star Trek Voyager - one of the three bright spots on that show.) As for this ill focused conglomerate of juxtaposed ideas = 5/10 - at best!PS I enjoyed the commentary on the DVD by Ridley Scott but only in that it explained the movie. E.g. he has just mentioned that the character Lily is a temptress! She must be the pure temptress version of a princess virgin?!? /-LD______________________________________________my faith http//www.angelfire.com/ny5/jbc33/ "},{"Title":"A legendary film","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" As the time runs, some titles become more and more appreciated. This is the very example. It's been ages since my eyes witnessed this fairy-tale for the first time.This movie is dark and is an excellent tale for adults and kids. Peculiarities of this title go below.Wonderful atmosphere (it did not let me go for a while).No CGI. If this film were created nowadays with all those bombastic computer effects, it would be quite different.Memorable characters with make-up at its best (the demon, the young hero, the beautiful princess, unicorns, goblins, and other creatures).Goblins' warfare mission at the very beginning (a most thrilling scene).Demon going through the mirror, turning Princess into Black Queen, and making her dance (to me it's simply the finest, a most beautiful, and at the same time spookiest scene ever shot in a fairytale).Music, which is ethereal - it really elevates all the happenings to a highly artistic audio level. The trivia section says that the original music was changed for video releases - that's a crying shame.All in all, it's 10 out of 10. Thank you for attention. "},{"Title":"Legend","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This film is the Ultimate Fantasy film ever put on celluloid. The film is simple No good without evil, no love without hate, no innocence without lust.Director Ridley Scott is at his best here and nothing in this genre comes close in my eyes.This film is such stuff as dreams are made of. If there was such thing as goblin's, witches, fairies and unicorns I'm sure this would be the real deal.This is much better than Lord of the rings its sad it never achieved the heights of the film above.The glitter, the darkness and the pure magic is all here the moment tim curry climbs from the mirror you no your in for one hell of a ride.This is Legend. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, with a few flaws.","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I first saw the American cut of Legend while in college, with a group of friends at the theater. I quite enjoyed the film, although I was not too fond of Tom Cruise as the hero. Looking back on it, I have a better opinion of his performance, as I see that he is trying to play Jack more as a fairy tale character, rather than a more heroic figure.The film is a fine attempt at adapting the figures and themes of European fairy tales into a fantasy adventure film. Ridley Scott proves once again that he is a great visual stylist, although he was still shaky with his actors. The characters are great fun, with the human ones being the weakest. Cruise plays Jack as an innocent, which strips away some depth, but it mostly works. Mia Sara's Lilly is rather bland, until she is being tempted by Darkness. Then, she gets a bit of life in her. The supporting characters are all great, especially Tim Curry as Darkness. His usual over-the-top acting is more restrained here, but his flamboyance allows a performance to come through the heavy make-up. He is both charming and menacing. The Gump is a bit annoying in the US cut, but the European cut (aka Director's cut) makes him far more dangerous.I'm on the fence about the music. I was first exposed to the Tangerine Dream score and liked it enough to buy the soundtrack. However, the Goldsmith score works quite well in the European cut. It has more of a fantasy feel, although the TD score is very atmospheric, especially in Darkness' lair.The film is a lush visual feast, all the more amazing for having been created on a soundstage (which they nearly burnt down!). The transition from the bright beginning to the cold and dark middle really lends atmosphere to the story.The film is an excellent entry into the fantasy genre, one more in keeping with European folklore than American pulp (Conan). The story is solid and the visuals amazing, and the bulk of the performances are good. The DVD is a definite bargain, as you can compare the two cuts. Each has much in their favor, and some problems. For filmmakers, it's an interesting illustration in how editing and music can affect a film. "},{"Title":"My best film ever","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I think this film (if you see as a child) is defined by the version you see first. I saw the USA version first and was totally blown away. Now I Have seen the director's cut and agree it is a better film structurally but the music from Tangerine Dream is now embedded in my soul as some of the most beautiful I have ever had the pleasure to hear. I am sorry if this insults true fans of the film but I even named my daughter after Lili because I love the film, and the music that I think goes better. This film just seems to capture my entire imagination in terms of what science fantasy should look like ( and does in my head). I am a hopeless romantic and this film is my escape and even though I really do prefer the USA version with Tangerine Dream doing the soundtrack, I think if I had seen the European version first I would feel exactly the same way. In my opinion it is the best film ever and always will be. This really is a Ridley Scott masterpiece! "},{"Title":"Could have been better, but it will do","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I've seen this movie every once in awhile on television every now and then. I remember whn i was very young being too scared to watch it because of Tim Curry's role as the Lord of Darkness. I am still convinced that if not for Curry's role of the Lord of Darkness than this movie could have been nearly a total loss. Although I like the movie I never found it to be appealing enough to watch over and over again. Other Then Curry's underrated character role I think it can be forgettable. Plus the effects are a lot lamer than most films at the time. I use my iamginationa nd just get past that. But the movie itself just never seems to get anywhere and at times reminds me of a typical medievel movie. I am not sure. I gave it a decent 6 rating because I choose so many other movies over this one but it was good enough to watch every now and then and Curry plays a great role. I would recommend to see it at least once. "},{"Title":"I was disappointed with the directors cut!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" There were several scenes deleted from Legend(1985) that gave the goblins and other characters more detail into who they were and how they reacted to their environments and stressful stimuli. I CAN NOT believe that they cut the part where they cut the horn off of the unicorn and reattach it. Who cares if there is a hare in the way? And the fact that they show the removal of the horn on the music video is even worse. I have loved this movie since the first time it came out on TV. I feel as though I have been cheated due to unacceptable director cuts and now the children of today are missing out to. You have failed me. I have chosen this movie as my topic for my Film as Art paper. I am not looking forward to explaining to the class and my teacher that they can't see my favorite parts of the movie. I knew that this movie would be hard to find but I did not expect the original to be impossible( "},{"Title":"Nice fairy tale...","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A pretty nice tale about a dreamland whose tranquility it's been threatened by the Lord of Darkness. One of the most popular fantasy movies, with each and every ingredients of that genre the Princess, the fairies, the elfs, the fight between good and evil... Legend is not the best Ridley Scott movie, but is quite entertaining, and the make-up work is pretty good (except for those horns king size that carries Tim Curry). It's a little bit sickly sweet if you compare it to Neverending Story, LOTR, and stuff like that), but it's OK for me, I wasn't looking for a Tarantino movie when I picked this one...And for those who like archeology here you have the opportunity of watching Tom Cruise in one of his early works (you'll realize he almost hasn't progressed an inch as an actor in 20 years), and least but not last, what about the wonderful Mia Sara? I fell in love with this girl when I was a kid... Too bad her reign wasn't as long as the ciencielogist's (Whatever became of this woman??).*My rate 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"The best fantasy movie that has been made!","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I love fantasy flicks,films like Willow,Neverending Story,Labyrinth,Dark Crystal,Hawk the Slayer, but Legend is my favorite, i like this film very much, i have a VHS (european version with Jerry Goldsmith soundtrack and runtime of 94 min)since i was children, i love and see this film over over again, over the years, and nowadays i like it even more, in my opinion thats the most original, impressive, magic, beautiful fantasy movie ever, in my opinion everything in this flick is amazing, the top special effects, scenarios, make up, set ups, the wardrobe, etc ,etc ,etc... About the characters Jack (Tom Cruise), Princess Lili,Oona,Blunder, Brown Tom, Screwball and Gump,and of course the memorable Unicorns, they are the good guys, then, we have the bad ones, the incredible Lord of Darkness (Tim Curry) and he's minions, Blix, Pox(the goblins), Meg Muckllebones, and the two cooker Demons ). The film tells the story of Jack and his courageous friends, against the Lord Of Darkness which is objective is plunge the world into an ice of darkness of destruction and despair, by taking the alicorn of a dead Unicorn.The Unicorn's symbolize the world balance, light and pureness.It not a film of the future, or the past. It is not even a story of now. The conflict between darkness and light has been with us since the creation...and will remain with us throughout eternity. One of the Ridley's Scott best films, i know that Legend is not a master piece like Ridley's other movies, for example Blade Runner or Alien, but stills one of my favorites of all time, and in my opinion is an absolutely a master-piece... "},{"Title":"Fairy Tales turn","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Along with wonderful graphics, scenery and acting this movie has the aspects of a classic for children and young adults. A nice B movie I must say myself.Jack(Tom Cruise)loves Lilly(Mia Sara)with all his heart. So he takes a chance and takes her to see the magical unicorns. Only Lilly touches one and thus sending the world in turmoil. Now Jack must save the unicorns, the world and his love Lilly. But there is an obstacle in his way. The Lord Of Darkness(Tim Curry)has sent Blix(Alice Playten)to fetch the mare. Now Jack, Honeythorn Gump(David Bennent),Brown Tom(Cork Hubbert),Screwball(Billy Barty)and the fairy Onna(Annabelle Lanyton)must race to the scene to rescue the word. Will they get there in time? Watch and see.To me Tim Curry and Tom Cruise both do a terrific job in this fairy tale come true tale. All the characters are portrayed well. But I feel as if these two were more focused on. "}{"Title":"Ridley Scott is a genius . . .","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ridley Scott is a genius . . . I have watched this movie many times. Tim Curry does his usual great job . . . an underrated actor . . . the makeup for his character and the voice changes were amazing . . . the cinematography was great as well and won the Oscar as it should have . . . the heroine was both innocent and beautiful as she should have been and all the casting was great. What a feel this movie had. I even enjoyed the music as well. Most of all it passed my greatest test . . . that of multiple viewings and the feeling of compelling interest so as to make me want to watch it over and over. One of the many great parts in the history of Ridley Scott . . . "},{"Title":"She is so sweet I could eat her brain","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I haven't seen the Director's Cut of Ridley Scott's generally despised fantasy movie, only the 89 minutes version that was originally released, which is the one discussed here.Mia Sara is Princess Lily who is the innocent cause for the killing of one of the only two surviving unicorns in the world, and her forest beau, Tom Cruise, sets out with an entourage of sprites, fairies and fireflies to find the Prince of Darkness, played by Tim Curry, retrieve the magic horn that he took from the unicorn and correct all wrongs. Since the maiming of the unicorn the world has frozen over, and perpetual darkness reigns. Will he save the day? Will light ever return?20 years ago they didn't need CGI to conjure up all sorts of wonders, blue-screen and state-of-the art photographic inventiveness did the trick. And just under the thin sugar-coating of the varied lenses used in Alex Thomson's gorgeous cinematography lurks a powerful, dark and harrowing adventure, one definitely not suited for children, if you ask me. More Brothers Grimm than Hans Christian Andersen. Just have a look at some of the lines, delivered so lustily by god-awful goblins and other monsters She is so sweet I could eat her brain! is one, May be innocent, may be sweet, ain't half as nice as rotting meat another. And I love this one, articulated by cute young Lily I hear a throat begging to be cut!.But does it work as a work of art? That's a high order, I know, and maybe the Director's Cut will satisfy this ideal challenge. Still, the version I saw came a very long way towards that goal. Characters are cardboard ones, certainly, as pertains to the genre. 'Legend' has more style, more intelligence and more sardonic wit than 'Star Wars' which it resembles very much in themes and plot.The sets are amazing, and the over-all look of 'Legend' sublime. That is all very fine, no fantasy epic would be even half-baked without that. On top of it 'Legend' has abundant humor and slapstick, and the thrills are genuinely scary when watched today.The actors are not required to exactly delve into the intricacies of human existence, but Sara and Cruise (was he ever that young? his trademark toothy grin was already there!) are sweet and natural, and Curry larger-than-life and funny and naughty as the evil, evil Lord of Darkness. "},{"Title":"A trip to the dark side","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend is a beautiful fairy tale based on a mesh mash of Disney stories.Mia Sara (Ferris Buellers Day Off) is Lilly a beautiful, naive Princess who spends her days playing with forest dweller Jack (Tom Cruise in a very early role).They frolic in misty sun drenched glens filled with wild animals and dazzling flowers. They love the animals and nature almost as much as the love each other.On this particular day Jack decides to take Lilly to see something special. After blindfolding her and leading her to a remote part of the woods he.....You will have to watch the rest for yourself to find out BUT I promise it is worth it. Don't listen to the fools that say this is a waste of time. Tim Curry as Darkness is worth the rental price alone. He makes evil sexy. Mia Sara is a vision and Tom Cruise is pure masculine youth.If you are looking for family friendly fare with some very dark undertones this is the Legend for you.It is a tale of a battle between good and evil, light and dark. In the end it shows you that both must coincide together for the world to exist. For a fantasy lover I insist you view it at least once.For a film made in 1985 this one has some very convincing sets, excellent costume and makeup work and an incredible soundtrack provided by the sadly forgotten, Tangerine Dream. A+! "},{"Title":"My comments of the 2nd best movie made, following the Lord of the Rings are as follows below. A magical movie indeed about the powers of good and evil and how they prevail. If you have not seen this movie, I","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is probably one of the best movies I have ever seen. I owned it after looking for it for about 5 years and it was stolen. Cant find it again on DVD. I am a huge fan of fantasy and Legend brought to me the feeling of magic and beauty and bliss. Unicorns are my favorite, I have well over 500 collectables and this movie started it. If I were a critic back in 85, (I was only 5) then I would have given this movie 10 stars. To thios day, I am still astounded when I see this movie. If there is one word to describe it, it would with no doubt be magical. The cast is perfect and the scenes are magnificent. You will never see Tom Cruise in a more beautiful role, I can guarantee that. If you have not seen this movie, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Nice Fairy Tale Movie...","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend is a nice little old movie (1985) although the plot is the one of a trivial old fairy tale. A fair princess is kidnapped by an evil monster who wants to destroy the world and rule over what's left of it, but the knight in shining armor (even thought he is not a prince in this story) comes and rescues the woman he loves and defeats the Lord of Darkness. I'd say that this movie is a nice Fantasy movie and one of Tom Cruise's first works. The actors are great actors-to-be like Tim Curry, Mia Sara and the already mentioned Tom Cruise. This movie is the fairy tale you were always told before going to sleep and I'd say it is a must-see for every Dungeons & Dragons player out there or every Fantasy movie fan. I'd give it a 7 (it is a seriously classy movie!) "},{"Title":"A simple but lovely film","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Most viewers expect a life altering movie from Legend. It's a very simple film with a simple plot. The actors were very young when they did this film and is not their best acting but it's good enough.The one thing that bugs me about this film is that there are different versions depending on where you are. I prefer the US version, the score really makes the film. It ties everything together and makes it all seem much more 'fairytale'. The European version has a bland score that you can find in any movie and it sometimes overtakes the movie so that you can barely hear whats going on. Both versions cut out scenes and have all together different scenes that make them all together different movies. I do love this movie. It's sweet and lovely and perhaps a bit corny too but it's the fairytale every little girl has. I give this 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The most interesting fairytale story ever told!","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I have been a fan of Legend since I was a little boy.  Darkness played by Tim Curry has always stayed in my head when thinking of fairytale fantasy movies like Legend.   Believe it or not this was only the fourth movie in Ridley Scott's career following on from The Duellists, Alien and Blade Runner.  It's fair to say that Scott is more than a director and writer.  He is a visionary and thinks up worlds where no man has gone before, just take at look at Blade Runner to see that.   I have been thinking about the film an awful lot since getting my hands on the 2 Disc Special Edition DVD because it raises questions like why was Scott not happy with the original music of the movie which I thought actually captivated a lot of the scenes but he was more in favour of Jerry Goldsmith's original score which was for some reason or other not used in the thearetical cut but the director's cut instead but did the film no favours whatsoever.   Why was the opening sequence which had been lost for many years not digitally remastered to enter the new cut of the film?  I thought it brought a whole new darker side to the story and that's what brings me to say how epic Legend really is or should I say could have been.   The film itself is close to perfect but something tells me we have not seen the last of Scott and Legend, well I hope not anyway because I think he would have been better off cramming the theatrical cut with the director's cut to make one big film.  Even if the story was full of non important parts it wouldn't really mater because Legend is a film not just to listen to and take notice but you could just watch it and get lost in it's world of manipulation and hatred.  It's the first of it's kind for going beyond the depths of fairytale stories, like Scott said himself in the audio commentary, he was thinking of Beauty and the Beast meets Snow White but with Devil as the beast.   Of course have Lilly and Darkness got togerther like they thought of in the first place, then the story would have been more orginal and controversial than any other film like this,  but imagine if that's what they originally did, this film wouldn't be perfect, it would be a masterpiece for going to the deep depths of dark storytelling that people like Froud and Henson never dreamed.   Legend is full of original ideas and Keith Richards look-alike goblins.  All performances even the heroes are just as dark and strange as Darkness's little helpers.   Tom Cruise who looks and teeth are quite a thing of the past are on excellent form and probably helped his career in the mainstream more than any previous film did before.  Mia Sara is perfect as the manipulating and often sweet Lilly but all Legend fans know that without Tim Curry as the evil darkness, we wouldn't be talking about this film the way we are today.  There are a dozen things you can say about his performance but I will just go with the fact that he lives up to his name in the film.  Scott's direction as always is on top form but what I am disappointed with is the way he has dealt with the two versions of the film.  I like to look at the two versions as a whole because I think that's the way it should have been.  The opening scenes that introduces us to Darkness at his castle is excellent but both versions are different and I believe they should have incorporated both opening sequences to create a huge opening.  Needless to say I do love the concept of this film but I would just love to get my hands on it or for Ridley Scott to do it himself and combine Legend to the Two hour plus masterpiece it should have been but for now I will leave you with that it a really good film with fantastic ideas which have been muddled up slightly in the editing room. "},{"Title":"Sorry guys...","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I know the Director's Cut is supposed to be the best thing since Carmen Elektra, but I just don't care to agree.  Tangerine Dream's score to the U.S. cut was partially what made the movie what it was.  It set a tone unparallelled in most fantasy movies.  I may be biased, since I first saw this movie as a six-year old child, but I've watched a portion of the Uncut version, and there's little that I'm upset about missing.  And I will not give up TD's score to this excellent, if not whole, fantasy tale. "},{"Title":"Watch it, but don't get your hopes up.","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  There's a lot to like about Legend Tom Cruise, Mia Sara, Tim Curry, Ridley Scott, and Rob Bottin.  But, in the end, the film does not come together as well as it should have.  It is kind of like that dessert that Rachel tried to make on that episode of Friends where she added beef to the whipped cream and other sweet stuff - individually it is all good, but mixed up it's not. So much talent, but the story never gains momentum.  There were good individual segments and times that I was impressed, but, in the end, I felt disappointed.  I'm still not sure why Tom Cruise (post Risky Business and pre Top Gun) was cast in his roll or why he took it.  He just seemed out of place to me in this movie.  The European (real) version of the film is better than the U.S. version, but still falls short of what it could have been. "},{"Title":"Legend","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is full of fantasy, adventure, lust, and great actors.  Curry keeps you watching with wonder and Cruise just keeps you watching with his good looks. Gump and the others are also fun to watch.  Very entertaining and a great story of good vs. evil.  7.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"I Can't Believe Ridley Scott Made This Film !","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" NOTE INFORMATION ABOUT THE OPENING SEQUENCE AND AS PLOT DETAILS HINTED AT HERE.I have recently had the chance to see this film in its original 90 minute form, and I still can't believe how bad it was ! The special effects were lousy under the best of circumstances, and the opening sequence which set the plot in motion looked good for maybe two minutes, but only because of the good back light and because the unicorns are, as their equine brethren are anyway, such beautiful creatures. In every other respect, however, I agree with you. Your opinion of the special effects notwithstanding, the overall effect of the film as a bore is bang-on because it is a bore; the script didn't compel me to like it at all, and the story is one that would - well, let's just say (without giving away too much of the plot) that  The Princess Bride , which covers some of the similar territory, does so in a much more literate and humorous way. This is largely because it has both a script, a story, and visuals that are consistently good throughout the film. All this makes it tough for me to think Tom Cruise and Ridley Scott made this film for anything other than the money. "},{"Title":"Ridley Scott's Dilemma","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In the early 80s, Ridley Scott was THE man. Blade Runner might have flopped, but it did not dent his budding reputation as a master visualist. It also did not prevent him from attempting to revive a version of Jodorowki's mad Dune project, until family tragedy put him in search of lighter fair.Legend certainly is lighter. On paper, it is an honest attempt to explore a more universal and less adult-oriented genre. It is so different from Scott's three preceding films that it is easy to understand why it completely baffled audiences, self-defeating last-minute changes in post-production notwithstanding.Legend is a fairytale, the story of Princess Lily and her forest-dwelling friend, Jack. All is well until Jack shows her one of the last unicorns and unwittingly allows the evil minions of the Lord of Darkness to kill one of them. The world is then plunged into darkness, as Jack and friends journey to the dark one's castle to save Lilly and retrieve the unicorn's horn. Not what you'd expect from the director of Blade Runner and Alien, then...The resulting film has its moments. Visually it rivals anything Scott has ever done, which is to say it looks absolutely stunning. The iconic Darkness - played with absolute glee by Tim Curry - is a triumph and the world on display comes across as a turbocharged, backlit take on Arthur Rakham's illustrations. Where it falls short, however, is in a script that doesn't quite cross over to adults and in post-production adjustments following a catastrophic preview screening.Jerry Goldsmith's score is the most inspired fantasy score until The Lord of the Rings. Why it was replaced at the eleventh hour by Tangerine Dream - who did wonders in that short time - is a real head-scratcher. The film also exists in a number of versions, none of which completely worked until a director's cut was released on DVD.Perhaps the greatest flaw on display here - which makes it even more interesting as a case study - is the weird mismatch between the weird, gruesome and slightly kinky nature of the film's second half with the naive romanticism of its first half. It simply is not too clear who this film was intended for. Still, it is worth your time. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Well, recently I tried to watch Legend (director's cut). Now don't take me wrong pretty much everything in this movie looked alright, like screenplay, plot, acting, Tom Cruise, Mia Sara and whatever. All of the above is even comparable to Willow and Labyrinth, for instance. However, opposite to the two I just named, Legend is just plain boring. Don't ask me why, for that I don't know. It has no apparent reasons to be boring, but it is.P.S. I saw roughly the first half, and later I was told that I fell asleep in the middle -) "},{"Title":"Director's Cut Unbelievably bad...","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I purchased the much anticipated 2 discs Ultimate DVD Edition of Legend. I screened the director's cut tonight and can't beleive how bad it is. I am so grateful this version was never shown until today! One word describes this 25 minutes extended version (which mainly consists of dull romantic dialogues a la Star Wars Episode II between Jack and Lily) CHEEZY. The director's cut lacks rythm, almost to a point that it is almost a completely different movie- just like Terminator II's director's cut was to its theatrical release; plain awful. Finally, I am so grateful Tangerine Dreams was able to create the beautiful score that we all know for Legend! It adds so much to the film compared to the director's cut's score from Jerry Goldsmith (No offense Jerry, but yours was simply not in tune with the film). I am glad I saw the director's cut. It makes me appreciate a lot more the theatrical release of Legend which will remain the only one I watch again in the future. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  If you haven't seen this movie, you should.  It has all of the basic elements in it.  Love, hate, betrayal, good, evil.  It's awesome.  Tom Cruise was great.  The costumes were incredible.  I'm recommending this movie to all of my friends.  Once you see this, you will too.  Trust me on this. "},{"Title":"Not Legendary","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Lord of the Rings. Hardly. More like Tom takes a Romp in the Misty MarshIt's kind of like watching live action Disney--silly, stereotypical characters, not the slightest suggestion of sex, and a plodding plot with the moral and structural complexity of a WWF match.As for the acting, Tom Cruise is awful as usual, and Mia Sara's fake English accent is possibly less annoying than in Ferris Bueller's Day Off--but not by much. The only remotely bright spot was Tim Curry as the villain, but even his talents were largely wasted.The unicorn, who made an annoying, gauzily filmed appearance or two in the Director's cut of Blade Runner--gets to waste much, much more screen time (and cheesecloth) in this film.Which, when you think about it, is quite appropriate, given the total cheesiness of this film. "},{"Title":"Legend is a beautiful Movie! Ultimate Edition comment!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is one of the great movies of the 80s in My collection that I think about all the time.Legend is a fantastic movie! I have seen this beautiful film countless times. There is just so much in this film and everything is wonderful. The prologue is a very interesting reading and after you hear the bell sounds get ready to see a visually stunning epic of greatness, love, action, and darkness! This movie here is one of the greatest that I have ever seen. By watching the original theatrical version and the Director's Cut of the film on the Ultimate Legend DVD I have realized that Legend is indeed arguably the greatest movie ever filmed and even though there are two versions they are equal. What makes The Director's Cut different is it longer with added scenes, more character development, and has a different musical score by Jerry Goldsmith. The actors that are in this make the characters just so wonderful and full of personality, the music by Tangerine Dream and Jerry Goldsmith is just so extraordinary, two of the greatest score ever written in My opinion, the action is tremendous, the scenery is just so neat, and I just could go on and on. The actors in this as I mentioned are great. Even though Tom Cruise is not one of My favorites his performance is great. A likable character. Mia Sara is just lovely in this film. I just can't believe how Tim Curry played Darkness. His voice is incredible. Curry has arguably the greatest performance ever in this film. Out of all of the dozens of great villains in movies Darkness is My favorite. David Bennent, Alice Playten, Billy Barty, and Cork Hubbert are very good. Ian Longmur and Mike Crane as the Demon Cooks are excellent. Legend is really special. I strongly recommend that you purchase the Ultimate Edition of Legend on DVD at Amazon.com like I did and I hope everyone has the chance to see this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Well, kind of a kiddy movie.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend, is anything but a legend.  This movie is more for like kids.  There are very few things that kept me to the end of this movie.  Tom Cruise was very cute, and Tim Curry's make-up.  If you like Tom Cruise then check it out.  If you like Tim Curry heres a little bit of a different role for him. Other then that if you are parent and want a cute kid movie check this one out.  Besides those reason well, just move on.  I found it some what entertaining but not legendary.   "},{"Title":"Awesome with a capital A.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This has got to be one of the better Tom Cruise movies.  He wasn't as good as Tim Curry though.  He was just plain scary.  He is one of the scariest living men in Hollywood.  Anyway, this movie had an awesome soundtrack, some really cool fight scenes, and some of my all-time favorite scenery.  This has got to be the peak of mystical fantasy action/romances of the 80's. "},{"Title":"'And lo, this was the culmination of four years research and countless dollars. And 'twas not good.'","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I usually like 80's fantasy movies, but this one doesn't do the genre any credit. One filmbook describes the film as being like a shampoo advert, and I concur with that. It's supposed to be enchanting but it comes across as trite and tacky. The makeup is largely pathetic, the script hackneyed, the acting unconvincing, the plot ridiculous (how do you stop sunlight using a Unicorn's horn?). There is minimal location shooting and we don't get a feeling of distance between the locations (how far is Darkness's tower is from the forest?) It doesn't even use matte backgrounds! Some of the interiors are detailed, but the camera seems more interested in the actors. The  music is...interesting. But the bad points easily outweigh the good, particularly the directing which is truly AWFUL and the plot which is paper thin. This is a pretty poor film and one Ridley Scott must be embarrassed to have on his CV. If Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings is any better than this then it has my approval.   "}{"Title":"I gave it a 6 out of 10","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Lord of Darkness wants eternal night, wants last two unicorns (the most mystical creatures of the forest) dead. Alright, so the plot, I'm sorry to say, is actually kind of corny. The characters aren't that likable; in fact, I thought that Lily was a stupid little girl who obviously didn't love Jack dearer than life itself by risking *his* life throughout the entire movie. And the standard issue clean cut good guy-bad guy plotline doesn't bring much to the genre. You could predict that Evil Lily wasn't going to slit the unicorn's throat, and that Good will triumph over Evil, and that none of the prominent good characters were going to die. If I was a producer reading this script, I would probably turn it down.However, the direction and the atmosphere more than make up for these flaws. The sets are all gorgeous- virgin old-growth forests with enough pollen floating around to make you break out in hives. The Lord of Darkness' costume, while predictable enough for an evil character, is awesome. All of the visuals are memorable and seamless. Obviously a lot of effort was put into making a movie with a lackluster script seem cooler than it actually is. It worked. 6/10  "},{"Title":"One of the Coolest Films In the Genre of Fantasy","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  My oh my!  Tom Cruise (Jack) looks so young in this movie, and Tim Curry (Darkness)looks very neat, but uncomfortable in that make up!  This is one of the greatest fantasy films of all time!  It's awesome how they have the unicorns, but I hated when the evil people were cruel to them.  I cried when they were mean to the poor unicorns. *o(This film is for all fantasy lovers! "},{"Title":"A Pretty Poor Film","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" After finishing Blade Runner, I guess Ridley Scott decided What if I did an ultra-pretentious fantasy movie...and use that unicorn from Blade Runner that left people guessing!. So here it is, Legend, the movie that is in no way legendary and in no way as good as Blade Runner. In fact, it's pretty awful.Tom Cruise plays Jack, a forest dweller who takes his girlfriend, a princess, to see unicorns. She touches a unicorn, taints it, and suddenly the world is spiraling out of control at the Lord of Darkness (Tim Currey) attempts to kill the last unicorn and never have the sun rise again.All the Ridley Scott trademarks are here and, if I can commend the movie on anything, it's the cinematography. But it's otherwise a very lackluster movie as far as being pretentious goes. Seriously, people love this movie for being so mysterious but the bright white unicorns opposing the devils is pretty solid, easy to understand symbolism. The light and dark thing is also pretty simple. There's none of the origami or anything that made Blade Runner a thinking person's movie, it's just an example of a dumb fantasy movie (which the 80's produced quite a few of).On top of the failed attempt at pretentiousness is the unmemorable characters, the boring performances, and, to top it all off, the awful action sequences. Tom Cruise obviously does no stunt work here as the action scenes be sure to cut Jack's face from the frame.Legend is better than Scott's G.I Jane but it's not at all a good movie. Some like to say it's adult fantasy but I could see a child watching this and getting the gist of it. Save the forest, light and dark coexist, yin yang, all that.Legend sucks. "},{"Title":"Legend is one of my all time favorites","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This was an incredible example of fantasy filmmaking from the 1980's. However, although I love both versions of this movie, neither of them got it just right. The first version cut so many important scenes, yet was still good. The director's cut had to do away with the original score, which still remains one of my all time favorites, with the flute and the ending song by Jon Anderson are what got me in the theater for this movie in the first place.I can't wait for the next cut that blends them together. I would like to see them both available on DVD though.If you haven't seen either version of this movie, you are really missing out on one of the great fantasy movies of all time. "},{"Title":"A fairy tale cliché","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Sir Ridley Scott is one of the best directors around, who can take the audience into another world, and is properly going to enter the ranks of great director who have never won an Oscar. When Legend was made Scott's career was clearly on the up, having made the Duelists, Alien and Blade Runner. Sadly Legend was his first flop and showed that had the problem of being a hit and miss director.In a magical world The Lord of Darkness (Tim Curry) is rising again, and his only weakness is sunshine. They is only one thing preventing him gaining his full strength, the presents of unicorns. He demands his most wicked of goblins, Blix (Alice Playten) to find them, kill them and bring their horns to him. In the forest are two young friends, Jack (Tom Cruise) and Princess Lily (Mia Sara). Both are innocent and in love with nature and each other. Jack and Lily accidental lead Blix to the unicorns, where one is killed, and the world is plunged into a deep winter. The other unicorn and Lily are capture and taken by to the Lord of Darkness' lair. It up to Jack, and his allies, including Gump, a child-like elf creature (David Bennent) and the fairy Oona (Annabelle Lanyon), to save Lily and the unicorn and stop the evil Lord.There is good make-up and special effects in the film, but that is not enough. The Lord of Darkness does look impressive, yet this film has overly camp feel, with the dialogue and the look of some scenes. A good example is Blix who uses rhymes when being evil and lacked any menace that was required.There are a number of problems in the film. The key problem is the script it is full of fairy tales clichés, awful dialogue, a uninspired plot and plot holes. One of the big examples is Blix and his teams capture the second unicorn when they could have easily killed it and let the Lord of Darkness take over. They isn't much to the film. The film also seem to lack any real action, that could have made it more exciting and more driven. Not a lot happens and their is no real challenge despite the fact they are fighting the Devil. They are problems with casting. Tom Cruise was terribly miscasted, looking too old for his part and offering a weak performance. Alice Playten just sounded weird and as stated, was pretty camp. David Bennett looked very creepy and it was even worst with Alice Playten's voice. However Mia Sara was pretty good in the film, and Tim Curry was fairly impressive.Despite the good make-up for the film for characters like Blix and the Lord of Darkness, other characters like the dwarfs did not look so good. The set design also looked fairly cheap and not very well done. This is not Ridley Scott's finest hour.If you want to watch a good fantasy film watch Peter Jackson's extended Lord of the Rings films or Michael Vaughn Stardust. If you want a good Ridley Scott you have some many opinions like Alien, Blade Runner, Gladiator, American Gangster, Body of Lies and Black Hawk Down.2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"This, from the director of Alien and Blade Runner?","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In a word, awful. This, from the director of Alien and Blade Runner? Boring, interminable, and giving no sense of what the rules are in this magical universe. I think I only saw it on first release so I don't quite know what changes were made, but I believe this one was longer.Odd character casting with Tom Cruise as Jack, who spends 90% of the movie in a hunkered-down position (I suppose to put him on a better level with the little people he was working with). Not so bad per se, but he's wearing cutoff oilskins and what amounts to a Speedo. The movie has its serious theme, then suddenly cuts to Rita Repulsa's minions from Mighty Morphing Power Rangers.On the plus side, it has simply the best Devil figure in any movie yet. And David Bennent, who played Gump (the elf who lives in the Forrest) was mesmerizing. Considering his age, it was fascinating to see what he could convey with a simple look. (Especially compared to Tom Cruise's blandness). I would have liked to heard his original voice, though.Interesting also that you had a woman playing a male character (Blix, the Herve Villachaise-looking goblin) and a man playing a female (Robert Picardo, aka Star Trek Voyager's Doctor, as the swamp witch). "},{"Title":"Undeniably well-done","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I'm honestly not sure I got this film. It would be far from the truth to claim that I'm much of a fan of the genre of fantasy. I watched this because of the people behind the camera... more specifically, the work of Ridley Scott, who may have not won me over to the point of fan-dom, but continues to interest me, and Rob Bottin, whose work(within the field of special effects) I've been more interested in as of seeing him in the feature-length behind the scenes retrospect production on The Thing, entitled Terror Takes Shape. The pacing is reasonable. The lighting has moments of excellence, and plenty enough to spare. The acting is quite good, Tim Curry in particular, as the Lord of Darkness(and the make-up and such are fantastic). The effects and such in general are magnificent, and not even necessarily just for their time, either. There are plenty of colorful and creative beings to be found in the film. Production design tends to be great, throughout. Editing is mostly good, but for the few awkward cuts. I watched the regular version, of about an hour and a half, not the Director's Cut. Cinematography varies, there were times where I couldn't tell what was going on. The dialog is... well, usually grandiose, but some words used seem terribly out of place, and take you out of the film, some. The version I saw was about an hour and a half long. There are some themes and such that are perhaps too adult for children to watch this. The film, as a whole, is well-done. I recommend this to fans of fantasy, though I'm not sure kids should watch it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful and lacking good storytelling","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I think that there was some period in the 80's when fantasy stories became really popular with directors. Jim Henson has his Labyrinth, Ron Howard (with the help of George Lucas) had his Willow. And Ridley Scott, well, he has Legend. At this point in his career, he'd already directed two of his greatest works, and here, he tries his hand at the fantasy genre. It's just too bad that he didn't have a good script to work with.The good The imagery is immensely gorgeous. Everything is shot so beautifully that you wish that you could see that sort of thing in real life. This doesn't let up for the whole movie. There is no point in where the pictures aren't pretty.The bad It's just really too bad that the rest of the movie more than falters. The story is lame. Essentially, evil dark prince guy wants eternal night, so he gets the horn of a unicorn. He also kidnaps a princess with the second unicorn (one of two, if they die, the world is forever engulfed in darkness). Princess likes Forest Boy and they flirt about. Forest boy has to rescue princess and save the world.Yeah, it's a simple plot that works really well in fairy tales, but the execution is awful. There is no weight to any scene. No drama. No sense of uh-oh, trouble. Even though the fate of the world is at stake, we don't care. And the characters don't really seem to either. When Forest boy gets into potentially lethal combats, we don't fear for his life, or even care if he lives or dies, or the world is forever frozen. The characters are all very shallow, with the villain being *gasp* two-dimensional. I found myself pounding my head on the floor to try to add some drama to the movie.That's pretty much what I can say about the movie. It's essentially the boy/girl that you find pretty, but once you talk to them, you find them about as interesting as a ham sandwich on white. And that pretty much nullifies the watchability of the film. If I had been watching it alone, I wouldn't have finished it.If you must watch it, you don't need to see it through. You can fast forward, or better yet, mute it and use it like a screensaver. It might be more interesting in that context. 7 on the visuals, but the story is a 2. I'll give it a 4/10. "},{"Title":"failure","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" After his greatest masterpiece Ridley Scott directed Legend in 1985.first I watched to movie when I was nine years old I remember that I pretty much loved the movie and I watched again couple of years ago and I believe that legend is one of the worst movies he made . But still you can see some of his stunning visual skills in the movie. I have seen also the original version of the Legend and heard that the director cut is so much better but this does not change anything. Weak story and bad acting .(except tom cruise) only good thing about the movie is its score which is composed by Jerry Goldsmith.And the result was big box office failure. The budget of the movie was 25.000.000$ and movie made only 14.000.000$. "},{"Title":"The dreams of youth are the regrets of maturity.","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In school you are sometimes asked to summarize extremely lengthy books into one or two sentences to evaluate your knowledge on that certain piece of literature. To me, that always seemed ridiculous because how could you accurately depict the true value of a 300-page book within two measly paragraphs? That feeling is exactly my reaction to Ridley Scott's overly produced and underly executed film, Legend. Throughout the film I felt that Scott had the potential to go anywhere and everywhere, really making this underground cult fantasy film bigger than The Neverending Story and Lord of the Rings put together. I felt this way because 80s fantasy films seemed to be less commercial and more imaginative than those released in the past decade. I was waiting for a stronger outing of Willow, but instead I saw Legend disintegrate right before my eyes. It was as if Ridley had 300-plus pages of material, but had to condense it all into two very small paragraphs. What ultimately happened was that we, the viewer, were cheated out of quite a bit of potential visuals, creative lands, and mythical creatures. We were instead handed a body of work that seemed to grasp at straws instead of development, weak heroic characters with an exaggeration on Curry's over-the-top Price of Darkness portrayal, and a finale that teetered on sarcasm instead of excitement.Legend, in my eyes, begins with an unsettling bang. We see no characters outside of a menacing voice that speaks in rhyme and talks about the end of light. Scott pulls us gracefully in by giving us these highly imaginative characters and a world that we think will be full of Hensen-esquire creatures. Alas, immediately after pulling at our dark sides, he slaps us in the face with what seems like an hour of pointless drivel with conversation between the Princess Lilly and her man-boy Jack (played by Mia Sara and Tom Cruise respectively). Caught between horrid writing, unfamiliar past experiences, and a uni-brow the size of Kansas on Cruise's face, we are left with nothing to do except wait. With the promise of unicorns and a possible dark future, we wait. The unicorns finally appear and darkness does become momentarily triumphant, but what never brings us back to that immediate opening of dark delight is that Scott never recreates it for us. Legend fails, not just because of the shallow acting, but because the story never quite hits the momentum it had at the beginning of the film. While this critic blames Ridley's choice of Sara and Cruise as our guides, I do think he could have strengthened the story to be a bit more energetic and sweeping. I felt trapped throughout this story, as if the walls that contained Princess Lilly were the actual boundaries of the film. This hurt Legend. Unlike other fantasy films of this nature, the walls of a structure may encase our hero, but we know there are bigger and more exotic things happening around the fictional planet. With Legend, I never felt that. I felt as if Scott kept us on a lighted path without the comfort or luxury of any outside imagination. I needed, maybe even wanted, to see more of this planet Scott created, but the door was shut abruptly in my face.I would like to state again that I thought Scott had good intentions with this film, but the final result (either from its original bad screenings to the infamous director's cut) just didn't feel like it was worth the two hours one had to put into the movie. Scott had some (I stress some) moment of excitement, moments of imagination, and moments of sheer fantasy, but they were all clouded by the brazen push of over-the-top melodrama and visions. What makes most fantasy films work is that you care both for the story as well as the characters. In Legend, the story seems weak because we care nothing for the characters. Cruise's portrayal of Jack could have been done by anyone who passed Acting 101, while Curry does give the BEST performance of the film, it is another case of anyone-itis. Without the horns or the bold eyes, anyone could have been underneath the mask. Curry did great, but take him out of the costume and ask the question, does he stand-alone? Follow this up with some elves and dwarfs that seemed more cliché than original, and the final result is an ill-fated Legend. I wanted to like this film. I knew about the cult-ish status of Scott's fantasy attempt, but in the end, I felt bored instead of moved by the overall picture.Overall, I cannot recommend a second viewing to this film. I went in expecting a larger-than-life Willow or Neverending Story (or at least enough darkness to counter Alien or Blade Runner), but instead finished the film thinking that in today's standards this would have counted as a direct to video release. Scott, as well as his brother, are fabulous directors and continue to push the boundaries on modern cinema, but Legend failed. Legend failed because of the story as well as the acting. Both were not in place, therefore, both could not work together. During the commentary, Scott mentions his passion for Cocteau's Beauty and the Beast, but it was obvious that he was just name-dropping to gain film critic's respect. Legend, if anything, insults Cocteau's masterpiece. From the wrongly used word of the title (not a legend but a fairy-tale), to Cruise's uni-brow, to the cheaply forgettable ending, Legend didn't impress and it would be very difficult to sit through another viewing without some cash in hand.Grade ** out of ***** "}{"Title":"Sweet Movie","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This Is My All Time Favorite Movie If You Are Into Fantasy Like Goblins And Devils And Unicorns And Fairys this is the movie for you This Movie Rocks I literally Watch it 3 times a week minimum at the very least this movie rocks there is no better this movie oh just watch it anyone who says anything less than a 7 for this movie isn't properly into these kinda movies and shouldn't be voting anyone who likes these kinda movies would say its a 10 minimum if there was a 100 i'd pick 100 my brother also watches it just as much as me i just watched it the other night with my girl friend it was her first time seeing it she's not into these kinda movies and she told me its her new favorite movie 2 years ago i showed it to my best friend he now watches it at least once a month I HIGHLY recommend watching it "},{"Title":"An amazing film. (Spoiler free)","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Really. Just look at the costumes, the sets, the makeup, and that forest. They made all that from scratch! Talk about well-done and elaborate! Ridley Scott is a genius! This film even made me appreciate Tom Cruise's talents, or lack of, for once, it was that good. Tim Curry is amazing as the villain, Darkness. I recommend this film for anyone who likes fantasy films in general. Granted, this one is not for everyone, but its still good. Also take a listen to the soundtrack, which is very good as well. Enjoy. One thing, though. Avoid the Director's Cut, it is not so good.  "},{"Title":"pure fantasy","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is pure fantasy. This is also the best fantasy movie ever made. The plot was good. The music was cool. Tom Cruise, and Tim Curry was excellent in this movie. I have nothing bad to say about this movie, only good. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good fantasy movie. Listen to me when I say this, this is one of the best fantasy movie out there. You might like this, I did.   "},{"Title":"best fantasy movies ever","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best fantasy ever. The plot was great.The music was really good. The characters were cool. Of all the fantasy movies I've seen this is my favorite. Tom Cruise was great as Jack. Tim Curry was excellent as darkness. If you haven't watched this movie you should. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good fantasy movie.  "},{"Title":"Another masterpiece tarnished by Americanization.","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Watching Legend for me was an experience that filled me deep with sorrow and sadness.  The reason is not because it was a bad movie, but because it was a masterpiece that could've been in America.  This is not the first time Americans have taken a European film and greatly altered it to s**t.  I wish I could get a chance to see the true version of Legend, because it was beautifully crafted by director Ridley Scott, who has a reputation for making masterpieces of film.  It's really a shame. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This was a horrible movie; because of my love for the genre, I was recommended this film. However, it turned out to be nothing but a terrible disappointment. The love story is hokey, not to mention the characters, the portrayal of not just the bad guys but all the characters is extremely hokey. The first few minutes or so with the lush garden and the unicorns was a red herring; this movie got progressively worse. Plus, there were elves who I couldn't hear a single damn thing they were saying. But the elements of the movie - the fantastic, heroic, good vs evil, weren't at all explained or heroic. We're just expected to kick back and take this.I give this movie a three. The best of the genre, sadly, is probably Willow, which itself is virtually just a version of Legend, but better done. I plan to write the definitive fantasy-epic, perhaps like with Braveheart with magic. (e-mail is havergal@yahoo.com) "},{"Title":"Legend","Date":"29 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I knew it was a fantasy film, the two main male stars (also the only recognisable stars) and the ridiculous choice of director with Sir Ridley Scott (Alien, Blade Runner, Gladiator), and I totally agree with the critics on this one. Basically The Lord of Darkness (Tim Curry) plans to create a world of eternal darkness by killing the last of the unicorns and marrying a fairy princess. It is after Darkness's goblin servants attack the unicorns, capturing one, that Jack (Tom Cruise) is now on a mission to both save the last one, and save his love Princess Lily (introducing Ferris Bueller's Mia Sara, also singing a song), who believes she has ruined the peace of the land, simply touching a unicorn, lol. Jack gets help from some dwarf and fairy friends, including Honeythorn Gump (David Bennent), Screwball (Billy Barty) and Brown Tom (Cork Hubbert), while Darkness prepares his wedding ceremony to poor Lily, and the unicorn is obviously chained up, and yes, Jack saves the day, and everything is resolved. Also starring Alice Playten as Blix, Peter O'Farrell as Pox, Kiran Shah as Blunder, Annabelle Lanyon as Oona and Robert Picardo as Meg Mucklebones. The special affects make-up I'll admit, especially for the quite likable Curry, is quite impressive. It is just a shame the story isn't charming and too many kiddie things for the kids, only Darkness can frighten them off, and how has this film got a cult following? Just a bizarre fantasy film that I'm sure even its own director would rather never talk about again. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Makeup, and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Costume Design, Best Make Up Artist and Best Special Visual Effects. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Leg END","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  When i saw the movie Legend in a shop the other day i decided to buy it because i am a big fan of fantasy movies, so you can imagine that my expectations were very high. Fortunately this movie was in offer so the financial damage has not arrived the critical fase. I think that for my feelings i was able to watch that movie for 15 minutes and after that i had a big desire to the end of it. I decided to watch it out for giving at least my critical opinion about it but the only positive thing what i could find is that the special effects are reasonable but the story is really for crying. The story is weak without any excitement or interesting moments and i think that you can equalize this movie with the Princess Bride which also was according to my opinion also not a big success. If you see the script than i think that there should be more in it but unfortunately it has been worked out bad. The special effects course that the movie will not be rated at the most awful number by me but more than a 2 out of 10 i cannot make from it because for me it was simply not great.  "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend is one of my favorite movies that I grew up with, not to mention that a friend and I bonded over this movie and had so much fun with it. We always wrote parodies and Legend was one of our greatest, I think it was because this movie was so much fun to interpret in your own way, wither it was comedic, magical, or romantic. It has fun little special effects and great make up. The acting is pretty decent, all the actors seemed to get into their roles very well.Well, this movie is about Jack and Lily, a forest boy and a princess who are deeply in love and live in this bright and magical land of happiness. I know it sounds cheesy, but it is rather lovely. But the Lord of Darkness cannot survive unless it's total darkness forever, a unicorn who possess a horn that makes all the pain of the world go away, Darkness has decided to take away it's horn and kidnap Lily to make her his bride. But there is one problem, there is one more unicorn that is holding the last bit of light, Jack is coming with his friends to Darkness's castle and save Lilly and the unicorn.This is a fun movie for the family or just a afternoon of looking for a good movie. Like I said, it's just such a light movie full of positive things to look at and love. It reminded me of Never Ending Story, that's another recommendation. So, please if you enjoyed that, you'll truly enjoy Legend.9/10 "},{"Title":"why even make such a movie?","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend has a poor plot, and poor acting. The imagery is well done, but the scenery in Lord of the Rings was soooo much better. Basically, it's a chick flick. But if I were a girl, I still wouldn't care for this cocky movie. The only acting that impressed me was Tim Curry as The Lord of Darkness. Otherwise, the whole film was bogus. I couldn't even sit through five minutes of it. Watching that movie was like listening to the math teacher give a boring lecture in class. I had rented Ghostbusters that day, too, and I couldn't wait to watch it and for Legend to be over. Unlike me, my sister was enjoying it. It was 90 minutes of YUCK! I gave it 0 out of 10 stars.  "}{"Title":"Disjointed as a Story, But Beautiful to Look At","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend plays out like the movie a bunch of guys would get together and make under the influence of serious hallucinogenic drugs, and who knows, maybe that was the case? In many ways it's a rather bad movie. It's not good at all in telling a narrative -- the editing is confusing and disjointed, Ridley Scott's direction is awkward and clunky.But on the other hand, the visual look of Legend is stunning, and it's worth watching for that alone. It's clear that Scott had a distinct tone and vision in mind when making the movie, and that comes through strongly despite the weakness of the film making in other regards. I found myself fascinated by the film and could easily overlook its flaws.The film received a much deserved Oscar nomination for Best Makeup but lost the award to The Fly. Tough category that year.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Worked out on the back of a fag-packet during someone's coffee-break","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Heroic fantasy films can be divided into two categories, Before Jackson and After Jackson. Peter Jackson's seminal Lord of the Rings trilogy was the first great cinematic masterpiece of the twentieth century, and although never equalled it has at least influenced some very watchable fantasies, notably the Chronicles of Narnia and Harry Potter series. And Before Jackson? Legend reminded me of how bad fantasy films could be (and generally were) during the seventies, eighties and nineties. About the best of a bad bunch was Ron Howard's Willow, and even that only achieved the modest distinction of being a mediocre film rather than a truly awful one. Having a famous director at the helm didn't always help matters. For a long time I always thought of Richard Fleischer simply as 'the idiot who made that rubbish Red Sonja &#x96; an unfair assessment, as Fleischer had earlier been responsible for films as good as The Vikings, 20,000 Leagues under the Sea and 10 Rillington Place. Red Sonja, together with the equally dreadful Conan films, probably damaged Arnold Schwarzenegger's career by establishing him in the public mind as a musclebound hulk with minimal acting skills. Legend was also the work of an otherwise distinguished director. Indeed, Ridley Scott's previous film had been Blade Runner, in my view one of the greatest science fiction films ever made. Legend probably represented a desire to follow it up with something as different from it as possible. Scott's original aim was to produce a film based upon a traditional fairy-tale or legend, but could not find one which suited his purposes and so had the idea of commissioning an original story. The film is set in a sort of wooded fairyland which would forever be a place of beauty and enchantment were it not for the principal villain, the Lord of Darkness (or just Darkness for short). You can tell he is a villain because he looks just like traditional depictions of the Devil, except that his horns are more like a cow's than a goat's. As the film opens, Darkness has just decided to kill off the world's last two remaining unicorns, as (contrary to what astronomers may inform you) it is unicorns which cause the sun to rise every morning. A world bereft of unicorns will therefore be a world of eternal darkness- from Darkness's viewpoint, a Good Thing, but from everyone else's a Bad Thing. Darkness also has lustful designs on the beautiful Princess Lili (or Lily, depending on which version of the film you see). The task of foiling his evil schemes falls to Lili's sweetheart, a young man named Jack, who has the assistance of various characters lifted straight from the pages of some sub-Tolkienesque fantasy novel. Among these are a lisping, effeminate faun named Honeythorn Gump (brother of the more famous Forrest), a fairy named Oona and two dwarfs named Brown Tom and Screwball. (Or are they elves? Or perhaps leprechauns, given that they speak with a strong stage-Irish brogue?) There are also goblins, but as in Tolkien they are the bad guys, so they bat for Darkness's team. You can work out the rest of the plot from here. The lead role of Jack was taken by an up-and-coming young actor named Tom Cruise, at this time in the middle of his 1980s pretty-boy period, but he never does anything to show why he was, within a few years, to establish himself as a major Hollywood superstar, although, to be fair, he was possibly unlucky with a dull, hackneyed script and some stilted, ponderous dialogue. Cruise was fortunate that he followed Legend up with Top Gun, made by Scott's brother Tony. This was probably the best of his pretty-boy movies and a huge box-office success. As for his leading lady, the teenage Mia Sara, she shows all too clearly just why, despite her striking beauty, she was never to become a big name herself. The best acting comes from Tim Curry as the spectacularly-horned Darkness, but even he cannot really manage to rescue the film. Indeed, he may have inadvertently made it worse. In a film where the villain seems more real than the heroes, the audience might start rooting for him, which was probably not anybody's intention. Scott originally wanted to film in Yosemite National Park, but financial considerations precluded location shooting, and a complete forest set was built at Pinewood Studios. A lot of effort was obviously put into this, and yet the result is still oddly unconvincing. (Even fantasy films need a certain grounding in reality, and Yosemite might have done for Legend what the New Zealand landscapes did for the Lord of the Rings trilogy). The same can be said of the whole fantasy universe in which the story is set; it never seems to hang together as a coherent whole in the way in which, say, Tolkien's Middle Earth does. I think that the difference lies in the fact that Tolkien spent many years working out all the details of his imaginary world, whereas all the details of the imaginary world of Legend were probably worked out on the back of a fag-packet during someone's coffee-break. Legend is not the worst fantasy film of all time; compared to Red Sonja or Prince Valiant, which continued the tradition of the execrable sword-and-sorcery epic into the nineties, or to The Scorpion King which continued it even into the After Jackson era, it can look quite presentable at times. Compared to something like the Narnia or Harry Potter series, however, to say nothing of Lord of the Rings, it seems sadly wanting, a low point in Ridley Scott's career. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Jon Anderson Version","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" all the Versions are great. But I must say the version with Jon Aderson's song Loved By the Sun sung where Jack breaks through the water at the end Puts the  cherry On Top and should have been the Theatrical Version, is Of course the Best of All. Will they ever make the DVD with Jon Anderson's Song? I play oblivion with that song playing over the games actual music because it relates to all fantasy genres. A film way ahead of it's time. It's an appropriate argument that if Tom cruise wasn't in it it would have fallen further down the flop rilm charts but I'm rhankful he took the role. Screwball played by Billy Barty and Tim Curry get The Best of show in my book what excellent Jobs they did of putting themselves in the world of Legend Don't remake this movie You'll fail. "},{"Title":"one of the top 3 fantasy films of all time","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw this was when I was about eight and when tangerine dreams done the soundtrack. In my opinion this version was much better as the music makes you feel as if you are there. I still love the other version but for me the tangerine dream one is the best! Tim Curry is excellent as the Lord of Darkness and is very frightening. My favourite character would have to be Blitz because of his great one liners. This is one of the greatest fantasy films and also a great romance. I usually hate romance but this has action,romance,horror,comedy which means there is an aspect of a lot of genres of film. SO GO OUT AND BUY IT! "},{"Title":"Mute It (You Miss Nothing)","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Every great director makes at least one turkey in their life, and this is Ridley Scott's. You can't help but watch _Legend_ because of the name, Ridley Scott. The man who gave us _Bladerunner_ and _1492 Conquest of Paradise_ has become the American version of Akira Kurosawa, a legend in his own time. Unfortunately, this movie flopped!Not from lack of effort. Anyone familiar with the legend of the unicorn or the Fantasy genre can see that Scott was really trying. From blossoms in the wind, to the paradoxical power of the virgin, every part of the Fantasy concept is in place. But it never comes together.Tom Cruise's performance as Jack seems halting and confused, while Mia Sara's Princess Lily is actually more interesting when she's evil--definitely not the proper role for the damsel-in-distress. Likewise Tim Curry never really gives his full effort as the villain. Lord of Darkness? He's more like the pinch hitter! The worst thing about this movie is the stupid, petulant dialogue which is just horribly predictable. When I first saw this movie I found myself mouthing the various actor's lines an instant before they said them. There were no surprises, nothing that was unexpected. Even worse, some years later, I muted the sound when seeing the video, and missed nothing; not because I remembered, but because the words themselves are superfluous.Ridley Scott was apparently attempting to show the inherent emptiness of fantasy itself--Yes, you can have a universe with fairies, elves, unicorns, but the same problems with good and evil will still be there; people will still war, and love, and kill, for inherently the same reasons. But, surely this point could have been made without such a travesty of film, couldn't it? "},{"Title":"ALMOST A GOOD MOVIE, IF IT WASN'T FOR SOME BAD EDITING,MUSIC","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  FIRST, THAT IS NOT TIM CURRY AS DARKNESS. IT IS BRIAN THOMPSON OF COBRA AND MOON 44. I NEVER HAVE HEARD WHY IT IS CREDITED THAT WAY. BUT DARKNESS NONE THE LESS IS VERY GOOD AT BEING BAD. I HAVEN'T SEEN THIS EURO VERSION YET, BUT IT SOUNDS MUCH BETTER. THE CINEMATOGRPHY WAS EXCELLENT, I THOUGHT MIA TO BE GOOD IN LILY'S PART, BUT NOT SO ABOUT TOM. AS ENTERTAINMENT ON A RAINY AFTERNOON, IT'S STILL AN ENJOYABLE FLICK, UNCUT. I STILL GIVE A 7.  "},{"Title":"An odd one.","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Legend is set in a mystical world which the Lord of Darkness (Tim Curry, insert your own jokes...) used to rule, however light was introduced & eclipsed the evil darkness banishing him to his underground liar. All the light & happiness that has come to the world is inside two unicorns, the Lord of Darkness realises that if he kills the unicorns the light inside will be destroyed & he can once again rule this world with his evil darkness. He sends three Goblins out into the world to find & kill the unicorns, in order to do this they follow a two young people in love Jack (Tom Cruise) & Lili (Mia Sara) who lead them right to the unicorns. The Goblins kill one of the unicorns & the world is plunged into half darkness as to complete the job both unicorns must be killed, Jack & Lili after discovering what they have started set out to save the one remaining unicorn & prevent darkness from taking over their world...This American British co-production was directed by Ridley Scott & is one of those odd films which I can't quite decide if I liked or not. One very apparent aspect of Legend is that frustratingly it exists in several different versions, the European cut, the American cut, a TV version & a 'director's cut' released on DVD. I will be basing my comments on the 90 odd minute American cut which has the electronic synthesiser Tangerine Dream score which replaced the orchestral Jerry Goldsmith one & altered/re-edited many scenes in various ways. Anyway, the script by William Hjortsberg probably didn't resemble this that much (considering the original cut ran 150 minutes) but he still gets the credit, one felt that he was trying to create a dark fairy tale for adults like The Company of Wolves (1984) did a year before but this is where the editing comes in because Universal who distributed it in the US cut it to appeal to younger children much more & one suspects the film would have worked much better as the dark sinister horror themed fantasy it was probably intended to be. Everything in Legend is pure fantasy, the character's & locations are OK but Fairies, Dwarfs, Elves, Goblins & Unicorns are all staple ingredients of many fantasy stories & films so it did feel a bit samey to me at times.This was director Scott's third foray into the world of fantasy cinema after Alien (1979) & Blade Runner (1982) & one would suggest Legend is his most ambitious film out of the three. Entirely set within a fantasy world this looks simply sumptuous, from breathtaking forest landscapes beautifully lit & shot to dark swamps containing horrible creatures to the Lord of Darkness' spectacular Gothic castle which just looks fabulous. A better looking fantasy film you will not see, the attention to detail, the cinematography, the lighting, the special make-up effects, the costumes everything looks wonderful & Legend is a triumph of production design. But is that enough? Is a good looking film enough to save a rather mundane & predictable good vs. evil morality tale? To be honest I don't think so, film is obviously a visual medium but it's also there to entertain & tell a story which is debatable in the case of Legend. There are a few fights with weaponry like axe's, swords & bow's & arrows but the violence level isn't that high. The special effects are impressive, the green wrinkled skinned swamp creature Meg Mucklebones looks fantastic & is a wonderful creation but it's the Lord of Darkness himself who steals the show. In some ways the typical image of the devil, red skinned, horns on his head & hoofed feet he is brought to life with an imposing make-up job. He just looks great, the effects are superb & it's just a shame he doesn't get to do a bit more beside make silly speeches.With a supposed budget of about $30,000,000 Legend is technically flawless & a joy to watch, unfortunately I just don't think the tired story does the breathtaking visuals justice. Filmed partly at Pinewood studios in London in England, despite being filmed in England & co-financed by an English company the longer director's cut has never been released over here. The acting is OK, Tim Curry is totally unrecognisable under all the make-up as the Lord of Darkness while this was an early screen appearance for Tom Cruise who would find Hollywood super-stardom in Top Gun (1986) the following year which was co-incidentally directed by Ridley Scott's brother Tony!Legend is a visually wonderful fantasy film of that there is no doubt, unfortunately the standard good vs. evil morality tale isn't that interesting & doesn't come close to matching the spectacular visuals. I don't know, did I like it overall or not? To be fair I'm not quite sure. "},{"Title":"Certainly imaginative...but it's perplexing instead of exciting","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Fantasy story from screenwriter William Hjortsberg has powerful, evil Darkness plotting to overtake Light, personified in unicorns. An eyeful to be sure, but occasionally heavy or silly, with Tom Cruise dreadfully out of place in this Grimm-like setting playing commoner Jack in love with princess Mia Sara. Cruise quickly rebounded from this Ridley Scott-directed misfire, the European version of which runs some twenty minutes longer and features a different score (they got Jerry Goldsmith, the U.S. got Tangerine Dream--which wasn't a bad trade-off). Still, the film's murky narrative renders much of the proceedings incomprehensible, although portions of it are indisputably pretty to look at. * from **** "},{"Title":"Fairy Tale, not 'Final Fantasy'","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The Concept  Pre-50s Disney with Scott's mastery of production values and visual space.Ridley Scott is a director who can do little wrong in my book, even here--long considered a failure.  Nonetheless, I will bet money that his movies will be looked back on as a pinnacle of production values 100 years from now.  Perhaps that is why his work has endured unlike lesser beings like Verhoeven, whose 'Total Recall' has dated horribly in less time.This was rejected by critics and audiences, but after 19 years (and the multi-billion dollar success of the 'Lord of the Rings' series) I find this is better than Peter Jackson's adaptation.  When watching this (and remembering BBC's failure with the 'Lion, Witch, and Wardrobe' trilogy), I see that this is to 'LotR' what 'Bridge Too Far' is to 'Private Ryan'.Consider--No pre-set fanbase, this is before Cruise had real name power.  I don't think Cruise is a good actor, he has been a strutting fool since 'Top Gun', but here his stupidity works.--No computer technology.  I love 80s movies and Scott lets Bottin & Dilley exploit the bigger budgets with better technology.  After all, every makeup trick of the 'LotR' crews originated here and Dilley is probably the best production designer ever, having previously endured the revisionist 'Empire' and the prior benchmark, 'Alien'.--Efficient polarization.  Compare what is here to the later 'Willow', both interesting efforts.  'Willow', of course, is by the Campbell-obsessed Lucas and sickeningly-sanitized Howard.  It's impossible for them to make something truly threatening--necessary for fantasy.  Scott knows how to create lasting menace by starting with the subtexts and settings.  Sadly, Jackson comes from Lucas' camp, not Scott's.Some random interesting pointsFrequently when directors deviate from their style, the public ignores it. This isn't the only example.  Cameron got burned with his visually daring 'Abyss' so he retreated to the commercial safety of Schwarzenegger. Spielberg with 'Empire', Kubrick with 'Barry Lyndon', Fincher with 'Fight Club', the list goes on.One thing keeps me from labeling this the best of 80s fantasy--'Dragonslayer'. At first it doesn't sound fair, but 'Dragon' was Disney's serious attempt at doing something dark and serious.  Imagine if it had succeeded... Meanwhile, this is Scott's usual work, intelligent and pessimistic in detail as always, but still typical for him.I should mention the different cuts of the film and, in particular, the music.  Jerry Goldsmith is another who can do little wrong in my book; I'm surprised that Scott hasn't stayed with him.  Oh, well.  At least Scott has Zimmer to help.  Tangerine Dream actually works for the American cut.  It reminds me of Vangelis' touch on 'Blade Runner' albeit with more of an MTV feel.  Unlike 'Blade Runner', it feels like two different films, but the analytical difference is insignificant.Overall, a pure Grimm effort that unmasks 'Conan' as the aged trash it is. Despite Scott's alleged Disney references, little of it is visible.Final Analysis = = Learn from this... "},{"Title":"strangest movie i have ever seen","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Beautiful story of the everlasting battle of good and evil...Set in a charming fairy-tale world...Seems like it should have been fantastic...BUT IT ISN'T!!!!!!! It's totally crazy!Why does everyone in this movie look cross-eyed and dizzy?Was the director on drugs while he shot this?It sure looks like that.The actors look dizzy and puzzled,the dialouges are very strange and is is totally unbelievable.Yes,it is a great story,but a simply awful film. "}{"Title":"Too bad to even write a funny review about","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Aside from some very pretty cinematography, legend was completely one dimensional. It was presented as an epic struggle of good against evil, but there was no depth to the characters or back story at all, and morality was addressed only at face value - the evil characters were evil only insofar as they hated the good characters and wore all black. There were no ethical conflicts, so you can't really blame the movie's failure on the decadence of its generation like that one guy did. All said, I was surprised by how well they managed to avoid giving any depth to the characters beyond their roles as The Good Guy, The Girl, The Dark Lord, and The Completely Unbearable Comic Relief Dwarfs. I think the bad guy was played by Diablo from that computer game. "},{"Title":"don't expect too much","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" 'Legend' is a fantasy film about an evil lord who seeks to destroy the last unicorn and to marry the object of innocence and our hero's affection. This film is all about innocence - the couple living in the forest with the unicorns who befall the evils of the world.This was an early film role for Tom Cruise. I saw this film back in the late-1980s, and I thought that it was very slow-moving, and it seemed to have the appearance of a low-budget film where little detail was spent on the costumes/production. I did not think the story was that engaging either, and this film really did not do anything for me. Do not expect to much if you are going to see this film because you may be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not much of a review considering I couldn't make it through","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry to say I can't offer much of a critique except on the first 25 minutes which is all I was able to stomach. I had a feeling I was in trouble almost immediately when during the first scene which apparently was supposed to be dark and menacing I found it silly and amateurish. After several amazingly incoherent dialogue and action I had to bow out on a scene where some goofy creatures were speaking in accents so ridiculous that I knew there was no possible way I could take this film seriously. As such it marked only one of a handful of movies I stopped early. I'm not sure why, but I even watched Dune (Machlachlan, Lynch) and A.I. to the end. I'm a glutton for punishment I guess, but this one was unreal. What a tremendous disappointment from Scott who brought us one of the absolute best of all time in Alien.  "},{"Title":"A Wasted Effort","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I should first mention that I had not even heard of this film until a few months ago, from an ad proclaiming the Ultimate Edition DVD release. Instead of renting that version, I opted for the original instead, and I must certainly say that no director's cut or ANYTHING else could save this movie.Where to start....well first let me say that I saw Ridley Scott's name attached to this and I was hoping for some stylish fantasy action. Wrong. There are only a handful of shots in Legend that even hint of Scott's involvement with the movie. The film's pace seemed too awkward and the overall atmosphere of the film just seemed non-existent.The acting was also something of a failure. Tom Cruise is WAY too poofy and boyish in a role that should require a bold and fearless knight. Mia Sara's character succeeds only at looking pretty(and she is), and the supporting cast of goblins and fairies are useless. The best performance comes from Tim Curry as Darkness, but he is still nothing too special.However, the biggest travesty of the whole film to me is the absolutely AWFUL music score by Tangerine Dream. Come on. It is beyond me why the stupid producers would scratch Jerry Goldsmith's score for a crappy rock group whose music doesn't even fit with this movie!Overall, the film seems incredibly bland for a fantasy film. The epic scope of Scott's other works SHOULD have been here, but is not. The story is pointless and uninspired, and the characters are duller than most of the film's settings. I now realize why I had never heard of this film before because its creators tried to hide it from the public. 1-10 Scale  Overall- 2.5 Direction- 3 Acting- 4 Story- 2 Music Score- 1 Visuals- 5 "},{"Title":"Very interesting with an interesting twist)","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is the film you have all been waiting for. Tom Cruis shows us his very interesting acting skills as he lunges about acting like Tarzan. There's a typical plot of a girl falling for a guy, beware the beginning is very scary!! Trust me! Then the darkness(acted by Tim curry who did an amazing performance in Muppet's treasure island) shows us how much he loves to act by doing a hilarious performance with two fat horns sticking out his head no-one could take him seriously! The slow mo run s unforgettable and him falling for the girl and letting her no it is hilarious! But nothing can beat tom cruises expression when he calls for the girl when she gets whacked by the darkeness you must watch this film it will have you in tears of laughter!! A must buy!!! "},{"Title":"okay, but it was not great......","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was OKAY, but it could have been better. The real high light here are the special effects and elaborate make-up effects by Rob Bottin. That is the one true reason I sat threw this movie at all. This is not a bad movie, but it was just not great either. "},{"Title":"Rent Something Else (for the kids only)","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was horrible.  Bad script, bad acting.  The only redeeming quality are the special effects, makeup, and cinematography, but not worth watching the movie for.  I enjoy fantasy movies, but not this one.  Tim Curry (what you can see of him) might be the only acting worth watching... but there is not enough of him. "},{"Title":"What if a Bedtime Fairytale Was Directed By The Evil Genie ?!","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" (Ridley Scott) is one brilliantly crazy director, fond of building such a special worlds, and capable of making their smallest details uniquely every time  the spaceship and the strange plant (Alien - 1979), the gloomy futuristic city (Blade Runner - 1982), and this time he did it  the legendary world which's all in the studio (Legend - 1985) but the final product was something really disgusting and too detestable ! If this movie was dispatched for children then it's so scary and sickening. If it's a drama for grown-ups then it's a frightfully exotic one. If it's an adventure for youth then it's totally queer ! Frankly, despite the strong sensitive art direction and some diligent elements, there is no entertainment or magic. You'll have dark scenes with the most effective sense of melancholia, and so unfamiliar taste but to inharmonious and unpleasant extent.(Tom Cruise) is just a smile in a toothpaste's ad (and nearly still the same till now, except for some maturity and orthodontics !). Having (David Bennent) as the sidekick jinni is one idea from the original hell; this boy with the sharp dubbed voice looked like unbearable hideousness, awfully terrifying, and silly to a big level I can't describe it; it's a type of a new character which turned out to be a new very ugly character! The masks were so dull, the pace was so sluggish, even the imagination of the movie was un-childish to a devilish degree as they designed it all to torture the audience !Everything seemed so misshapen. The try to make the whole thing in studio or even the atmosphere of a damned world came out as just excuses to make a Novo fairytale in a monstrosity form, especially with (Ridley Scott)'s heavy minutia. Like being in the studio was the point, yet that (nor its story too) didn't work as entertaining at all. I think this simple dream sunk under the desire to create a huge rare cosmos, so it managed to become eventually a perfect example of immoderate modern style to tell what was once upon a time a cute story!. I couldn't fight my feeling during every second of it as antipathetic indigestible and burdensome grotesque ! And thank god that (Scott) deleted an HOUR of this, otherwise it would've been a mightier monster !So this movie is a legend indeed but when it comes to intolerability. It's an injurious woeful demon, a swelling version of much simpler much prettier fairy tales, looking like a hard hallucination of a sick Cinderella, or the story of the girl with the red dress but from psychotic wolf's point of view !, or it's another nice story for children with the happy ending however directed by the evil genie ! P.S  If Life is A Dream Then Be Afraid Of Awakening.. But what if It's a nightmare already ?!! "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is absolutely horrible. There is no getting around it. The plot is not minimalistic, rather, it is boring beyond belief. The acting is horrendous, a self-explanatory example being the mere presence of Tom Cruise. Although it is praised for its special effects, I believe the mental well-being of the people making these ludicrous claims should be investigated. I could go on (exposition? what's that? And development?), but this movie is just not worth it. Legend's only redeeming factor is the fact that, when watched with friends and mocked thoroughly, it is hi-larious. If you are ever feeling down, watch the scene where the character Meg is introduced; it should guarantee at least three minutes of laughing.However, if you actually enjoyed this movie for its merits as a story and such, I recommend Highlander and The Last Starfighter.  "},{"Title":"Pretty but Vacuous","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I finally saw this film on DVD.  I had been interested in the film for some time, but could never find a copy to rent or never thought about it until I left the store.  I never got to see the film during it's run in the theaters.The film is very overrated; Plain and Simple.Directors Cut The visuals are outstanding, Story is a little more strong and cohesive. The music score is much better.  But it is still boring.North America Cut The visuals are the only thing this cut has going for it.My feeling If it wasn't for the big names Ridley Scott and Tom Cruise this movie would have been left on some dusty shelf along with all the other mediocre 80's films that we dont even remember.Rating 4/10 "}{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was pretty bad.  In my opinion only two things saved it--the soundtrack with the song Forever Young by Alphaville, and Tom Cruise.  If it had lacked either of those, there is no way that I could have watched it to the end.  If you think Tom Cruise is cute, see it, otherwise, don't go anywhere near it. "},{"Title":"Dont bother","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Legend I love my kitty but she kept me from turning this pansy film off. Laying there so cute on my legs, my sleeping legs. I endured it though and was no happier at the end than when I heard Jack(Tom Cruise) didn't use weapons. Dumb fairy flicking, fawn frolicking figment of some losers imagination. The effects of blowing pocket lint, obvious masks and spaceball-esque costumes ruined any hopes for production value stars. The plot was same old good vs. evil gotta rescue damsel in distress. The films only star came from the makeup. Tim Curry was buried deep beneath a frightening mask of one of Satan's avatars. Well done and haunting. Very believeable. Although his dialogue was stolen from teen romance tv-shows of the time. Cornier than the entire film. Heavily disappointed as I am a fan of the fantasy genre and of Ridley Scott. His worst film. 1/10 "}]