[{"Title":"Action, Adventure, Drama......who could ask for anything more?","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Have you ever seen a movie you thought was great, but couldn't even remember its name a month later? This is one movie you will never forget.I have heard it said that the true test of a movie, or any art form, is whether it accomplishes what it set out to do. Did it inform you, delight you, anger you, scare you, or make you laugh? Besides presenting a very entertaining and original storyline, this movie wants you to care about the environment. After seeing The Emerald Forest, I immediately called one of the major environmental organizations (I don't want to play favorites, but it's one of these The Nature Conservancy, WWF, Greenpeace, The Sierra Club...) to set up automatic monthly contributions. I never expected a movie to have so great an impact on me, especially such a long lasting one. You would expect that, after time, my enthusiasm would diminish, especially since I have no interest in ever visiting the Amazon! None whatsoever. However, this movie really changed my perspective on the global environment as a whole.The central character is Tomme (Charlie Boorman). While watching his father direct the construction of a huge dam, Tomme is quickly and silently taken away by a native Brazilian Indian tribe called the Invisibles. They don't see their actions as kidnapping. When they see the young boy, they figure he would be better off with them, rather than with the termite people, the name they give to the white men who seem to devour all the trees.Tomme's father spends the next 10 years trying to find him.This is definitely a thought-provoking movie, but one that is not too heavy handed. It's one of the most entertaining movies I have ever seen, the type of movie you can watch over and over.Update Since I had not seen this movie for many years, I decided to see it again last night. I was totally blown away. It was even better than I remembered. Although my original 9-star rating is very high praise, I can't fathom how I could have enjoyed the movie more, so I raised my rating from 9 stars to 10 stars. Director John Boorman also directed Beyond Rangoon, and some other films that are amazingly good.Charley Boorman's performance is simply brilliant. I can't imagine anyone better in the role of Tomme in The Emerald Forest. I am definitely going to start watching the other movies he has made. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie.","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I actually grew up near the city of Belem, shown in the beginning of the movie, and spent 18 years in the region. I also spent time in many of the Indian tribes in the area, including being adopted into one at the age of five. The movie does a great job of showing many aspects of life in the jungle, including some of the lawlessness. The costumes are fairly authentic, and portrayal of many tribal customs is well done. The manhood ceremony is closely based on authentic ceremonies that happen in most tribes. Altogether, about as good as you can expect from something that is not intended to be a documentary. "},{"Title":"unforgettable","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"33 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie years ago as a 13 year old and I can say without exaggeration that no other movie has had such a strong and lasting impact on me. While I was aware of the sacrilege going on in the Amazon, this opened my eyes to it like never before. Shortly after this I ran away from home with a friend, with the intention of going to Brazil, mobilising the Indians into a guerrilla band and killing the loggers. It took our families all of two days to track us down at a port city  )But I never forgot the lesson this movie taught me and today I work for a conservation organisation. Some of the Indian quotes from the movie are truly tear jerkers. When we were young the end of the world(the limits of the forest) was very far away, but it gets closer and closer each day or something to that effect. As an idealistic kid I saw no flaw in this movie and cheered at the improbable climax where the rains destroy the dam and the captured Indian women throw away their cheap clothes and return to the forest. This movie is a must watch "},{"Title":"The best movie of Boorman","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Certainly the best of Boorman. After seeing again Deliverance, which was thrilling when it was first released, and Excalibur, poetical, Wagnerian but a little bit out of date (regarding the shining 70's fake armors), Emerald Forest deepens philosophy and ethnology. Very profound and touching, very good acting, excellent photography, technically superb, there's nothing to really complain about. It hasn't aged at all and probably won't. I gave it a 10 because I do not see anything to improve. In our sad new era of ethnological destruction, where there's no place anymore for the Aborigene or any other tribal culture, this movie gives a little hope, a little reverie of seeing things turning in the right direction thanks to ancient magic. How vain but how beautiful!  "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Touching, well-paced, sad, uplifting, absorbing. Good acting, good writing. Lots of meaning, lots of symbolism, but never in your face, never tiring. Mystical stuff that's presented well and believably. A movie at once so ambitious and so real and so well-done...there just aren't very many in its league. Action, love, adventure, drama, striking images, succinct dialog. Amazing. "},{"Title":"One of the best eco-awareness pieces since Silent Spring","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"27 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Not sure that you'll get a comment from anyone of my generation (the Depression-ridden 30's) about the Emerald Forest. But here goes, anyway...I first became aware of the term ecology when I signed up for a masters-level college class of the same name in 1965. It was the first formalization of the study of ecology on the West Coast. I took it simply because I needed a natural science credit and all the other classes were full. The class changed my life, and my perspectives. I devoured Rachel Carson, and savored movies like Dances With Wolves and Medicine Man. I even joined Green Peace at the age of 32 and suspect that I am probably the only Republican in history that can make that claim.I would vote that Emerald Forest is the best of all popular eco-message dramas. It is my all time favorite. It is so well done in every area...script, acting, photography, and re-enactment of tribal customs. At the same time, it delivers a powerful message that can only be dismissed by the most callous of personalities. Every time I see the movie I am filled with regret that I could never accomplish such a landmark cinematographic ecological statement.I was also filled with the emotion to go to Brazil and blow away anyone with a chainsaw... "},{"Title":"Exciting, eye-popping Hollywood entertainment","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie supposedly sends an environmental message, and that's certainly true, but if you look closely it's really a fig leaf (like one of those little flaps on a string that constitute the sole bit of clothing worn by the villagers) for an updated Tarzan movie.That said, this movie is tremendous entertainment. It is exciting almost all the way through. And when it's slow, there are lots of cute teenage girls in the altogether to gaze at. In fact, there's a demographically striking abundance of teenage girls in this particular tribe.Favorite scene During the courtship ritual, Tomme is given a club and is supposed knock out his girl in front of the villagers and then carry her off into the forest. She cowers. He hesitates, waves the club around. She glares at him and whispers, Do it right! So he hits her and she makes a show of being knocked out. The whole courtship ritual is beautifully staged. I cannot attest to its authenticity, but it's perfectly clear as he defends her from menacing dudes, refuses to be carried off by the other girls, etc. The sheer enthusiasm portrayed is remarkable.Powers Boothe, playing a dam engineer, makes a dashing Trader Horn-type. He has a great scene when he wakes up in the village only to see his son, Tomme, sleeping peaceful and embracing his girl, both practically nude in the next hammock. The expressions that run across his face are priceless.The Fierce People live up to their name, but I am dubious that people who live in nature can be so infected with violence.I learned something. You can climb a high-rise by wrapping vines around your feet. Who knew? The dam business at the end was totally righteous, but, really, pretty preposterous.And how about that shot of the eagle in flight. Taken from about two feet away. Pretty neat.Terrific Hollywood movie? You bet. Werner Herzog? Not so much. "},{"Title":"One of the most beautiful movies ever made!","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Emerald Forest is, without a doubt, one of my favorite movies of all time. I first saw it many years ago, but rediscovered it recently when it showed up on one of my Dish movie channels. The son of an engineer is kidnapped in the rain forest. The engineer (Powers Booth) discovers him years later, when he is a teenager. By then, the son is part of a tribe which has raised him and molded him into a man. He does not want to leave. However, the boy must find and request the help of his father when a rival tribe kills several male members of his tribe members and kidnaps their women. A great (true) story, wonderful acting, and amazing cinematography make this movie an amazing viewing experience. Think Apocalypto without all of the blood and violence. There is a good amount of female nudity. If you enjoy this movie, I also recommend Rapa Nui for it's great scenery and story. "},{"Title":"An excellent adventure","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The Emerald Forest is an excellent jungle adventure which is based on a true story.A young boy is kidnapped by a tribe in the Amazon known as the Invisible People.  His dad (Powers Boothe) then spends 10 years searching for him and eventually succeeds, but only by chance.  He decides to stay with the tribe rather than go back to his original family.  Boothe's son when grown up is played by the director's son, Charley Boorman and does a great job playing the part.  This movie gives you an idea on what it would be like living in the Amazon.  Excellent scenery makes the movie better still.  It was shot on location in the Amazon.I have seen this movie a couple of times and enjoyed very much.  Watch it if you get the chance.Rating 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful and touching movie","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I have been after this movie for years. If you like learning about other cultures, predominantly Indian tribes, or if are an environmentalist or ecologist, you will love the movie. Also, any parent will feel for the main characters. It is truly touching how the family never gives up looking for their lost son, and risk everything for that cause. It is true that the ending is unexpected, but it shows the intentions of the father were to give up his dream to give his son and new life a chance to survive in the Amazon. There is light nudity for the children, but it is convincingly part of the story line. I will share this movie with my eleven year old environmentalist as soon as I can get it. "}{"Title":"Breathtakingly beautiful film!","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Emerald Forest is a beautiful, textured, emotional, extremely well made film with a traditional archetypal story, and some of the most gorgeous cinematography I have ever seen. The story and ecological undertones are similar to that of Avatar, yet more subtle, restrained and tender. Powers Boothe gives a terrific performance as an influential land developer who loses his son on the edge of a vast, mysterious south American jungle, and Goes on a decade long search for the boy, who has been taken in by a peaceful tribe of natives, and raised as one of the. The story itself somewhat takes a backseat to the stunning, nature world visuals and the haunting, hypnotic score, which combined, envelop the film in an ambient, mournful yet breathtakingly beautiful and atmospheric aura.An unfairly forgotten masterpiece and vastly underrated film. "},{"Title":"A Rich Tapestry Of  A Film Boorman's Best","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Remember the 80s? For some of us, that's now along time ago. I recall green issues becoming a hot topic, at least among the Intelligensia. With only 47 reviews, there's little evidence to suggest this film appeals to wider audiences. A sad indictment that green issues are still overlooked.One of the better cinema releases made during that decade (when politics took a sharp turn right) was this technically masterful production. So, I'm surprised Emerald Forest only limps in with a 6.8 rating. I doubt films this well-made would get past the accountants in 2011.Boorman's wonderful films include Excalibur and Deliverance. Here, deep in the Amazonian Jungle, he's at the top of his game. We have beautiful cinematography, gritty and memorable acting, a thundering plot that keeps us entertained throughout the movie.Okay, there's the typical Noble Savage motif and a rather convenient conflict between two tribes (the Fierce People seemed over-simplistic). But it's a mainstream movie, so we cannot expect too much. At least Boorman attempted to research Amazonian Tribal Life, so this film does not suffer too much from ignorant stereotyping.A feature of many Boorman Films is the focus on touching relationships. Here, we have two different kinds of father-son interaction, Tomme's real determined father and Tomme's wise, tribal one. There's also the Romeo & Juliet style interaction between Tomme and Kachiri (handled sensitively by Boorman). Other more complex relationships are also explored, such as interactions between different tribes, or the exploitative practices of some western visitors, whose treatment of the natives is less than fair.The film's a rich tapestry. I still find it breathtaking viewing. "},{"Title":"beautiful and unusual - but take note of comments!","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film is nice as a step out of the usual backgrounds or settings for movies. And whilst it is in the main part shot in rain forest, it is most certainly not boring in any way.I notice there have been comments by others about certain mystical aspects in the film being too far fetched, but i can assure they are not. Following this, it is quite understandable that if someone watches this and has a limited understanding of reality and the mind - they may find certain aspects of the film slightly frustrating and/or overly convenient to be true. An example here is the art of merging with spirits who take on certain archetypal forms, such as an eagle or leopard. These are very ancient shamanic methods used to attain knowledge, power and healing abilities and are not a crazy load of made up stuff by the director. I have personally had many similar experiences to some in the film - example once some way through a year long shamanic training, i lay on my bed and merged with a spirit and found myself as the form of an eagle (as was usual with this spirit). I had asked the spirit to take me to a gorgeous girl i had met in London a few weeks before, as i regretted never asking for her phone number after having to rush for a train. I found myself flying above London and eventually landed in leicester square where the spirit told me i should go. I finished the journey, left my house, got on the train and went to leicester square. The first person i talked to (a guy doing the charity stuff on the street) turned out to be one of the flat-mates of the girl! Einstein said 'co-incidences are God's way of remaining anonymous'. The point of this story is that the mystical stuff in Emerald Forest is factual. And it is not confined to rainforests, but in fact can be and is used in modern cities - ha ha and not just to save tribes but sometimes God willing to get girlfriends! Then also the idea that sickness (in the films case, a severe fever from enemy tribal poison), can be sucked out of someone in it's elemental energetic form- this is also ancient practise which traditionally one is merging with a helpful spirit to gain powerful protection beforehand - as is demonstrated in the film. All the mystical stuff is indeed actually down to earth, factual and to be embraced.And this is one particular thing which brings beautiful harmony to The Enchanted Forest - it is not just down to earth because of it's setting, because of good actors and acting or because of a good story - but because it has not been afraid to remain true to another part of life, inherent in the films settings and culture. That which perhaps seems overly mystical to the average western mind. For me it seemed nothing had been left out of the film, as often is the case in order to meet the wishes of studios, who only care about their profit and not the wealth of the film itself as a branch of art.Bear in mind that the whole film is based on a true story and really how can you go wrong? Adventurous, beautiful scenery, good acting, good characters, based on true story, unusual spiritual elements, emotional and action plus a good eco message leaving you wishing the whole world would watch it.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"A definite source Boorman used","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A definite source for The Emerald Forest is the book, Wizard of the Upper Amazon, by F. Bruce Lamb. The story is a second hand account of Manuel Cordova's kidnapping when he was a teenager working for rubber cutters in the Amazon in the early 1900s. He was taken by a group of Indians to a very remote, primitive Indian village. These Indians were of a fierce independent disposition, and had fled into the interior because they refused to exist in the subservient situation imposed on them by the rubber barons of that time. Cordova was incorporated into their tribe and describes a life strikingly similar to the one depicted in The Emerald Forest. The similarities include the adversarial tribe, the reason The Invisible People moved further into the Jungle, and the tribal ceremony with the hallucinogenic. "},{"Title":"Great exploration of man vs. the wild","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" THE EMERALD FOREST sees John Boorman returning to the dark heart of the world's wildernesses in this story about native tribes living in the Amazon. Powers Boothe plays an engineer whose son is kidnapped by one such tribe, leading him on a ten-year search for answers.The film works on a double level. First, it stands as a completely adequate action-adventure, with all manner of violent shoot-outs, especially a climactic showdown that brings back memories of hard-hitting '70s greats like ROLLING THUNDER. There's suspense a-plenty, along with strong turns from both Boothe and the director's son.The film's storyline also allows Boorman to explore themes that are clearly close to his heart, namely the destruction of the Amazonian rainforest by greedy developers and loggers, who turn out to be the real villains of the piece. Yes, it sounds like it could be preachy but it never is, thanks to Boorman's skill at handling the material with subtlety and grace.THE EMERALD FOREST is virtually unknown today - I caught it tucked away in a late-night showing - but it doesn't deserve to be; DELIVERANCE is the better known effort but this comes close at frequent intervals. "},{"Title":"Interesting look at the lifestyle of an Amazon tribe in the vanishing jungle where  a boy is taken by primitive men","Date":"23 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Ecological thriller that has in highlighting the destruction of the South American rain woods ; being based upon a real story and filmmaker John Boorman cast his own son , Charley Boorman , in the starring character . Bill Markham(Powers Boothe) moves his family to Brazil where has a job as an engineer in construction a dam project . After the son (Charley Boorman) of engineer is abducted by an aboriginal tribe on the edge of the rain forest, the engineer and his wife (Meg Foster) spend the next 10 years searching for him . Ultimately Markham is captured by a cannibal and bloodthirsty tribe and ironically rescued by Tomme, who only has dim memories of his biological dad . The teenager spends the next years living under jungle law and integrating an alternative lifestyle . Finally , the father discovering a happily adjusted boy who may not want to go back to so-called civilization . Although Bill wants desperately to have his son accompany him back to civilization, Tomme's loyalties now belong to The Invisible People. The rain forest of the Amazon are disappearing at the rate of 5000 acres day . Four million Indians once lives there , 120.000 remain.An ecological adventure with mystical touches that was ahead of its time in denounce about forest destruction . This exciting film contains thrills , emotion , adventure and action scenes of infighting between violent rival tribes that generate a lot of entertainment . Inspired by an uncredited story about a Peruvian whose son disappeared under similar circumstances . According to director John Boorman's book 'Money Into Light', his initial choice for the part of Tomme was C. Thomas Howell. When he was unavailable, John decided to use his own son Charley for the part. He plays a boy grabbed by tribesmen whose community is facing disappearance because of the building of a massive dam designed and built by his daddy . Glamorous and lush cinematography by Philippe Rousselot who photographs wonderfully the Amazon jungle , obviously filmed under difficult conditions on location .This engrossing and enjoyable film with interesting screenplay by Rosco Pallenberg was well directed by John Boorman . He's a good professional filmmaking from the 6os , though sparsely scattered and giving various classics . John started as an assistant direction and his friendship with Lee Marvin allowed him to work in Hollywood as ¨Point Blank¨ (1967) and ¨Hell in the Pacific¨ (1968) from where he returned to the UK and directed ¨Leo¨ (1970) , a rare Sci-Fi titled ¨Zardoz¨ (1974) or the ¨failure Exorcist II¨ (1977). His films are without exception among the most exciting visually in the modern cinema . He became famous for Excalibur (1981), the best of them , ¨Emerald forest¨ (1985) with a ecologist denounce included and his autobiographic story ¨Hope and Glory¨ (1987) and which brought him another Academy Award Nomination after ¨Deliverance¨ . Rating ¨Emerald forest¨ Better than average . Wholesome watching . "},{"Title":"Tushar/Chase's Movie Review","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The movie the Emerald Forest was a fictional story that was based on a true story. Boorman based his movie of a article that appeared in the Los Angeles Time in the early 1980's which talked about a father whose son was abducted by native tribes and rediscovered ten years later. This may be a true story although there are critics out there who claim that the man made up the story because he wanted attention. The Emerald Forest was a very good film. The Emerald Forest was the first film to bring up the issue of the destruction of the Amazon. The locations are picturesque and Boorman is able to capture the cultural authenticity of the native tribes of the Amazon. What really surprised me was that Boorman did not use actors but went deep into the jungles of Brazil to find real natives to give his a film an authentic feel. This was especially true regarding the Invisible People who Boorman portrayed as a mysterious and elusive tribe which is demonstrated when they are camouflaged in the jungle and manage to stroke Tommy's face with a feather undetected by his family who are only a few feet a away from the Invisible People. That being said although Boorman did capture the authenticity of the native tribes and address the issue of deforestation the storyline was a little dull and cliché. This movie contains all the clichés that other movies have where a white man meets the natives. The first major cliché we can see in the movie is when the white men come they bring with them guns and alcohol and of course they exploit the natives. Another cliché is that as the white men come and development and progress disturbs the native's way of living as well as destroy the rainforest. The final cliché which we see in a lot of movies where natives play a predominant role is that the native lifestyle is portrayed as a sanctuary that sin has never entered. I still believe the film was good and I understand for the most part that is really what happens but Boorman could have made the film a bit more interesting and different and still portray his message. The preservation of the rainforest can easily be identified as the overriding and most obvious theme portrayed in this movie. The concern for maintaining the rainforest is demonstrated through the presumed wisdom we are called to see in the American Indian elders, however; Bill Markham is blind to this wisdom until the end of the movie. A few statistics are also thrown around in the movie concerning the role the Amazon plays in the world and how the white man is destroying it all by bringing industry to the area. The statistics are thrown around in a subtle way for Markham to realize the implications and damage he has caused by building the damn, showing them as being far greater and vaster than he had expected. It was powerful to hear the reporter say that 40 percent of the world's oxygen supply is generated by the rain forests and watch Markham dismiss him because of his ignorance to the real issue. Also, the movie goes on to assert that 5,000 acres of Amazonian rainforest is disappearing every day. This is actually generous. Once Markham realizes the vastness of the problem, the tables had already been turned on him. He too is kidnapped and is rescued by his son Tomme. This scene was powerful because it shows that the boy had actually become loyal to his kidnappers and what they stand for, not the white man plight for development and industrialization. Through all of Bill's begging and pleading, he wouldn't return back to civilization with his biological father. What does it reveal to his Bill? He finally understands the destruction of life he had contributed to over the past 10 years and tries to undo his wrong by letting a violent thunderstorm destroy the dam they built. "},{"Title":"A Fictional Ecological Adventure","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The American engineer Bill Markham (Powers Boothe) moves with his wife Jean Markham (Meg Foster) and children to Amazonas to work in the construction of a dam. When he brings his son Tommy to the site forest, the boy is abducted by the tribe of the Invisible People and brought to rain forest. Bill spends ten years seeking out Tommy in the forest. When he finally meets Tommy, he is an Indian and does not want to leave his tribe and return to the civilization. But when Tommy's mate Kachiri (Dira Paes) and the women of his tribe are kidnapped by a gang of white slaves to work in a brothel in the forest, Tommy searches Bill in the big city to help his tribe to rescue the female Indians. The Emerald Forest is a fictional ecological adventure by John Boorman. The plot is entertaining and it is laughable to read absurd such as based on a true story. The Brazilian Indians have been burying their dead for centuries as part of the work of the missionaries. The habit of burning and eating the ashes is before the arrival of the missionaries. The destruction of the forest is a reality provoked by farmers and overseas companies with economical interest in our wood. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) A Floresta das Esmeraldas (The Emerald Forest) "},{"Title":"This is a good adventure with vibrant colors, scenery and awesome action sequences","Date":"19 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" WARNING This review may include spoilers Although this film may have been based on a true story, the actual account is not as the movie producers have chosen to depict their story line. I enjoyed the film simply because the beginning of the story, as well as the end of the story are factual, and the flow of the movies storyline will keep the audience's attention. A 10 year old boy named Tommy was taken away from his family at the edge of the forest where his father was working and raised by an Amazon tribe. Ten years would past before father and son are eventually re-united and the young innocent child is now a fully grown man and an experienced tribesman of the Amazon forest.What I enjoyed about the film was how the young child named Tommy was transformed in to tribesman and hunter Tomme (after a ten year elapsed time is noted) grew in to a man and accepted his new life by the Amazon tribe who abducted him. When Tomme's father continues to build a bridge over the next several years so that heavy industrial equipment can cross the river and strip away the rain forest trees, the story takes on a different message. It is now a fight between the Amazon tribesman who are witnessing their land being stripped away by the white man and his heavy machinery to build this monster bridge, and a father's perseverance to find his lost son Tommy and bring him home to his mother.Excellent performances are noted as the actors playing the adult Tomme (Charley Boorman), Tomme's father Bill Markham (Powers Boothe), Jean Markham (Meg Foster) and Tomes' love interest tribeswoman Kachiri (Dira Paes). I found the scenery and interaction amongst the various Amazon tribes provided the audience with some insight as to how the Amazon tribes fought, protected, lived and even forged for food. John Boorman is an accomplished film maker both as a producer and director whose body of work also includes other highly acclaimed films such as Deliverance (1972) and the Tailor of Panama (2001).The Emerald Forest is an action/adventure story based on some real events which I mentioned earlier. If you can accept the film as nothing more than an opportunity to escape reality for two hours and vision yourself trying to survive in the dense Amazon forest than I believe you will enjoy director John Boorman's visionary story. Get yourself a good drink and some snacks, sit back and escape to The Emerald Forest. I give the film a strong 8 out of 10 rating. "},{"Title":"Rich, interesting, educating and full of suspense","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I liked this movie a lot. It began as a story of a lost child and the father's never-ending search for him, and that is of course heart-rendering to all parents. But then it became so much more, not least a statement against the white man's ongoing destruction of the rain-forests - compared to the native Indians sustainable life-style in accord with nature.One got to learn a lot about the native Indians' life in the rain-forests, and this was very interesting... although I cannot help asking, if it was not just a LITTLE bit embellished..? I mean, not every tribe would have such a wise and empathic chief for instance, and I suppose not every father would have accepted a suitor from another race for his daughter, that easily... adopted or not.This movie evoked a lot of thoughts and questions. For instance I asked myself could I have been happy if I had been abducted by such a tribe when I was a little girl? Would their tribal life, including very early marriages, many child-births and tasks strictly divided between men and women, and sometimes spiced up with magic, have been worse than the life that we modern western women have? When we try to juggle family and career? Provided that life with the tribe would really have been as idyllic as in the movie, I cannot answer that question with a definite yes or no... "}{"Title":"Well, this film IS beautifully photographed","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Well, this film is beautifully photographed. There are a couple of other Amazon rain forest films that come to mind, Medicine Man and At Play in the Fields of the Lord. Both are better. This one isn't terrible, it is just so simplistic as to become preachy. It also has mile-wide plot holes. The Indian tribe adopted the main character's son. I don't know much about Amazon tribes, but in North America, in frontier times, the tribes there would occasionally adopt captives. Of course, at other times, they would torture them to death, whether man, woman, or child. Oddly, the tribe's women were all shapely and pretty. Didn't see any that were old, fat, or ugly. I appreciate the aesthetics of this, but the realism takes a hit. Powers Boothe was singularly in need of a charisma transplant, or the movie in general needed some star power. It is okay, but that's all. "},{"Title":"Everybody is naked!!  Well, almost.","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" DVD rental from Netflix, the video is very nice, the sound is only Prologic for this older movie.It is best to say this movie was inspired by real events, but certainly does not closely represent what actually happened when an US Engineer in charge of building a dam in the Amazon lost his young son who was about 7 at the time. He learns 10 years later that the blonde boy was actually taken by the tribe who call themselves the invisible people because with their green-based markings make themselves almost invisible in the Amazon forest.Powers Boothe is the Engineer, Bill Markham. He never gives up and over the 10-year construction of the dam finally locates his son, who has grown up as a member of the tribe, embracing their ways and his new father and mother.The Tommy of 17 is played by the director's son, Charley Boorman. His tribe calls him Tomme which is derived from his birth name. Tomme has reached the age where he must go through the ritual to become a man, then take a young girl as his wife. His chosen one is pretty Dira Paes as Kachiri, a resident of the neighboring friendly tribe. Dira was just an ordinary girl who grew up in the Amazon, and according to her IMDb information was about 15 during filming in this, her first movie. I see she has gone on to a nice acting career, and photos show she grew into a very attractive woman. She has a great smile and reminds me of Jennifer Lopez.The drama starts when owners of a brothel bargain with some hostile natives, known as the fierce people. For a machine gun and ammunition, if they will bring in some new young ladies. They end up raiding the village, killing some, and kidnapping a dozen or so young ladies, including Kachiri, and forcing them into prostitution. Tomme searches for and finds his original dad again, to get his help to defeat the fierce people and get their women back. Another interest is conservation of the rain forest, and in the end Tomme prays for frogs, because when the frogs sing it rains. An unexpected flood tears down the almost complete dam and that area of the native forest is safe for a while.Good movie, and probably fairly authentic since the director lived with a native tribe for a while to get a feel for their ways. There is of course a lot of natural nudity, but it seems authentic rather than erotic. Much like what is in The Bounty with Mel Gibson. "},{"Title":"The Best Film I have ever seen and it will never be topped","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is an amazing movie about a father dedicated to finding his son who has been abducted by native Americans in south America. My mother stumbled across it some time ago and recorded it for me claiming she had watched it over a decade ago and it stuck with her since. I watched it with my girlfriend and we were both amazed by the film! I would not normally expect much from an old film but this one had everything. The scenery was amazing, the acting was excellent and the plot keeps your heart racing. The abducted kid grows to become one of the natives and embarks on an amazing adventure following his fathers 10 year search for him. It brings you deep into the amazon rainforest as you learn about the life of 'the invisible people' tribesmen and their conflict with another terryfing tribe. I cannot understand how this film has such a low rating nor the fact that it is not well known. If you stumble across it be sure to watch because in my opinion this is the greatest film ever made!! "},{"Title":"Mango Breakfast Club","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I like to watch in pairs, and this was paired with Herzog's Green Ants Dream.The central character here is a teen, played by the director's son, who is kidnapped by Amazonian Indians at six and raised in nature. There are threats, adventures, encounters with civilization. They provide the focus of the energy in this thing. Its all about that energy which we take from the juice of adolescence, perceive as the energy of an action movie and conflate (as we are intended to) with the natural richness of the rainforest.Its a simple trick, but by gosh it works. Why is not a mystery the teen drive is transformed into something pure here, done so by the actresses who play the teen Indian girls, lovely, and effectively nude. In order to underscore the point, the plot has them (importantly, as a group) kidnapped into civilization as a the complement of the original kidnapping. But the purpose here is prostitution. When someone knows what they are doing and delivers the goods, its always a remarkable thing. The narrative engineering conveys the lack of engineering, and makes us desire the purity of encountering things without artifice.Conveying this notion is then mixed with a completely unrelated message about the destruction of the rainforest and its central importance to the global ecology. Its rather dishonest, this, but because its such a noble cause we let it slip. But its a shame. In their defense, the acknowledge that just being native doesn't endow goodness there is an evil tribe. Part of the tragedy is not shown natives everywhere in the world aggressively damage the environment as much as their capabilities allow.The perfect delicacy of this puts Apocalypto to shame. Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Racist ethnocentric bullshit movie with good rain forest shots","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Pelo amor de deus, this movie is certainly one of the most racist and ethnocentric movies ever made. Hard to believe that it is from 1985 and not 1885. Boorman illustrated the average white civilized persons imagination of primitive tribes who by and large behave like a bunch of monkeys. Or, worse than that, cannibalistic monkeys who disguise like African zombies from another white mans fantasy. The acting is so poor and clumsy that it is almost comical, and, worst of all, the fake Indian language is just a slightly distorted English with even the exact same amount of syllables as the English sentence would have. This movie so utterly ridiculous - and discriminatory - that its stupid colonialist disdainfulness towards indigenous people almost completely destroys its somewhat ecological message. "},{"Title":"'The Emerald Forest' is a solid entry into the 80s action adventure category that stands on its own with its originality, despite the lack of hardcore action.","Date":"12 August 2015","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This 1985 action/adventure film is fairly heavy handed and tends to shy away from the ultra violent action movies of the 80s that starred the Stallones, the Schwarzeneggers, or the Lundgrens at the height of their career. Instead, this is more of an episodic film, based on a true story that is more melodramatic in nature with elaborate character development and a big glaring message about industry vs nature. Director John Boorman ('Deliverance', 'Hope and Glory', 'The Exorcist II') chose to film 'The Emerald Forest' on location in the Amazon rainforest, which gives us a beautiful glimpse at the native people, the wildlife, and its surroundings. This is one of Boorman's more direct stories he has put on film and the result is a satisfying look at what parents would do for their children.The first segment of 'The Emerald Forest' has us meeting a chief engineer named Bill (Powers Boothe), who is in the Amazon rainforest with his wife Jean (Meg Foster) and their two very young children. Bill is in charge of overseeing the construction of a giant dam that will restrict the flow of water to parts of the rainforest, which will flatten the land for future industrial and commercial buildings to be constructed. Boorman clearly shows which side he is on as he delicately shows us the beauty and wonder of the trees and animals, whereas the big bad city people are using their big tractors and fire to destroy the beautiful land.Bill and Jean's young son is stolen by an indigenous tribe located in the heart of the forest known as 'The Invisible People', which causes despair for the family. We cut to ten years later where Bill and Jean are still living in Brazil where the dam is almost fully built. They are still trying to repair their broken lives without their son through work and charity. Bill walks with a journalist through the forest and comes across his now grown boy (Charley Boorman) after ten years. and is a contributing member of this new tribe and about to go through some big rituals into full fledged manhood. Bill soon realizes that what was once his son, now belongs to this primitive tribe.The film switches gears and puts this reconnection on the back burner and focuses on another tribe, which is a much more violent people with more advanced weapons than the usual spears and rocks, known as the 'Fierce People', who are about to wage war on the peaceful 'Invisible People'. Meanwhile, the damn construction is nearing completion and the entire group of tribes have to keep moving further deep into the forest to avoid being killed or taken by authorities. And now Bill must make a big decision. Does he help his lost son and his tribe stand up and fight the bad guys and stop the dam, or does he move on, keeping his life's work in tact. It's a pretty powerful story.But Boorman doesn't focus very much on the reconnection or kidnapping of Bill's son, which in my opinion was a very vital and integral part of the story. Not much time is given to the initial kidnapping and quickly fast forwards ten years into the future. And when the reconnection happens between father and son, it should have been a bigger moment, but Boorman focuses on the nature vs industry aspect right away with the construction of the dam and the rival tribes. Then, the last climactic few scenes of the film is a straight up revenge flick where Bill and his son come to respect each other's decision to move on with their separate lives.Both Boothe and Foster turn in great performances as parents who are coping with the lost of one of their kids. Their anger and depression truly shows in their faces and body language throughout. 'The Emerald Forest' is a solid entry into the 80s action adventure category that stands on its own with its originality, despite the lack of hardcore action. "},{"Title":"Very good film, strong avocation for environmental justice","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Emerald Forest is a movie far ahead of its times. The move powerfully shows the imminent danger caused by the increasing destruction of the Amazon forest. Boorman does an excellent job showing the lives of the native Indians and their ability to live in harmony with the forest, contrasting it against the white man's careless and harsh way of destroying the forest to make clearings. The Emerald Forest does a wonderful job showing the need for environmental justice. The metaphor used by the Invisible People, in calling the white men Termite People, was very powerful. It serves as a perfect example of how the white men chews down trees. The scenes of the Invisible Peoples intimate contact with the forest and animals around them was powerful. They live as one with the forest, both helping each other. Tommy is one the most powerful characters in the movie as he successfully serves as a bridge that connects the outside world with the Invisible People. The movie could have been better if it showed more of the Invisible People's daily lives, more of their interaction with their world. It could also have showed more of the effects the loss of forest had on the Indians, how the Indians lives changed when they were forced to live in the city. The most important scene in the movie was when the Invisible People's women were taken into the city and forced to wear clothes. It seems completely different and unnatural. The huge contrast of the Invisible People's way of living strongly advocated for the preservation of the forest. The main character, Tommy, as a young boy was taken by the Chief of the Invisible People to save him from the Termite people. The Invisible People calls the white man the Termite people because they chew away the grandfather trees and destroys the forest. Like their name, the Invisible People is able to live in perfect harmony with the earth, leaving nothing behind and never taking more than they need, thus leaving the forest the way it were; as if they had never been there. For ten years, Tommy grows up among the Invisible People, learning their ways and truly becomes one of them. Meanwhile, tommy's family never stopped looking for him. During their search, Tommy's mother came into contact with an overflowing number of abandoned children, leading her to start to help them. Using the arrow shot at him during Tommy's abduction, Tommy's father was able to deduce that the tribe who took him is called the Invisible People. During this time, Tommy undergoes a rite of passage and becomes a man. He then sees his spirit animal and goes on a quest to obtain the special rocks that produce the paint which allows the Invisible people to blend into the forest. Although the journey was extremely dangerous due to the strongly violent Fierce People who often attack the Invisible People, Tommy successfully reaches the rocks. Coincidentally, tommy's father arrives at the same place at the same time. Father and son immediately recognizes each other and together, they fend off the Fierce People and returns safely among the Invisible People.Markham, Tommy's father was harmed during this ordeal and rests up in with the Invisible People. Tommy, having successfully returned with prized stones, was hailed as a hero and accepted by Kachiri, a beautiful girl. Tommy and Kachiri have a courtship ritual and comes together. After recovering, Markham wants to take Tommy back to civilization, but Tommy adamantly refuses. Tommy convinces Markham to take the pipe and in doing so, Markham sees his spirit animal and understands the Invisible people better. Still, he insists on going back, because that is where he belongs. A group of the Invisible people help him go to the edge of the World, which is the end of the forest. On their way back, the Invisible people see smoke rising from their home, panicking, they race back to find their campgrounds destroyed and burned, several members killed, and all of their young women gone. The Fierce People had attacked while they were gone and had taken the women into the city to be used as prostitutes. After cremating the dead and drinking some of their ashes, they once again set out to rescue their women. They venture into unknown territory, filled with strange trees (electricity poles) and weird branches (barbed wires). The Fierce People are now armed with guns, which the Invisible People's bows and arrows are no match for. Tommy, desperate to get Kachiri back goes on a quest to find his father. Reaching far back into his memory, he remembers his house and he climbs several floors to reach his parent's apartment. With Markham's help they successfully rescue all the women. As they part ways, Markham tells Tommy of the dam, and how with its completion, more white men will come. Tommy, naïve and optimistic, believe that if they ask for heavy rain, the dam will be washed away. So they return to their home and ask the frogs to sing extra loud. Heavy rain comes for several days, resulting in a large flood. Markham secretly helps by placing dynamites at the base of the dam, bursting it open, giving Tommy and his tribe more time in the unaltered forest. "},{"Title":"Second watching still enjoyable","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Emerald Forest is certainly guilty of oversimplifying the displacement of tribal peoples, but I remembered it fondly. I watched it on video, soon after it came out, and again this morning. I found that I had long since forgotten all the flashy aspects of the plot (the cannibals, the machine gun and the sex slavers), but remembered the courtship ritual very clearly. The parts I had forgotten seemed a bit forced, harder to believe.After my first viewing, I was certain that Daddee Bill had blown up the dam. Now I'm not so sure it wasn't coming down anyway.Also, it was hard not to be reminded of Jungle2Jungle (http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0119432/) while watching it now, especially where the son mystically finds his father's skyscraper apartment in a large city. "},{"Title":"Excellent Adventure Story, Except For Dumb Ending","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is a very entertaining adventure story, marred only by a stupid voodoo ending. The story grabs you almost from the very start as a young boy, son of Americans, is whisked away from his parents by Amazon rain forest natives. Ten years later, the kid - now being a teenager - is discovered by his father who had never stopped searching for him. During that search, and afterward, we are witness to numerous action scenes, really nice jungle photography and just a fascinating story.The cinematography, involving story, no profanity and just plain good adventure all make this movie an entertaining one. Just ignore what's put at the end, which is insult to anyone of any intelligence but Hollywood can't stop giving credence to any Indian mythologies and superstitions. "},{"Title":"Excellent  Movie","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I thought that the movie was dramatic with heart touching scenes.I would like to see a sequel to this movie.The ending does leave one to wonder what will happen to the Invisible People.Also a story line could be built on the idea that Tomme is now the Chief.A future sequel could show us how the tribe has thrived under the leadership of Tomme.This sequel could also show us Tomme and Kachiri and their family.I would like to see Tomme teaching his children about the traditions that were passed down to him from his adopted father Wanadi. "}{"Title":"The Emerald Forest","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Tommy is taken from his family by an Amazon tribe called The Invisible Ones and father Bill spends ten years searching for him. After finding a few leads, he has an encounter with a dangerous cannibal tribe called The Fierce Ones and actually stumbles on his son as he tries to flee for his life. The dilemma of the piece comes with a decision left up to Tommy, leave his tribe which are essentially his real family after ten years of living with them or joining his father in the modern civilization across the river.The film is more a focus on how modernization, progress if you will, has began to wipe out the trees and land of Amazon tribes as they slowly die out. Interesting enough is that Bill is a model example of this type of progress as he heads a log dam which clears land once civilized by The Fierce Ones tribe. He will spend time with The Invisible Ones tribe and find the error of his ways seeing that what he and others(White Man)are doing to people who have lived here for centuries destroying cultures. We also see how the ugliness of prostitution has became a stigma to tribes as The Fierce Ones trade women from The Invisible Ones tribe for machine guns. Using the machine guns, The Fierced Ones have a clear advantage over The Invisible Ones and their mere spears. Again, through that we see how progress can also destroy a civilization..The Fierce Ones can wipe out who they deem a threat and/or nuisance with advanced weaponry.When The Invisible Ones lose a great deal of their men to those machine gun attacks, Tomme(his name amongst his tribe)will search for his father across the river for help to get back their women who have been traded to a prostitution house.Stunning cinematography(by Philippe Rousselot)and score are highlights of this amazingly shot film set in the Amazon. Through Boorman's fluid camera-work, we follow the characters as they travel to destinations in the immense forest, yet see what is happening as modernization is chopping away the trees that once populated said Amazon forest. I thought the angle of the modern age clashing with tribal customs in the form of Tommy to be the strong point of the film while the progress part of the film as it pertains to the cultures being wiped out laid on a bit too thick. I didn't quite like the remaining twenty minutes(the deal with the prostitution ring resulting in heavy violence and the whole rain ordeal as it destroys the dam) as much as the first hour as Powers Booth's Bill was amongst a culture of people he knew nothing about. Seeing his son almost completely tribal is interesting not to mention the viewer getting a glimpse into a unique culture of people and their ways of living. The mythological aspects were also diverting from the realism of the film(if a wee bit silly).Young Charley Boorman is quite impressive as Tomme. "},{"Title":"A Boorman Classic","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A movie that totally blew me away when I first saw it. Somehow I've missed out on anything like it if there is. Why?It contains action, drama and has somewhere I think a conscience, but I'm not sure.Mr Boorman is such a talented filmmaker who every time somethings bordering on getting personal, might it be action or drama or feelings in general, put a little distance between the audience and the camera again. Its not much, hardly noticeable.What is does however is that it render the movie tones of reality, tiny pieces of documentary that somehow also makes it a powerful statement without indulging in pointers. Still its no lame movie. It just has nuancesThis might be seen as total contrast to many Hollywood action movies, who instead indulge themselves in personal feelings of the protagonists, and even heighten them technically, in order to manipulate the audience to co-feeling. We as an audience are relieved of the responsibility of our feelings, somewhat.Mr Boorman leaves us with a choice.Something about the story then An American architect works in south America, on the border of the Amazon, One day his young son is kidnapped by indians....cant tell you more. Sorry... ). This is the start off.A must see.... "},{"Title":"Eye-Popping Amazonian Rainforest Adventure Drama","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A construction designer working in the Amazon is visiting a logging site with his family when his seven-year-old son Tommy is kidnapped by native tribesmen and vanishes into the rainforest. Ten years later, after an expedition in which he is captured by cannibals, the father is finally reunited with the son, who has been raised by the savages and knows no other way of life.This is a pretty unique picture, even if the roots of the story obviously come from Tarzan, because it manages to be three things at once; an exciting jungle action flick, an intimate family drama and a sobering environmental message movie. It manages to achieve this I think partly because of the excellent script by Rospo Pallenberg, and partly because there are no big-shot movie stars in the cast looking ridiculous in the jungle. Boothe and Foster are both terrific and virtually everyone else is an authentic-looking non-actor (Polonah in particular, as Wanadi, the Chief of the Invisible People and Tommy's surrogate father, is superb). The casting of the director's son in the pivotal role is a bit ethically shaky, but the younger Boorman is not only ideal for the role (his almost-too-good-looking features and brilliant blonde locks contrast perfectly with the tribespeople) but he delivers a carefully measured performance of confident innocence. The heartachingly beautiful locations, the rich detail of the Invisible People's customs and a terrific electro-ethnic score by Junior Homrich all add tremendous atmosphere to an extremely original and captivating film. A jungle adventure not to be missed. "},{"Title":"to Mr. Fedor Markovic","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Regarding Mr. Fedor Markovic comment, I would say what we have forgotten is that we belong to the Earth, we are just part of it, not the owners. It is as simple as that, and this is a quite old, tribal, basic knowledge that we seem to have forgotten. For what I know, the Gilgamesh poem already dealt with this subject, and it was written quite a few years ago. We are very clever, very civilized, advanced human beings, but maybe we are not improving. Maybe we are not progressing, but we are declining. And we don't remember, we don't know how to use our knowledge. However, I doubt Mr. Markovic can realize. He is very comfortable sitting at his sofa. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie. I have watched this movie several times when I was growing up. It is a great storie and a well made movie. It's been at least 7 or  8 years since I watched it but I remember it like it was yesterday. The story with the father searching for his son in the jungle by himself with a gun? and he indians trying to stop him, very well done. The part when they are drugged is perhaps bad but otherwise great. It is one of the great eighties-movies that meant a lot to me, especially watching it with my parents. Looking forward seeing it on teve again some time.  "},{"Title":"Best skin flick I ever saw.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have to admit what I liked most about this movie was the authentic costumes of the Amazonian people in their natural habitat -- they were 98% naked. This is however, NOT your basic titillating skin flick in spite of what my summary says. The nudity was tasteful and totally appropriate...OTOH, the acting was weak, and the fake indian language was downright embarassing. I think I heard Tommy's indian father say dizzy Monday when referring to the civilized world! This made me wonder about the authenticity of the other aspects of indian life presented in the movie -- for example, the coming of age, selecting and proposing a wife, and a marriage ceremony. I would like to believe that is how it's really done by one or another people in the Amazon, but just don't know.All in all, I did enjoy the movie quite a lot, but mostly for the visual beauty. For a better-produced Amazon movie, see At Play in the Fields of the Lord. "},{"Title":"Important, touching, and beautiful","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The quintessential eco-drama of civilization, so-called, in conflict with cultures more attuned to nature.  Compare to Greystoke the Legend of Tarzan.  My favorite quote from this film is the native chief explaining the limitations on his powers to the father of the long-lost boy Any chief who doesn't tell his followers what they want to hear doesn't stay chief very long.  Do see this beautiful and poignant movie. "},{"Title":"It is a bitter sweet story about a father who could never make his son happier then he already had become.","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Bill Markham, Powers Boothe (U-Turn, Nixon) is an engineer who moved to Brazil  to develop a water dam in the Amazon Jungle. After a day in the woods on a picnic with his family,  his son Tommy,  innocently started watching ants and walked into the jungle.  The Invisible People, native Brazilian Indians that colored their faces so well that it blended with the trees and the habitat in general, took Tommy with them. The son just disappeared in the jungle. After a search the parents could not find the boy. Tommy grows up raised by the Indians and adjusts to their culture and customs and is called Tomme. Tomme is a happy native now. There is a book about the making of Emerald Forest,  an  international endeavor. The book tells about the difficulties in making a movie in the Amazon jungle, because of the environmentalists, and the bureaucracy.   The director,  John Boorman (Hell in the Pacific) was determined that his son, Charley Boorman (Hope and Glory), would not play Tomme, but he could not find anyone else to play Tomme and his son ends up with the part. The movie gives a lot of insight in the native Brazilian Indians. Tomme dreams about his father Bill Markham. When Tomme is a young adult, about to be married to young native, he runs into his father, who is still searching for him.  This  is a very poignant and moving moment  in this movie. Tomme recognizes him and trusts him because he is the  man in his dreams whom he calls Dada. Markham wants his son to go back to the white man's Civilization, but Tomme is now a native and no longer fits in that civilization, no matter how civilized it is. Tomme goes visiting the apartment complex where the parents lived when another tribe armed by white men stole his tribe's women. He had started remembering things.  He sees the place where he lived during a trace in which he becomes his guardian spirit, a Harpy eagle.  Instead of taking the elevator,  he climbs to the top floor balcony on the outside of the building! He had become one of the best warriors in the tribe, but the other tribe has guns.  When Tomme goes into the white man civilization, there is evil  drinkers, rape, abuse to the native Indians, and all the unfairness that is common to the natives around the world. Tomme lived in a very innocent environment where the natives lived as any society lives. Tomme is happy there. It is absolutely impossible to bring him out from the culture he now knows.  Tomme is  married to a beautiful native and is happy! The father now realizes what civilization is doing to the Amazon  forest and finally destroys the dam that threatened  the life of the natives.  Now he had a reason  the happiness of his own son depends on it. The father is now against the development that he was hired to accomplish. The cinematography is beautiful. The natives to our surprise were actors. Boorman refused to use natives in the movie for fear of corrupting them. The actors did such a great job that we thought they were real natives. There are beautiful moments of tenderness between the natives and Tomme. It is a bitter sweet story because Markham could never make his son happier than he already was, and lost forever chance of  knowing his son and making him happy. My favorite scenes the son in the water fall discovering his own sexuality with a group of female natives, where a son and father meet, the dances of the natives. There was a lot of work involved in this movie.  "},{"Title":"Certainly no bad movie but it makes some wrong choices.","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie makes some odd choices. On the one hand it's a good looking and also clearly professionally made movie with lots of talent involved but it just makes some wrong choices in its storytelling.The movie obviously starts of as a dramatic 'based on true' events movie but soon as the movie starts to progresses it starts taking some obvious 'Hollywood' turns, with its emotions and action and the story becomes more unlikely and clichéd. Of course nothing wrong with this, since it definitely makes the movie an entertaining and bit of adventurous one. But in this case the approach doesn't really work out, since it also obviously is a movie that wants to be taken seriously and has a clear message in it. You know, the kind of message to 'save the rain forest'. It also uses lots of technology vs. nature elements. I'll admit that this movie is a better attempt than all Steven Seagal attempts combined but no, that doesn't mean that this movie is a perfect or truly successful attempt on its own. The movie seems to lack the proper emotions to see this as a completely effective one, though the right intentions are definitely there. I mean for instance, the characters within this movie see each other again for the first time in 10 years but yet they seem hardly affected by it all.The natives scenes also aren't always among the best or most interesting one's out of the movie. Sure the nature environments are beautiful looking but it slows the movie a bit down in the middle, which also is in big contrast with the serious and dramatic first part of the movie and the action filled final part. The entire movie doesn't always feel like one whole. The parts of it are all too disjointed.It nevertheless it is a rather good- and also entertaining enough movie to watch, despite its obvious flaws and bad choices in the storytelling. And hey, it's got Powers Booth!7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"14 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The plot is about a father who is trying to find his son from the jungle where a group of Indians captured the boy when he was just a child. The movie depicts very unconvincingly the life of this isolated Indian tribe with which the boy grows up. In the same time the western world is destroying the nearby jungles - cutting off trees and building a big dam.The story is quite uninteresting and the acting is mediocre at best, horrible at worst. The viewer doesn't relate with the characters at all. There is also a pro-environmental point of view in the movie, but it is left under all kinds of corny non-sense.There are million ways this movie could have been better the relationship of the son and the father could have been depicted more and better, or the movie could have concentrated more clearly on the environmental issues. But all that we remember after seeing this two-hour-long movie is some imaginary Indian tribe (in which all the women seem to be young and beautiful girls) taking hallucinogens and speaking their mumbo jumbo language. If I was Native American, I'd be insulted.The only reason that I watched this movie was because it got good reviews in the local newspaper (this is something I am very disappointed in) and it seems to have gotten quite a good average rating in IMDb.com also (which is unbelievable). It's not the worst movie in the history of cinema, but even with just a little better script, directing and acting it would have been much more enjoyable flick. "}{"Title":"Tarzan with beautiful Naked Native Nymphs","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  For those of you that stole (or borrowed) your parent's National Geographics, for whatever purpose, this is the film for you.  You would be hard pressed to find any better looking native girls going around topless and mostly bottomless anywhere( and they actually *hate* wearing western style clothes!-great scene there)This movie is mostly a Tarzan adventure about a boy lost in the Amazon(no plug intended) rain forest that was brought up by natives instead of apes. Lots of nostalgia about a way of life that has been lost because of ecological destruction caused by man's progress.  Usually such proselytizing would make for a pretty boring movie, but Boorman keeps the action lively with cannibals, naked native women, forced prostitution, gunfights, knifefights, spearfights and the like.National Geographic was never like this! "},{"Title":"Great movie about a dying civilization","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is also one of my favorite movies, along with Dances with Wolves and Last of the Mohicans.  It makes me sigh to think of the beautiful native civilization, where people live in harmony with nature.  It really points out how messed up things are in our civilization.  The native scenes are gorgeous, both in the scenery and in the relationships portrayed.  Definitely a worthy film. "},{"Title":"A Great Story","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite movies, the clash between mysticism and modernization.  The editing wasn't the best but the cinematography was breathtaking.  I especially like the scene in the waterfall when Bill and Tommy first see each other; it is very moving. "},{"Title":"Just a good movie","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. It was great and very watchable. This movie  made me laugh, cry, boo, and stand up and haller. It was fun and an enjoyable movie. This movie was the mother of all action adventure/native killing/ shooting stuff/ blowing up stuff movies. "},{"Title":"Jungle adventure, good for awhile....","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Emerald Forest is a beautiful, somewhat touching tale of a child's abduction by aboriginals, and a diligent ten year search for the missing son by his father. The rain forest location photography is stunning, and the story actually believable for awhile. Beyond the half way point however, things deteriorate quickly. A film that started out as possibly based on fact, suddenly shifts gears into the realm of fantasy. Tall buildings are scaled with ease, visions locate people, and Powers Boothe goes into Rambo mode. Then, to top things off, comes an ecological message that is supposed to be taken seriously, even after the nonsense that precedes it. - MERK "},{"Title":"Invisible people","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While modern cinema has reflected changing attitudes towards various social issues, and message movies were consistently popular from the 60s to the 80s, it was startling sometimes how naïve they could be in the name of a good cause. The Emerald Forest was one of a number of environmentalist pictures from the 1980s, when the green movement was really starting to grow. It makes a few good points. It gets everything else wrong.You see, The Emerald Forest (directed by John Boorman and scripted by his long-term collaborator Rospo Pallenberg) is so keen to make a statement on the ravages of industrial expansion, the power of nature and the benefits of being in touch with the wild that it frequently leaves logic on the doorstep. In this world, primitive has to be shown winning out over advanced, and so Charley Boorman's bow-and-arrows proves to be more effective than Powers Boothe's gun no matter how improbably this seems. Not that imaginations can't be stretched, but time and again the stretch is so distractingly flagrant that it becomes obvious a point is being made, and it makes the movie seem more preachy.Things get worse when we come to the portrayal of the indigenous people. Obviously best intentions were meant, but this is at best patronising and at worst crude. On the one hand we have the noble natives living as one with nature, and then there are the bad natives, a bunch of grunting savages straight out of a 1930s safari flick. The attitude seems to be that these people are simply aspects of nature &#x96; sometimes kind, sometimes cruel, but not really endowed with the complexity of humanity. The simplicity of the Invisible and Fierce Peoples is almost akin to the stark dichotomy of good-guys-in-white versus bad-guys-in-black that you see in old Westerns. And even though the way of the invisibles is presented as an ideal, it does involve the ritualistic clubbing of women over the head as a prelude to courtship. But the women are shown to like this, so apparently that makes it OK&#x85;Admittedly, John Boorman is an exceptionally good director, one who crafted pictures of sublime rhythm and breathtaking beauty. He presents the rainforest as not only lovely to look at, but also deep, endless and all-enveloping, with fronds curling all around the frame, and distant vanishing points visible even in dense jungle. In contrast, any scenes in urban areas look dirty and cramped. He exercises wonderful control over colours. Really, this is a two-tone movie, having only the green of the forest and the brown of the city, the occasional flash of red just giving the shades that little bit of definition. And in spite of everything, Pallenberg's characters do at least have enough dignity to stir up some genuine poignancy for Boothe's reunion with his son.But there are still many other areas of naffness in The Emerald Forest. Powers Boothe is a stupendously dull actor, to the point where I can only assume his being cast was to make some point about wooden things not being chopped down. Eduardo Conde, the photographer who accompanies Boothe into the forest, is unnecessarily ugly, with an awful combination of long hair, bald pate and monobrow. The best performance is that of a young Charley Boorman, before everyone knew him as Ewan MacGregor's motorbiking chum, getting very much into his role as the assimilated white boy. But why do he and Boothe, when apparently conversing in the tribal language, in fact speak English with a few swapped letters? I mean, I'm no expert on Quechua dialects but I very much doubt the indigenous way of saying I killed a monkey is Ah kinned a vunky.It's typical of 80s enthusiasm that those responsible for The Emerald Forest probably thought they were making something profound and hard-hitting, but with hindsight we can look back upon it as every bit as awkward, vaguely offensive and even unintentionally funny as many movies from the generation before it. "},{"Title":"This is a true example of terrible human's actions about the ecology and which shows us that native men's rights are not respected.","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" (My English isn't excellent , I'm learning it at school)When I saw this movie I understand that, those tribes who live in this forest , were there for thousands years before all others people who live near this forest like the Brazilians and other. Nobody ask them , they stole there own territory ! what is the Brazil for native men ? nothing. Those countries were create and they cut trees , spread their farming and other , reducing considerably this forest. I give you some informations.300 000 > > It is what pours, in tons each day, in the Amazon, a company which extracts from minerals in a more or less official but certainly intensive way. One finds in this river of the very toxic matters like lead or mercury.5 > > Pourcentage which the quantity of fresh water of the Amazon represents on our planet.62 000 > > a Many pirates of the mines evaluated by the government of the country, quantify probably lower than reality.30 000 > > a Number of licences conceded by the government for the exploitation of the mines75 million > > Expression in cubic meters, of the quantity of wood exploited each year but the government delivers licences only for 25 million.70 > > mercury Rate which is 70 times superior to the international standards in a river of Amazonia (Sulawesi). This rate is in relation with the discharge of 300 000 tons waste of the aforementioned company of exploitation25 > > average Percentage of the growth of deforestation in Amazonia each year1/3 > > Representativeness with it only of the Amazonian forest on the remainder of the tropical forests30 000 > > a Number of species already identified in Amazonian forest1 000 > > a Number of species of birds which were counted30 > > a Number of species of monkeys counted3 000 > > a Number of fish species listed, also 2 single species of fresh water dolphins3,7 million > > Surface in km² of the Brazilian Amazonian forest. For comparison that represents the size of Western Europe4,2 million > > total Surface in km² of the Amazonian forest1,7 million > > Surface in hectare which disappeared in 199780% > > Percentage of illegal exploitation of wood in Brazil70% > > Percentage of wood exploited in sawmill and which finishes in waste23 000 > > Nombre of km² in forest concession8 > > a Number of the largest world forest companies which share the concession of 23000 km²2/3 > > Rate of the Amazonian forest which was intact in 1999- of 2 > > Pourcentage which covers the Amazonian forest on our planet70 > > Percentage of species of the world which one can find in this forest70 > > Percentage of plants of Amazonia used in the fight against cancer1 > > Percentage (negligible) of plants of Amazonia, studied for their medicinal properties7025 > > Length in km, of the Amazon river1100 > > a Number representing the principal affluents of the Amazon30 500 > > a Number of km which constitute the inland waterways of the Amazon10 > > Width in km of the Amazon in its lower course5 > > Rate (in %) of penetration of the light in the forest to the ground5 to 7 million > > a Number of Indians who lived in Amazonia at the 16th century250 000 > > It is what it remains about it today900 > > Rate of increase (%) in the non-Indian population in the forest of 1955 to 19852020 > > estimated Year of disappearance of the Amazonian forest (in the pro forma data 1997)50 > > Percentage of grounds which 1% of the population (owners have land)20 > > Percentage of increase in 1999 of the wood export, because of the devaluation of Brazilian Réal.I hope some will understand why I hate that. MaNa. "},{"Title":"Really  great  movie  and  its  one  of  the  best  movies  i  have  ever seen","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" (Spoiler)I was at my local video/DVD shop and i was in a hurry and the cover of this movie looked good so i hired it but i thought that this movie would be so crap but then i watched it and it turned out to be a really great movie in so many ways.There are heaps of beautiful scenes of the the Amazon rainforest in this movie and there are some good action scenes in the end of this movie like when the good Amazon tribe is fighting the bad Amazon tribe.And if u see this movie to rent at your local Video/DVD shop u should hire it and its all so worth buying.Over all this movie is great and my rating is 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Enhanced my life & direction...","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After reading all these comments spread over a 4 year period, 75-80% agree this was a phenomenal movie. It's my favorite film of all time.It's the cinematography, the message, the inherent display of good and innocence vs. bad and intellectual progress/advancement. Who can deny the beauty of this film? It's not overly in your face or political - it's a simple and beautiful overview - not even a warning - an overview to remember what we are doing to our planet, ourselves, our culture - our global human culture. We are advancing ourselves to the point of losing all that truly matters as humans - this film conveys that symbolically and mystically - and within reality.Who in this modern age of connectivity and technology can resist the idea of a return to innocence? OK - I'm sure quite a few can - money & greed drive the world - but the principles that seemingly inspire this movie are beyond wonderful. What are we losing - what can we do to keep it? Violence begets violence - and I don't like that the Invisible People use violence in the end to defend their future - but it is a simple retelling of how humans have to exist. Protection of fate, beliefs,living, beauty, family, kinship, environment, simplicity, connectivity without technology - that's what matters. Boorman sells it better than anyone else has ever in any film of this genre. No massive cataclysmic loss of humanity - a simple defensive move by a small tribe of invisible people - who need to protect their invisibility to remain invisible. Do you feel any Buddhism in this? This film is humanity. This film forewarns of our own losses to come. This film made me who I am. Thank you Mr Boorman. I get the message you were selling - and it wasn't a hard sell for me.This film shaped my life. It's a spiritual and political message that hit me when I was 14 and first saw this movie - since 1985 this has been named my favorite film of all time for it's sweeping containment of multiple messages, meanings, and hopefulness. I love the movie - if I could have lived in the Amazon at 14, I would have caught the first plane. Like some others - this film greatly inspired my being. I have worked a lifetime to return to South America to assimilate with the Amazon. I leave in October 2005 and I admit - my love of South America is because of this film. It constructed my life. I only hope to find the peace & connectivity with earth and humanity that Tomme did in his tribal assimilation - I'm 34 and it's taken me this long to get to the point where I'm leaving society to go to the jungle and NOT change their way of living - not bring immunizations, clean water, language, or religion and western principles - i'm going to lose western civilization - much like my final nirvana. I can't wait to shake society and technology - I never want to see clothing, capitalism, democracy, medicine, growth, adoption, - smog of our air and society - again. My goal is not to humanize indigenous people, but to become one of them. This movie gave me that goal. Screw Greenpeace, sierra, missionaries, WHO, whoever - On the silly side note - I want to be and be with Tomme - (and mind you - i would have married Charley Boorman when I was 14 and still would). I'd give anything to email with him - i want to know his experience with this film and how IT affected him. "},{"Title":"Better Than Anything Steven Seagal Has Attempted","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I`m in two minds about THE EMERALD FOREST . Part of me admires it for its hard edged eco message coupled with its violent action packed adventure elements while part of me hates it for its convienent mystical mumbo jumbo when the script requires Tomme and the invisible people to escape from a tight spot . Is it an action adventure or is it a mystical fantasy ? It`s both and it`s neither if you know what I mean .Hold on , it`s an admirable film despite the flaws , in many ways THE EMARALD FOREST is the type of film Steven Seagal would have made if he had any talent , it`s a film that doesn`t talk down to the audience unlike nearly every eco-thriller made and does make the point that when everyone you love and everything you survey is in mortal peril then violence is the only way you can defend yourself . Compare this to the pacifist stance of the modern environmental movement and I think you`ll find it`s not a film that`d be too popular with Greenpeace    "}{"Title":"authentic?","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Are you serious? The customs are based LOOSELY on real customs to become some bastardized mish-mash. The director went and lived for a short while with the Xingu tribe in the amazon. What does that mean? It means he saw them through the eyes of an outsider not as someone part of the culture. All what you see is his interpretation of what Xingu culture is the taking of hallucinogens, marriage, women's dances, jagua painting and others. This does not even come close to true Xingu culture. (Btw I love how the tribes were really good African and modern dancers.) This is just the magical-childlike-Indian stereotype set in the Amazon. "},{"Title":"Noble Savages and all that...","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when it was first released. I thought that it was an absurd load of hokum then and it certainly hasn't improved with age. The underlying theme is pretty standard tree-hugger stuff; evil, rapacious white men destroying the Garden of Eden and dispossessing the innocent, noble savages along the way. The film claims to be based on a true story, but I'd take that with very large pinch of salt. If indeed it was based on true events then the producer/director has been a bit careless with the some of the facts. The Amazon basin is an enormously hostile environment, just about every critter, bug and bacterium that likes to eat people lives there. Amongst the native Indian tribes, that still live there, the infant mortality rate is something like about 80% and adults who live much past 40 years are rarities. Needless to say that's not the way the place is portrayed in the film. Certainly not cinema verite. "},{"Title":"Poorly executed","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After the excellent Excalibur this was a big step down for director Boorman. This could have been an intelligent and moving film about a man who finds his missing son after 10 years adopted by a native tribe in the amazon. But the stuff about the tribe being mystical and in touch with nature is layed on a little too thick. This noble savage cliche just substitutes one stereotype for another. And the climactic scene in the brothel was ill-concieved, not to mention the silly Deus Ex Machina ending involving the dam, making the Rain ending in Dune seem plausible by comparison. It seems tacked on and lessens the ecological message Boorman was driving home.    "},{"Title":"They meant well, but...","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Emerald Forest is a racist, oversimplification of a more complex issue. The portrayal of Native Americans is a joke and perpetuates stereotype after stereotype of native innocence vs. Western intelligence. The portrayal of the Fierce People as cannibalistic baboons is ridiculous and highly offensive - especially under the claim that the film is based on true events. Equally as unfortunate is the display of the Invisible People as a tribe of purity and peace - their beautiful innocence makes them the pathetic victim of Western expansion. Obviously, this movie addresses an important topic, but their are better ways to make the argument against deforestation and genocide. This movie is best used as a metaphor for understanding of the story of Adam and Eve and Christian morality. Outrageously bad acting to top it off - it's good for a laugh. "},{"Title":"focus on the body markings and other things","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In my 10th grade social studies class, we were learning about tattoos and similar body markings, so we watched The Emerald Forest to observe the kinds of body paint that the Amazonian Indians used (our teacher said that the women's body paint doesn't really wash off when they jump in the water). If that's the best way to use the movie, then so be it. It's the sort of movie that gravitates between silly, absurd, and important/relevant. The latter certainly relates to how the construction of dams has throughout much of history destroyed indigenous people's cultures.So, the movie is worth seeing, if only once. Who would ever expect to hear Powers Boothe speaking an Indian language? For that matter, when John Boorman directed Deliverance, who would have expected him to direct TEF? "},{"Title":"Ravishing photography, preposterous script&#133;","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" They often say that facts are stranger than fiction and that movies based on true events are far more implausible and far-fetched than anything that could ever spawn from the over-imaginative minds of scriptwriters. This theory is most certainly applicable to John Boorman's The Emerald Forest. If this movie didn't loud and proudly claim that it was inspired by a true story, literally no one would take it seriously and even now you still can't help being skeptical and assume that very large parts of the script are pure fiction. It's even a bit frustrating how the movie almost uses the true-story element as an excuse to get away with an utmost incoherent narrative and indigestible plot-twists. The movie basically exists of three large chapters. The first one is brilliant and captivatingly dramatic, and probably the main reason why I personally still can't be too harsh in general. Powers Booth &#150; always a criminally underrated actor &#150; is magnificent as a construction site engineer rising up a dam on the edge of the Brazilian rain forest. His 7-year-old son is taken by a primitive tribe of Indians and for the next ten years &#150; and whilst carrying on his work as well &#150; he searches through the forest for a trace. He goes on risky expeditions and seeks contact with dangerous tribes, which leads him deep into the jungle where he's finally reunited with Tommy. The tone and concept of The Emerald Forest then suddenly drastically change, as the discovery of the meanwhile adolescent Tommy leads to a rather irksome plot reminiscent to The Jungle Book and A Man Called Horse. The boy integrated with the people, became intimate with nature, learned the language and found a girl, so even though he remembers his father, he's unwilling to return to the so-called civilized world. During the last and most disappointing chapter of the film, father and estranged son even join forces to assure the survival of the tribe and the conservation of the rain forest. I realize John Boorman's rudimentary intention was to spread moral values and to make viewers aware of mankind's continuous destruction of nature, but nonetheless the final half hour feels too fantasy-like. For example, it's rather hypocrite to play the true story card but then simultaneously suggest that a gathering of croaking frogs can bring down a gigantic dam. One thing I cannot possibly deny &#150; and don't even want to, for that matter &#150; is that The Emerald Forest is a ravishingly beautiful movie to look at. The authentic Brazilian filming locations are breath-taking and especially during the middle-section it feels as if you're watching a collage of postcard images or a National Geographic best-of compilation. The strong opening, the wondrous scenery and Powers Booth's strong performance are definitely what save this film from mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Contrived and blatant","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is stupid in a bad way.  It's from the same director (John Boorman) that gave us the screen gems Zardoz and The Exorcist II, which should have told me not to see this movie. Instead of wasting two hours of my life, I think it would have been enough for him to just show a sign saying White people = industrialization = Satan.  The director isn't even content with having that message subtly portrayed, but rather goes in for the slapping us with it.*SPOILER* And, you have to love the plausable ending where the native people when in the end by using drugs to call their spirit people to make the dam blow up.  It's like the writers thought to themselves, Hmm, wow I blew all our money on cocaine and I still don't have an ending.  I bet a happy ending would sell well. It even ended with the words on the screen saying A few tribe still have not made contact with the outside world. They remember something we forgot. How stupid and cheesy is that?  And I won't even get started on how the Fierce People steal the Invisible People's women and sell them into prostitution for alcohol. *END SPOILER*This movie p***ed me off. The acting was actually decent, but just completely ruined by the story line. It was melodramatic tripe, and it could have been so interesting. The only other plus is the beautiful scenery. "},{"Title":"Good, but not to be interpreted dogmatically","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I liked this movie; however, I don't think that many people should be put out of a place to live because there are a few natives. I don't mean this in an extreme sense; Big Business controls too much already. The acting was good, the movie was believable in terms of setting and realism, it was unlike other movies that I've seen. I don't worship Mother Earth, as many do, but I still care about the environment, as long as it doesn't interfere significantly with how most people live (I hate to see black smoke from vehicles, but don't think that Environmentalists should be able to dismantle our competitiveness with third world, less environmentally conscious, countries (China and Mexico, to name only two). "},{"Title":"Bad adventure drama","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERTBoy gets lost into jungle. His daddy decides to find him. What? Ten years after he disappeared? So he grabs an assault rifle and goes into jungle. There he ends in a conflict of two tribes. The bad tribe is the evil. Oh, what an imagination. Because he had to wait those ten years, the boy is now an indian. And how's he going to get him back to civilized world?. That's the story of the movie. The most stupid thing comes in the end. There is a big dam. Indians don't like. How are they going to get rid of it? Take some drugs, communicate with frogs and make them make the biggest rain in history of course! Yeah right... "},{"Title":"A mediocre jungle adventure/drama with a trite save-the-rainforest message.","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Tarzan on drugs. What should have been handled with the mysterious aloofness of Walkabout was merely turned into a silly Tarzan Saves The Whores adventure with a not-again! environmental message; the almost Bono-esquire (or Sting-esquire) epilogue-plea to save the rain-forest is pathetic.All of the young Indian women are dangerously close to having perfect fashion-world measurements, and some of them even look like Asian hookers more than Amazon tribeswomen; still, these discrepancies aren't really crass. The problem is that you can never make a movie with this sort of theme without making it look silly in quite a few spots; whenever you get a blond guy to play a sort-of Amazon Tarzan you'll run into trouble; Boorman's son got a lot of praise for the role, but to me he appears silly rather than fascinating. The completely comic-book-like sub-plot with the kidnap of women for forced prostitution is right out of a run-of-the-mill action/adventure movie, and not one which is supposed to be so damn spiritual, and with a message.I thought it was too much of a coincidence that the Fierce tribe learned to use the machine-gun(s) just as Boothe came into the picture (while looking for the son in the rival tribe). It would have made more sense that the Fierce ones either had machine-guns from before (in which case Boorman Jr. and his Indian friends would have been massacred long before) or that they never had a chance to learn to use that weaponry from the clichéd band of white jungle pimps. And how very symbolic and self-sacrificing of Boothe to (predictably) mine the dam so that his son and his Indian friends can buy some time. And what's with the frogs? Since when to they obey man? Then there is that absurd character who actually makes fun(!) of Boothe's quest and the loss of his son; typically, in this spiritual movie that immoral character turns out to be an atheist, and even more typically he gets killed (as symbolic punishment for being a sinner); how tolerant of this liberal-minded director &#150; to kill off the atheist. Still, the film is very nicely photographed and there are breasts aplenty - and, mind you, none of the droopy type we see in National Geographic or TV documentaries; these breasts stand firm. Well done, everyone, well done! The film is based on a real case of the kidnapping and successful retrieval of a Peruvian child - but there went Boorman wasting money and everyone's time to make a very hip, trendy (especially in the mid-80s) anti-progress save-the-trees-in-the-Amazon environmentalist film.But going back to that annoying epilogue it says in the caption that 4,000,000 tribes-people used to live there and that there are only 120,000 left. Well, first of all, that statistic could actually be referring to the 4 million who lived there before the CONQUISTADORS and assorted CATHOLICS had them decimated, centuries before the trees started getting cut or any kind of real civilization existed there. Secondly, I doubt that many of the 3,88 mill got slaughtered by the white man or the Hispanic settlers in the 20th century; most of them got integrated into civilization which is a natural progression of things. Then there is an overt lie, a typical statistical deception for propaganda purposes 5,000 acres of the Rain Forest disappear every day. If this were true, the Amazon green would probably have disappeared before this movie even made it into the cinemas! The only way that 5,000 acres of the green can disappear is if David Copperfield decided to do a magic act there. And finally, the most annoying sentence (The Indians) still know what we have forgotten. Really. Do they. How profound i.e. utterly smug and pathetically formulated. And just exactly what do these drug-snorting 8-year-old-niece-raping savages know that we forgot? How to dance around a fire? How to kidnap a blond child in right in front of a loving parent just because they like his eyes with the colour of the forest? How to use frogs on a wild stampede in destroying man-built dams? How to be a drug-addict? (Actually, the civilized world has got them beat in this regard; perhaps they can learn from us new and improved ways to get stoned out of one's mind.) The only thing anyone here forgot was Boorman in forgetting how to make good movies. If you want a good Boorman film, check out Zardoz.If you want a little bit of fun, read the silly little comment a certain Boris from Spain wrote about my modest little review... "}{"Title":"Wow, This movie is wack","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I recently bought this DVD for a very cheap price and i'm glad i did. This movie is really wack. So wack. Wow. For all the good/bad messages it sends to me about my environment, The Edge World this movie could have done a better job.First off in many scenes, if you listen closely you can hear the actors speaking English (when they are supposed to be talking in some kind of Indian language). It has just been slowed down and maybe a couple of letters are added on to a word. It's really funny.Also, what is the movie trying to tell us about Amazonian Indians? It's funny how they seem to speak exactly like United States American Indians. When a tribe gets a gun they refer to it as a Lightning Spear. This movie was made in 1985. Nuff Said.All in all if you want to laugh your ass off after you've had a couple of beers, a joint, an eight-ball, a rock, and a sliver, please watch this movie. "}]