[{"Title":"Classic 80's Sci-Fi","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Man I've been watching My Science Project since way back when I was a kid. It was better then but the only thing that has really dated it is the special effects. The story is still good, Fisher Stevens is still funny, and Dennis Hopper is still far out man! I'm not saying that this movie is better than Star Wars or anything but it's a pretty good example of cheesy 80's Sci-Fi. The trick to watching My Science Project or indeed, any movie from the 80's, is to not take it seriously. Turn off the white hot critic's eye and just enjoy this movie for what it is. It's a great movie. Bottom Line I can't think of many 80's movies in this genre that are this film's equal, except for maybe The Last Starfighter. If you can let me know.  "},{"Title":"Great, strange, quirky film","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sadly, My Science Project was a very big risk that seems to transcend it's teen film genre. While people will cite better time-travel themed movies like Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure and Back o the Future, this one will certainly stand on its own due to the Twilight Zone quality of it. Great visuals, great idea, and the story didn't try to insult it's audience by making the story painfully obvious. I especially liked Mike's character, a kind of good guy that was a diamond stuck in the pond scum. Unfortunately, his entire performance was stepped on by Fisher Steven's over the top performance. Dennis Hopper made a perfect cameo performance that really fit his bi-polar acting style.While this film won't be considered one of the elite teen films of the 1980s like The Breakfast Club, Bill and Ted, River's Edge, Say Anything, Sixteen Candles and Ferris Bueller's Day Off, but it will fit comfortably with the silver medalists of that area, much like Can't Buy Me love, The Wraith and Three O'Clock High. A great film for teen movie aficionados. "},{"Title":"Part of the science comedy movie craze.","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Movies come in phases now and then where a bunch of movies with similar themes come out at about the same time.  There was the underwater craze of 89 (The Abyss, Leviathan, and Deepstar Six) and there was the body switch craze (Big, Vice Versa, and one with Dudley Moore).  This movie came out during the comedy with a science twist.  The other two movies that came out during this phase are Real Genius and Weird Science.  I liked this phase as I enjoyed all three movies quite a bit.  This one was no exception as it combined humor and science fiction very well.  This one has a couple of kids finding this strange device that I think ended up being some type of engine.  Anyway when this thing gets hooked up with power and turns on all sorts of strange stuff starts happening.  The thing seems to be able to move time or open portals.  The end is great as the thing really goes berserk and it turns the school (I think it was the school) into a battle zone complete with different times.  There is a dinosaur and mutants.  All in all I am probably in the minority in liking this one, but I thought it was really good. "},{"Title":"This is a great sci-fi film!","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Science Project is a great 80s sci-fi movie about a kid in high school who sneaks into an old air force junkyard and stumbles upon an alien device discarded in a 1950s fallout shelter, and tries to turn it in as his science project. When his teacher, played by Dennis Hopper, finds a way to power the device, he zaps himself into another time dimension and from there, all hell breaks loose. Eventually, the kid and his best friend, played by Fisher Stevens, find themselves battling their way through Roman gladiators, the Viet Cong, post-apocalyptic mutants and even a Tyrannosaurus Rex in each room of their High School as they make their way toward the science hall to deactivate the device and save their town.Those who criticize the writing and dialogue miss it's depth as it is as much a movie about trust as it is about time travel.John Stockwell plays a believable high school cool kid who drives a muscle car and hangs out at auto shop. Fisher Stevens plays his hilariously bigoted sidekick buddy Vinnie from Brooklyn. Danielle von Zerneck plays Harlan's (Stockwell) geeky would-be bounce-back girlfriend after his bimbo girlfriend dumps him. Raphael Sbarge plays a hopelessly nerdy librarian that ultimately helps Harlan shut down the device. Dennis Hopper plays an unhinged ex-hippie turned science teacher who gets sent into another dimension but shows up at the end.The special effects are dated but hold well. That T-Rex looked good! Don't get me wrong, it's no Jurassic Park, but it's no Gumby Claymation dinosaur either. If you can overlook the fact that the alien device looks like something you can buy from Spencer's Gifts and some of the cheesiness that comes with an 80s movie, it's a pretty exciting film.If your a sci-fi fan, it's definitely worth a look. It's not just a good idea, it's a good movie as well. I loved it. "},{"Title":"Great little sci-fi film for a good time.","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love 'My Science Project'. I first saw it on HBO one day back in 87 and loved it right away, it's a great sci-fi thriller, with many moments of comedy as well.SPOILER ALERT!!!It concerns a car nut high school student played by John Stockwell (you'd think that after the hell he went through with Christine, he'd stay the heck away from cars), who needs a science project to pass his science class, problem is, he doesn't have one. So one night he, and his new girlfreind are rumaging around in an old military junk yard outside of town hoping to find something suitable to impress his teacher, and find a very odd little machine. It's high tech looking, with a glass globe mounted in the middle that when powered up, emits electricity that resembles one of those plasma globes you'd find at Spencers Gifts in the mall. As he's cleaning it, he decides to hook it up to a power supply, this turns out to be a huge mistake as 'the gizmo', as it's called in the film, turns out to be an engine from a spacecraft and can locally warp time and space, bringing objects and people from other times into our own. It soon goes wildly out of control and eventually the whole school is caught in a warp, and it's up to Stockwell, and his wise cracking freind, played wonderfully by Fisher Stevens, to shut down the gizmo for good.A very underrated film, with impressive visuals that still hold up well (except for the dinosaur), great acting from it's cast, inspired writing, and when watched on a good surround set up, a great audio mix to boot. It means no harm, and is fun. "},{"Title":"My Science Project not a bad SciFi teen movie","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've seen this movie several times and actually enjoyed the movie. John Stockwell plays the lead roll of a 80's car crazy High Schooler who is fighting the clock to come up with a project for his science class or he will fail. So he breaks into in Air Force Bone yard base full of old aircraft and accidentally stumbles into a underground bunker where he finds some sort of alien drive device and here the fun begins. His side kick Vince played by Fisher Stevens (who is hilarious) girl friend Ellie played by Daniellie Von Zemeck and Librarian geek Sherman (Mr. Peabody's gofer?) played by Raphael Sbarge are all Drawn into a none stop adventure of time travel, police investigation and teenage problems. This is definitely a 80's special affects movie for sure but still brings the plot across enough to get by. Dennis Hopper as the 60's radical turned laughing gas sucking science teacher was enjoyable to watch if your a hopper fan. On a scale of 1-10 I give movie this an 8. "},{"Title":"Citizen Kane of Cheesy, 1980s, Teen Sci-Fi","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was five-years-old when this movie first came to HBO.  I haven't seen it in a while, but I still have a good impression of it.  If you like cheesy sci-fi films, you'll like this one.<SPOILER ALERT> The premise of the movie is fantastic.  A UFO crashes decades ago.  What does the military do with it?  They put it in a junkyard where high-schoolers have access to the strange craft's engine.Now Michael tries to pass off the alien time-warp engine as his own science project.  Now, I've studied to be a teacher, and there's no way on The Good Lord's earth that ANY teacher would believe this was a student's own project.My favorite part was when they were trying to outrun the electric tendrils of the gizmo.  Now let's see, electricity runs at THE SPEED OF LIGHT!!! According to Einstein, NOTHING but energy can go as fast as light.  Yet, THEY OUTRUN THE TENDRILS!  I don't care how good your car is, it can't run that fast!  This is so cheesy, you have to love it.I would have to say that Dennis Hopper, the teacher, and Fisher Stevens, the best-friend Vince, give Academy Award winning performances, if the Academy had a sense of humor.  The best line belongs to Stevens.  As Vince is having his mug shot taken, the cop asks him why he's wearing sunglasses at night (How '80s is that?).  He replies, When you're cool, the sun shines on you 24 hours a day.  Great delivery.If you like cheesy films, you must, MUST, see this one. "},{"Title":"Great for a kid","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this on DVD for the first time in probably about 15 years. I used to love it when I was about 7 years old. I was amazed how many lines I remembered.  Though often I didn't remember them from this movie.  I just remembered them as lines my 2 brothers and I worked into our vernacular growing up.  Especially the timeless Make my semesta!!!  Besides all the great one liners, there were guns, explosions, gladiators, monster's from the future and past, a TREX, dynamite, and lot's of cool electricity effects.  Everything a 7 year old boy would love.  So I highly recommend it for a boy child.  But for everyone else, only if you are bored or really like seeing cheesy 80's flicks.   "},{"Title":"Fun 80's sci-fi adventure!","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 1985's My Science Project is a childhood favorite of mine. Despite some awesome special effects, it's mostly forgotten today.It begins in the 1950's. President Dwight D. Eisenhower is brought to an Arizona Air Force base and shown a crashed UFO. He orders the high-ranking generals, Get rid of it! Flashforward to modern times (a.k.a. the 1980's). Mike Harlan is a student at a high school in Carson, Arizona, known as Motorhead Mike to his friends because of his love of cars. He has problems. His single father is remarrying to an Avon saleswoman, he's recently had a bad breakup with his bitch girlfriend Crystal, and on top of everything else, he's going to flunk science unless his science project is, as the teacher (played by Dennis Hopper!) puts it, dino-supreme. Mike is asked out on a date by nerdy girl Ellie Sawyer, and, to spite Crystal, he agrees, but Mike's idea of a date is to drag Ellie along to the nearby decommissioned Air Force base, now used as a junkyard. His brilliant plan is to find some random doo-dad to fix it up and pass it off as his science project. What he finds is a futuristic device which is apparently the engine or power source to the crashed UFO seen previously. It resembles a lightning globe from Spencer's Gifts.After getting the gizmo,  as Mike's deadbeat best friend Vince Latello calls it, back to school, Mike discovers that the thing gobbles up raw energy like a cop on a donut factory (to steal a line from Ghostbusters 2). Hooking it up to a car battery causes A) the battery to drain and melt (!), and B) a Grecian vase to appear out of thin air. Consulting school nerd Sherman Reardon, Mike and Vince learn that the device is capable of creating a time warp when it has access to power.They show it to the science teacher who rather stupidly hooks it up to an electrical outlet, which results in him being zapped into the future, and, after some further complicated shenanigans, Mike, Ellie and Vince are forced to raid Mike's dad's hardware store for some dynamite, which they use to blow up an electrical tower, stopping the gizmo from feeding off Carson's power station. This gets them arrested. Well, Mike and Vince anyway. The cops ignore Ellie for some reason.To prove their story and spring her kinda-sorta boyfriend, Ellie returns to the school to get the machine, where she encounters Sherman the nerd. Intrigued, Sherman repeats the science teacher's mistake and plugs the device back in, only this time, with nothing stopping it (the powerlines have been fixed), it starts sucking up so much energy that soon all of Carson is blacked out. Mike and Vince use the confusion to escape custody and quickly discover their school is now the center for an ever-expanding time warp threatening to consume all of Carson, and eventually the world.Venturing within, our heroes have to find and rescue Ellie and unplug the device and stop the warp before it expands and destroys all of creation. To do so, they'll have to fight their way past a variety of grouchy individuals teleported in from other time periods, including a Roman gladiator, a caveman, Viet Cong soldiers, mutants from the future, and, in my personal favorite sequence, a giant tyrannosaurus rex.So, it's a fairly small-scale film in terms of special effects. The tyrannosaur is the movie's big setpiece, but they went all-out on him. He's gorgeous. He's (apparently) a combination of a back-projected puppet and a full-size animatronic, and he looks very realistic for 1985. In fact I'd go so far as to say that he's the best-looking dinosaur made prior to Jurassic Park. "},{"Title":"My Science Project is a great movie! One of the best movies of all time!","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the great movies of the 80s in My collection that I think about all the time.My Science Project is one of My favorite films of all. The first time I saw I it I loved it! Its still as great today as it was then! What I love about it is for one how it was made! The 80s allowed it to be a masterpiece! The special effects are spectacular and I still think they are as good as the ones used currently! I like the actors and the characters they play! Fisher Stevens is hilarious! John Stockwell played his part very good. Danielle von Zerneck and Raphael Sbarge put on good performances! I really liked Richard Masur in the movie. His character Detective Jack Nulty was really a bad @$$ and a ruthless one at that! His accent and attitude was just so cool! I always like to see Barry Corbin in the movie. Dennis Hopper's character Bob Roberts was colorful and intelligent! This may sound strange but I believe My Science Project could be arguably his best movie! The laughing bum character was funny! Look for RoboCop's Robert DoQui and Big Trouble In Little China's Al Leong! The budget of the film is big and I have always liked what it has in store! Another thing I love about My Science Project is the score by Peter Bernstein! The music fits the film perfectly and the theme it has is just phenomenally spooky! Its so great! In My opinion This movie has very good acting by the talented actors, a cool story, spectacular effects, a wonderful 80s feel, and just about anything that you could put in a movie! I don't know why this classic movie hasn't received the attention it deserves I mean with all of the things it has I would think this movie would be considered one of the greats but sadly that hasn't happened. I personally think My Science Project is a classic movie that I believe is one of greatest of all time! It is always great to watch. If anyone reads this and hasn't seen My Science Project before then I strongly recommend you go rent it and then buy it! Its a true classic! "}{"Title":"Good mid 80's flick.","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was an OK movie.  John Stockwell and Fisher Stevens were a good team. Latello's (Stevens) wise-cracks are what made this movie enjoyable for me! The story is slow at times, but the action picks up and so does the movie. I recommend this for a Saturday afternoon when you have nothing to watch.All in all, a enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Great 80's Movie!","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you've never seen this movie before, give it a try...It's a great 80's high school flick. Add it to your collection with Sixteen Candles, Weird Science, The Breakfast Club, Ferris Buehler and Pretty in Pink. Plus, John Stockwell looks yummy driving his massively sweet red GTO. He was a pretty good actor before he became a pretty good director, too. Vinnie (the guy who played Ben in the Short Circuit movies) has some awesome one liners and Dennis Hopper plays a hysterical former hippie science teacher. Plus, you can laugh at the 80's special effects and realize how good we have it now. Give it a try, it's a good time. If you like this one, also try The Philadelphia Experiment. Another 80's sci-fi flick that has pretty similar special effects. "},{"Title":"When you're cool, the sun shine on you 24 hours a day.","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" High school student Michael Harlan (John Stockwell) is a kid with a fairly narrow focus he's a car junkie. His girl dumps him because she thinks he spends more time tinkering with cars than with her. To get his science teacher Bob Roberts (Dennis Hopper) off his back, Mike scours a local military junkyard for any piece of junk that he can pass off as a science project. Well, the item that he steals is no ordinary junk it was discovered back in the 1950s and is apparently an alien device that can create time-space warps. When Mike, his buddy Vince (Fisher Stevens), and Bob start messing around with the thing, an immense amount of havoc ensues as the high school is inundated with characters and animals from the past and a possible future.Debuting director Jonathan R. Betuel, who'd written The Last Starfighter, does alright with this first feature. It doesn't display *that* much imagination (we get cavemen, mutants, and a dinosaur, but not that much more), but it does have some good energy. Nicely shot in 2.351, it gets off to a solid start, and the characters are amusing to watch. Stockwell is likable in his first top billed role (after playing the best friend to car junkie Keith Gordon in Christine), and Danielle von Zerneck is appealing as his leading lady. Stevens, and Raphael Sbarge as the nerdy Sherman, are very much playing stereotypes, but they do give the roles 100%. The adult actors are largely wasted - Barry Corbin as Mikes' dad, Ann Wedgeworth as the dads' new wife, Richard Masur (who gets to be broader than usual) as a detective. The true standout performance in My Science Project comes from Hopper, who's perfectly cast as the former hippie who's all too happy to relive his protest filled youth. Robert DoQui, Michael Berryman, Pamela Springsteen, and an uncredited Al Leong all have small roles.The music by Peter Bernstein is appropriate, the visual effects are well done overall (especially that dinosaur, the work of Doug Beswicks' team), and there are some funny lines here and there. All in all, the movie is juvenile, silly, and ridiculous, but it does do a respectable job of entertaining its audience. Stevens's line (used as my summary), when asked why he's wearing shades indoors, is truly a howler.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's was fun then and is still fun today.","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first time I see it it was on the VHS decades and I was a teenage looking for excitement. Guess what? I got it with this movie. I love everything of this production. The character, the story and the FX. After watching this movie last night I realize that It have a lot of influence from the Ghostbusters movies.The funny Characters, wonderfully play by the actors and the special effects. I have to say the Fx are incredible, even is 1985. Back in those days, a lot of the lightning, were make manually painted frame by frame and until this day they look awesome. If you like Ghostbusters you going to love this one. "},{"Title":"A personal favorite","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a very inventive movie, and when i was eight i wanted nothing more then to get my hands on that gizmo! This movie has it all teen drama, roman gladiators, a time displaced gadget, annoying sidekicks, guns, dynamite, Dennis hopper as a hippie science teacher, fast cars, dinosaurs, WWII soldiers, high school, alien-like mutants, and a swirling vortex!!! what more could you want! Besides none of it is simply there it all is cohesive and goes well with the tone of the movie, there is so much to like about this movie, except that it drags a little in the beginning, otherwise it is a fun film like bill and Ted, or back to the future, nowhere as big budget as either but the special effects are very cool! "},{"Title":"good story","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie had potential. I liked the story and everything but it didn't seem to come together. The actors were good and another reason to see this movie was the Goat. The movie contains a blown '68 GTO. Maybe that's the reason I liked the movie as much as I did, but I still think it's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"I Was a Teenage Time Traveler.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  'My Science Project' was a fun idea. John Stockwell is Michael Harlan, a slacker car jock who's got to come up with a real science project if he wants to pass his class. Digging around in some condemned military land, he finds a wierd gadget that causes major van damage. In the course of trying to figure out the extent of power of the little electrifying gizmo, his hippie science teacher, Bob (Dennis Hopper) is sucked into a time warp. But, he doesn't leave before figuring out that the thing that Mike Harlan found opens up all time warps. So, now Harlan and his friend Vince Latello (Fisher Stevens), Ellie Sawyer (Danielle von Zerneck), and a hopeless nerd named Sherman (Raphael Sbarge) have to fix the time dimensions while getting chased by strange guys from the government and dinosaurs and midevil warriors, and everything else. Mike's got a real mess on his hands.It's probably one of the few films I really liked John Stockwell in because he didn't have to try to hard to be Mike Harlan, slacker car jockey who doesn't say much and likes to be left alone. Although, the better character in the movie was his big shot friend, Vince. But that's a typical kind of character for Fisher Stevens, who's always good in comedy.And yes, as one viewer already mentioned, it follows a long line of 80s science fiction comedy or 80s sci-fi teen movies like 'Real Genius' (teens build a super laser); 'Back to the Future' (teen travels to past, present, and future via a Delorean time machine); Weird Science (teens make a girl on their computer); 'Peggy Sue Got Married' (adult goes back in time to relive being a teen); 'Mac and Me' (teens find friendly alien family), and so forth. I like the idea for 'My Science Project,' but having all of the people and creatures from different time periods land in the present-day lacked a lot of fun that could've been achieved from a movie (perhaps a longer movie) like this. The finale battle scenes against the enemies from different time dimensions all took place in the school. So, the setting was static, and somewhat boring after awhile. Probably, too, because it was done so cheaply. A lot more could've been done if they were allowed to expand the setting by allowing Harlan and his friends to travel through time, too.Nonetheless, if this be your cup of tea, then cheers! "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Science ProjectThe best science projects are the ones that evacuate the school for a week.The one in this sci-fi movie, however, may vacant the entire town.Combining a discarded piece of alien technology he stole from a military base with a car battery, high-school senior Michael (John Stockwell) and his friend Vince (Fisher Stevens) unwittingly open a portal to an alternate universe.When the unit goes on the fritz, its up to the boys to deactivate it before it displaces their community from its current time and space.But to do that they must return to their high school which is overrun with dangerous creatures from Earth's past and possible future.Introducing the idea of alternative realities decades before audiences were interested, this box- office bomb from 1985 is actually a hilarious hidden gem.Unfortunately, having educators from different eras in the same school will reignite the debate on corporal punishment.Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"The sun shines on you 24 hours a day....","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Michael and Ellie break into a military junkyard to find a science project for Michael's class, and discover a strange glowing orb which absorbs electricity. When the orb begins to blend past, present, and future, its up to Michael and Ellie to stop the orb and save mankind......Fisher Stevens is a fun screen presence, John Stockwell isn't, that's why I would have rather have had Stevens in the central role, rather than Cletus the slack jawed yokel.And its easy to see why this film vanished without a trace, unlike similar films like BTTF, because that film was consistent fun, whereas this film doesn't get going until the final twenty minutes, when it's admittedly fun.But you have to get through a whole hour of mundane narrative, and predictable stereotypes to get there. We know the girl with the glasses will end up with Stockwell, we know Stevens will be the best thing in the film, and yes, the makers decided to keep Hopper out of the film for the majority of it, and bring him back in his Easy Rider garb.Its a shame, because it is a wonderful concept, but it should have been more family orientated, because it's too immature for its target demographic. "},{"Title":"vomit is not food, although you can eat it","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Did you know that people employ Fisher Stevens to act, on purpose? Yes its true some one put forward presumably hard-earned monies so that a man with a crippling drug addiction might be able to continue to fuel a downward spiral, through acting! Do you want to know the plot? Is that what you want? What could you do with that knowledge anyway? Here is the plot to the movie Dante's Peak starring Pierce Brosnan and TV's Linda Hamilton- plate tectonics cause the plates of the earth's crust to violently crash together sometimes causing earthquakes sometimes causing volcanic activity, then roll the credits. Yeah, My Science Project! The one thing this movie does truly well is collect dust, I feel like the actors and director really struggled to create something that few will ever desire to see. If you are foolish enough or unlucky enough to see this movie allow me to recommend booze or using inhalants to get you through it. "}{"Title":"Great premise, but doesn't quite deliver.","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A car jock, his comedy sidekick, and a cute science geek have to work together to save the town from the destructive consequences of awakening an alien artifact of immense power. It may not be original, but it is a great idea for a story, and the first half hour or so works brilliantly. Unfortunately the logic and character development suddenly goes out the window at a certain point, becoming just an excuse for genre-jumping action sequences and special effects. Dennis Hopper shines whenever he is on screen if this had been a movie about the science teacher, it would have been far more watchable. The other characters never really expand beyond their stereotypes.The latter half of the story feels like it is assembled by taking a tour through a bunch of different sound stages on a Hollywood lot, and just hoping it'll all fit together somehow. Putting dinosaurs and laser guns and roman gladiators together may seem like the perfect recipe for excitement, but without a point to it, and without any sense of why or what is happening, there isn't much reason to care about any of it. There is no glue keeping all the assembled pieces together. It has a certain B-grade charm, but not enough to make it a classic. "},{"Title":"If Plan 'B' From Outer Space is the worst movie of all time, this is the runner up.","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Whenever I watch a terrible movie I always wonder why the cast and crew don't collectively yell CUT!!! and tell the director, That makes no sense whatsoever, perhaps a bit of a rewrite is in order before we kill anymore braincells. The worst that could happen is they are fired, saving them the disgrace of being associated with such a disaster.This movie had reasonably good actors and a reasonably good budget which allowed for special effects reminiscent of Ghost Busters, but the writing -- oh, the abysmal writing -- is so bad I have to question the intelligence of the script writer.Oftentimes a good director can still salvage something worthwhile with even the worst script to work with, but unfortunately in this case the director is the writer, and though he passably directs the movie, he clearly believes too strongly in the plausibility of his own script, forcing the cast to seriously deliver lines that should only be said with tongue in cheek.This movie would be an excellent candidate for a remake, missing only a bit of self-effacing humour to turn it into an excellent science fiction comedy. As it stands, I recommend only watching it if you are high. Very, very high. "},{"Title":"Good idea... terrible film","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For some reason I liked this film when I was young, but now I can't imagine why.  The dialogue is incredibly corny, and the characters were far too cliche.  The film starts off fairly slowly, with only minor comic relief from Dennis Hopper.  It does pick up in the last half hour, but the special effects have aged significantly over time- they were really cheesy, especially the dinosaur.  I didn't really find any of the main leads likeable either - they were all fairly irritating and seemed to act in a way which seemed in contrast to the characters they were mean't to be playing.  This is probably the worst of the eighties high school/teen science fiction tales, we all know it was made in the mid eighties- but did they have to make it so obvious?  The story wasn't so bad- they just needed stronger characters, better dialogue etc...Unless your a fan of bad eighties teen films (and there are a lot of them) stay clear. "},{"Title":"Really bad teen 80s flick...","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  and that's saying something!  Story about some obnoxious teenager (John Stockwell) who finds a little box from a flying saucer that creates time/space distortions...or something.  Bad beyond belief dialogue, a virtually incomprehensible plot (I assume that's from pre-release cutting...the film is barely 90 minutes), and lazy acting.  Some of the special effects are cool (for 1985).  I saw it primarily because of John Stockwell.  A very handsome man, he was very good in other 80s flicks (Losin' It, Top Gun and especially Christine) but he's lousy in this. He looks depressed and like he doesn't care.  Fisher's wisecracks are a blessing.  A total waste of time.  ALMOST bad/good. "}]