[{"Title":"This movie is very special to me. It's a part of my childhood. I love it so much.","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"30 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" When One Magic Christmas came out in 1985 on TV, my mom recorded it on to a VHS tape. We had this beat up, bad copy of the movie. You had to turn the volume up all the way in order to hear anything, still this movie was amazing to me. Mary Steenbergen doesn't believe in Christmas or Santa. She is such a scrooge about the season, that not even her kids' excitement could change the way she feels. With an angels' help, her daughter Abby, tries to get her into the spirit. It's full of magic, adventure, enchantment, and many lessons learned. One Magic Christmas is funny, dramatic, and wholesome. It's one of those movies that you truly can watch with your whole family, and everyone will like it. My sister and I loved it so much when we were kids that we used to watch it year round. I love this movie very much. They just recently re-released it on DVD, so now I have a good copy of the movie that has meant so much to me growing up. I still say that it's one of my all time favorite movies!!!! "},{"Title":"Are you all kidding me??????","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" This was the WORST Christmas movie I ever saw. I took my two small children to see this. It was the darkest, most dismal plot- family has no money, mom loses her job, father gets killed in the bank, bank robber steals family car with both kids in the back and after high speed chase, drives off the bridge and drowns them in the river. Mom is left all alone. No wonder her Christmas spririt is gone. Christmas angels do not rescue children that have drowned, and Santa does not bring back dead fathers! I thought this was the WORST message to send children. Better to tell them that there is NO Santa than show them a movie like this!! "},{"Title":"A strange and depressing spin on Christmas","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" First of all, let me say that this is not the movie for people looking to watch something spirited and joyous for the holidays. This movie is cold, brutal, and just downright depressing. Mary Steenburgen plays a grinchy mom who is down on Christmas because her husband has lost his job, they are losing their house, can't buy Christmas presents for the kids, etc. You get the idea, happy stuff for the holidays. So along comes Harry Dean Stanton as Gideon the Christmas angel, who in his dark hat and long overcoat comes off more like a pedophile who hangs around children all day observing them. What better way to instill the spirit of Christmas in Mary Steenburgen than to kill off her family and then offer to bring them back if she believes in Christmas again. Santa Claus is a blackmailer and his Christmas workshop looks more like a haven for refugee Nazis on the lam. The movie lays everything on so thick that you don't care about the happy ending when it comes because the rest of the movie is so bitter and unbelievable. I'm sure this film wanted to be something Capra-like, but it left out the joy and sentiment on what a holiday film should be. "},{"Title":"do not watch this if you are depressed--it'll only make it worse","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" I thought this was one of the most depressing holiday movies I have ever seen--the others being THE Christmas WIFE and JACK FROST. All three movies are about death. If you LIKE being thoroughly depressed, then by all means watch this film or any of the others. In this film, the acting is good and some of the scenery (apart when people are dying) is lovely. But, I am worried that a clinically depressed person might accidentally see the film and do themselves in! Despite a happily ever after ending, the major portion of this film is one awful disaster following another. And, for some crazy reason, I DON'T WANT TO BE DEPRESSED when I watch a Christmas movie (I know this sounds crazy folks--after all, isn't bawling your eyes out and feeling miserable what the holidays are all about anyway?).For a more uplifting viewing experience, try the forgotten HOUSE WITHOUT A Christmas TREE, George C. Scott's Christmas CAROL or A Christmas STORY instead--unless of course you like being miserable. "},{"Title":"One of the best (and most underrated) Christmas movies ever!","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" One Magic Christmas is one of my favorite Christmas movies of all time. While I don't remember seeing it in the theater (apparantly I did, but I had just turned 3 years old), I watched our videotaped copy (recorded off of the Disney Channel circa 1986) so many times as a little girl(regardless of the season), the first few minutes of the tape literally wore out, filling with snow and static. This, and the fact that I had every line memorized, has become something of Christmas Lore in my family. Tonight (Christmas 2005), I watched the film again with my parents and sister for the first time in many years, and was stuck by several things first, how well the film has held up over the last twenty-years; second, how special and unique the message is from traditional family holiday movies that were made in the 80s and 90s; and third, how I still remember many of the lines of dialog -- they are indelibly etched into my brain after literally hundreds of viewings.One Magic Christmas is sort of an alternate take on It's a Wonderful Life -- centering around a family who has fallen on hard times with a mother who never says Merry Christmas and is generally devoid of any holiday sentiment altogether. Her daughter Abbie, together with the Christmas Angel Gideon, embark on a plan to help her re-find the Christmas spirit.Mary Steenburgen is fantastic as the loving, but icy mother. Her performance is very real -- she is both funny and dramatic, and her character is developed in a way that most family films omit. Harry Dean Stanton is perfect as Gideon, the angel - calming and knowing. You believe he is who he says he is. The child actors in the film are equally fantastic. In a family film, the kids can either make it or break it. These children act like real kids -- they aren't trying to be cute for the camera (although they really are adorable -- and this is coming from someone who dislikes most children on TV/movies) and they hold their own with their adult counterparts with ease. The little girl that plays Abbie is effortless in her portrayal of a girl with an non-wavering belief in Santa Clause.Honestly, one of the things I think that I like best about this film is how real it seems. Considering magic and faith are primary elements of the story - this really says something. The acting is so good, the dialog believable, that the more mystical situations do not seem out of bounds. The film also delves into darker, more realistic themes than you get in most family fare. This is really exceptional, especially considering this was a Disney picture. The ultimate message of the film is heartening and poignant - even for those of us who are grown and long-since stopped believing in Santa and magic.This is one of those movies that just feels good to watch. I can honestly say, even if this film didn't have the sentimental value it does for me, I would still recommend it as an excellent Christmas movie. "},{"Title":"Oi Veh !","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Read on and take note - you could save 88 minutes of your life (was that all!).Unremittingly bleak, this film sets out to produce (I'm guessing) a modern small town American Christmas fable in the Capra style. If fails....completely and absolutely fails. I've been trying to think of one good thing about it and can't. Let me mention some of the highlights ...People don't die, they get to spend eternity as immigrant workers in Santa's factory. Angels are actually ex-cowboys who sit in trees. Santa can bring people back from the dead (if you send him a nice letter). And the plot.. I won't spoil it for you but there has to be some light in films if only to contrast with the darkness but there isn't any. Even the photography is bleak - snow shown at the end of a freeze, everywhere looking cold, damp and miserable. As you might guess, the film has a happy (schmaltzy) ending. What a relief ! "},{"Title":"A Traumatic Movie for 3 Kids!  (SPOILERS AHEAD)","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" As others have warned, this is NOT a movie for children (unless you love to torture them with horrific events).My mother took my sisters and me to see this, based on the title and it was at Christmas time.SPOILER ALERT!! SPOILER ALERT!! (Don't read if you plan on watching anyway) Our younger sister, only 10 years old at the time, had nightmares for weeks. She was scared to get in the car and afraid our parent would get killed. Why? It's in the movie. This heartwarming little film has someone being short to death and children drowning when a car plunges in the water. We see it all. Since we had no internet at the time, our Mom didn't know these visions would appear in front of us kids until the surprise ending. Unfortunately the ending didn't quite redeem what you see for most of the movie. Oh yeah....there's the depressing issues of bankruptcy, a Suicidal mother, and an Angel who looks like a Pedophile and skulks around children as though he is one.I know the world has changed, and children are a bit more savvy. However, I am writing this to let parents know and be forewarned. "},{"Title":"Best contemporary Christmas movie!","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" I've been watching this movie every Christmas since it first appeared on CBC in the '80s, and I have to say, I spend most of the movie misty-eyed. In this familiar story of a woman who has lost the Christmas spirit and rediscovers it through being shown how fortunate she is, there are several excellent performancesand a strong feeling of magic throughout.Mary Steenburgen, who plays Ginnie Grainger, the woman who has lost theChristmas spirit, undergoes an amazing transformation and some of the mostheart-wrenching moments I've seen on film. Harry Dean Stanton, as the angelGideon, plays his part with sensitivity, and Gary Basaraba is excellent as Jack, Ginnie's husband. Abbie, the six-year old daughter of the main character, steals the show, however. She never seems to be acting, and carries the innocence of childhood and the magic of Christmas with her. Keep an eye out for a veryyoung Sarah Polley as Molly Monaghan, and veteran Canadian actor JanRubes as the best Santa Claus on film to date, if only for his amazing costume.Keep a box of tissues on hand when you watch this movie! It demonstrates that a movie can be magical without overwhelming special effects, and that aChristmas movie can be sentimental without being schmaltzy. "},{"Title":"We hated this movie","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" My spouse & I found this movie to be very schlocky. It started out good, but quickly got unbelievable & ridiculous. Most of the acting was poor, with the exception of the little girl, Abbie, who really was terrific. In addition, the dialog was predictable & lame - especially Gideon, the Angel's. Also, without giving away anything, when one of the characters has a tragedy, she almost appears nonchalant. At first we thought it was 'shock', but then we realized that it was just a terrible script. We love almost all of the Hallmark movies & their heart-warming stories, but this movie doesn't rise to the occasion of being one. There are so many great ones - don't waste your time with this horrible movie. "},{"Title":"Good grief!  Not for children's viewing!","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Sorry, but I will spoil both the plot line and the ending for you in hopes of avoiding a holiday fiasco like the one that I now face. The father dies and the mother asks Santa in a letter to bring him back to the family for Christmas,...and Santa does. Dad is peachy, happy healthy and totally unaware of the fact that he had died. All ends syrupy sweet.But as a parent who recently watched my five year-old lose his best canine friend, it was a horror flick. Now my son is convinced that all he has to do to bring his buddy back is to ask Santa! Do not underestimate the willpower of a young heart- no amount of persuasion will convince him that it was only a movie and that his dog is NOT coming back for Christmas. It has been heart breaking to watch his joy only to know that Christmas Eve he will have to face his loss afresh.Shame on you on behalf of all the believers that have lost a loved one recently. It is hard enough to deal with the loss one time for a child, but there are some wishes that we shouldn't even portray as a possibility. "}{"Title":"Let's teach Ginny the REAL meaning of Christmas","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Warning....This review contains major spoilers.Ginny is grouchy, and doesn't like the idea of Christmas. Her husband lost his job and there's no money for presents for the kids.SPOILERS - WARNING - SPOILERS AHEAD! Soooo. An Angel comes down and ta-da!! They kill off her husband by having him shot to death by a bank robber. Then they drown her kids by having the bank thief get into the dead husband's car and drive the car into a lake.That'll teach Ginny a lesson! After the traumatic events we all see on the screen, with our kids no less, we get Santa Claus to the rescue. What Santa and an Angel have to do with each other is never explained since one comes from the heavens and the other is just a present giver.After the audience including young children go through this gut wrenching chain of events, they turn around with one of the most schmaltzy, syrupy twists to make it better. Through the miracle of Santa.So all ends well for Ginny and family. They learn the TRUE meaning of Christmas.....Thanks to Santa Claus who can bring back the dead. There's presents for all.As someone else wrote......How on earth did Disney wrangle a G rating with all this violence and especially drowning of children. What twisted soul at Disney thought of this additional part is beyond me.I guess that in today's world, no one blinks an eye when a real parent kills off his or her own children. So this form of entertainment is now acceptable. Gee, I wish Santa could them back. Perhaps if I wrote him a letter........ "},{"Title":"Creepiest Angel; violent scenes; not appropriate for children","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My kids and I saw this when it was new at the theatre.  It's too violent for small children.  Showing how loss of a job can cause fighting between parents is okay.  Showing a violent shooting is not appropriate for the audience for which this movie is intended.I was appalled at the angel being portrayed by someone who looks and sounds like a stereotypical child molester.  He's dark and he meets one of the children at night when she is not with an adult.  I worked hard at teaching my kids not to approach strangers.  This movie counters that by showing that a kindly stranger can be your family's best friend. "},{"Title":"don't watch this movie","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Ginny Grainger is seriously depressed, simple as that. Her husband lost his job and the house months ago, but he's a kind, poetic soul who can't really be bothered with mundane issues like being poor and homeless. Ginny is not a Grinch or a Scrooge, literally the only reason why she values money so much is because her husband won't, and right now it's up to her to make sure her kids don't starve. How fair is it to be mad at someone who works her awful retail job until late at night on Christmas Eve, when the alternative is getting fired as well? Or for not letting her husband touch their very last meager savings to open the bike shop he vaguely dreams about? And still, she tries to be there for her family and not spoil the holidays for the little ones too much, no matter how hopeless and empty inside she is herself.A woman like that would need a lot more appreciation from her loved ones and some me time, stat. But no, according to old St. Nick what she needs is a serious lesson in Christmas Spirit! She won't even say Merry Christmas! How dares she be so bitter and disenchanted? Not on his watch! So he sends her Gideon, a Christmas Angel who wears a creepy black coat, never cracks a smile, looks all the time like he's really uncomfortable with his job, likes to stalk people, approaches children in secret at night (STRANGER DANGER!) and only ever does the bare minimum his job requires.During what is no doubt her worst Christmas Eve in the history of ever, Ginny finds out her husband is taking their savings behind her back, gets fired, faces her husband only to see him randomly getting shot and dying in her arms, has her kids kidnapped by the guy who already killed her husband only to see them fall off a bridge into the river. After believing for several, agonizing hours that the children are dead too, Gideon FINALLY decides to do something with his magic powers and returns them to her. At this point, after everything that already happened, poor Ginny has to find the strength to sit down and explain to her two small children that their dad was killed and he's never gonna come back.Gideon then straight up kidnaps the little girl and flies her to meet Santa at the North Pole (spoiler alert Santa's workers are not elves, they're zombies!), thus making Ginny spend her Christmas night in a panic, frantically looking for her ONCE AGAIN missing six year old. But then the kid comes back bringing a letter from Santa, and suddenly all is fixed as Ginny realizes that magic is real and all she ever needed to do was to believe and smile and suck it up even more to her already unbearable family situation! She is magically taken back in time where her husband is still alive and she gets to relive Christmas Eve and make all the right choices, nominally saying to hell with my job and burning all their last savings too while she's at it. I guess if they end up homeless, at least they had one hell of a Christmas. Eventually a brand new, happy Ginny meets Santa under the tree, and finally gets to thank the man who just made an already depressed woman live through the most cruel, traumatic series of event ever, just to teach her a lesson about magic. Or, as I choose to believe, Ginny is so traumatized after seeing her whole family die that she hallucinates Gideon and Santa to give herself a happy ending and a little peace of mind before the years and years of therapy she will no doubt need. "},{"Title":"Dark with no Magic, Christmas or Otherwise","Date":"24 December 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Let me begin by saying I love Mary Steenbergen. That being said, when I saw that she was in this, I thought how bad could it be?Um, BAD. This is the darkest, weirdest, most uncomfortable movie I've seen in a while and calling it a Christmas movie only works in terms of the fact that it is set during Christmas. There is no joy, magic, or cheer to be found in this...ahem...holiday classic.Three quarters of the way in, we were all baffled and uncomfortable but were too invested to turn it off. I seriously cannot comprehend that there are people who like this movie.Even knowing that this movie was made in 1985, I can't find a logical excuse for any of what I'm watching right now. Yes, I'm currently still watching it, but it is SO BAD that I pulled up IMDb in the midst of viewing to write this warning to others. SKIP IT. OR watch it as a drinking game. But don't think you're getting a joyful Christmas Classic here. You aren't. Noooooo you are not. "},{"Title":"How did THIS earn a G Rating??!","Date":"11 December 2014","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" (Spoilers ahead)........When this movie came out from Disney we went to see it. How could we go wrong? It was from Disney and it had a sweet title. Boy, were we duped!! How on earth did the murder, drownings, depression, and other adult themes pass the ratings board?? Geez.The movie is stark, dark and unrelentingly depressing. Until the surprise ending, which, by the way.....we know nothing about during the movie.Mary Steenbergen is a good actress, but it is her personality to talk slowly and usually look like she's drugged. In this movie it was dwelled on and she's given a highly depressed role to play....she does it to the hilt. She's a mother with lots of problems and she's also contemplating suicide.While watching this movie, I was thinking of every sad event in my life and it had me wanting to do the same......Until we walked into the daylight.I'm so happy we didn't have children at the time.Yes, we always want our kids to know that bad things exist. They see it in the news and hear about it. BUT I won't pay to have my children exposed to adult themes which came posed as a heartwarming and Magic Christmas. I'd rather get a root canal. "},{"Title":"Bittersweet holiday fantasy.  Not for tots.","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Exquisitely made holiday fable with a decidedly dark edge, not unlike It's a Wonderful Life in tone. Mary Steenburgen is very convincing as a woman whose heart has been hardened by life's harsh realities. Christmas has become an empty ritual to her and it takes a highly unusual angel named Gideon (played by a softspoken Harry Dean Stanton in a long cattleman's duster) to make her see the light. Her conversion requires some grim but realistic machinations by Gideon, as well as the simple and unquestioning faith of her optimistic husband and children. But the result is an emotionally powerful finale that is honestly earned, not the easy tearjerking of lesser films. Special mention should be made of the two terrific child actors who play Steenburgen's kids, especially Elizabeth Harnois as the youngest, Abbie, whose unsticky line readings are a treat. Character actor Jan Rubes makes a wonderful, matter-of-fact Santa Claus. The production is further enhanced by Frank Tidy's meticulous cinematography, some imaginative art direction, particularly in Santa's toy shop, and a lovely score by Michael Conway Baker. Thomas Meehan's scenario delves into some dark territory for a genre that is all too often treacly instead of real, but its clear antecedents are treasures such as A Christmas Carol and the aforementioned Capra classic. A word of caution, however this is not recommended for very young children. But for 8 and above, and adults, it's a Christmas tale that may well become a perennial in your house, as it is in mine. "},{"Title":"So bad I was traumatized","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" I love Harry Dean Stanton and Mary Steenburgen so I thought I'd watch this movie with my sister. Bad plan! This is by far worst Christmas movie I have ever seen, if not the worst movie I have ever seen. From the beginning a series of nightmarish events unfold and the overall mood is just dark and plain creepy. I agree with other reviewers that HDS comes off as some sort of pedophile in his long black coat, watching children from afar, and sharing secrets with them that they can't tell anyone else. I kept watching and hoping that it would get better but it only got worse and the acting was dreadful. The term train wreck comes to mind. I'm just glad there were no children watching it with us because they would have all been in tears, and I would not know how to explain my way out of this dreadful movie. "},{"Title":"Not a Christmas film for young children.","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" First off I would like to say that this movie should have had a PG rating and not a G rating. Most young children between the ages 4 through 10 are not going to understand the plot or point to this film because it is kind of a dark and depressing film. Even though at the end Ginny turned out to like Christmas, throughout the movie was very tense especially the scene where Harry kills Jack at the bank. Even though it was all part of Ginny's dream by Gideon to like Christmas most young children are not going to understand that along with many other scenes in her dream. So, the bottom line is if you have young children between the ages of 4 to 10 sit with them when they watch this movie because it may frighten them like it did me when I was 5 years old. "},{"Title":"Hands down best Christmas movie of all time","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this movie shortly after it came out. It was back in the mid 80's. I remember watching it and loving it and telling my Mom about it. We've watched it almost every year since. Its kind of a sad story in a way but its so good. I can't explain why i like it so much. It just warms your heart. Harry Dean Stanton does a great job as Gideon, the Christmas Angel and Mary Steenburgen as the Mom who doesn't believe in Christmas is great. The best performance is Jan Rubes as Santa Claus. He is in my opinion the best interpretation of Santa Claus I've ever seen. I recommend that everyone watch this movie, its been 20 years and I'm still enjoying watching it every year. It isn't Christmas for me until I've watched this movie. "},{"Title":"a spiritless person who's 2nd chance to make right the wrongs of Xmas","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" award winning actress Mary Steenburgen gives a brilliant performance as Ginnie Granger a young mother who discovers the joy and beauty this Xmas thanks to unshakable faith of her daughter her 6yrs old Abbie and a angel called Gideon played by harry dean Stanton Ginny's very own angel Ginny's wondrous experience will touch others and their hearts the sharing of one could help her life in so many ways in this timeless Disney will fulfill all your treasured memories it will bring Ur belief back and make sure to share your memories with loves one in this 1hr25mins with snow to aroundwith santa in to to help and go around to help define graineys change I give this 7/10 "}{"Title":"Important message, confusing delivery","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" It seems people have either loved or hated this movie. I watched it for the first time recently with my kids, as I have a soft spot for 1980's family movies. The movie had some promise, but was very confusing.First, I loved the cinematic style of the film. The images of Christmas lights, snow falling and suburban life in the 80ies are very beautiful. I also appreciate the fact that in the movies of the period of 1980ies to early 90ies the life of ordinary people people is treated with great respect, unlike in most modern flicks. The struggling family which is at the center of the plot is very likable. The movie also has an important message that Christmas spirit can be found in the middle of the challenges of ordinary life.On the other hand, however, the angel plot is treated in a very confusing manner. As a theologian I might point out that dead people do not become angels. That might be beside the point, as the movie apparently tries to be a magical children's tale in this respect. But when the theological idea, that an angel is sent by God, is replaced by an angel sent by Santa Claus, the result becomes quite confusing Apparently good people are sent to the North Pole when they die, to work at Santa's Factory. Santa then has these people in his service as Christmas Angels, who he can send to other people to raise Christmas spirit. However If the dead people go to Santa, why is it, that Santa is unable to bring the dead father of the family back to life? Or at least, send him back as another Christmas angel? Moreover, is the North Pole a place existing in the real word, or some kind of magical place accessible only with the help of an angel? These questions were not thought through, and because of this, the 'metaphysical' structure that functions as the staring point of the story is weird and non-functional. One can of course say that one should not take these points seriously, but because they are important for the central plot issue of bringing the dead father back alive, they unfortunately cannot be dismissed.Moreover, many people, including me, were quite confused with what actually did happen at the conclusion of the story. I take it that time was reversed to the point where Ginny and Jack departed on their evening walk and Ginny met the angel, giving her a second opportunity to make the same choices, this time right, as happens in the movie Groudhog Day. The movie also resembles the famous Christmas classic It's a Wonderful life. The other option would be that the bad things which happened were some kind of a dream caused by the angel, so that they did not actually happen at all. With this answer one could skip some of the metaphysical questions regarding the rule of Santa over the dead and the nature of the North Pole. However, the problem is, that what happened is not clearly explained. The viewer is left with confusion regarding the mode of the conclusion. This is especially bad as the movie is nevertheless aimed at young children and portrays very tragic events. The parent cannot tell the kids what happened, if he or she does not understand it either.I would have very much wanted to the like the movie more than I can, as the foundational message is very important. However, in an attempt to escape a serious exploration of the topic of angels the movie is built on so confusing 'metaphysical' assumptions regarding the capabilities of angels and Santa, that it is almost impossible to get a coherent picture of what actually happens in the movie. In other words, though the message is good, the means used to deliver it do not work. "},{"Title":"Makes you wish magic was real...","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of my favorite Christmas movies! Sure there are some really negative reviews here, but they are by some people who have lost their make believe...their imagination...their belief in enjoying a movie...and that's what it is...a holiday movie for those of us who refuse to grow up and still believe that Santa is real, even though we know he's not...or is he? Which is what our heroine Ginnie finds out.What I like about it is that some Christmas' are not the best for a lot of people in the world, and bad things can happen. It reminds me a little of A Christmas Carol, The Little Drummer Boy, and The Bishop's Wife. It's too bad that some children were scarred but do we shelter our children from the realities of life? I love this movie! But that's me...you can judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Underrated Christmas Movie","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" i'd never heard of this movie until this Christmas (2015). I decided to sit and watch it when I came across it in the TV schedules and it was a pleasant surprise to find a pretty good Christmas movie with a real heart.I've been a Harry Dean Stanton fan for many years and he turns in a great performance as the angel Gideon in this movie. Far from the conventional angel, he looks almost creepy, in his black hat and long back coat. But when he smiles, he lights up the screen.The rest of the cast do a very good job, too. Jan Rubes play an great Santa Claus and the kids play their parts very well.It's well worth a watch if you see it on the TV schedule! "},{"Title":"One magic movie!","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is indeed one magic Christmas movie, a story about Ginny Grainger (Mary Steenburgen), who and her family have fallen on hard times. Therefore, she is devoid of any spirit or optimism during the Christmas season. As a result, Santa sends Christmas angel Gideon to help Ginny find her way and believe in Christmas.This story definitely reminds you to always appreciate what you have and never take anything or anyone for granted. It also makes you believe in miracles.The plot keeps you engaged from start to finish as you follow the everyday, typical lives of Ginny Grainger, her husband Jack (Gary Basaraba) and their children Cal and Abbie. You feel their hardship and the effects of unemployment, living paycheck to paycheck and a gloomy Christmas outlook. But, the miracles of Santa and Gideon the Christmas angel brings much warmth, miracles and touching moments to the movie as livens up the spirit of the family just in time for Christmas. The movie may be a little too make-believe in certain moments, but there is enough drama, character development and humor that everyday people can relate to. Mary Steenburgen did a nice job in her role, as did Gary Basaraba and child actors Arthur Hill and Robbie Magwood, bringing innocence and tenderness to the story.Overall, it's one of the best Christmas movies I've seen. Highly recommend! Grade A "},{"Title":"A fantastic Christmas movie","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" This has been one of my favorite Christmas movies since I was seven. (Has it really been almost twenty years?) Warm without being sappy, it takes a different spin on the person must be taught the true meaning Christmas theme that has become something of a cliché. The magic feels organic instead of flashy, and events progress with out feeling contrived or strained. Like the best stories, (It's a Wonderful Life, A Christmas Carol) things get a little grim before the warm and happy ending, but it's never too dark or scary for kids. I would recommend this movie to anyone who is looking for an interesting story that will leave them warm and satisfied at the end. "},{"Title":"This doesn't age well","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I just watched this again as part of my Christmas movies feast and found it not as good as I had thought from a previous viewing. We never do discover the reason behind Steenbergen's disinterest in Christmas, and there are a few other gaps in the story line also. But the good points are many It is beautifully filmed, Santa's workshop is a particular delight and worth seeing the movie for, still enjoyed Harry Dean Stanton as the cowboy angel, the little girl is stellar in her performance. I gave it a 5 out of 10. Not suitable for children at all, it would be too sad and too complicated to explain. "},{"Title":"Great riff on It's a Wonderful Life.","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is indeed an underrated Christmas classic! I saw this movie as a kid in the theater and my mom was a bit turned off by the disturbing nature of some scenes, but now that I've watched it as an adult, I love all the references to It's a Wonderful Life, and all the dark elements in the film. It's nice to see a holiday film that cuts through the schmaltz. People often label It's a Wonderful Life as being too sentimental and sappy, but seem to overlook the themes of suicide, child abuse, poverty and death that run throughout the film. Things have to hit rock bottom for George Bailey to see the value of his life, as is the case in this film. The sheer darkness of what could be, as shown by the angel Gideon, make Ginny's embracing the Christmas spirit all the more resonant. "},{"Title":"Excellent balance of darkness and redemption","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Like It's a Wonderful Life, this is a movie that avoids being overly sentimental by exposing real darkness in the protagonist before she gets the opportunity to miraculously gain a new perspective on herself and the people important in her life. Harry Dean Stanton is heartbreakingly genuine as the Gideon, the Cowboy Angel. As an old fan of John Byner as a comedian/impressionist, I was impressed that I didn't even recognize him in a dramatic character role until I saw the credits. The children's responses as tragedy unfolds are remarkable, simple, direct and real. As a fan of Mary Steenburgen, with a bit of a crush on her when I saw the movie, it was difficult to see her be so convincing as an initially unsympathetic character. This is a film with an edge, perhaps not for the faint of heart or skittish children, but it's the kind of movie I look forward to seeing again and love to introduce to friends. "},{"Title":"One of my Favourites","Date":"15 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" ***Minor Non-Plot Specific Spoilers***I watched this movie a lot as a child. I loved it and thought it was a really good movie back then. I'm sure I saw it at least a few dozen times. Over the years, I honestly forgot about it, but I was delighted when I saw it appear on Netflix a few years ago and I watched it again for the first time in at least 20 years. Watching this movie as an adult, I was absolutely amazed at how horrifying this movie actually is and there was a good long stretch where I just sat there sobbing. It's really, really tragic. I sat there for a while wondering how on earth this was a kids movie, until I remembered that I never really picked up on all of that as a child. I had a vague understanding of the stress the mother was under, because I saw my mother behave the same way, but to truly grasp the reality of this movie is not something most children will do.I still think this movie is great, and definitely worth watching. It's got all the great elements for a holiday film - magic, love, pulled heartstrings, tears, and that warm fuzzy feeling. You're not getting a typical sugar-coated holiday film here, but you'll get a film you won't soon forget. "},{"Title":"Jeez, remember when Disney made movies like this?","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" One Magic Christmas is a world away from the safe, schmaltzy family fluff Disney is responsible for today. It's actually quite a bleak, downbeat and miserable film for the most part, with realistic and mundane photography and a drab production design. All of this actually serves the film well, I must point out.A young Mary Steenburgen (who has always been cast beyond her years thanks to her deep facial folds) plays a mum who is very emotionally subdued, she walks around in a daze, enjoying little of life. At Xmas her kids and husband are excited but she only worries about money and is brought down even further by people treating her badly.An angel shows up and encourages her young daughter to help find 'the true meaning of Xmas' (a theme which is quite common in Xmas movies). The film then plays out as a cross between It's a Wonderful Life and A Christmas Carol. It's effective, but it's not for everybody. I only saw it once before when I was 12, and I was depressed by it, but it's a welcome change of pace to the usual festive fare. "}{"Title":"One Magic Christmas very magical, perfect for the Christmas season!","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"14 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  One Magic Christmas seems to fall under the category of fantasy films that are suitable for the whole family, but especially relevant to adults.  Like E.T. the movie is designed to tug at the heartstrings, and in the beginning it will initially strike viewers as somewhat heavy-handed and sad.  But this film is worth sticking with, and it lives up to its title.I went into this movie expecting a somewhat conventional Hollywood fable...complete with gooey sentiment and multiple climaxes.  What I got instead was a thoroughly engaging, sensitively directed film that left me with a genuinely warm feeling in my heart, following in the tradition of It's A Wonderful Life, and A Christmas Carol. One Magic Christmas is a touching story with an ending that pays off.  It should be a must see on everybody's list during the holiday season!! "},{"Title":"The best Christmas movie ever made.","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" One Magic Christmas is a true classic, an under-appreciated gem of a movie whose reputation will only grow as time passes and those of us who grew up watching it gain influence over popular culture.Forget It's a Wonderful Life and the rest. This is the best Christmas movie ever made.Mary Steenburgen turns in the performance of her career as Ginny Granger, a woman who's lost not only the Christmas spirit but also her very soul amid financial problems, family issues, and the pressures of modern life. Its up to Christmas angel Gideon (Harry Dean Stanton), Santa Claus, and Ginny's own children to help her recover what she has lost.The movie's plot is certainly dark, and a box of Kleenex may be necessary for some scenes. The writing is superb and the acting first-rate throughout.The alternate-reality loop (from when the lights go out to until the lights go back on) is a fairly unique device in mainstream Hollywood films (especially Disney ones).Despite the rather dour situation the Granger family finds themselves in during most of the film, their series of unfortunate events has a very heartwarming - even triumphant - ending. And just when you think it's going to wrap up, the film gives you one more treat - as Ginny gets a glimpse of a very special Christmas visitor.If you haven't had the chance yet, watch this movie and experience what I believe is the best holiday picture out there. My highest possible recommendation! "},{"Title":"One Magic Christmas is depressing and disturbing. Not a good movie for young children.","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie from Disney is a bit upsetting and not appropriate at all with a Rated G rating. It should PG or PG-13, as this 89 minutes Christmas movie has a robbery, kidnapping, car crash, extreme child endangerment, and a murder. It's no way, should be Rated G. It's actually quite a dreary, downbeat and sad film for the most part, with realistic and mundane look of life. Nothing in the film directed by Phillip Borsos stands out as lively. The clothing is dreary. The locations are cold, and dark. The characters, plot, and nearly everything in production design looks bleak. While, the movie did have a good cast, the story didn't had that golly feeling needed to make this watchable. One Magic Christmas is starts out grim, already as it's about a mother Ginny Grainger (Mary Steenburgen), whom husband, Jack (Gary Basaraba) is out of work, and the family is near being homeless as they are force to move out of the company house before the end of the year. Jack has a big dream of opening a bike shop of his own, but it would eat up their savings, which Ginny sees as a foolish move. I hate how the movie makes Ginny look like Scrooge, because she loses sight of the true meaning of Christmas. Great symbolism like when all the Christmas lights begin turning off all around her, as to show that the last of the Christmas spirit has been drained from her after a fight with Jack, but it was a bit cruel. I'm sorry, but if you can't make ends meet, you have to cut down. She is already working as a cashier in the grocery store. She also raising their children; Abbie (Elisabeth Harnois), Caleb (Arthur Hill) and Cal (Robbie Magwood); so she is no way a Grinch like character. So the responsible mom is the bad guy here, while the happy- go-lucky, spendthrift Dad, so full of good cheer, is the hero. What? Christmas get worst for them, as a series of near accidents seem to follow. First off, Abbie nearly get run over by a car while sending a letter to Santa at her mailbox, but a guardian angel name Gideon (Harry Dean Stanton) save her. The next day, Christmas Eve, Ginny get fired from her job due to her trying to take care of her children, and also against her wishes, Jack goes to the bank to take some money out of their savings to do some Christmas shopping for the kids. A bank robber enters the bank and accidentally shot Jack during the heist. He then flees the bank and hops into the family's car with Abbie and Cal still inside. Ginny realizes that the gunman just stole the car with the children in it, chases after him, only to find out that the car has swerve off the bridge into a river below with her children. I know about Murphy's Law, but this movie makes it look like it's like God is trying to go Job on her like a Final Destination style with its silly everything that can go wrong, could, gimmick. It was a bit too much for dramatic effect. After learning of the death of both her husband and children, Ginny returns home to an empty house, spirit broken, and weeps. Are you sure, producers that this is a Christmas movie?! Anyways, Ginny find out that Gideon save the children before the crash, but couldn't save the Dad. The reasons why, he couldn't save him is BS, in my opinion. Gideon tells the children, that only Santa Claus (Jan Rubes) can bring him back alive which end up being a lie, too. The only way to save Jack is for Abbie's mother to have her spirit of Christmas back in which the kids try with a Christmas letter. Will Ginny get her Christmas spirit back or will Jack be gone forever? Watch the movie for the rest. The ending is a cop out, anyways. Remember children, if somebody dies, it's because your parent doesn't believe in the Christmas spirit; it wasn't the thing that killed them! Plus, if you ever want them back from the dead, just ask Santa is raised them from the grave like zombies. He already use zombies to work his workshop rather than elves, anyways. The bank robber left his son at the bus station; he never mentioned again, will he get his father back if he believed in Santa? NO! What a horrible message. The movie should be telling children how to overcome tragedy; because in real life, you can't change past events. This would make a better message then the one, we get in this film. The acting in the film is pretty alright. Mary Steenburgen is very emotionally subdued throughout the film. Her character walks around in a daze, enjoying little of life. She is a great actress. Harry Dean Stanton is a fine actor but his character looked like a child killer than an angel. It didn't help that he was in a long trench coat, and dark hat spying on them on top of trees. He look and act like a craze stalker. Sadly, Guardian angel Gideon shares many characteristics with child molesters and pretty much a bad role model. One thing about the movie is its pacing. It's boring at times. Overall The message means well, but the plot is too dark for a Christmas movie. Ugh, Stay away from this one, if you have young children. It's worth viewing with a more mature audience. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" I really liked the story to this movie. It was my favorite Christmas movie growing up. My parents used to rent it from the local public library when I was a teenager. It used to make me cry every time I saw it. I would highly recommend it to anyone who wants to see it. It really does tell the real meaning to Christmas. Even if it doesn't tell you directly. It's a great movie for the whole family. Children or adults. If you haven't seen this movie, you should go and rent it for the holidays. You may even learn something you never knew, before, about Christmas and why Christmas is so special to people everywhere. Around the world in all countries. Happy Holidays everyone. From me to you !! "},{"Title":"A very dark and different sort of Christmas film but certainly a favourite of many","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" There is something about One Magic Christmas that endears itself to many. Certainly in my area where I am from, this one is a stone cold classic having been filmed in large part in our very small town where nothing like that ever happens. So perhaps I might be a little biased in my opinions but I just really enjoy this movie for its characters and that it isn't afraid to be dark before the light. It is reminiscent in some ways of A Christmas Carol which can also be a bit of a dark and disturbing movie before the happily ever after. I'm not sure I would let youngsters watch One Magic Christmas because of its significant undertones about death. I mean if you dissect it, you have to find it almost disturbing that Santa's helpers are made up of dead people that helped others in life. Putting all that aside, the characters are very well created and acted. The film covers everything from angels to Santa Claus to a father at his rope's end and a mother who is a bit of a scrooge. There are so many layers to the story and it is just really well crafted. Many people are turned off by the darkness of it but it really has some heart and a lot of magic.Mary Steenburgen is just excellent as Scrooge. Essentially that is exactly who her character is. She hates Christmas, she thinks she has nothing in her life worth talking about, and she feels like everyone around her should keep Christmas to themselves. She leads the cast well. Gary Basaraba is also good as her husband who is much more sweet and enjoys Christmas. Despite everything going wrong he is holding it all together much to his wife's chagrin. His character isn't as strong as Steenburgen's and he doesn't give the same level of performance but he fits the role well. I didn't necessarily feel like their chemistry was fantastic but it was good. Harry Dean Stanton feels odd in his role as the Christmas angel Gideon but maybe that's what makes it so interesting. He is sort of a dark almost foreboding character but he somehow fits the story. When he tells the little girl of his past and how he became an angel it instantly gives him this back story that makes you understand him better. Wayne Robson is very good as the father who is at his wit's end and trying to provide for his family and thus makes a horrible decision. I almost wish we had seen more from his character because it really is a good character and he does it very well. Elisabeth Harnois and Robbie Magwood do a solid job as the Grainger children. They are sort of the focus of the story and yet it happens all around them. They fit their roles fine. Jan Rubes, in a small yet important role, is terrific as Santa.Director Phillip Borsos captures the perfect amount of melancholy and sadness to the film as there is magic and hope and light. The scenes in the North Pole are beautiful and for a film like this to cover so much story without feeling cumbersome or boring is quite a feat I think. I know people that complain about Christmas movies being too sweet and sappy and if for no other reason than I recommend One Magic Christmas because it isn't afraid to go into the dark realm where someone is actually murdered to show the main character find her Christmas magic. You could argue the film shows too much darkness for a Christmas movie but its always touched me and I enjoy it every year and for that reason I recommend it highly! 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"A Truly Great Christmas Movie","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" An angel (Harry Dean Stanton) must show a mother (Mary Steenburgen) the true meaning of Christmas. It is not just presents and materialistic things, but the people she cares about.What I enjoyed most about this film is how dark it is. Others have called it bittersweet, which may be fair, but it just has so much negativity in it. A mother who hates Christmas, a bank robber, three people who die...Of course, the mother has some right to be upset. Her husband, as nice of a guy as he is, is something of a deadbeat. There is nothing wrong with wanting to open a bicycle shop... but, you know, it would not hurt to have a job in the meantime, even if it was just part-time. You have to have a home before you can do much else.Gideon is a most unusual angel, and we could question the theology behind it. Angels are not generally dead humans, but a different creature entirely... and then, how does a Christmas angel differ from a standard angel? Apparently just being killed on Christmas? And it seems like others who die are sent to work for eternity in Santa's workshop. That is not my idea of heaven. But, oh well...As a bonus, this film is the big screen debut of Elisabeth Harnois, Sarah Polley and Elias Koteas. That is quite a landmark all by itself. "},{"Title":"Excellent departure from the norm","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Despite being dark, this Christmas movie is a pleasant alternative to the usual fare that is warm and charming but fails to challenge us.It looks like the people who will be most disappointed by this film are those who tune in expecting to see stereotypical Disney fluff.Best viewed by older children who can handle the idea of tragedy sandwiched around non-idyllic home life. If your kids are still under 7 or 8 years old, probably best not to risk any emotional fallout.If you'd rather not have to think and be availed of emotions other than happiness, don't show this one to your kids. If you prefer something different and thought provoking, it's more than worth a watch. "},{"Title":"This is the perfect Christmas movie","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" This a warming story of a young mother who lost her Christmas spirit. She has a very wonderful husband and two lovely children. Her husband has lost his job, they don't have money and the little bit of money they do have it is in the bank. One of her kids Abbie meets a nice Christmas Angel. He helps Abbie help her mother get in to the spirit of Christmas. She has a lot of bad things happen to her. In a way she is real lucky. With Abbie and the angel help she will she get the spirit of Christmas back? If you are the worlds most cautious parents. I recommend you to preview this movie. But for all the rest of the parents this is the best Christmas movie. I also recommend the movie the Night they saved Christmas. It is my second favorite Christmas movie. "},{"Title":"one of the best holidays stories ever!","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" It's been 22 years since this movie was released, and it remains one of the best holiday movies ever... This underestimated treasure is one to discover ! It is the story of Ginny Granger, who is 'helped' by an angel in a very particular way ; he makes her lose everyone she loves on the same day to make her discover and actually believe that the magic of Christmas day DOES exist and that miracles do happen. But the whole story (before the magic comes in) is so touching and heartbreakingly true.. It just shows how hard life can get to everyone. It shows life as it is. Mary Steenburgen stars as Ginny, and she is absolutely wonderful! I mean.. not only does she give a brilliant performance, but she makes us love and understand this Scrooge-like character that we could've hated if played the wrong way. All in all, with its amazing cast, and its clever and touching story, this is a movie your whole family will enjoy for years to come ! "},{"Title":"Special","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Such a special, moving film. This really hit my heart. The acting is is really good, especially from the two children. The little girl is adorable and makes the film as spectacular as it is. There is more to this film than Christmas and getting presents. It really shows how much people should appreciate what they have in life; and this is what makes the film so special. It is really worth watching, simply for the storyline. So beautiful, and well played out. The portrayal of Santa is a little different in this film, and I have to say - I like it. It is more of a real life portrayal than in the other films. If you watch this film, I will guarantee it will touch your heart! "}{"Title":"Beautiful movie","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I watch this movie every year and I think it's absolutely beautiful. The movie sends a wonderful message. My children, ages 16 and 14 also enjoy the movie. It does send you on an emotional roller coaster but in the end it's worth the ride. ) "},{"Title":"watch it just for the adorable little girl","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of my all-time favourites, but there are so many excellent comments here already on what makes this movie special that I'll just focus on one of the main characters, the little girl. If you thought what's-her-name was adorable in E.T., then you're in for a treat in this movie. Elisabeth Harnois is cute as a button, and she delivers her lines in the most charming way - genuine, not in the least smarmy and rehearsed. She's a great little actor, totally natural-looking and believable. I see she's gone on to a busy career in television, but in my mind she'll never outdo One Magi Christmas. -- Is it a good point or bad point that the snow and weather is so realistic, complete with rain and slush and melt, just like in real life around Christmas? It's a Wonderful Life has totally fake snow that always looks pretty. This is real. "},{"Title":"better every year.","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" I'm really picky about my Christmas movies and this has to be right up there in my top five with Rudolph, Charlie Brown, It's A Wonderful Life, and White Christmas.I still have the same VHS copy my mom recorded in the 1980s off the Disney Channel. We watch it several times every year, so often that I have the entire movie (including every fuzzy sound dropout and warble and 1980s commercial) memorized- and believe me, I'm not the type of person to do that! Not your typical saccharine Disney movie, it's real life and gets fairly serious/dark at times (although I never noticed that as a seven-year-old kid, interestingly). I see no reason not to let children watch it, with a caring adult around to talk to about the more complex themes. I'd rather have my kids watch this than the inane cartoons out these days. The music is subtle and appropriate, the photography is gorgeous and sticks in your head long after viewing. The acting is top-notch, heartfelt, and true. I can't imagine Christmas without it. "},{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. I have been looking for it for a long time. Great to finally find it, awesome. Every year when Christmas comes around i think about this movie and for the life of me i can never remember the name of it. The only thing that i can remember is that the Angel's name is Gideon. I am hoping now that i have actually written the name of the movie down that i can go out there and purchase it somewhere so that i can put it away every year after Christmas after watching it with my family and also showing it to other families also. It is good to know now that if i am having trouble finding a movie i can always come to this site and share my information about what i know and what i would like to know. "},{"Title":"Fills the heart","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  What a wonderful Christmas movie.  Every time I see this movie I believe a little more in just about everything, and not many movies can do that. This movie just touches the heart and warms it up. It is great and recommended for everyone, and even especially for those who might have lost their Christmas spirit at some point in time. "},{"Title":"A stirring movie about an angel who helps renew a woman's faith in the spirit of Christmas.","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was a child when I first watched this movie.  I loved this movie then, and I still enjoy watching it now.  I feel that it can be easily compared with any of the holiday favorites. Although this title is not well-known, I am sure that you will love it.  So add this movie to your list of must-sees this holiday season. "},{"Title":"An alternate Christmas tale.","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Warning, this can be a disturbing movie. This movie would be very disturbing for small children, say under ten. Things go wrong and a woman's family dies, the father first and then her children. Yikes! She must go through an alternate reality that teaches her the meaning of Christmas and learn what it was that led to the disaster. This movie is about family values and charity, but is not above a Santa that has a hard edge. We are responsible for our actions and the outcomes. Yet it all comes out right and Harry Dean Stanton is a terrific angel-in both senses of the word. Mary Steenburgen is excellent, the husband and children are fair. I recommend it but don't give up in the first few minutes, give it time to develop. Roger "},{"Title":"One to remember","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have not watched this movie for years, but I remember it airing yearly on a local television station.  The final scenes still can bring tears to my eyes just thinking about them, and Mary Steenburgen is wonderfully real and honest in this performance.  I hope to find this on tape or DVD soon now that I've tracked down the name of it here on IMDB. "},{"Title":"Easily as good as A Christmas Carol and It's a Wonderful Life.","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Though this movie isn't very well known, It is easily as good as a Christmas Carol or It's A Wonderful Life.  I always make sure I see this every Christmas. It is great for families as the story is interesting enough for adults to enjoy with just a little bit of fantasy for the kids to enjoy. This one is a tear jerker for sure, but leaves you with a warm feeling in the end. A MUST see Christmas Movie! "},{"Title":"Acceptable family fare w/ good cast","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Basically I watched this film because of the cast, headed by great character actors Mary Steenburgen and Harry Dean Stanton. It wasn't really disappointing from an acting perspective, although the film itself is fairly standard holiday stuff. It's kind of a Wonderful Life type of thing. Steenburgen's husband is killed in a bank robbery the night before Christmas, so she must take this terrible news to her kids. The daughter goes to her friend, the angel Gideon (Stanton), and he brings her to the North Pole to see if Santa can help.It's a nice enough story, but I guess I just didn't see the point. Maybe with some good musical numbers or something like that this one would have reached a higher level. It's a bit too maudlin for my tastes, but interesting enough for what it is. "}{"Title":"Truly magic film","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A true treasure, a must see film to be viewed anytime it is on TV, or buy the video if you can find it.  One of those films that tends to restore or repair views tarnished by the hectic holidays or a portion of daily life itself. It is a film that ranks right up there with It's a Wonderful Life and the many incarnations of A Christmas Carol.  It is a film for the entire family, and may be of even greater value in our every growing confusing times.  Just as the ending scene of It's a Wonderful Life brought shivers to my soul, the gentle ending of this film always brings a smile if ever-so-slight at times. "},{"Title":"My childhood memories","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this film 9 years ago, and it touched me on a deep level because I never forgot it. I used to watch it all the time and than I got older and I taped over it, I never saw it again after that. Just 2 years ago I started thinking about it again and I suddenly got this happy feeling. I think it's like that with childhood memories. if I saw it now for the first time it probably wouldn't affect like it did. I think that any 8-year old child would love this film because it's magical and it's a movie you remember forever...  "},{"Title":"open-minded","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" Excellent movie. It is a realistic view of what many low income families experience and how through love, hope and God (symbolized by Gideon)daily problems can be met head on and defeated. Some people believe it to be violent and not suitable for children. I believe, it has less violence then most children's video games, many T.V shows directed at children (say The Simpson's - although, I think that too has many redeeming values) and several other movie's containing death and deceit as depicted in the Lion King and the horror of the mean kid in Toy Story. One Magic Christmas is an excellent movie to watch with everyone in the family. It's heartwarming fantasy at its best. "},{"Title":"Very sweet and touching","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Although not my favorite Christmas movie I did like it enough to buy the DVD and I do watch it at least once a year. I took my little girls to see this on the big screen when it came out years and years ago so it's very special to me and my family. The angel to me absolutely makes the movie. He has the sweetest spirit and in such a quiet way he calms those watching and teaches us what the Christmas spirit is all about. The mother played by Mary Steenburgen did an OK job and the little children were precious especially the little girl. I do think it would have been a better movie if perhaps someone else had been cast as the father since his acting skills are lacking in my opinion. Even after all this, its worth the watch.  "},{"Title":"Touching movie - in a good way.","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  ** Spoilers herein!!! **I've just seen this movie, due to my job. Otherwise I don't really like Christmas movies, they all have the same let's make it touching slimy, greasy feel to them, and I feel a bit old for that. But this one - I found it very enjoyable, and - most surprisingly, even for myself - touching in a very special way.The story is about a poor family, especially about the mother, who doesn't believe in Christmas, and thus, doesn't like it. A Christmas angel is sent to make things right, and through a quite simple, but very twisting story (somewhere in the middle I was very surprised, and it got even better towards the end), he, of course, succeeds. The whole thing is so special, so unusual, so emotional - it's hard to describe. In the middle, just before you start to be bored by the poorness of the family - which is very deeply described, altogether with its impact on the parents' emotions -, the story breaks, and from then on, at first you'll be depressed (or at least, I was), and then, as the unbelieving mother gets back her faith, you're getting more and more cheerful too. I don't know how this film got to me so much, but it did, and since it's done in an unique way (not the usual cliches for kids), I don't mind at all.The positive aspects are Harry Dean Stanton (I saw him in Alien, and at first, it was very unlikely that he'll make a good angel after being eaten by a space monster ;) ) as Gideon, who is a perfect Christmas angel misterious, but very-very likeable, and you can't help feeling some simpathy for him from the beginning. At first, I thought about Mary Steenburgen as a negative point, but I figured that she was so annoying because it felt much more dramatic when she changed in the end, when she became a totally different, very nice person. Also, Elisabeth Harnois, playing Abbie, is very-very cute and plays just fine. And, I like the happy end - however, it's a Disney after all. )***Here come some major spoilers, be advised!*** Negative aspects are the happy end to begin with, however the change in the mothers beliefs is not quite realistic after you've lost your husband, and almost your kids as well, you're not gonna change because of a mere letter sent back by Santa. Also, the ending is VERY overdone in my opinion why does everybody got to be happy? Harry, the would-be robber getting 50 bucks is okay (he was a great character by the way, simple, but very original), but Herbie, the shop manager, keeping Ginny in and giving her a break - most unlikely. Why didn't she get a raise all of a sudden? Then I really would've shaken hands with the director... )) And, the very end with the money was also soooo predictable (however, it's the least I expected, so well done. ) )But hey, it's Christmas, you go all with these things, and don't get disturbed, 'cos it's a very-very nice movie after all, and once it starts to twist and turn, you begin to wait what's gonna happen next, even tough it has a pretty simple story. I really recommend this movie for everybody, even kids (despite someone mentioned the shooting scene... my message to worried parents concerning this movie Beware, reality may cause damage to your children's minds! )) ), and Christmas-movie-cliche haters, like me. You won't be disappointed at all! "},{"Title":"The Best Christmas Movie for Grinches!","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a MUST watch for everyone at Christmas time! Just watch it and you'll see why!! It has comedy, drama, hope and love. All that you need during this sometimes stressfull time. Ginnie is a Grinchy woman that works in retail and is stressing about having enough money for Christmas presents for her children. She soon finds out, Christmas isnt all about presents! "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  ***POSSIBLE SPOILER****During the holiday season, this wonderful film is a must. Unlike the mean spirited 'Scrooged' with Bill Murray, or 1985's bore 'The Santa Claus movie' this film brings out the true meaning of Christmas and the holiday spirit. A few serious moments, but don't worry, all ends well. "},{"Title":"One Magic Christmas to Remember","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I must say each time I see this movie a year older than the last, the better it gets.  I've been watching since I was too young to remember.  My Christmas isn't complete without watching this movie.  The story of a young girl and an angel friend struggling to teach the true meaning of Christmas means more than any hokey pokey 'round about Santa story.  Mind you the story is very sad,  the water works will start pouring with the power of One Magical and very happy Christmas.  Grab your tissues for this one, it will grab hold of your heart and stay with you throughout the many a Christmas yet to come. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Movies","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was probably five years old.  My family has watched it probably every year since the 1980s. Mary Steenburgen plays a sour mother who can't seem to find the christmas spirit.  Her attitude and general negative attitude affect her children and loving husband. Some awful things happen in this movie and we have to wonder if it was really necessary for the director to go to this extreme.  Boy, do we have to suffer!  If you're into dramatic events, then this movie is for you. Will the help of an Angel, a trip to the North Pole and some tragic events help her find the true meaning of christmas? Watch and see. And bring the tissues.  "},{"Title":"Give me a break","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This has always been my all-time favorite Christmas movie.  I saw it when I was young and still love it to this day.  It is very heart-felt and touching, with an important story to tell.  I would recommend this movie to any and all parents with young children. "}{"Title":"a wonderful feel good movie for the whole family.","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  One Magic Christmas is truly a heart felt story. A wonderful movie that will put you and your loved ones in the Spirit of Christmas and all that it represents. Wonderful acting by all and a superb storyline that will bring a tear to your eyes.   "},{"Title":"Blaming the victim","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" The next time any of you wants to commit a crime, make sure that you're rejected by someone, anyone, for something, so you can blame them for you being an a-hole! That's what this movie tries to do when it lays all the blame for the tragedies at Mary Steenburgen's feet. What can you expect from an entertainment industry whose stars waste their time and efforts trying to set convicted killers free! If any of you are familiar with B.F. Skinner, you know that his theory of behaviorism states that you do not reward someone for negative behavior. You reward only positive behavior, that is, behavior that you wish to have repeated. I think that Christmas is being used by someone to force viewers to swallow garbage that they wouldn't be tempted to swallow at any other time. Get it through your heads, folks, there's no Santa Claus and no angels to come swooping down from the clouds, or Heaven, to turn back time and bring back the dead! In spite of what Hollywood promises. "},{"Title":"Really is magic!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have seen this movie every year since it came out. It is a movie that makes even the biggest scrooge believe again. It proves that through the commercialism of the holiday, true Christmas spirit and love can return. I recommend this movie to anyone feeling a little overwhelmed with the price of Christmas. "},{"Title":"GOLD, but What Happend to this great Film ?","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow, what a great film.  Why was it not released to the theatres? Disney dropped the ball on this underrated GEM.  I guess they didn't know what they had. I remember when I was 4 watching this film on TV and being captivated by it. I suppose it was just a Wonderful World of Disney TV Movie.  A few years ago my father bought it real cheap on VHS and I had forgotten just how good it was.  To me, this film is just as good as any Holiday classic.  It's very comparable to the likes of A Christmas Story, A Christmas Carol, It's a Wonderful Life, and The Bishop's Wife. It's a great film.  The story, the special effects, and its realism are tremendous, but what really makes this film so good is the cast. Great performances by all, especially Basaraba, Stanton, Santa, and the Kids.  But Steenburgen should have won an Oscar for this movie, her best performance in my opinion.  If I were Disney/Touchstone, I would remake this film, and cast great actors like Sean Connery as Santa, and Tom Hanks as the angel.  With it's story and big actors this could be the most successful Holiday movie of all time, no doubt about it.  Shame on you Disney, everything was there, but you should have released it to the movies.  Now it's all but forgotten. The only way to redeem yourself is to Remake it.***1/2 out of ****   "},{"Title":"GREAT, little-known Christmas movie!","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the greatest Christmas movies ever. It can be placed in the same category as It's A Wonderful Life and Miracle on 34th Street. It's a shame more people haven't heard of it. If you like Christmas movies, you HAVE to see this movie! ) "},{"Title":"Crazyness","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I do admit that at times, this film gets a little...well...she does go to the North Pole. But anyway, the movie is basically about a married mother who can't find the Christmas spirit. This creats a dilemma. A Christmas angel comes to help get the mother back into the spirit. Some parts of the movie do actually make me want to break down in tears, overall, it is pretty good for young children, but adults might not find it as interesting. "},{"Title":"Santa is not the same as God","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Family, Fantasy","Review":" That is what I was left to explain to my grandchildren after watching this movie. The basic premise of not having the spirit of Christmas is one thing, but sending a child to the north pole by way of a Christmas angel is another. I don't have a problem with celebrating Christmas, both as a secular and non-secular holiday. I can separate the two but a child cannot. The idea of a Christmas angel is ludicrous. The scene at the north pole and the reason for going is ludicrous. The idea of an angel under the employ of Santa is too much. As with a lot of Christmas movies, this movie seemed to be made without any original thought.It combines, A Christmas Carol, It's a Wonderful Life, and Miracle on 34th Street, into one which makes it appear to capitilize on real movies for the sake of a few holiday bucks. To consider this a holiday classic is to admit to having a lot of free time unimpeded by any serious thought. Viewers need to realize that without the religious Christmas there would not have been the secular Christmas we confuse for the real one. "}]