[{"Title":"A really good movie!","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie. I have watched it numerous times, and I still love it! It is one of those feel good movies that we seldom see anymore. No violence, no sex, no strong language, etc. Just a strong woman, and a strong man, gradually falling in love. No negatives at all. If you want to watch a pleasant movie, and go to bed feeling happy, watch this. James Garner and Sally Field both play very non-Hollywood types, and we love them all the more for it. (Watch for the scene where they are dancing - it is hysterical!) "},{"Title":"A fine romance drama with good star appeal","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" James Garner and Sally Field make an appealing couple involved in a May-December romance. This theme has been done before in films but Garner and Field bring a freshness that gives the production credibility as they form a casual friendship that intensifies as time passes. Field's troublesome and immature ex-spouse shows up to try to win her back and his presence causes an awkward, strained triangle that resolves itself in due course. Garner is a relaxed middle-aged pharmacist who is comfortable with himself and takes each day as it comes. Field is determined to make a new life for herself and her son as a horse trainer in a small Arizona town. Brian Kerwin and Corey Haim as Field's ex-husband and young son are good in supporting roles. "},{"Title":"Just a real good movie","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This may or may not be a chick flick. But who cares. Growing up in the 60s and 70s, Garner and Fields were two of my favorite television stars. So to see them together in a movie is a treat. While Garner's character is about 30 years older than Sally's, there is an undeniable chemistry between the two. Also, there is a gentle, mature humor in this movie. It will bring a smile to your face without the gross physical comedy or profanity so prevalent in modern movies. I have to admit that I am a romantic at heart, and this movie certainly hit home. If you like a film with a touch of romance, humor, and good performances by the lead actors, this is a movie you should add to you DVD collection. "},{"Title":"A Chick Flick?","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sure, this is a romantic comedy, but I wouldn't call it a chick flick. It's a great story, and all the principals work effortlessly towards making the film just downright entertaining.Garner is at his best as an understatedly charming small-town pharmacist who becomes entangled in the life of a fiercely independent single mother with a deadbeat ex-husband. Field hits all the right notes with her character, but I can't tell if she's stepping back, or she just doesn't know how to play against Garner's lackadaisical style. Brian Kerwin gives his best screen performance as her ex, and sure, he plays a deadbeat, but he just oozes sex appeal. "},{"Title":"Cute funny movie with Garner in top form","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is such a cute movie! I remember seeing it when I was a senior in high school and absolutely loving it. I'm a big fan of Jim Garner and romantic comedies. This is just a totally feel-good movie. Garner's dialog and character are perfect. His words are so snappy and funny. Oh, to find a man like Murphy in real life... It was interesting to find out that Garner and Sally Field are really only 18 years apart. He was 56 and she was 38 when they made it. I watch it whenever it's on TV. I hate the way they edit it though. They took out one of the best lines, How do you like your eggs, Murphy? Why? I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Chick Flick Guys Will Enjoy Too","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Aging Garner makes the most of this showcase role, arguably among his best work.  Sally Field is also appealing and believable as the much younger woman torn between romancing a ne'er-do-well but age appropriate peer or the warm-n'-fuzzy but still studly sexagenarian Garner.  The dialogue exchanges between Garner and Field pop nicely and the direction is tight.  Less polished is the plotline, which veers between the simplistic soap operatics in Field's life (boring and largely cliched) and the gradual courtship process between Garner and Field (sly, entertaining and winning). Overall, though, this is a satisfying portrayal of may-december romance with the mush women will love and just enough conflict and tension to keep the men around, too.  We all know the outcome before the start but it's still a gentle and loving rendition of the blossoming of true love. "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Murphy's Romance is a great movie. My husband is not a big fan of Chick flicks and he loved it too. I think everyone should see it if they haven't already and I think there should be more films like this. I can't think of one that compares to it. I loved the setting in Arizona and the fact that she was working horses. You don't get too many films like this anymore. It was about starting over and finding love in an unexpected place. Sally Field and James Garner were spectacular. Murphy's Romance contained all the features a great film should possess. It was funny, yet serious and full of romance. It portrayed a mother and son who were close to one another. It was about making tough decisions and real life. "},{"Title":"Garner and Field rule!","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jim and Sally are brilliant in this easy yarn of a couple falling in love, even though he is a good 15 years old than her. Proves age doesn't mean a cracker. The ex-husband sub-plot is a waste of movie time, but it has no effect on the final outcome. Bravo for an excellent story and outstanding acting! "},{"Title":"A Showcase for James Garner","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  James Garner (Oscar-nominated) stars as a small town pharmacist in this very good motion picture. Sally Field and her teenage son (Corey Haim) move to the small Texas town and Garner and Field slowly fall head-over-heels for each other. The film is a showcase for Garner's sometimes hidden talents. This is his show and his Oscar nod was well-deserved. Sally Field proves to be a very capable supporter once again as she shares and also steps away from the spotlight throughout. 4.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"How Do You Like Your Eggs?","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Murphy's Romance is a pleasant easy to take movie about a May - October romance between widower James Garner and younger divorcée Sally Field. It's set in modern day Texas and it moves with grace of a gazelle and the speed of a Galapagos tortoise. And that's not meant in a negative way.Sally Field with the ink barely dry on her divorce from Brian Kerwin has moved to a small Texas town where she's now acquired a ranch which could use a lot of improvement. She's got her son Corey Haim in tow and they aim to start anew.The first and best friend they make in town is 60 year old James Garner, the local druggist. He's part of a disappearing breed in that he owns his own pharmacy. Given the way things are 23 years after Murphy's Romance, Garner's store if it still is operating is probably part of chain now, even in small town America.A steady reliable guy like Garner is all any girl could wish for, but ambling back into the picture is Kerwin who swears on a stack of Bibles he's a changed man. Why he's even a born again Christian.The man knows how to ring her bell, but that's about all he's good for. In fact he furnishes his own proof before the film ends.James Garner got his only Oscar nomination and I remember how much I wanted him to win that night watching the Oscars. It would have been great, but William Hurt won for Kiss of the Spider Woman. Murphy's Romance got one other nomination for cinematography, but it lost to the year's Best Picture, Out of Africa.Murphy's Romance is a tender and touching story about a couple of mature people, one a bit more mature than the other finding true love. As Garner says this is his last love and Field responds this is her first. It's a film for romantics of any age. "}{"Title":"Wonderful May December comedy romance","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a fabulously entertaining movie. Note that practically everyone reviewing it quite accurately describes it as 'feel good'. And it's not just a chick flick! My husband loved it and I'm hoping to get hold of it for my 18 year old son to watch.It's not your typical comedy romance, with two attractive young stars dating in a traditional manner or having sex shortly after the opening credits. The romantic leads are both wonderful in this unusual tale, with Sally Field engaging as the young divorcée, Emma Moriarty. The amazingly charismatic James Garner plays the older widower, Murphy Jones, an affable, laid back pharmacist 30 years or so her senior. Emma has just moved to Murphy's small town to set up a horse ranch nearby with her teenage son, Jake. Murphy gives Jake a part time job at his drug store to help out the young widow, tries to send business her way, and even recommends some eligible town gents for her to date (though he clearly has his eye on Emma himself).Barely has an attraction begun between Emma and Murphy when there's 'trouble in paradise'. Emma's sexy but ne'er-do-well ex-husband, Bobby Jack, shows up, convinces Emma to let him stay with her & their son for awhile, and tries to rekindle the fire, so to speak. Of course Jake wants his dad back, so pressure is put to bear on Emma. Meanwhile, right in front of the ex, Murphy is carrying on a rather unusual courtship of Emma! He ends up staying for supper with the 'happy little family of three' nigh on just about every night, even joins them for a hand or two of cards. Bobby Jack is naturally not pleased with this turn of events, and the competition between the two of them for Emma's affections makes for some pretty witty dialogue and amusing scenes, especially at a local square dance. Also, the contrast between the two men in terms of their inner character gives Emma cause for reflection...the charming but cheating, good for nothing Bobby Jack versus the easy going but hard working, caring, and principled Murphy. You're going to absolutely love Murphy's Romance! You just can't help it. "},{"Title":"Feel Good Movie","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a romance/comedy that I'll never get tired of watching. (might contain spoilers) Sally Fields is newly divorced and moves to a small southwestern town to start boarding horses. She makes good friends with older gent James Garner and things begin from there. This is a nice movie to curl up and watch with a cup of hot chocolate (or iced tea). It moves along at a steady pace so you aren't bored and the ending will leave a smile on your face. I gave this movie 10 stars because I'm entertained every time I watch it. On a side note, I usually hate romantic movies, but this one is just different. Especially with the age gap that, in the end, just doesn't matter anymore.  "},{"Title":"This movie defies Hollywood stereotypes","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Murphy's Romance is a little gem of a movie. I like the way it defies typical Hollywood formulas. For example, When Emma's ex-husband, Bobby, shows up trying to reclaim Emma's affection, the usual Hollywood storyline would involve Emma using the situation to create jealousy, and for Murphy and Bobby to have fought (probably physically) for Emma's affection. Instead, the three of them live together (with Emma and Bobby's son) semi-harmoniously with Murphy competing in a more subtle way to show that he rather than Bobby is the right match for her now. A scene which stands out has Murphy and Bobby both attempting to cut in to dance with Emma at a party, and when Emma says in frustration, why don't you just dance with each other, they in fact do, with Murphy saying, watch your feet - I'll lead. Much of the movie's message lies in what the actors do rather than what they say. Only at the end, after a lengthy romance, does Murphy profess his love and give Emma a mild ultimatum to choose him as a lover, not a friend.The dialogue is terse and funny, the acting is superb, and the story at the end is very satisfying. This is a movie for discriminating adults tired of chase scenes, predictable dialogue, and tired formulas. "},{"Title":"Just When You think you've find the right guy,someone even worse comes along!","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For 1 hour and 45 minz long feature it is not so long for this little piece of cake. It's easy-watch movie. Because it is real good movie. James Garner And Sally are very match for their roles in the movie.James is very Gently very humorous. He just Stoles the whole movie most of the time. If we lost him out of the movie is no life at all.He is also served for an Oscar nomination. Cory Haim is very good actor. The movie is funny, humorous and comfortable. The Cinemaphotograher William A.Fraker shoots the movie feel like a slightly kind of village. It's a good feeling of how the country village like and everyone is nice. It's a very unexpectedly good movie!Just add to your DVD collection now ! "},{"Title":"A Charming and Intelligent Romantic Comedy","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" MURPHY'S ROMANCE is a lovely 1985 comedy about a divorcée (Sally Field) with a young son (Corey Haim)who is trying to begin a new life in a small town and finds herself inexplicably attracted to the local pharmacist (James Garner) who is several years older than she is and also must deal with her ex-husband (Brian Kerwin) re-entering her life. Aided by a strong screenplay, Field has rarely been more appealing on screen but it is Garner who really shines here in such a laid back and breezy performance that it earned the actor his very first Oscar nomination for Best Actor. If you're a fan of the stars, you will be utterly charmed by this warm and winning comedy. "},{"Title":"easy goin' romance","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Murphy's Romance is the kind of film that proves a story can be told about nice people, facing comical and/or difficult circumstances, and be as lively and attention-grabbing as anything else.Sally Field gives an understated performance as a woman with an unusual occupation (at least for the movies) who starts a new life in a desert town. James Garner, who patented the understated performance, is the local pharmacist (also an unusual occupation for the movies; the last time a pharmacist was even a minor character in a film was probably It's a Wonderful Life), who guides the newcomer toward potential love interests, all the while subtly romancing her himself.Complications ensue when the good-for-nothing ex-husband turns up, and Field's character's young son gets to contrast his bone-idle dad with a real man.  The movie is warm, witty and well-filmed.  Alas, James Garner, in his best role, ran into the same problem as Harrison Ford, in his best role Both were nominated for Oscars the year William Hurt starred in Kiss of the Spider Woman, and at the Oscars, cross-dressing usually trumps everything else. "},{"Title":"How do you like your eggs?","Date":"15 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this film would merit a higher rating than it does here on the IMDb. It's a warm and touching, funny movie at times with Sally Field and James Garner portraying their characters with just the right amount of credibility. Not to sugarcoat this too much, I'm a guy, but I think the film hit the right notes for the kind of picture it was. There were only a couple scenes that I thought were forced, one was Murphy (Garner) and Bobby Jack (Brian Kerwin) deciding to dance together when they probably should have been coming to blows over each other's jealousy. The other was Emma's (Field) sneezing fit in the barn when Bobby tried to push his luck. It appeared that Miss Field never took sneeze lessons in acting school because it looked to me like she was about to crack up. If it was her way of putting off her ex, then I'll give her a pass. By the way, wasn't Bobby Jack just a perfect creep? Even the kid knew he cheated at cards.Now once I offer you this tip, I'm sure you'll take me up on the challenge. Just keep attentive during any modern flick and you're bound to see a product placement scene featuring Coca Cola. Usually it's a quick shot, but boy, the Coke folks got their money's worth here. There were at least six different Coke instances, more if you count a second glance within the same situation. This started out as a game between my wife and I after I first noticed how often the popular brand wound up in a movie, so it's second nature now. Just can't help myself.You know, Garner had a line that made me do some research. When he's invited to the movies, he mentions that he hadn't been to one since the Duke died. So I checked, and sure enough, John Wayne passed away six years prior to this film's release. Something else though, did you know Wayne's father was a pharmacist? Can you imagine that. "},{"Title":"A Romance For All Ages","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What chemistry was created between Sally & Jim in this lesson learning story. You know when a film is top drawer when you catch it by accident on cable and you find yourself drawn to stay right there and enjoy it's beauty and warm, down home, simple message. This is truly a walk down the lessons of life road and the simple things that pay such wonderful dividends.The story is simple and yet special with it's well chosen cast and talented performances by all. This is a film that has no special effects, digital fancy do-dads or explosions and yet it makes you wanting more films like it. Hollywood could take a lesson from this gem of a movie. "},{"Title":"Sally Field and James Garner Make Nice","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A low-key romantic comedy that pairs Sally Field with James Garner, and proves that the two actors have a great deal of chemistry together.Sally Field is a newly-divorced mom setting up house with her son. Garner is a good 'ol boy who takes a hankering to her and promises to be a positive male influence. The doofus stud of an ex-husband makes a nuisance of himself. Guess who Field winds up with? The film rides along harmlessly enough on the personalities of its two leads.Won Oscar nominations for Garner and its cinematography.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Garner is wonderful...","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is such a sweet movie - James Garner and Sally Field hit the right notes in this easy-going movie.  Garner is perfect in his role and one can see why Field slowly falls in love.  I also enjoyed Corey Haim in the film but then remember how he wasted such a promising career and wonderful talent (Lucas, License to Drive).  I own this movie because it's seldom on TV and it really leaves you with a good feeling when it's over.  Garner still has it!!! "}{"Title":"A welcome Romantic Comedy","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film on a whim. I had no real knowledge of what the film was about. All I knew was that Garner and Field were in it, and they were known to put their names to some fine work. So, when it aired on HBO I took a chance on it, and I was very delighted with what I saw.This is old fashioned film making with lots of heart and a decent cast and crew. You can tell. The shots are professional, and not over done. There are few overstated moments, and the story moves along at a nice pace.This film comes from a time when Hollywood didn't have to placate to the aging boys of America by throwing in lots of foul language, nudity, obvious and strong sexual references and body function jokes. All the adult humor is there, but it's placed in a more respectable and grown up perspective.The acting is solid. The location perfect, and the characters are right on the mark. In other words, it's a fine little film. A small film with some big names to tell a very endearing tale of tried and true feelings that everyone feels. A reminder to all about what life is all about.I guess the best clue I can give is this; it's like my cousin says, after a while age is just a number. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite movies","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a small movie that refuses to fall into any standard Hollywood traps or sinkholes. It is the story of a single mom and her son moving to a small Arizona town and tries to make a life for them. She meets the town's most eligible bachelor who is almost twice her age and they become friends and maybe something more. The plot gets more interesting when you see her Ex-husband show up.Sweet, endearing and funny. This is just good honest fun storytelling. Incredibly re-watchable and better each time. I cannot find a flaw in this movie because it is just a good script and good direction.I wish movies like this were more common, just people living their lives and interacting with one another. Brilliantly understated film that is just a good movie that makes you care about well drawn characters and a simple plot. "},{"Title":"I like my eggs over easy, and Murphy's Romance is a very easy movie to like. James Garner and Sally Field shine","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I show some wear. I don't deny it  says Murphy Jones, well into his fifties and widowed, to Emma Moriarty, well into her thirties and divorced with a young son. If the fruit hangs on the tree long enough, it gets ripe. I'm durable, I'm steady and I'm faithful. And I'm in love for the last time in my life. I'm in love for the first time in my life, Emma says. So? So...stay for supper, Murphy? I won't do that, Murphy says, unless I'm still here for breakfast. Emma looks at him. How do you like your eggs, she asks. What better Valentine Day's card than Murphy's Romance, a mature, funny and wise valentine of a movie for people fortunate enough to have found long-lasting love the first time or have been given an opportunity for a second chance. Emma (Sally Field), divorced and wanting to start a new life for herself and her son, has rented a broken-down horse ranch in Arizona where she hopes to make a living boarding and training horses. She has little money, can't get a loan and knows no one in the small, nearby town. Murphy Jones (James Garner) is the town's pharmacist. He owns the drug store on Main Street. It still has an old-fashioned soda fountain. When Emma walks in and orders a lemon Coke, he makes it the old fashioned way...Coke syrup, seltzer water and juice from a squeezed lemon. He's a friendly enough sort, realistic about things, thinks he knows people and is a little stubborn...like his Twenties Studebaker he keeps polished to perfection and parked right in front of the store...and he'll pay the parking fines if he has to 'cause he's not moving the car. Little by little the two of them come across each other in the small town. When Emma asks what kind of place it is, Murphy says, Oh, small, friendly, nosy. You can carry a gun, but you can't get an abortion. I don't want to do either, says Emma. With time, Emma's horse boarding business begins to look better. Then Emma's ex shows up, a friendly, charming ne'er-do-well. He's as reliable as next week's weather forecast. He charms his son and tries to charm Emma again. But he's broke, she feels sorry for him, so she let's him stay. Then Murphy starts regularly showing up at the ranch. He has a horse being boarded by Emma. It's not long before Murphy is invited by Emma to dinner many an evening. Things happen that send her ex back out of her life. And Murphy and Emma bring things to a happy close with that question about eggs. Murphy's Romance has no mysteries about it. We know Murphy and Emma will wind up together the moment Emma walks into the drug store and orders the lemon Coke. What the movie does so effectively and with so much charm and affection is show us two adults, with personalities and quirks we come to like, slowly, warily finding ways to demonstrate how they feel about each other. Its depiction of a mature romance is low-key, almost matter-of- fact, and is driven by the laid-back style of James Garner and the cautious, hard-working vulnerability of Sally Field. What keeps the movie interesting is that wary, developing interest the two of them find in each other. Watching it grow slowly over corned beef hash and bingo, over an ice cream cone and a birthday cake, over Emma's concern about her son and Murphy's refusal to own up to his age (he does, finally)...is amusing and satisfying. It helps that the depiction of this small town is just as low-key and friendly as the story-line. There's no small-town condescension. The movie house open only Thursdays through Sundays, the bingo parlor, the one cafe, the barbecue at Emma's ranch, Murphy's birthday party, all are presented straight up with affection, with nothing dramatic added. Murphy's Romance is simply a very nice movie with a warm, literate screenplay and two appealing lead actors. "},{"Title":"Wish I could find I Love You Only sung by Brian Kerwin","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie too - makes me feel less old. I especially liked Sally Field in this movie because she still had some of that 'innocence' in her look. I have always found James Garner terribly sexy in all his movies. I like his style of acting - he really seems to be himself in his movies. He doesn't seem to have changed his style of acting much and I like that. It seems that he is pretty much being himself. I especially like the song, I Love You Only that Brian Kerwin (Field's ex husband) played in the movie. I know the lyrics and music were written by Carol King but I would like to purchase the song as sung by Brian Kerwin. I can't find it anywhere. "},{"Title":"Like an old shoe","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Comfortable, easy going, and dependable. That's Murphy's Romance for me, a film I've watched numerous times.That and Seven and a Match are movies I've gone back to just to simply enjoy. Neither is in any way special, yet I enjoy spending time with these interesting characters.James Garner and Sally Field are nicely matched, with Brian Kerwin making up the triangle. Each is excellent, with a good script and efficient direction. The photography sometimes looks dull and diffuse, as though crying for a better cinematographer. It's nice, though, spending time with these characters, and I derive much pleasure from each revisit. "},{"Title":"James Garner and Sally Field make a fine coupling in Murphy's Romance","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After 30 years of only hearing about this one, I finally watched Murphy's Romance on Netflix disc with my mom just now. It's a nice drama with some humorous touches throughout. Sally Field plays a divorced mother with a young boy (Corey Haim) who's befriended by James Garner as a druggist who occasionally spends time with them. Ms. Field also has an ex-husband who comes by and tries to rekindle his romance with her. I'll stop there and just say both me and Mom enjoyed the light touches of many scenes. It took a while for something to be going on but it was never boring. Oh, and if you're a big fan of It's a Wonderful Life like I am, you'll probably get a kick of one of its players-Charles Lane-appearing here as an old man who takes a ride in James Garner's car and thinks he's going too fast even though he's only driving at 30 miles! He's also in a later dance sequence with a woman near his age. So on that note, I highly recommend Murphy's Romance. "},{"Title":"One of my very favorite movies!! Does Sally Field really ride horses?","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is nothing like a good, clean falling in love movie between two very sweet characters. It gives hope to single people who are afraid of remarrying. I absolutely love James Garner's personality which shines through in this movie. His Oklahoma accent is endearing. (One of my previous MDs sounds just like him and sure enough, he was from Oklahoma, too. If I closed my eyes while he was talking, I would see James Garner! -) We used to live in a small cowboy town similar to this one and the people are very friendly! I wasn't into rodeos and cowboy hats but I miss all the friends we have there.Can anyone tell me if Sally does her own horseback riding? Whoever it is REALLY knows how to maneuver a horse ♥ Thank you! "},{"Title":"the utterly charming James Garner","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Emma Moriarty (Sally Field) is a divorced 33-year-old, mother to Jake (Corey Haim). She moves to the small town of Eunice, Arizona to fix up a run down horse ranch and train horses. She befriends the local druggist Murphy Jones (James Garner). Her ex-husband Bobby Jack Moriarty (Brian Kerwin) shows up and she lets him stay. He promises to be better but he continues to be a thieving cheat. The two men starts competing for Emma.This is better than most May to December romantic movies. Garner is utterly charming. The beauty is their hesitation. The characters know their age difference and keep pushing away the romance. Sally Field is just as charming. Her horse riding is probably the most impressive thing in the movie. Garner and Field make an adorable couple despite their age difference. "},{"Title":"Average Melodrama","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Murphy's Romance starring Sally Fields and James Garner is an unremarkable mid-80s drama. Seeing it at the library, I honestly could not recall hearing of it around its release time, but caught it recently, and wasn't hugely disappointed or enamored either. Of it's strengths, Garner turns in an excellent sagely and patient performance, while Fields comes off as neurotic. Along for the ride is the late Corey Haim, popular in the 80s, has a smaller role though quite a bit of screen-time. Directed by Martin Ritt, the movie is watchable in the sense of an OK TV drama. Scenes with Garner and Fields are touching, but there's too much of an age gap to detect any actual chemistry. 5/10 - basic melodrama. "},{"Title":"Amiable, but formulaic","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by Martin Ritt, Murphy's Romance stars Sally Field as Emma Moriarty, a middle aged woman who travels with her twelve year old son to Eunice, Arizona. Here she fixes up a ranch and falls in love with an elderly widower, played by James Garner.Ritt conveys a certain cosy, small town atmosphere, and packs his film with a number of neat little moments (bingo games, family meals, local dances etc), but this is largely a formulaic and easy flick. The film ends with the arrival of Emma's ex husband, which leads to a muted love triangle.Incidentally, Ritt's films tend to take place exclusively in Arizona or around the Deep South. Such films include Long Hot Summer, Hud, Hombre, The Sound and The Fury, The Great White Hope, Sounder, Conrack, Norma Rae, Back Roads and Cross Creek.7/10 &#x96; Ritt's pleasantly easy-going direction struggles to elevate the material. Worth one viewing. "}{"Title":"Better than the usual chick flick","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even my husband sat through this one! Field and Garner are good individually, and in my opinion, play off one another effortlessly in this romantic comedy. Contains more substance than some more recent offerings, and is a timeless story; one hardly realizes that this movie is already 20 years old. The viewer has a good time hating the ex-husband, while secretly wondering what hold he has on Field's character that this interchange lasts most of the 1-1/2 hour playing time. One would assume this hold has something to do with the child of the marriage, however, his character is not as well developed as perhaps it could have been. (From personal experience, I certainly would not have let my ex-husband come back to live with me, even if it WAS at my son's request.) However, all things considered, the story outcome is well worth the wait! "},{"Title":"Murphy's Romance","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This little unobtrusive film made 27 years old is about a romantic love story between a divorced woman and an elderly widower, its western scenery might has already lost its vigor as time goes by and pretty much old-fashioned from our current maxim of aesthetics to define a must- see classic, it certainly has its appeal for a joyful evening viewing even just for some light entertainment with two beautifully all-over-the-place leading performances.An older-man-with-younger-woman romantic is nothing new and still now it has been considered a preferential relationship mode for our society to endure the time erosion (MODERN FAMILY is the role model here), but its morally self-consciousness could endanger the audience's acceptance and fortunately MURPHY'S ROMANCE has made itself a paradigmatic model against the 27-years age difference. Two Hollywood old timers take on the leading roles, Sally Field, a two-times Oscar winner (for NORMA RAE 1979 and PLACES IN THE HEART 1985) in her heyday (who might not suffer from the same magnitude of deprecating panning like the limitedly-talented Hilary Swank), gives another passionate performance on which she tags a shade of sincere comedic flavor. James Garner, who has earned his first and only Oscar nomination so far, levels off as a constant warmth and charm generator, contrast to Brian Kerwin's viciously good looking ex-husband, which occasions a feasible option for Field's character and also minifies the happy-endings' corny predictability. Also the gone-too-soon Carey Haim is a gem in the film, in a world copious of repellent children, he is so adorable and rare to be seen on the screen nowadays. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great.....","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Slightly better than average romance, well acted by Garner & Fields. Plenty of license taken to allow all these characters to end up inexplicably in BFE Arizona all at one time, but that's just the movies..... Garner and Fields are likable in their roles, and predictably, they end up with each other in the end, overcoming a 27 year old age differential as well as an obnoxious ex-husband who, for some bizarre reason, Fields tolerates living with her in her remote new home that she just crossed half of the country to find following their divorce. Fields' character just never seems to get what's going on, almost inviting, rather than deflecting, antagonism between the two male rivals. However, it's all warm and fuzzy at the conclusion, and it does leave you with a smile. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Murphy's Romance","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A good, old fashioned romance-comedy with Garner stealing the film and Sally Field's heart. Kerwin is all that's wrong with the film. He simply cannot act, but the chemistry between Garner and Field make up for it. Director Ritt still tells those great stories about country folk. Garner was Oscar nominated.  "},{"Title":"Good movie, if you are a James Garner fan, but just average otherwise","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is basically a showcase for James Garner. He was nominated (deservedly) for an Academy Award for his performance.  Sally Field does well in her role and there is a chemistry between Field and Garner on-screen.  The script is good, although a sub-plot with Brian Kerwin as Field's ex doesn't really work too well, there is a decent supporting cast, but it's really Garner's movie.  There is a beautiful scene where Garner gives a ride to an older gent walking down the road that you have to see and is worth the price of admission alone!  Well worth watching and recommended to anyone who likes James Garner. "},{"Title":"Field and Garner are a good match, but this slim plot leads them nowhere...","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Single mom (Sally Field), still hesitantly attracted to her ex-spouse (Brian Kerwin), finds love with an older gentleman (James Garner) in a rural Arizona town. Sally Field radiates so much good will, you like her here even after you realize she doesn't have much of a character to play. Veteran director Martin Ritt has always been exact at finding subtle nuances in backwater towns, yet Ritt is curiously uninspired with this modest, scratchy-and-smooth material; it's a sufficient-enough piece of filmmaking, despite a gratuitous bit from a slasher movie and a horrendously-written tryst in the hay barn. Field (once again caught between two paramours, as with Kiss Me Goodbye) works nicely with Garner--and if the rest of the film had been as well-crafted as their last scene together, this might have been a more heart-rending picture. It has some ambling charm, but no center, and no driving force. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"It wants just to be a nice, small film, but, in the end, it's just kind of forgettable","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sally Field plays a single mother who moves to a small Texas town with her son (Corey Haim). She befriends the local pharmacist (James Garner), and a small romance starts to develop. It's quickly interrupted by her loser ex-husband (Brian Kerwin), who, despite her obvious signals against it, wants to get back together. Or he just wants to freeload on her, more likely. This is meant to be a small, gentle picture. It's somewhat enjoyable, but it never achieves the small gem status it so desperately wants. In the end, it's kind of dull and forgettable. James Garner received an Oscar nomination for his role. The Academy must have really had a lot of Rockford fans in it. The guy does not give an Oscar-worthy performance. He's an uninteresting character, really, and the fact that he's so much older than Field makes you not root for him to get the girl. Better are Field and Kerwin, though neither of them are exactly award-worthy, either (Field did, however, receive a Golden Globe nomination). "},{"Title":"Could  Have Been A Great","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This could have been a timeless love story, but the Hollywood management had to assert their liberal policy toward nuclear energy, abortion, and the ERA. The film is peppered with the agenda. It could have been a love story that transcends time and but not era. So, it is rumored that there is a possible remake. Will it be done right this time? Or will it only continue to echo the Holloywood agenda for the 2000's? Too bad, but the Holloywod agenda of the 80's replays as old hack. Anyone with an LA address will soon regret not building those nuclear power facilities in the 80s when the opportunity struck. The era of cheap energy is gone. "}]