[{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE - will leave you dying laughing!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"48 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is over the top hillarious - I don't know what hyped up dope that the last person who left a comment was on, but I LOVE this movie!  What really makes the movie is both Fletch's imagination, his flair for developing different characters, and especially his speed talking.  examples include I love your body Larry (Geena Davis) while on the phone in front of a hotel clerk, Nugent, Ted Nugent when asked by Alan what his name was, What kind of a name is Poon anyways? asks Mr. Boyd, to which Fletch's reply is, Comanche Indian.  This movie totally rocks and you will love seeing it AGAIN and AGAIN!!!  It is so much better than jay and silent bob strike back, you'll be laughing for hours!  enjoy! "},{"Title":"Wisecrack mystery yarn","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Chevy Chase plays investigative reporter Irwin M. Fletcher, nicknamed Fletch, who's disguising himself as a junkie on the beach to uncover a smuggling ring. He gets spotted by Tim Matheson, a real estate millionaire, who asks Fletch to kill him so his wife can receive the inherit. Fletch goes snooping around and finds out that his smuggling ring investigation might somehow be tied to the millionaire.With a different leading man this film could very well have been a full blown thriller. Imagine John Frankenheimer directing and Robert De Niro starring. But, in dealing with what's at hand, Fletch is a good comedy where Chase can showcase his range of disguises and delivery of good one-liners. Chase absolutely smothers the film with wisecracks and the overall very well constructed mystery is nearly overlooked. With repeated viewings I've actually come to appreciate the film more for it's genuinely gripping detective story elements, it really does boast a solid mystery that unfolds well.There's one thing for sure here; you have to be a fan of Chevy Chase for this film to work for you. Since I'm a fan the film is in high regard. Chase's wisecracks aren't all brilliant but they're mostly very good and here he's at the top of his game.Fletch and Clark Griswold are the two characters Chevy Chase will most be remembered for. "},{"Title":"A refreshing change of pace!","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Fletch is a refreshing departure from most modern crime/mystery flicks, and cop comedies. Chevy Chase plays Fletch, an undercover journalist with a penchant for clever disguises.The film takes itself seriously, as we see Fletch run from place to place making up names and solving the mystery. What makes this film great is that it's not a comedy by nature, but that the character Fletch is a comical man.Thus, we laugh at him and the situations he makes for himself. The film doesn't need to poke fun at itself, we have enough fun watching Fletch.It's hokey at times, and some of the supporting actors can be a little flimsy, but if you're interested in a great light-hearted mystery from the 80's, Fletch is a great watch! "},{"Title":"See it then see it again","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Class! just pure class, nothing long winded just short and sweet, made at a time when chase was top of his class with others like steve martin, as for the film its a good story with many many jokes most of which you will have to see the film again to catch as some as they are very fast such as name changes he comes up with, it still stands up well today even if some jokes are lost on people to young to remember certain peoples names, its a shame people like chase don't get the films that made them so big in the 80s but times and tastes change, i myself am a chase fan and this film is him doing what he does best.SEE IT "},{"Title":"Classic Chevy","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Chevy Chase's finest comedy. It's the part that he really sunk his teeth into. It's a perfect blend of humor, mystery and drama. Although Chase gets more mileage out of it because of the laughs, it's an intriguing character in all respects.Michael Ritchie directs nicely and the supporting cast works well, particularly Libertini as Fletch's noisy and brassy editor in chief. This is a film that is filled with more classic one liners than any film in the 1980's. It's one that makes us miss the old Chase and wonder why he's planning to make yet another Vacation movie.We miss you, Chevy! "},{"Title":"Still fun stuff.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch (circa 1985), the original Fletch flick, features Chevy Chase at his prime who, in his own inimitable way, plays a straight-faced, bemused, fast-double-talking investigative reporter who solves a major drug smuggling operation. Fletch is currently on the cable merry-go-round and makes for a fun and entertaining watch for Chase fans or Chase fans to be. "},{"Title":"Did you decorate this place yourself, or did Mrs. Chief of Police help?","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  **Quote Spoilers Ahead** Oh man, what can I say? Chevy Chase has some of the best deadpan oneliner deliveries of his career in this hilarious comedy about the shenanigans of investigative reporter Irwin M. Fletcher, alias Fletch F. Fletch, Nugent; Ted Nugent, Dr. Rosen-rosen, Rosen-penis, Igor Stravinsky,G. Gordon Liddy Etc. Etc!!I love how Chase's character plays off of such character actors as Joe Don Baker, George Wendt, and M. Emmett Walsh. The they are excellent foils for Chevy Chase's very funny and sometimes subtle jokes and insults!Some highlights of the film are the physical exam scene (Fletch refers to Walsh's character as Dr. Jellyfinger!-Priceless!), The country club scene with such lines as  Yes, very good; I'll have the steak sandwich and... a steak Stanwyk. And no one should miss the chase sequence thru the streets of LA in a 'borrowed' Alfa Romeo Spyder! Just gotta check the fluorocarbon output!,Hey Fred! How's the herpes? Does it hurt?. Which leads up to the improvised speech Fletch gives in tribute to Fred 'the Dorf' Dorfmann, the father of Internal Bushings... No more alcohol and sedatives in her life. So much is going on here, that repeated viewings are definitely recommended by this reviewer to catch all the asides and little moments to be had in this film! I also split my sides during the autopsy sequence. Have you ever seen a spleen this large?-Not since breakfast.All in all, lots of action, general hamminess and a very good supporting cast making this one a keeper for anyone's movie collection! Highly recommended for comedy fans and a must see. One of the best examples of this type of humor!It's all ball bearings these days!You and Tommy LaSorda?...I hate Tommy LaSorda!I feel like a hundred dollars.Nice garage. Must've cost hundreds....I saw the bright red Oldsmobuick of Mr. Arnold T. Pants, Esq. Attorney at Law.Get me some gauze pads and 30-weight for that fetzer valve... and clean those windows, they have filth and muck on them!Does this entail me dressing up as 'Little Bo-Peep'?Very Quotable... I give it an 8.8/10. "},{"Title":"never underestimate Chevy Chase's power","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" In what may have been the high point of Chevy Chase's career, he plays Irwin Fletch Fletcher, a reporter who writes a column under the name Jane Doe. When a man hires Fletch to kill him, Fletch decides to investigate the man. As you might imagine, in the process, he gets more than he bargained for. And there's several gags throughout the movie.Of course, since this is a Chevy Chase movie, you don't even really need to pay attention to the plot. It's overall just an excuse for the star to goof off. Maybe not as much as he did on Saturday Night Live or in National Lampoon's Vacation, but he's still funny as ever. He must have had fun making this movie. "},{"Title":"A classic if there ever was one.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Spoiler This movie is by far one of the most well-crafted scripts ever.  Every joke is put in the perfect place and Chevy Chase has the right dry humor to deliver them.  In between the jokes is a decent plot of a journalist Irwin Fletcher aka Jane Doe (Chase) who uncovers a major story on drugs, murder, multiple wives and crooked cops.  This movie has it all.  It goes as follows  Fleth meets Allen Wyck who asks him to kill him.  Fletch accepts and later falls for Wyck's wife.  In the course of his love he spends much time on the beach hanging with junkies Fat Sam and Gummy--which is how he stumbles onto the crooked cops.  Later investigating Mr. Wyck he learns he is married to a girl in Provo, Utah.  When it's discovered Fletch goes to his ends to put it all together finding out that Police Chief Carlin is in cahoots with Wyck on a scam worth millions.  Fletch wins, gets the girl and so goes it.With classic dialogue to be repeated throughout the ages, such as  I'll have a Bloody Mary, a steak sandwich...and a steak sandwich., I was going to buy this place till I found out Butch Cassidy killed himself here. Bow and Arrow...very strange., What the hell you need with ball bearings? and Can I borrow your towel?  My car just hit a water buffalo.I have owned this movie for years and laugh everytime I see it. Disappointed as I was with the sequel Fletch Lives, this is the keeper. I would recommend this movie to anyone who was looking for some laughs.  "},{"Title":"This one was good","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I sat and larfed my butt off when I saw this in Beeville TX summer '85. And it still holds up today, though the score is kinda crappy, still...you gotta love the get ups, the one liners, and the mystery, too, kinda works. Check out the scene where joe Don Baker threatens Chevy with the gun...Baker wasn't kidding. He was gonna do in Fletch right then and there. They had just enough oomph in the mystery/police corruption angle to let you know that this wasn't just Slapstick Chevy. It works.I enjoyed seeing Jim Bob from the Waltons play a bit as a car thief, who gets stuck in a car chase with Chevy, the Kareem cameo, hmmmm, and the pretty generic blonde who Chevy gets at the end. She is quite nice, doesn't seem to have had much of a career...(Dana Wheeler-Nicholson?)Overall, enjoyable, they coulda made 3-4 of these.*** outta **** "}{"Title":"Funny","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  My friend in college recommended this movie last year and I finally got around to seeing it today and I just have to say it was absolutely hilarious! The dialog was witty, plot kept my attention, and even though I hate Chevy's new material this was definitely awesome. The lady that played Gail Stanwyk was so hot too I couldn't believe it. The only other movie I recognized her from was Tombstone, it's a travesty she's not in more as she's such a good actress to go along with her looks. I thoroughly enjoyed this film and am looking forward to watching it again. I highly recommend it if you are one of the unfortunate's that haven't been graced with it's showing yet.Final CallMovies  Sure I'd splurge!DVD Purchase  Yes, I just hope they digitally remastered it as the VHS copy was kind of blurry.Rental  An awesome rental!  "},{"Title":"Can't decide what it is, doesn't do anything well","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie couldn't decide if it wanted to be a comedy or a mystery. It's possible to be both (48 Hours comes to mind), but this one doesn't do either well. The basic concept seems usable, but the jokes are lame and far between, and the drama doesn't hold up under all the weak attempts at humor. There are a few giggles (the airplane mechanics and the basketball fantasy are the best) but it generally goes down with hardly a smile.It's not a 1 (e.g. Manos, the Hands of Fate), but it certainly doesn't meet my standard of an hour and a half well spent required to get a 5. It's about midway in between. Call it a three.Sad to think that this is rated as Chevy Chase's fourth-best movie. "},{"Title":"Mildly Entertaining","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I. M. Fletch is an investigative newspaper reporter who had been playing a beach bum in order to learn about the drug dealing going on at a city beach, but has so far found out little information. A man named Stanwyk suddenly approaches Fletch, offers him a thousand dollars, and ostensibly hires him to shoot him to death because he is dying of bone cancer. Fletch agrees, but smells a rat and starts investigating Stanwyk.Fletch spends most of the movie donning various disguises and using pseudonyms such as Ted Nugent and Harry S. Truman as he meets different people in his investigation, and that is the source of much of the movie's humor. Some spots are funny and others aren't, and the mystery in the end isn't quite as predicted. The movie straddles both comedy and mystery, but is not quite comfortable in either niche. Still, good for mild, if not necessarily family, entertainment. "},{"Title":"Chevy's brightest hour.","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I have always loved Chevy Chase. Since his stint on SNL, he has been among my absolute favorite comedians. His dead-pan, smart-alec comedic style assured his stardom, early on. First hired by Lorne Michaels as a writer for SNL, it didn't take long for his face to appear on camera.With the opening line...Good evening. I'm Chevy Chase, and you're not, he launched his successful career.Unlike many of his turn-coat fans, I have and love 25 of his feature films. There has never been a movie by Chevy Chase that I did not like. I even have Couch Trip because of a cameo by Chase in a condom ad in the background of this movie.In my opinion, the Fletch movies are among his best works. I loved Vacation, but Fletch and Fletch Lives are by far his best endeavors.Irwin Fletch Fletcher is an investigative newspaper reporter who is currently working on a story about illegal drugs on a CA beach. With this future star-studded cast, take in many names you'll know and love, who were still struggling to achieve some level of fame at this time.George Wendt, Geena Davis for starters.In this one, Chevy runs an almost one-man-show as a roller skating rabbi, a doctor, an airplane repair technician, a beach bum/junkie, an insurance investigator named Harry S. Truman, another insurance investigator but this time a Comanche Native American named Mr. Poon, a wannabe LA Laker, and a sycophantic tennis bum. Although I know this is not the case, this character seems to have been written for Chevy's style. If you were a fan of SNL, at the time ...back when it was GOOD... in the late '70's and early '80's, then by all means, check out this movie. It is some of Chevy's best acting.It rates an 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"I have to admit, it won me over","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I don't particularly care for Chase. I simply usually don't really find him funny. But I did like this. I have not read any of the books. It happened somewhat gradually, but long before this was over, I was enjoying myself. In the long run, the thing's just difficult to resist. Some of the comedy is from sexual matters, but it's never explicit. There is also a little bit of gross-out material. Most of the jokes and gags are based on Fletch's way of handling situations, and his personality as well as in general how he relates to his surroundings. Chevy(the man, I... wouldn't know about the car) carries it rather well, and I found myself quite interested in the whole thing. The plot is good, and keeps developing nicely throughout. Pacing is great, it never gets boring. The music is another quality area. The script is, as well, I wouldn't claim any of this to be predictable, at least not enough to bother. Funny, charming, not at all without tension and may very well keep you guessing until the end. I recommend this to fans of Chevy Chase and possibly(inquire elsewhere would be my suggestion) the title character. 7/10 "},{"Title":"YES BUT ... it wasn't supposed to be a comedy","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" You had to be there. No, that is not a figure of speech. You literally had to be there. Before computers and cable. In the age of print. In the age of books. Greg McDonald popped out nowhere with his Fletch series and it caught on like wildfire. Fletch was an investigative reporter, and the books were marketed as mysteries. But there were a lot of mysteries back then. So, you ask (er ... you WOULD ask if you were paying attention) what was there about the Fletch series that made it a runaway bestseller back in the days when mysteries were a dime a dozen and dinosaurs walked the earth? The answer is not the character, not the mystery itself, and not the rich background detail (because there was none). It was the writing. Sparse. Bare. So tight your backteeth ached when you read it. On the cover of the Fletch pocket books -- yes, they sold them in bookstores and drugstores -- the publisher actually reproduced a few sample lines of text from the book simply to show off the powerful, simple, prose. As this is written, I don't know how many AMLIT classes around the US have McDonald on the curriculum but I can opine that they all should. His writing was THAT unique. Now the film. Imagine how the Hollywood screenwriter felt when handed this project? Apoplexy comes to mind. So, fearful of losing the gig, he did what every Hollywood screenwriter does when he doesn't understand the material he has ... he turned it into a comedy. Chase was cast and he was just superb ... but superb in a role that never existed in the book! (And less superb in the sequel because by then the novelty was wearing off). It showcases the power of movies in our culture that, to this day, millions of Chase fans think that the Fletch series was actually written that way. Factoid -- one of the oddest, and possibly scariest, things about the film is the scene where Chase puts on the disguise of the old man. Because, if you compare the makeup with the way he actually looked some 30 years later -- as in Google Images -- you will find a perfect match. "},{"Title":"Fletch is decent","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Fletch is a reasonably entertaining thriller parody. It's cleverly scripted, containing some truly hilarious moments and colourful supporting characters. Chevy Chase and the other cast suit their roles perfectly and the various disguises provides the film's most delicious laughs as the licentious conductor. Unfortunately, the fun gets a bit tamer towards the end. Good amusement, nevertheless.They don't make films this light any more unfortunately. We need more feel good movies and less in your face ones that are made for 18 year olds.Writing is the key. "},{"Title":"interesting investigations more suspenseful than funny","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Irwin Fletcher (Chevy Chase) is a smart-mouthed L.A. investigative reporter with pen name Jane Doe. He's infiltrating the drug trade at the beach when he's approached by Alan Stanwyk (Tim Matheson). He wants the supposed bum Fletch to shoot him because he has bone cancer. He's willing to pay $50k. Fletch's editor Frank Walker is hounding him for his drug story on Fat Sam selling drugs on the beach. Larry (Geena Davis) is his helpful sidekick. His investigation reveals that Alan isn't actually sick. He flirts with Alan's wife Gail. There's a land deal in Utah. Meanwhile his drug friend Gummy is kidnapped by the cops. Police Chief Jerry Karlin (Joe Don Baker) threatens him as the corrupt cops are after the reporter.The wise-cracking Chevy Chase is marginally funny. What is most surprising is that there are a couple suspenseful investigation going on in this movie. I'm more invested in the story than actually laugh at Chevy. I'm not quite as impressed with the way Fletch handled Alan in the climatic scene. He's basically explaining the story while being the only guy without a gun. The disguises and the quick dialog are generally fun. It kind of reminds me of 'Beverly Hills Cop' except not quite as good. "},{"Title":"Charge it to the Underhills.","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is beyond a doubt my favorite Chevy Chase movie. I know some people out there don't really care for Chevy's work, but this movie is not Chevy Chase acting like Clark Griswald. In this movie, Chevy plays a newspaper reporter who is investigating some pretty big crimes. What really makes the film good is that Chevy is funny, but smart at the same time.The film starts off with Irwin M. Fletch Fletcher (Chevy Chase) investigating drug trafficking on the beach in LA. He is picked up by a yuppie called Alan Stanwyk (Tim Matheson). Stanwyk tells Fletch, who Stanwyk thinks is a junkie named Ted Nugent, that he has bone cancer and wants Fletch to kill him so his wife can collect an insurance policy. Through the rest of the movie, Fletch has to find out whether Stanwyk is serious and why the chief of police (Joe Don Baker) wants him to stop his investigation on the drug trafficking.The reason I like this movie so much is that it is one of the 1980s movies where an actor who was previously only known for comedy is now playing a more serious character. To a large extent, Fletch is to Chevy Chase what Axel Foley is to Eddie Murphy. Like Axel Foley, Fletch is a really funny character, but also shows intelligence and resourcefulness in difficult situations.Through the movie, Fletch uses a string of aliases and disguises that provide comic relief to a film that could have been a pretty gripping drama. My favorites are Gordon Liddy the airplane mechanic, Mr. Poon from the SEC, and John Cocktoston the tennis player attempting to woo Mrs. Stanwyk (Dana Wheeler-Nicholson) while charging expensive lunches to Mr. and Mrs. Underhill at the exclusive club. Also look out for Gilette (George Wyner), the attorney for the former Mrs. Fletcher who provides the straight man for some pretty funny jokes. Oh, and some unknown actress named Geena Davis playing Larry, one of Fletch's allies against his boss Frank (Richard Libertini) at the newspaper. I would go into more, but there's too much in this movie to shake a stick at.If you want to see a funny movie with a serious plot, watch Fletch. "},{"Title":"A man of many disguises, he should be secret-agent instead of a reporter!","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Chevy Chase has gotten his kicks on SNL Saturday NIGHT LIVE! Now he has used those antics and quirks in this hit movie Fletch. Playing Irwin Flecther aka Fletch he gets the scoop of every story. While many others make themselves dead giveaways, Fletch gets to the point, using other people's money to get the story. It pays though. One story, he looks up of shady policemen which one of the informants gets shot. Then he goes out of town to look up a man who claims he was terminally ill. He goes into a hospital as a doctor, to look up the facts. The ill man that Fletch wanted to kill is a conman. Not only that, the police chief(Jon Don Baker) is dirty too. He not only double-cross the con man, he tries to kill the wife and Fletch too. Since Fletch loved basketball, the dream scene of him being an LA Laker was hilarious. An Afro! What a hoot! Very funny movie, lots of fun! 4 out of 5 stars! "}{"Title":"amazingly smart spoof of lethal weapon/Beverly hills cop genre movies","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I caught this really randomly on TV in an afternoon once, and rented it again later to show to some friends. On the surface its in the exact same style as Beverly Hills Cop etc that type of action/comedy with a rogue cop/news reporter, it has all the required elements of the genre -fighting with his boss for being wild, uncovering a huge rare cover-up, doing dashing dangerous stunts and clever schemesthe special thing with this movie though is its amazing inane/ironic dialogue style that fits perfect with the running commentary on similar crime movies of the 80s.Its sort of like the comedy style of Space Balls or Blazing Saddles, but more covertly inserted within another film style instead of openly as an absurd comedy - and both styles are naturally funny and interesting. I was really satisfied by the genius of the script and directing, and all the one-liners are great.Seemingly serious and dramatic scenes will have moments and lines that are perfectly irreverently hilarious, but the style will ignore them and the actors and music will keep going without noticing. Some of the jokes about the main character being a narcissist genius are ridiculously hilarious in this odd detached way, like the way Eddie Murphy's character is full of himself and his magic crime fighting powers, except the film style is completely self-reflexive instead of just pulp comedy. I really loved this movie and recommend it to everybody who likes smart comedy. "},{"Title":"Watch this? No. Never, never.","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" If you ever wondered just what sarcasm was, this is the place to look. Chevy Chase could have been the one that they invented the term 'dripping with sarcasm' for. He is great as the wisecracking reporter investigating the man who hired him to kill him. Almost everything that comes out of his mouth is gold. The movie has a suitably fast pace to go along with it's star and a rollicking score by Harold Faltermeyer. It's a shame that they didn't surround Chase with more talent that could keep up with him, if they could find any. Tim Matheson does a fine job as his unamused contractor who is hiding something. This is a must for Chevy Chase fans and probably isn't for those who are not.Nurse Can I get you anything, doctor? Fletch Do you have The Beatles White album? Nevermind, get me a glass of hot fat. And while you are out there, bring me the head of Alfredo Garcia. "},{"Title":"A Damn Fine Film If  I Say So My Damn Self!","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" 'FLETCH'Is one of Chevy Chase's finest hours, Chase plays a Wise cracking Investigative reporter, Who specializes in various disguises and aliases to crack the cases, His assignment is to get the lowdown on drug trafficking in L.A's underworld, Whilst posing as an amiable minor league junkie on a beach,He is approached by Airline Tycoon,Alan Stanwyck (Tim Matheson,who propositions Fletch into 'Murdering' him Fletch agrees to,intrigued by this fletch uncovers a devious plot which finds himself in over his head as he digs without a shovel to uncover the mystery, 'Fletch is directed by Michael Ritchie,(RIP)who lets Chase run amok with his own brand of goofiness, As you can expect from an Andrew Bergman script, it's hilarious stuff! As is its 1989 sequel Fletch Lives, "},{"Title":"One of the best comedy films of the 80's.","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Chevy Chase before he got rubbish.This film is fantastic. It is funny and the mystery element of the film is great.With these films from the 1980's you can never really explain why they were so good. They just were. Everything works. Including the always awful soundtrack.All elements of this film work perfectly. I'm not sure about how great an adaption of the book it is. I have never read it. But for me this and its sequel are amongst those brilliant 80's studio films Hollywood was churning out that they don't seem to be able to do anymore.Watch it now! "},{"Title":"Have you ever seen a spleen that big? Not since breakfast.","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Fletch is the comedy of all comedies. From the classic Mr. Poon to the unforgettable roller skating rabbi, you'll be splitting your sides from start to finish. Chevy Chase is perfectly cast as Irwin Fletcher, a wise cracking newspaper reporter working undercover on a beach to expose a drug running operation. At the same time, he is mistaken for a junkie by shady millionaire Alan Stanwyk (Tim Matheson) who asks Fletch to murder him. Fletch agrees but launches an investigation into finding out why this man wants to be killed. This isn't lowbrow humor, it's quick witted and very fast. Fletch requires a few viewings before one is able to grab all the jokes, but it's well worth it. Director Michael Ritchie's lightness of touch, along with understated support from Richard Libertini, Tim Matheson, Dana Wheeler-Nicholson, Joe Don Baker and an early-in-their-careers Geena Davis and George Wendt, allow Chase's style of comedy to never become either too overbearing or too quirky (although Ted Underhill's credit card must have helped...). Fletch is marvelous, you will smile, you will laugh louder and you will feel you really enjoyed a great film. It is one you will watch again and again.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Chevy Chase - on the money","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I wasn't sure about watching this film, but am glad that I did.It is not exactly high brow but Chevy Chase's performance was a cut above his average fare. It just shows that inspired material can inspire actors to reach greater heights than perhaps is their norm.I may be focusing on Chevy Chase, but this was basically a one man show. The (reasonably large) supporting cast were all very jolly but had little input than to enhance Chase's character. Some of the younger actors went on to appear in other 80's and 90's films, for example Geena Davis.Definitely worth a look, but concentration sometimes needed as locations can jump without notice. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" FLETCH is a comedy for long-forgotten 1980s star Chevy Chase, who had a string of hits to his name in that decade before being consigned to history by the onset of the 1990s. It's a surprisingly funny little movie in which the star plays an inept investigative reporter who finds himself involved in a bizarre case of drug smuggling after a wealthy man asks to be murdered! I thought I'd be on for a dumb, lowbrow comedy throughout, and while some of the humour is indeed in the gutter, at other times this is a witty and intelligent movie. As with most films of this ilk (like THE JERK, etc.) much of the fun comes from seeing the central character getting into various mishaps and attempting to extricate his way out of them. Chase is in his element and his enthusiasm rubs off on the viewer; the cast of the cast effectively plays it straight, highlighting the main character's inanity. It's a solid film, and one I enjoyed. "},{"Title":"80's Chase Classic!","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Chevy Chase, Dana Wheeler-Nicholson, Tim Matheson and Joe Don Baker star in this 1985 comedy based on the book. Chase (Vacation films) plays Irwin Fletcher aka Fletch, a L.A. journalist who works under the name, Jane Doe and is a master of disguise. Soon, he's hired by wealthy businessman, Alan Stanwyk (Matheson) to kill him for 50 grand because he's diagnosed with cancer. Fletch agrees and decides to snoop into Alan's personal files discovering he's not ill and is a drug-dealer. Fletch also meets and falls for his wife, Gail (Nicholson) who eventually discovers Alan is trying to steal her money. Baker (The Natural) plays crooked police chief, Jerry Karlin who is dealing with Alan. Geena Davis, George Wendt, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, M. Emmett Walsh and the late, James Avery also appear. Chase is great in this as usual as well as Harold Faltermeyer's score. I recommend this 80's Chase classic. "},{"Title":"The Most Comical Reporter Around","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Irwin Fletch Fletcher (Chase) is the best journalist reporter around. He's got all the best disguises, all his passports up to date, and is just as good as any police detective in his comedic investigations. And little does Fletch know he would also make a great comedian - he's that funny. Yes the movie Fletch is a great mystery-crime comedy that is worth viewing. The movie has a feeling of being a comedic police film so if you like that type then give Fletch a viewing.If you liked movies like The Naked Gun, Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid, Spies Like Us, Turner and Hooch or Chevy Chase's famous film Vacation then you will most likely enjoy the movie Fletch.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fletch Works!","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" One of the Greatest Actors of all-time, Chevy Chase delivers a stupendous performance in 'Fletch'. The legendary actor enacts the title role with the best comic-timing possible & owns the film as if he was born to do so.'Fletch' Synopsis An investigative newspaper reporter tries to the solve the mystery of a fishy aviation president. 'Fletch' gets it right even on the Writing Front. Andrew Bergman's Screenplay gives Chase unlimited scope for comedy & Chase capitalizes on all the jokes, effortlessly. Also, the thrill element in this investigative-comedy, works tremendously well. Michael Ritchie's Direction is good. Chevy Chase has delivered many memorable performances in his celebrated career, but his performance in 'Fletch', is undoubtedly, his finest to date. He's simply incredible in here. A true comedic performance, that defines slap-stick humor. On the whole, 'Fletch' works because Fletch/Chase does! "}{"Title":"Phenomenal Comedy","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Once you watch this movie a couple of times, you can't help but love it. It's re-watch value is off the charts. Chevy Chase's improv also make this movie extremely quotable. It is a fun plot, that is pretty easy to follow. Although it doesn't have very many laugh out loud moments, the fight scene at the end is pretty laughable, and i'll admit the part where the dog talks is pretty dumb, this is a great movie. If you enjoy sarcasm in real life, Fletch will give you exactly what you need. The groovy soundtrack gives a great and fun 80s aspect to it. The main thing is that this is a great movie to own, and watch again and again, and very easy to reference in the outside world. The wolf in Hoodwinked is based on Fletch,(but it is far superior). I would recommend it to anybody I know. "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny Classic Chase","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Irwin Fletch Fletcher (Chevy Chase), Los Angeles journalist, really lives for his profession. As Jane Doe, he publishes articles that have caused several heads to roll in the past. Now, Fletch is at it again In disguise as a bum, he lives at the beach, researching drugs and their dealing.With some brief supporting roles from George Wendt and Geena Davis, this is a fun film with Chase playing a character who plays many characters. From John Cocktoastin to the beach bum, there is plenty of material for him to shine.While the sequel lacks a certain something, there is no denying the original is already a modern classic. If it ever gets remake with Jason Lee in the title role, I would love to see how he can compare. "},{"Title":"A man of many faces = enjoyable farce","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Fletch has a decent script and interesting plot that makes for enjoyable watching. And Chevy Chase's nice disguises with different characters make this an entertaining farce. The film has some unnecessary profanity, so it's not suitable for families and won't be to the taste of some viewers. I'd like to be able to give this a higher rating &#x96; somehow I think Chevy Chase is better than seven stars. But even with a decent script, the film just isn't that funny throughout. It has its moments, and those are mostly with the disguises. Chase's heyday in movies was in the 1980s when he made almost 25 percent of more than 70 movies, including the only ones that were at all good. He only had a couple big hits (Vacation and Christmas Vacation) with just a few other good films such as Fletch. But, for every one of those successful films, he has had half a dozen or more real bombs. "},{"Title":"just awesome","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" What can I say? Great movie that belongs to the same category as The Naked Gun and Airplane. Chase carries it with his charm, charisma and cockiness. And the anal examination and the morgue scenes are absolutely hilarious. Think Chase was born to play Fletch, it's seems to be tailor made for him.The movie hasn't aged in 30 years since it's creation. It's still as fresh and funny as back in 1985.I know that its not the most compelling review ever but don't know what to write except for you just need to see it. Go on now - put it on... You will not regret it!! "},{"Title":"Good Entertainer","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Watched this last weekend at home with family, where Chevy Chase plays an investigative journalist with a passion for clever disguises.We see Fletch going from place to place making up interesting characters with a great presence of mind to turn every situation into his favour and solving the mystery. The car chase, the hospital scenes as a kidney pain patient and subsequently as a doctor were absolutely hilarious.Chevy acts with absolute ease and is completely into this role keeping the audience laughing from beginning to end. Michael Ritchie is a good director supported by good screenplay from Andrew Bergman. "},{"Title":"Chevy Chase at his peak","Date":"28 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Adapting a series of hard-boiled novels and then refashioning them into a Chevy Chase vehicle just seems like a bad idea waiting to happen. And that's the real surprise here it works. Fletch is a movie that caters directly to Chase's droll wit and detached persona; so much so, that I can't imagine anyone else saying his dialogue. It's not only very watchable, but this script fires off one-liners like crazy (indeed, some of my favorite movie lines can be found here). Tim Matheson looks his cinematic best, while the fetching Dana Wheeler- Nicholson is smokin' hot in that tennis skirt (hell, even just standing there saying her lines). And there's even room for Joe Don Baker (Mitchell!), playing a corrupt cop; he really does fit that role. And say what you will about the music (very, very '80s ... but that ain't a crime), Faltermeyer's theme is catchy as hell. Everything just seemed to come together with this movie, and it capitalized on Chase's stardom with ease.8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent 80's comedy","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" One of the best comedies of the 80's & quite possibly THE best one of them all. In fact I can't think of another comedy this good completely carried by a single main character, although Beverly Hills Cop is a close second. Chase's ability to assume numerous completely different identities is unrivaled. He's in a class by himself in that regard. I've read where Kevin Smith wants to do the standard prequel update w/ Jason Lee as Fletch. < That IMO will be as big a flop as Steve Martin's embarrassing attempt at Peter Seller's PINK PANTHER.I usually watch this movie over & over its that good.If you want to watch comedic perfection this is your movie. Add Vacation, The Three Amigos, and a few other 80's films and you've got one helluva movie collection. "},{"Title":"A central performance to cherish, among other under-the-radar ingredients","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" It takes a strong central lead in the role of a movie like Michael Ritchie's Fletch to make the end product one of a worthy status and, thankfully, Chevy Chase capably handles the task at hand, playing the title character, who is a typical journalist, penning articles under the pen-name Jane Doe by day, and a crafty disguise artist by night, carrying his deadpan cynicism with him like a lawyer and his briefcase.While Fletch is undercover one day he runs into Alan Stanwyk (Tim Matheson), who gives him a generous offer; $50,000 if he would be willing to murder him. He states to Fletch that he is suffering from inoperable bone cancer that will slowly eat away at him like a virus and desperately wants out of this misery. Suicide will nullify his insurance, while murder would give his family the whole package. Fletch accepts the job, but can't help but sense there is something shady here, so he conducts an investigation on Stanwyk and discovers his connections with drug trafficking, as well as local police chief Jerry Karlin's (Joe Don Baker) involvement run a mile deep. This leads Fletch to pose as a number of disguises to get where he needs to be.Director Michael Ritchie directs this picture with the kind of energy it needs, and screenwriter Andrew Bergman (who would write the fabulous It Could Happen to You roughly a decade later) drums up several different sketches that never seem to tread the line of strenuous parodies or a compilation of something resembling Saturday Night Live skits; one of the biggest problems that could've plagued this project as a whole.Yet it's easy to say that if a viewer is searching for Chevy Chase's best performance, they may have found it. Chase is a master at deadpanning humor, and nearly every few seconds, spouts off a shamelessly cynical one-liner that would live on in the hearts and minds of Fletch cultists everywhere. To see him relaxed and confident on screen is one of the many pleasures of the picture, and it gives me reassurance of his possibilities after, not long ago, watching the dry and scarcely funny Three Amigos, which totally shoved his character to the background, where he was lucky enough to get a smile in.Fletch works in large part because of Chase's incredibly sophisticated energy, but is sustainable because not only is it an enjoyable piece of comedy, but also a devilishly entertaining crime drama, that sports a simple, yet effectively handled mystery that one could call fulfilling and worthwhile. Composed of its inherently basic material, delivered in a fittingly unassuming way, with a terrific central performance, a script efficiently written by an underrated comedic talent, direction that stays alive, and a supporting cast (comprised of people like Tim Matheson and Dana Wheeler-Nicholson) that work well with the Chase's detached title character, as a quick and spontaneous romp, this one carefully constructs its entire setup to make for favorable entertainment.Starring Chevy Chase, Tim Matheson, and Dana Wheeler-Nicholson. Directed by Michael Ritchie. "},{"Title":"The best movie of Chevy Chase","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Fletch is a movie based on a book by Gregory Macdonald. I haven't read the book , so I don't know how much this movie is faithful to the book or is the book better/worse than movie. Opinions differ. Gregory Macdonald after seeing the movie was pleased and complimented both director Michael Ritchie and Chevy Chase. I know that I really liked the movie , so in the future I'm going to buy the book . That tells you something about the quality of the movie.Hollywood was trying for many years to do a movie about Fletch , but couldn't for some unknown reason. I believe the success of Eddie Murphy's Beverly Hills Cop (one of my favourite movies) was the main reason why Fletch was finally made. It was a green light for the movie,I believe. There's only one year of difference between them , so the timing couldn't be more right. Also , Chevy Chase (the main star) was at peek of his career with Caddyshack and National lampoons Vacation - two commercially successful movies that are classics today.Other similarities to the mentioned Beverly Hills Cop include catchy music by Harold Faltermeyer ( the same guy who did music for BHC. The Fletch theme is just as good as Axel F ), nice little detective story ( why rich man wants to die ?) and overall cheerful mood . Fletch doesn't have such strong soundtrack as BHC , but the opening and ending credits Stephanie Mills song  Bit by bit is great , and really helps to set the mood. I'm not saying that Fletch is a rip-off , I just want to recommend this movie to everyone who liked Eddie's movie and is looking for something similar. I love them both.Chevy Chase is great as Fletch. His finest performance will forever be that of Clark Griswald , but I can't imagine any other actor who would fill the role better. Chase feels very natural here . He even improvised in few scenes with good effect ( the Moonriver scene ). Irwin Fletch Fletcher is a lovely character. Narcissistic , overconfident , master of disguise , playboy and journalist. He isn't very strong , but when he gets into trouble you can be sure he will be okay. His brain and mouth are his weapons.The rest of the cast gives solid performances , especially Joe Don Baker and Dana Wheeler Nicholson. Watch out for Geena Davis in a small role of Fletch's co-worker.Anyway , don't miss Fletch - one of the greatest comedies ever. I give 8/10. "},{"Title":"A very pleasant comedy classic.","Date":"16 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Chevy Chase makes the most of what is one of his best ever roles, in this adaptation of the comedy / mystery novel by Gregory McDonald, scripted by Andrew Bergman. Irwin Maurice Fletch Fletcher is a hot shot investigative reporter whose curiosity is aroused when smooth rich man Alan Stanwyk (Tim Matheson) approaches him with a proposition murder Stanwyk for a nice five figure sum. Stanwyk claims to be already dying of bone cancer, but Fletch rightly senses something suspicious and snoops around, despite the fact that he was supposed to be working on an expose of the drug traffic at a beach. There is a certain kinship between Fletch and Beverly Hills Cop in that they feature unflappable main characters who often manufacture scams in order to get what they need from other characters; in Fletch's case, he takes it a step further and dons various disguises as well. You have to hand it to Fletch - this is a guy who rarely loses his cool, even when guns are being pointed at him. Chase knows this is a fun role and is clearly just having a blast, firing off wise ass one liners left and right. As a result, the dialogue is often quite funny and the movie does have a certain energy to it, moving along quite nicely. The supporting cast is great, including Joe Don Baker as the police chief, the lovely and appealing Dana Wheeler-Nicholson as the leading lady (she easily could have had an even better career in film), Richard Libertini as Fletch's long suffering editor, M. Emmet Walsh as a cheerful doctor, George Wendt as beach bum / drug pusher Fat Sam, Kenneth Mars as Stanton Boyd, Geena Davis in a perky early career film appearance as Fletch's co-worker Larry (!), and William Traylor as the unfortunate Mr. Underhill, with a bunch of familiar faces in small parts George Wyner, Tony Longo, James Avery, Burton Gilliam, William Sanderson, Bill Henderson, Beau Starr, and Ralph Seymour; Kareem Abdul-Jabbar's cameo role as himself is actually quite fleeting. Comic highlights include Fletch's visit to Dr. Dolan (Walsh), wherein he gets a rectal exam, the mystery element of the movie works pretty well, and there's some good action to boot, with an impressive climactic car chase. The aliases are hysterical, as Fletch will refer to himself as Ted Nugent, John Cocktoastin, and Arnold Babar, among other names. For fans of Chase and director Michael Ritchie (Downhill Racer, The Bad News Bears, The Golden Child), this rollicking movie really does deliver the goods, maintaining interest for a solidly entertaining 99 minutes. Rent or buy this movie and be prepared for some hearty laughs.And feel free to go ahead and charge it to the Underhills.Eight out of 10. "}{"Title":"To me, one of the most hilarious movies ever!!!","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" There is an elite class of comedies which Fletch is at top of the list. Of course, comedy is subjective and relative to each person's humor palate. To those of us who rated this as 10/10 we feel that this movie is pure comic genius. I do scoff at those who criticize the movie as being without a meaningful story. Actually, it's full...simple and full. The undercover reporter (investigating drug trafficking on the local beaches) whom is solicited by an immoral businessman out to fake his death and make a sack a dough. Crooked police chiefs (Joe Don Baker is excellent!), jelly finger doctors (M Emmet Walsh is, as always, perfect in his accurate and subtle portrayal), policeman fund-raisers, steak sandwiches, water buffaloes, reds (not communists) and the list of hilarities goes on and on and on and on and........... "},{"Title":"My favorite two Chevy Chase films is this and the sequel.","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I liked both Fletch films a good deal as they both were really good comedies. I like this one cause it is funny, but the crime being committed is realistic. The second one is just a tad more crazy and goofy, but that worked for me too. This one follows a news reporter named Fletch that goes under the alias Jane Doe for the paper he writes for. He is currently investigating some drug trafficking going on at the beach. He is approached soon by a man who mistakes him for just another bum on the beach and takes him to his very nice home. There he has a proposal for Fletch, that he wishes for Fletch to murder him for a large sum of money. There is more going on though and Fletch must go undercover to find out what is going on. Very funny movie as Chevy Chase is at his finest here. The man was an incredible comic talent back in the day, it is kind of a shame that he has virtually fallen off the face of the earth. The movie has loads of funny scenes involving Fletch posing as other people to get information, including getting it from the wife of the man who wants Fletch to murder him. The movie is not all laughs though as there is a rather good chase scene, though actually that was rather funny too. Joe Don Baker is in the film and he is rather good in this one too. I always find he does a much better job as a secondary character or villain than he does as the lead in a film. The movie also has an interesting conclusion. All in all a winner from Chevy, I just wish he did not disappear as he was one of the better comic actors back in the day. There is no one even close to what he was now. "},{"Title":"Pay attention, and be ready for laughs","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Fletch was very well-acted, for what it is. This wasn't supposed to rival the godfather, and I'm going to guess that the people making the film didn't take themselves too seriously like that. It's a comedy with a detailed and serious storyline. There is some slapstick, but not too much. Most of the comedy is through insults and sarcasm. And Chevy Chase's ability to deliver the insults so well. No one else in the movie is funny on purpose, or ever meant to be.(even the mattress police guy, he was dead serious HAHA!) Larry is about the only one who laughs at Fletch's jokes. Fletch takes place in reality. Fletch is involved in serious work, and he is also serious about solving his dilemma. That adds to the humor of the ridiculous things he says and does. Everything he does is well thought-out, yet he always winds up having to improvise. Hilarity ensues. There's a one-liner in almost every sentence. Almost every line of the movie made me laugh. The narrations were great. They keep you up to speed while keeping you laughing. Of course the fake names and disguises are also great. The soundtrack adds to the humor. "},{"Title":"Still hilarious after twenty-four years...","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" There are a few shows and movies I recall watching as a child classics like the Naked Gun flicks, the Police Academy series and, as luck would have it, Fletch. Not only did each one give me an opportunity to have laughs and popcorn, it introduced me to a slew of comedies that would continue to hold a special place in my heart for years to come. But lest I get lost in nostalgia for the next seven paragraphs, allow me to cut to the chase. Fletch may not be the timeless gem that has long inhabited my fond memories, it may not pack the same punch it did two decades ago, it may not even hold up as well as Chase apologists would have you believe, but, as I discovered this week, revisiting director Michael Ritchie's tongue-in-cheek romp was the comedy equivalent of coming home. Based on a series of mystery novels by Gregory McDonald, Fletch follows the misadventures of Irwin Fletcher (Chevy Chase), a quick-witted investigative reporter who gains notoriety with several scathing exposs published under the name Jane Doe. Going undercover as a homeless man to root out drug traffickers in Los Angeles, the all-too-clever writer is approached by a millionaire (Tim Matheson) offering a chunk of change to anyone willing to kill him before his cancer leads to an untimely and agonizing death. Suspicious from the start, Fletch hits the streets and works a variety of angles, eventually uncovering a link between the terminally-ill stranger, his cash, a stretch of lucrative real estate, and a corruption plot involving the chief of police (Joe Don Baker). With the help of his research assistant Larry (Geena Davis) and his newspaper editor Frank Walker (the indomitable Richard Libertini), Fletch shuffles through an endless assortment of disguises, cozies up to the millionaire's wife (Dana Wheeler-Nicholson), and pursues the truth at all cost. Easily screenwriter Andrew Bergman's finest work, Fletch gives Chase the chance to walk the same fine line between arrogance and charm that made him such a bankable star in the '80s. He plows through costumes, hairpieces, and oddball props with the fervent enthusiasm of a kid digging through his parents' cluttered closet. His delivery is sharp and precise at all times; he never allows his character's smarmy attitude to overwhelm Ritchie's sight gags or undermine the light-footed talents of his supporting cast. Instead, he tackles each line and flashes his every expression with a burning desire to endear himself to anyone watching. Even his deadpan narration -- a tried-and-true risk that could have been a total disaster -- adds another dimension to every fit of whimsy that bounds and bounces across the screen. The story itself has to occasionally slam on its brakes to unload several minutes of all-too-necessary exposition, but Chase manages to fuse his character's misgivings and behavior with the plot in such a way that he retains Ritchie's momentum even when the director is forced to slow the film down. Sure, a few jokes fall flat, some pop culture references lack context, and the duh-dump-tiss nature of several punchlines hasn't aged as well as I had hoped, but Fletch strikes me as the sort of definitive time-capsule comedy that has the ability to win over modern filmfans who've never partaken of its well-seasoned goods. And while Ritchie's take on McDonald's popular protagonist will never sit perfectly well with purists, Chase and company have nevertheless created something fresh and funny. In the end, newcomers should give it a shot and fans should pay it another visit. "},{"Title":"He's not only on the story&#x85; but apart of it too.","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I simply adore the sequel 'Fletch Lives', as for the original (There no hiding the fact it's a star vehicle) I found it a respectably lightweight and relaxed comedy/mystery that knew accordingly how to use Chevy Chase's smart-alec attitude for the character of Fletch. Much more subtle when compared to the follow-up. Oh there are plenty of quotable lines of dialogues basically around every corner though. Not only are the physical/verbal gags present, but the stemming mystery side of the story is a real twister as it unfolds with many tactical sub-plots seeming to find their way together at the end. Chase shows that his having a field day with the role/material, moving from place to place in many disguises, aliases and more than the occasional wise-crack. Playing the bad guy of the piece is a classy Tim Matheson&#x85; his appearances are minor, but very important in the scheme of things. Also Jon Don Baker barks loudly as a police chief that might know a little more to what's going than he lets on. Dana Wheeler-Nicholson is impressively appealing as the girl caught in the middle of the web and Richard Libertini is fine as Fletch's down-trodden newspaper editor. Showing in smaller support roles are Geena Davis, George Wendt, George Wyner and M. Emmet Walsh.Director Michael Ritchie cooks up compelling and snappy exchanges, never letting the on-the-move jokes take over what was a very solid framework of a story penned by Andrew Bergman (taken from the novel of Gregory McDonald). It's a perfectly unpredictable and clever mixture of wittiness and murder. Streaming through it is a pumping score that simply reminds you of the times. A brightly lit comedy/mystery with a standout central performance. "},{"Title":"Stance","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" The point of departure here is Michael Shayne Private Detective, and then we detour through Chinatown. The keys to Chase's success with this are two the effective use of the supporting cast (the opposite of this would be Falling Down), and Chase's stance in relation to us. You see, no one -within the movie- laughs at his bantering (George Wendt excepted); the idea is show how far and fast Fletch goes over everyone's head. Chase really is playing in a space no one else here is allowed to occupy, that rich area between us and the movie 'reality'. The other (and more consistent) master of this within comedy is Bill Murray. Bruce Willis knows how to do this too, having forever altered the action genre in the process. A rapid-fire flummoxing of the actors, who can't keep up and of us, who can barely keep while the next successive joke hits us. We're in on the joke and the actors don't know they aren't. It's sublime.Along the way, we get the McCrocodile Speech from 'The 39 Steps' and a brief interlude through '...Walter Mitty'. Comic genius, let down a bit, but not fatally so, by that irretrievably dated Faltermeyer score. "},{"Title":"Classic Chevy Chase","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the best Chevy Chase films. And it's not a film that insults your intelligence like a lot of other comedies these days, with underdeveloped, recycled plot material. This film allows you to have your cake and eat it. It's a comedy, but it takes itself seriously, in a way. Outside the ridiculous humor of Chevy Chase, we get a plot that's worthy of a serious crime thriller.The story follows Irwin Fletcher or Fletch (Chase) who is an investigative reporter trying to get to the bottom of a drug trafficking plot on the beaches of L.A. Meanwhile, Fletch is approached by a terminally ill millionaire who asks Fletch to murder him for $50,000. Under the bizarre scenario, and seemingly unrelated events, Fletch does a little snooping around and finds more to the picture than what he had anticipated. Chase puts his best comedic efforts to use as Fletch dons multiple disguises as he encounters different people and environments, in an attempt to uncover the mystery.It's a lighthearted comedy with a hint of darkness to it, and the combination gives us a package full of laughs, action/adventure, and intriguing suspense, and I'd also like to note a classic, extremely catchy, synthesized 80s score. Granted, there are some moments that are a little silly, and there are parts in the script that seem to rely too much on Chevy's improv and perhaps could've been polished a bit. But there are few laugh out loud comedies that allow you to get engaged in the story and characters as much as this one. "},{"Title":"If you're not a Chevy Chase fan, Avoid like the plague. ***1/2 out of *****","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I have to admit, I'm not really a big fan Chevy Chase and I do find him slightly annoying in this film, but not annoying enough to hate itChevy Chase plays Irwin 'Fletch' Fletcher an L.A. Newspaper reporter who publishes a column under the pseudonym 'Jane Doe' and has ruffled a fair few feathers. For his next scoop he dresses up as a bum and lives down at the beach to research the City's Illegal Drug Trade, While down at the beach one day, he is propositioned by a man named Alan Stanwyck (Tim Matheson) a supposedly rich man, who asks Fletch to do him a favour, Alan wants Fletch for a large sum of money to shoot him dead as he is dying of Cancer - so that his wife Gail (Dana-Wheeler Nicholson) can collect a large amount of Insurance Money, The reason he asks Fletch is because Alan believes Fletch to be a bum who could easily disappear without being traced, but with Fletch being an Undercover reporter he decides to look into Alan's life, which includes many comical situations to find out that far from being at death's door, Alan is actually fit as a fiddle, so Fletch decides to solve this particular mystery, putting is life in danger.....'Fletch' was Chevy Chase's biggest Movie and isn't that bad, it moves fairly quickly to an unexpected (to some) climax, it has decent co-stars and made enough money to warrant a sequel 'Fletch Lives' 3 years later, which was slightly inferior to this.***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Good Romp - Book was better","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I'm glad I read the book first; that was so much grittier. I guess, if you enjoyed the film, you're likely to enjoy the book even more. If you didn't enjoy the film, try the book instead!The main problem is that the film takes the book's title, some characters and parts of the plot and then uses them as a vehicle for a comedy thriller instead of staying with original - good - idea.Chevy Chase brings his usual aimiable idiot twist to the characterisation, but he plays it a bit too much like Clark S Griswold (European Vacation was released the same year); I kept expecting Beverley D'Aneglo to appear with a pained expression exclaiming, Oh, Sparkey.Although I enjoy the film whenever it happens to be on, I have to say it's not a patch on the original... "},{"Title":"If you love people dressing up as other people, this is for you!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Hard to believe Chevy Chase used to be the funniest man in Hollywood. Fletch was probably where his career peaked, and sadly after this movie didn't make many more good movies ( see Funny Farm, Christmas Vacation etc). Great movie about a reporter who suspects something fishy is going on in the police department. He has to get to the bottom of it, so he decides to dress up as a bunch of different zany characters in order to discover the truth. May not sound brilliant, but he pulls off the role excellently. The movie is full of some wacky characters, gut-busting moments and great one liners. It's a strange combination of drama and comedy, but it's a great movie. For other great Chevy Chase movies, see National Lampoon's Vacation or Spies Like Us. "}{"Title":"Most definitely Chevy's brightest moment in the sun","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" He was only in his early forties when he made this, his crowning achievement but since then Chevy Chase's movie career went steadily downhill to rock bottom. It's a mystery how he could waste his talent is so many lackluster movies, starting with the abysmal European Vacation.The plot is nothing special. Actually, it would have been a crime thriller if somebody didn't come up with the idea that the protagonist should be a wisecracker. The writer, Andrew Bergman, has a lot of the credit for making this such an enjoyable time-filler. He is responsible for the original laugh-riot The In-Laws and the more uneven spoof of The Godfather (can't think of the title right now).Otherwise, the film totally belongs to Chase and it is hard to explain what he does to make you laugh. Sometimes you asked youself Why the hell was that so funny? because Chase doesn't crack a single smile himself and most of the time seems above the lines he is saying. There is also an amusing bit part for Geena Davis and Chase would later return the favor with a cameo in hero but the female lead played by Dana Nicholson is mostly a supporting part in itself. Then we have Tim Matheson as the sleazy millionaire who has an unusual favor to ask of Chase and Chase then tries to figure out if his story is on the level which of course it isn't.All this described seems rather boring when being described in written words but that is not to scare anyone away to see it because this is by far one of the best comedies of the 80's and the 80's were full of them. The only minus is that many of the scenes seems rushed through and poorly edited but that's a minor complaint. "},{"Title":"Kind Of Funny 80's Comedy","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A vehicle for (the huge star at the time) Chevy Chase Fletch is an instantly likable 80's comedy all the trademarks of the decade are in evidence electro theme tune, LA montage shots and the perm haired love interest. Its easy to think of Fletch as a white version of Axel Foley and he's every bit as watchable. The focus is mostly on the humour and it works a treat with Chase's easy charm conning the crooks and the odd big headed rich boy along the way. The plot is fairly incidental but involved enough to keep you going (even though there are some convenient coincidences in there), and the jokes are rapid fire with some asides being similar in style to Bob Hope's dead pan one liners. All in all more than worth a watch 7/10 "},{"Title":"Greatest Comedy Ever?","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" OK, that's a strong comment, but 'Fletch' may rate as the funniest movie I've ever seen. It doesn't have physical humor like some recent comedies, but the dialogue is such that I still quote it often, 20 years later.I've heard Zach Braff is rumored to be the new Fletch, and I can only hope it doesn't come to fruition. No one can top Chevy in this role.I think I've seen it 25 times, easily, and should pop it on again soon. 1985 was a great year for Chevy (Spies Like Us is also an underrated classic) and it's hard to believe it's been so long, but this movie holds up well and few comedies have trumped it since. "},{"Title":"Chevy's best","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is definitely one of those films you have to watch more than once. For one, you will see something new every time you watch (I've seen it hundreds of times, and I just saw something I hadn't seen before the other week). But the main reason to watch it over again is that it's just damn FUNNY!!! It is BY FAR the best film in the Chevy Chase catalog (Caddyshack wasn't a Chevy Chase film. Sorry, but that was an ensemble piece), and is one of those films (like Caddyshack) that has dialogue that you will be repeating back to your friends for years. My wife doesn't even understand half the stuff I say with a couple of my friends, because it's almost as if we speak in Fletch-talk, using lines from the film instead of what we would normally say. Plus, it even has a story behind it - something many great comedies do not. "},{"Title":"Still quoting Fletch to this day...","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I still quote Fletch. Most of the people I know still do on a daily basis. It's become so ingrained in our minds that we don't even realize that we're doing it. Granted, 20 years later, the wardrobe looks dated, and the hair is a bit high, but the comedy is as strong now as it was then... and the following of 20-30-somethings has now become a measure of how you look at movies. You can't compare green apples to green beans, so don't even try to make that argument that it's meaningless comedic banter. Hey, I give all due respect to the film school greats like The Graduate and the Citizen Kane, but feel-good films like Fletch deserves their place in film history too. Who I am to stake this claim? I'm Frieda's boss. "},{"Title":"Old fan Of Chevy, new fan of Fletch","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Today, as a 27 year old, Fletch came out in an era where I should have been an 8 year old kid in the theater watching it or a 9 year old watching it on cable a year later. Either way, somehow it got past my tractor beam and never caught my interest until THIS past summer....which is an absolute shame. As a true fan of Spies Like Us and Three Amigos, NOT having seen Fletch entirely until my mid-late twenties is unexcusable. Fortunately, it finally happened. This movie is absolutely classic Chevy Chase, in his prime. When I heard Alan Stanwyck (w-Y-c-k) ask Fletch to murder him, I knew immediately I wanted to watch the whole movie. Just a great hook to the very beginning of a flick. Throughout the entire movie were very subtle, classic one-liners that need several viewings to really take in and appreciate....so many that you could check ever entry on this site to get an idea, but til you watch will you fully get it. If you like Chevy Chase at all, you will LOVE Fletch.....and never call me IRWIN. "},{"Title":"One of Chase's best.","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  *Review may contain spoilers*One of the better comedies of the 80's and certainly one of Chevy Chase's better movies, Fletch is a great combination of humor and mystery which i found to be very enjoyable.Chase steals the show as reporter Irwin Fletcher. He provides a good solid performance with some great jokes and gags without overacting. There are many great one-liners (especially the 'steak sandwich' line) and other crafty remarks.The supporting cast do a reasonable job but ultimately Chase steals the spotlight. Special mention must go to Richard Libertini who gives a terrific performance.Overall, Fletch is a good, solid comedy/mystery. For fans of Chase and 80's comedy it's a must have. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Awesome 80's, but here's a question...","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Saw this film again the other day on AMC and remembered all the reasons I loved it back in the 80's, but (hopefully) being a little wiser or perhaps just more cynical a question came to mind.  When Stanwyck first approaches Mr. Nugent on the beach to set up the sub-plot of the film, he does so with the thought that he is just another beach junkie who could disappear and no one would miss.  With this impression of him in mind, why would Stanwyck even entertain the thought that Fletch (remember, someone he thinks of as a beach bum/junkie) has or could get in just a few days! a passport?  Getting a passport takes weeks (recent experience) or months in some cases.  Of course, Stanwyck isn't exactly the brightest bulb in the fridge... "},{"Title":"Can I borrow your towel, I just ran into a WATER Buffalo!","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  One of the many classic lines in this (yes) plot driven mystery/comedy.  Chevy Chase is at his best as the title character Irwin M. (Fletch) Fletcher.  Dirty cops, drugs and a mysterious man who wants someone to kill him.  That pretty much sums up the plot.  The journey through this plot is often sidesplitting.  Just ask Mr. Underhill!Bottom Line  8/10! "},{"Title":"A CLASSIC!!!","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the better 80's comedies.  I might be biased because me and my college buddies would stay up until the wee hours of the morning (during mid to late 80's) and quote lines from this movie - but heck - JUST ABOUT everyone knows lines from this film even today.Can I borrow your towel, my car just hit a water-buffaloHe's 6,6 - 6,10 with the afroThis is by far the BEST movie that Chevy Chase has ever been a part of - which isn't actually saying a lot - he,he.    BUT THIS IS A GREAT MOVIE - at least it was in the 80's  "}{"Title":"Funny in 1985-Funnier in 2003","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I was 13 years old when this movie came out.  At the age of 13, this movie was one of the funniest movies I have seen.  Eighteen years later, I still think this is one of the funniest movies I have seen. In fact, it may be funnier now that I understand more of the jokes.'Fletch' is one of those movies that I have to watch at least annually, but usually it's every six months that I get in the mood to hear Chevy's sarcastic lines.  I just laugh at everything in this movie, especially the Utah references-  Those are three names I enjoy; Marvin, Velma, and Provo.   Very funny stuff!I think if you have any sense of humor, you will enjoy this movie.p.s. I know that Kevin Smith is working on 'Fletch Won' rumored to star Jason Lee as a young Fletch, but as much as I love Jason, I don't know if he will compare to Chevy Chase.   I mean, is Ben Affleck's Jack Ryan as good as Harrison Ford's? "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Chevy Chase Masterpiece","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Quite simply one of the most perfect comedies ever made.  Chase, in the role he was born to play, delivers more than just witty lines and physical humor. He shows true acting ability and range when the script calls for serious and caring moments with his love interest.  Comedy with a message.  Truly excellent work. "},{"Title":"A good film","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This one of the few Chevy Chase movies that was enjoyable as a movie. It's one of Chase's better films and is fun to watch over and over.  I've probably seen it over 30 times and I still laugh.  Too many times I think this movie gets bashed just because Chase is it.  3 stars of 4 "},{"Title":"fletch is your daddy","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  this movie is so good i had to name my puppy after it. it's almost as good as Spike of Bensonhurst. i don't know why they would even think of making a new fletch without chevy. let harold ramis take over the new one & it will be a smash. 10 of 10. "},{"Title":"Summary Of Fletch","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  What can I say. I like Chevy Chase's humor.This as i said  up there  in the top 25 funniest films ever made. It's just that good. from dr. rosenpenis to the underhills this film is a classic. It also got a sequel which I think is somewhat underrated. It was just as good. except the plot was kinda bad. Still both are worth watching and I hope kevin smith does something good with Fletch Won. At least I hope he is the person working on it I dont want to look like a jackass here.  "},{"Title":"Superb on so many levels.","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was about 14-15 and I wasn't that impressed. I had already seen the sequel, Fletch lives and thought that Fletch was the much duller first offering. I now realize that this boredom I experienced was because this film had a much better story and wasn't purely a succession of different disguises and predictable mugging by Chevy Chase that I found funny as a child. I now fully appreciate Fletch as the better of the two. It has an interesting and original story that has the right amount of suspense and humor and manages to tie up all the loose ends nicely. Having recently read the book the film is based on I have to say I preferred the film, as I found it took the main themes and story of the book but made it far more fast-paced an entertaining.While you can see the character of Fletch in the film is certainly 70% Chevy Chase, he even does his Look at the wristwatch that isn't there that he does in the caddyshack films, he still makes the character more believable than any of his other roles. Some of the humor is very dry and alot is clever word play and the observation that most of the time people aren't listening to what other people say. Some of it is very broad and slapstick but all these styles of humor are perfectly meshed into the very serious plot of murder, drug smuggling and adultery. The only negative comment is that there is an unnecessary car chase about half-way through that really doesn't need to be there but this is a minor blip in a great film.The supporting characters do just that and are never overwhelmed by Chase and the film is very refreshing when compared with most comedies that usually forget about the story to make plenty of room for the jokes. Fletch gives the right amount of time to both. I was so impressed with the film and it's sequel that I have since read all the original Fletch books and am really looking forward to seeing the Kevin Smith adaptation of Fletch Won. This is a really enjoyable film that should have been as popular as Beverly Hills cop in it's day but was overlooked for some reason. This is well worth watching just for the Moon river scene. Once you've seen the film you'll know exactly what I mean. "},{"Title":"A classic all-time comedy...","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" ...in the sense that people will continue to quote this movie until the end of time.This is the kind of role Chevy Chase should have built his career on, and for whatever reason didn't.  I am anxious to see the upcoming prequel with Jason Lee as well.Okay, so the story and characters will never be mistaken for Billy Wilder, but this has got to place in the top ten comedies of the 80s at very least.In addition to Chase, Joe Don Baker, Tim Matheson, and Dana Wheeler-Nicholson, some great supporting performances by George Wendt, Geena Davis, M. Emmet Walsh (as always), Richard Libertini, Larry Flash Jenkins (Wardell Stone from White Shadow fame) as well as both Tony Luonfo and James Avery, as police thugs assigned to rough Fletch up.Hollywood needs to make more movies like this, which good characters, a compelling plot, and decent action, without taking itself all that seriously.Sorry, call me what you will.  I love it.I was going to buy this place until I found out Hopalong Cassidy killed himself here...  Bow and arrow, very weird.  Gotta luv it. "},{"Title":"By far, Chevy Chase's funniest role in any film.","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Chevy chasse stars as a newspaper reporter, working under the pseudonym of Jane Doe.  His comical retorts are classic Chase style.  He works his way to find out why some guy will pay 50,000 dollars to have himself shot.  It is an awesome adventure with murderous police chiefs, irate newspaper reporters, and a beautiful woman in distress.  Chevy Chase's performance is oscar worthy in this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Comedies of All Time","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch is undoubtedly one of the finest comedic movies ever made.  The story is itself intriguing, based upon the novel by Gregory MacDonald.  What makes this movie, however, is Chevy Chase's performance and his hysterical dialogue.  This movie is filled with memorable lines.  Nearly every time Chevy Chase opens his mouth it is deliver the most strangely witty, sarcastic lines....the dialogue is hilarious but so is the delivery.  In this movie Chase takes on a number of personas as the investigative journalist in disguise from Mr. Poon to Arnold Babar to Dr. Rosenpenis, I mean Rosen Rosen.  This is a funny funny movie and a testament to Chevy Chase's place as a great comedic actor.  Watching this movie today, 17 years since its making leaves me disappointed that Hollywood hasn't done a better job of utilizing this comic great over the past decade.  "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy movie of all time","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Jesus H. Christ on a popsicle stick!  How this movie can only be averaging 6-7 out of 10 is beyond all reasonable comprehension.  Chevy Chase found the character he was born to play and a comedy storyline like no other before or after.  This is simply a lesson to all others in comedy.  The one-liners are of a genius and quantity unseen in any film EVER and carried off in superb style by Chevy.  Perhaps Chevy just plays it too well and people don't even hear half of his comments let alone understand them.  Just watch this movie again (with subtitles if it helps) and then tell me there's a cleverer film in existence. "}{"Title":"A Classic Chevy Chase Vehicle","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Released six months after Eddie Murphy's Beverly Hills Cop,Fletch tried to deliver the former's success with Chevy Chase as a wise-crackingdetectivereporter on the trail of finding out the sorces behind drugs on a beach.The movie is very funny,blending Chevy's dead-pan punchlines with his unusual disguises(and those names,which are the funniest,i.e.,Ted Nugent,John Cocktolstoy,Don Corleone,etc.),and a simple plot.Irwin Fletcher is doing a story on drugs on the beach until one day when a wealthy man takes him to his home and hires him to kill him cuz he says he's dying of bone cancer.Throughout the movie,he goes into incognito to find out info on this wealthy man,he finds out he's behind the drug set up along with the chief of police(played hilariously by Joe Don Baker).The movie gets boring in some scenes but quickly redeemed by Chase,which this may be his best comic vehicle ever,as well as his best performance,better than those Vacation movies or the herrendousFunny Farm.It even includes a funky synthesizer beat excessively(possibly trying to copy Axel F.fromBeverly Hills Cop).Overall Fletch is a comedy classic from the 80's.I rate it 8 of 10.  "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The funniest thing about this film to me is how long it took me to finally see it. I've always loved comedy and was tipped onto this movie by my friend Lee.To say I was impressed was an understatement. The viewer gets his first indication of how good this film actually is during the opening theme when the fantastic 'Bit by Bit' can be heard. Once the viewer manages to calm down they are taken on a rollercoaster ride with Chase excelling as the smart-ass, suave yet humanitarian Fletch.This comedy is in many ways singular among US comedies. It needs to be watched more than once, as the one liners are so humorous you miss half of them on your first viewing. Fletch's array of hilarious costumes as well as Chase's facial expressions also mean that the film has a great visual effect although never stooping to cheap physical comedy. The sympathy that Fletch shows to the female characters in this and Fletch Lives means the film also has a visceral effect as we can literally feel our hearts warming to the protagonist.In conclusion I would like to highly recommend Fletch to any Chevy Chase fans or infact anyone who likes to laugh. You won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy ever.9/10","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch is definetly the greatest comedy ever made.  Unlike most comedies, it actually has an interesting plot to it.  Chevy Chase is terrific and the rest of the cast is great.  If you have'nt seen this movie and like Chevy Chase, this is one of those movies that doesn't come along often.  I used to watch it over at my aunt's house whenever I didn't have anything to do and I loved it from the first time I saw it.   "},{"Title":"Chevy Chase's best!","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I've always considered this movie as one of my all time favourites. Chevy's comic timing is really impressive and this ranks as probably his best performance to date.Not exactly overflowing with classic scenes but you have to really try harder to fully appreciate it. This movie seems to have some sort of cult following in America that I find quite pleasing as I'd never figured this kind of movie would still be recalled so strongly after all these years. Here in Australia FLETCH isn't really popular but is played frequently on tv. "},{"Title":"Greatest film ever made","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Don't bother arguing. Shawshank's great, Godfather too, but this is in a class by its own. Give me Larry Flash Jenkins and lines like Look, defenseless puppies anyday of the week. Long live Jim Swarthout. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  They say that this was a mediocre film. I pity the fools. Those pagans can't understand true genius. O thou shall burnt in hell, for thee has only given this classic an average of 6,5 (Average at the time of my vote).The film isn't a technical masterpiece. It has it's mistakes. But it has it's own style. It has it's genius play with words. This is a film that you can watch again and again.It's Fletch time "},{"Title":"Better than it Looks","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch might look like an average 80's movie but its actually quite good, and is supposedly being remade and will debut in 2002.Providing you follow the plotline all the way through Irwin Fletcher will keep you entertained throughout the movie on why Alan Stanwyk wants to be killed, and who is controlling the drug traffic at the beach. Fletch is a must see, especially if you're a die-hard Chevy Chase fan. Its also interesting to see Tim Matheson in a roll other than Animal House. "},{"Title":"The Name's Fletch.  Fletch F. Fletch","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  `Fletch', a tremendously good film in its own right, is part of a breed of Eighties films that doesn't seem to be made anymore.  Much like the original `Beverly Hills Cop', `Fletch' isn't an overly humorous film, but rather a film featuring a comic star reacting to serious situations with comic responses.  The film itself deals with some serious subjects &#150; murder for hire, police corruption, and drug trafficking &#150; and apart from the hero of the film, Fletch, a.k.a. Irwin Fletcher (Chevy Chase in his best role ever), every character treats the events of the film with great seriousness.  Only Fletch himself treats everything like it's a comedy, albeit a dark comedy.  Because of this, the film `Fletch' can't properly be termed a comedy; instead, it's more an action/drama with heavy doses of humor from its star.   If a movie like this were made today, it'd probably be just an action film with a few good wisecracks, or a slapstick comedy that couldn't treat anything seriously.Irwin Fletch Fletcher, the title character and driving force behind `Fletch', is a Los Angeles reporter who delights in tormenting the establishment with scathing expos articles.  While conducting research undercover for an article about drug dealers, Fletch is approached by millionaire Alan Stanwyck (Tim Matheson), who has a strange proposition for the disguised Fletch he wants to pay Fletch fifty grand to murder him.  Intrigued by the proposition, Fletch starts digging into Stanwyck's past, and starts to uncover a strange case involving tax shelters, drug dealers, and a large number of people to suddenly want to kill him.The story's flawed, but at least it's interesting &#150; there's enough twists and turns to keep the viewer guessing throughout the film as to what's going to happen next.  What makes the film, though, is Chevy Chase as Fletch.  Unable to treat anything seriously, the know-it-all Fletch is completely believable because so many other characters despise him.  For all his great one-liners, snide comments, and sarcastic remarks, the other characters treat him the same way `real' people probably would &#150; they'd respect his work, but they'd hate the man.  As for the audience, Fletch comes across as abrasive, but his dogged persistence to find the truth makes him endearing, and Fletch always manages to come up with the snappy comebacks most people only wish they could think of.  Chevy Chase also gives Fletch enough idiosyncratic quirks &#150; his love of the Lakers, his often-sloppy work &#150; to make Fletch be human, and not some superhuman caricature.  Fletch's sarcastic nature also makes the film unpredictable &#150; just when you think you know where a scene's headed, Fletch blurts out a line that sends it spinning in a completely unexpected direction.  `Fletch' is a film completely defined by its title character, but that character alone is enough to make the movie highly enjoyable.`Fletch' is an amusing, underrated movie.  If you find Chevy Chase to be completely self-absorbed, smug, and unfunny &#150; and some people do &#150; don't bother with it.  However, this is Chase's best film by far, and if you like Chase, or have no opinion about the man's brand of humor whatsoever, see this movie.  You won't be disappointed.  Grade  B+  "},{"Title":"A milestone in modern art","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch must be recognized as one of the 20th century's finest artistic creations. The audience catches a glimpse of the realities of modern American society through the eyes of the movie's protagonist Irwin M. Fletcher(Fletch). Fletch exposes the utter stupidity of the ordinary citizen in their reliance on the elite(Stanwyk's parents, Fred The Dorf Dorfmann, Sally Ann Kavanagh's minder etc.) It also illustrates how thick the elite are in the hilarious tennis club and hospital scenes. And all while making the audience roll around with laughter - genius. "},{"Title":"I've seen Fletch at least 50 times","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch is one of the best movies ever made.  It is a very funny movie with a mystery twist to it.  Chevy Chase is very, very funny.  He does a tremendous job of playing the role of an intelligent, wise-cracking undercover reporter.  I fully recommend this movie to anybody who likes comedies.  You won't be disappointed.  Chevy is GREAT!!! "}{"Title":"Fletch is Real Good.","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Sure, Chase is at his best. But let's not forget his dynamic supporting cast Larry Flash Jenkins is mesmerizing, Ken Mars brilliant as Stanton Boyd and M. Emmet Walsh turns in a spellbinding performance as the jellyfingered Internist Dr. Joseph Dolan. Those are three actors I enjoy. I assure you, you will feel like a hundred bucks after viewing this Mike Ritchie gem. Also note the score by Harold Faltermeyer - who brought us the memorable Top Gun and Beverly Hills Cop tunes. Well that's it. It's finished. "},{"Title":"A wonderful blend of comedy and mystery","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Chevy Chase gives a fine performance as smart-aleck investigative reporter Irwin Fletch Fletcher,who while doing a story on drug traffic along a Los Angeles beach,stumbles upon another mystery involving a businessman's unusual request. Chase portrays Fletch with charm and razor-sharp wit. A great mixture of comedic action and suspenseful mystery...3 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"What A classic","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch is without a doubt one of the funniest films of the 80s, it is definetly Chevy Chase's funniest work. I also enjoyed the sequel. I was disappointed when I found out that the production of Fletch 3 was cancelled. I always felt that this was a premise that could have had several more sequels. The books are very good and would lead to very fine films. Hopefully they will try again in the future. But if not, they have left us with two movies that we can watch over and over without it ever getting old.  "},{"Title":"The most funniest film ever better then any comedy films today BRILLIANT","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I'd never seen any Chevy Chase films before but then I  saw this and thought WOW ! this is the funniest film in the world absolutely brilliant I couldn't stop laughing. Chevy Chase is the greatest better then Eddie or Jim Carrey the funniest man ever along with Steve Martin and the Marx Brothers.  "},{"Title":"Fletch is the movie for the 90's and the 2000's","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch is where a bum gets asked to kill a rich man.  Gummi is a bum as well.  This movie i loved because there are bums and Chevy Chase was in Caddy Shack with Bill Murray.  I guarantee Fletch will be hours of enjoyment for the whole family.  The family of the millennium. "},{"Title":"A classic comedy but (as always) the book was better.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie from the first time I saw it.  I had to be around 12. With age, the movie became even funnier of course.  Chevy Chase is in peak form here with some of the best dry one liners of his career, expanding on his Caddyshack character's cool wit.  It's such a shame he hasn't done anything to make me laugh since Christmas Vacation.When I saw the book at a used bookstore in Bobcaygeon a couple of years later, I snapped it up.  Boy was I surprised by what an incredible book it was.  For those who don't know, the plot is more or less unchanged (the dialogue between Stanwyk and Fletch is almost verbatim) but the story is darker, more adult and Fletch doesn't go around making Chevy's quips and using silly disguises.  I think someone should make a new version, truer to Gregory McDonald's book.  There are enough books, I understand, to make a great franchise.  "},{"Title":"Provo, Spain?","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  After 14 years, the look of this movie has dated quite a bit, as has the soundtrack.  But the humor still stands up beautifully.  I still laugh out loud when I see this movie.Chevy Chase is hilarious as investigative reporter Irwin M. Fletcher, delivering his sardonic, tongue-in-cheek lines as only he can.  Chase is the only reason to see this movie; he receives capable if unspectacular support from the rest of the cast.  But his brilliance, and a better-than-average plot, keeps the viewer engrossed until the closing credits.If anything, this movie is worth seeing just for Fletch's stirring tribute to Fred the Dorf Dorfman.  If you haven't seen Fletch yet, don't worry. UPN air it at least 3 times every Saturday. "},{"Title":"Simply stated the funniest movie ever made","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Chevy Chase's comedic genius is displayed like never before (and never again) in this hilarious adaptation of the very serious Fletch mystery series.  No matter where you go or what you are doing there is a humorous line from this movie that fits your situation.  I hope that everyone has a chance to see and enjoy this movie the way my family and I have many times. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the funniest and most quotable movies of all time. I have yet to meet the person who didn't like this film. Chevy Chase is incredible as he changes from persona to persona. It's probably his best movie of all time. If all comedies were this good, the world would be a better place.  "},{"Title":"Classic Chevy Chase in his best form.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Chevy Chase is in great form in this comedy.  The jokes work and he doesn't need to strain or resort to low-grade humor to elicit laughs from the audience.  Nice surprises throughout, a fun and an enjoyable experience. "}{"Title":"ample proof that chevy was once funny","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  still one of my personal favorites that i have seen many times.  this comedy is right on and the semi-subtle laughs never stop.  makes me wonder what happened to chevy. when i take my dirt nap, i want to be buried with a copy of FLETCH. "},{"Title":"Makes me cry","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch could be my favorite comedy of all time.  I have seen it countless, countless times, and it always puts me on the floor.  It has a clever plot (based on a very clever book) and peerlessly witty dialogue.It is extremely quotable, and with references to Hop-Along-Cassidy, Little Bo Peep, the Pope, Albert Einstein's forehead, and the Head of Alfredo Garcia, it will take many viewings before you even catch all of them.So clever, those Hollywood writers are.  And it makes Chevy Chase a great, great man, even in spite of his talk show. "},{"Title":"Not exactly a cinematic experience, but a favorite anyway*","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a perfect example of one of those movies that isn't a great movie in the 'Best of all time' sense of the word, but still remains one of my FAVORITE movies regardless.Essentially, it's one of those bantering dialogue style comedies that works really well.  The dialogue itself is top notch, and Chevy Chase does a great job with delivery.  The plot, in my opinion, while not the point of the movie, is interesting enough to add dimension to the movie separating itself from a lot of the other comedy movies of a similar type. It sort of helps that the main character isn't exactly a hero, but sort of a scummy guy himself as we watch him procrastinate at work and attempt to dodge his alimony payments (in perhaps the funniest scene in the movie), all the while using all sorts of ridiculous aliases and stories to further the plot.  At the same time, those same dodges are what make Fletch all the more charming to the viewer.    "},{"Title":"Chevy Chase fans will love this","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Chase is just the actor to personify Gregory McDonald's Fletch. The man with a thousand faces, and just as many wise cracks, he's an investigative journo who's trying to find dirt on a suspicious drug operation down at the beach. When a rich, strange young man approaches Fletch with an offer of $50, 000 to murder him, our hero soon finds himself involved in more than he anticipated.Ritchie's film relies entirely on Chase's ability to make us laugh with his irreverent investigative technique, and his many and varied disguises. The pair do a reasonable job with Andrew Bergman's script (from McDonald's novel), and the result is a satisfying picture.Being a Chevy Chase fan will certainly help audiences enjoy this movie, so if you've no time for this former star of Saturday Night Live, then give Fletch a miss. Director Ritchie was unable to lift proceedings any higher than Chase's performance or Bergman's screenplay allowed. It's a good thing there is a fairly amicable support cast and a jaunty keyboard score from Harold Faltermejer.Wednesday, February 28, 1996 - Video "},{"Title":"Thanks John Cocktoastin","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Interesting, Chevy Chase was damn funny from '80 (Caddyshack) until '89 Fletch Lives and another Vacation (Christmas). What in God's name has happened. Now he believes Castro was a good dictator. Still I am waiting for the Fletch sequels and they will be funny with the right director. Still hoping for Kevin Smith. And as Fletch, Matt Damon, Ben Afflec, or Ashley Kuncher could do. Hopefully Chevy doesn't get Comedy Central and see his own roast. That is all. Is that ten sentences. OK. Peace out. But for 80's comedy I would recommend it along with Porky's, 48hrs, Ghostbusters, Back to School. It is a good movie though. Thanks in advance for the attention. "},{"Title":"All Chevy","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Which I think can be a good thing.  Maltin suggests it's the best Chase film - I'm not so sure, but it's probably the most Chevy Chevy film. Chase plays wise-cracking, hard-working master-of-disguise reporter blowing lid off corrupt cops.  Good work by supporting cast including early Geena Davis. Has several lines that will live with you (five, ten minutes tops...). Can play a little too broadly at times but still good for repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"Top notch comedy","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch has Chevy Chase on top form, actually its probably his best performance to date. If only he'd made more of these films as he is perfect for the part. Apparently there will be a new Fletch film next year with an actor called Jason Lee playing a younger Fletch, can't wait, but he'll have to go some to match Chase's fabulous quick fire, wise cracking quips in this film. There is a actually a really good plot here too, theres a great 80's soundtrack from Harald Faltermeyer, similar to his Beverly Hills Cop score. Highly recommended, I'd love to see a DVD Special Edition of this gem. ***8/10*** "},{"Title":"Not a landmark in the history of comedy...","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch is one of those typically 80s star vehicles, like Beverly Hills Cop, where a popular star with a sarcastic attitude and a pounding soundtrack are expected to carry an entire film. Well, Fletch holds up better than BHC (in my opinion), and Michael Ritchie has a great feel for natural locations, but the film is not totally satisfying either as a mystery (the plot is too confusing, or perhaps just confusingly presented) or as a comedy (the jokes are of variable quality). Still, many people consider this hilarious, so take a look; it certainly is painless. (**) "},{"Title":"Prime Chase","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Great movie to feature Chase's unique comedy skills and he makes the most of it.This movie could have been a classic with better directing,cinematography and editing.Chase fans will really like this one though.Those comedy fans who are unfamiliar with Chase will not be too impressed.They need to see Caddyshack or Foulplay first......  "},{"Title":"Chevy Chase at His Very Best","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Fletch is far from being a cinematic masterpiece, but it may be the best work of Chevy Chase's ho-hum career. He stars as a clever news reporter who becomes involved with some very strange situations that include a man who wants to be killed, crooked cops, and drug-dealing. The film is a comedy that goes for action and has enough suspense to keep the viewer interested during the dead moments. Not quite a success, but an above-average film overall. 3.5 out of 5 stars.   "}{"Title":"No more alcohol or sedatives in HER life","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I saw Fletch Lives first, when I was just 9 years old, and it really appealed to my sense of humor at the time (and my sense of humor now too, I guess). It was easily accessible for a kid, but I was originally disappointed when I first saw Fletch because it was more serious and a lot of jokes just went over my head.As a result Fletch appeals to the adult in me while Fletch Lives appeals to the kid barely concealed inside. There's loads of great one-liners from our man Chase and even if that doesn't float your boat Harold Faltermeyer's score is just plain awesome. It's unfortunate that Irwin F never became as famous or iconic as Axel F.I've read the book, and it's as different as it is similar to the plot of the movie, except for one major difference; Fletch's cases are not connected in the book but they are in the movie. Gregory MacDonald had the final say on who they cast as Fletch and rejected Burt Reynolds (no way) and Mick Jagger (say what???) before approving Chase. Along with Clark W. Griswold he's his most famous character (Ty Webb coming in at 3rd place).It's not aged so well though, the film is clearly very 80s, unlike the sequel which doesn't use any pop songs, But even if the pop tunes anchor this in 1985 it's still one of the best comedies of that decade and no one can call themselves a film buff without owning/watching. "},{"Title":"FLETCH (Michael Ritchie, 1985) ***","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Following Eddie Murphy's hugely-successful BEVERLY HILLS COP (1984), the start of a four-film franchise, another Saturday Night Live exponent &#x96; Chevy Chase &#x96; would tackle the comedy-thriller genre (with even a sequel of its own, typically inferior, arriving four years later); once again, the soundtrack screams 1980s and the action ropes in at least one irrelevant car chase. The approach, in this case, was broader but no less effective (with especially agreeable infusions of noir) &#x96; and the film stands as possibly the star's most sustained vehicle, where Chase is a columnist with a penchant for undercover work (often under heavy disguise!). His latest scoop concerns an intricate drug deal (incorporating bigamy and land-grabbing!) which eventually reveals at the bottom of it the county's Chief of Police (Joe Don Baker); harassing his editor but supported by a colleague (a pre-stardom Geena Davis), he becomes involved with the 'official' wife of the chief suspect (who, claiming he had only weeks to live, actually hand-picked the hero &#x96; while posing as a junkie beach-bum &#x96; in order to assassinate him!). Dialogue and situations are well above-average for this sort of thing, the whole being complemented by Ritchie's assured handling. "},{"Title":"Terrific Performance by Chase","Date":"18 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Fletch (1985) *** (out of 4) Extremely entertaining film has Chevy Chase playing Irwin 'Fletch' Fletcher, a reporter who is working undercover as a bum when a multi-millionaire (Tim Matheson) asks him to kill him for insurance purposes. The bum agrees to do it but the reporter in Fletch takes over and he tries to figure out who this guy is and what his plan is. I had heard a lot of good things about this film over the years and I'm really not sure why it took me so long to check it out but I'm certainly glad I did as I can see myself revisiting this film every so often. The screenplay by future director Andrew Bergman is pretty straight-forward, simple and I'm sure followed the novel pretty well but the real key to this film is Chase and his masterful character of Chase. I always try to say there's no movie without a good screenplay but there are exceptions to the rules and I think this is the case because I seriously doubt a lot of what we're seeing was actually on the page and I'm fairly positive it's all coming from Chase's wacky mind. The mannerisms are one of the best things in the film as Chase is constantly getting into one mess after another and many of the best laughs don't come from dialogue but instead his reactions to what is going on. Whether he's getting busted for charging food to someone elses account or having police chase him, old Chase does a masterful job just reacting to everything and this delivers so many laughs throughout the film. We also get countless situations where Chase has to act out as different characters and once again he handles this masterfully and never misses a touch. Ritchie's direction is also very good because it really never feels like you're watching a movie. Instead, it really seems like you're just following Fletch around on this journey and the film runs so smoothly that you'll feel as if you're watching a documentary of the events or just watching them live. How the film constantly cuts to the next sequence of events comes off so fresh that you can't help but enjoy the ride and be excited for what's going to come next. Matheson is as fun as usual and we get nice supporting work from Joe Don Baker, M. Emmet Walsh, George Wendt and a young Geena Davis. Dana Wheeler-Nicholson is extremely charming as the love interest. Outside the bad 80s soundtrack, this film has enough laughs for two movies and it's the perfect example of how great Chase could be. "},{"Title":"Horrible Soundtrack","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I watched Beverly Hills Cops 1 & 2 today, as well as Fletch. Harold Faltermeyer's extremely annoying synth-pop soundtracks for all three couldn't have been more distracting.Did the producers of these films honestly believe that no one would want to see them twenty years later and enjoy them? Apparently so.'80s synth should have stayed with Miami Vice and TV shows of that ilk, which were rooted in the sound.Watch a great film from that era and immerse yourself in the lack of an annoying soundtrack. Taxi Driver, anyone? PS Vote against this comment, as it has little to do with the film itself, but I make a valid point. "},{"Title":"Chevy Chase's best movie.","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Chevy Chase is clearly a funny, gifted comedian, but his film work has never really been worthy of his talents. The National Lampoon Vacation series is a perfect example of good comic talent being criminally under-used. Fletch is a witty, enjoyable, refreshing comedy-thriller and it is also far and away the best film that Chase has ever done.Fletch (Chase) is an L.A newspaper journalist who works under the pseudonym Jane Doe. He is busily trying to expose the source of illegal narcotics on a local beach when he is approached by a mysterious rich guy (Tim Matheson) who wants to arrange his own murder. Fletch investigates both cases and uncovers a whole can of worms, including high-level police corruption, bigamy and more.The film breezes by at a cracking pace and has some inspired gags. Fletch stealing a car only to find that a car thief is in the passenger seat (Fletch pretends he is a carbon dioxide emmisions-tester!); Fletch raiding a party and causing a stir by doing an off-the-cuff speech; Fletch disguising himself as a roller-skating rabbi; Fletch bluffing his way out of danger by telling a gunman the story of The Godfather; etc. All these - and more - stand out as wonderful comic moments. There are weaknesses in the film, such as a cheesy 80s score and an unconvincing marrying-together of the two mysteries at the end, but in general terms this film is a whole load-a fun!   "},{"Title":"Enough Laughs To Entertain; I Recommend It...","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Meet the only guy who changes his identity more often than his underwear...Irwin Fletch Fletcher (Chevy Chase) is a Los Angeles journalist who lives for his profession. As Jane Doe, he publishes articles that have caused several heads to roll in the past. Now, Fletch is at it again In disguise as a bum, he lives at the beach, researching drugs and their dealing. One day, Fletch is addressed by Alan Stanwyk (Tim Matheson), a rich man, who asks Fletch a favor. For the sum of $50,000, Fletch should kill poor cancer-ridden Mr. Stanwyk with a gun, so that his wife will get the insurance money. What the guy didn't think of was Fletch's real profession. Returning into normal life, Fletch instantly takes up research not only to find out that Mr. Stanwyk is healthy as life itself but he also runs into certain connections between drug dealing at the beach, Alan Stanwyk, his private jet, the police and a very expensive piece of Land in Utah.The 1985 comedy hit Fletch, which spawned a less successful sequel, is an above average eighties comedy with just enough laughs to entertain.Chevy Chase is not a favorite actor of mine. I always preferred Akyroyd over him in the old SNL days, and the only film role I feel he fit into perfectly was the Clark Griswold persona in the Vacation movies. However, even though he's not great, he is a good choice for Fletch (I guess) because he brings that dumb, stuck-up, know-it-all quality to the character of Fletch.The laughs do fall short sometimes, but overall, Fletch is a worthwhile film. It is entertaining, if not a bit flawed. I am surprised that another sequel, directed this time by Kevin Clerks Smith, called Fletch Won is being made, but then again, we're seeing a lot of remakes/postponed sequels these days. I hope Fletch Won isn't as bad as the new Star Wars 'Epics'.Fletch gets 3.5/5 stars from me. It's definitely worth seeing. Look out for it on TBS, it plays on that channel a lot.John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"They really blew it with this series.","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Here's my point.1. They made this one, a funny movie which developed a strong cult following.2. The most interesting book in the Fletch series is the one that takes place immediately where this storyline ends, when Fletch loses his girlfriend in Brazil.3. Now all of you can come up with what they should have done next. Why they did not is a mystery to me, because Carioca Fletch had all the ingredients for a terrific movie, and they had established a built-in audience.This series should have become the James Bond of comedies. But they blew it. "},{"Title":"Probably Chevy's greatest film ever...","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A comedy with a pretty interesting plot.  Chevy's one liners in this movie are classicsA.S. Do you own rubber gloves? Fletch No, I rent 'em.  I have a lease with an option to buyJust a short example of one.  With numerous aliases from Mr. Babar to Dr. Rosenpenis, this ranks as one of my all-time favorites.Plus, it's amazing the famous people you see on here.  Geena Davis, early in her career, plays Larry, Chevy's newspaper assistant.  And George Wendt plays Fat Sam, a beach junkie.A comedy intertwined with a mystery will have you rolling in the aisles.  A definite 10! "},{"Title":"Chevy Chase at his funniest (I'll have a steak sandwich.  And a steak sandwich)","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  FLETCH (1985) *** Chevy Chase, Tim Matheson, Richard Libertini, Joe Don Baker, Geena Davis, Dana Wheeler-Nicholson, George Wendt.  Chase fits smoothly into the character of I.M. Fletcher, intrepid snarky investigative reporter who finds himself involved with an insurance scam, drug trafficking police administratives, murder plotting and the usual mystery nefarity with his trademark smart-aleck asides and gift for improvised disguises.  Based on the cult pulpy novels of Gregory MacDonald and adapted by comedy vet Andrew Bergman, Chase has never been more comfortable inhabiting a character so close to his acerbic demeanor.  Best bit, Chase after being greeted by the sexy towel-clad Wheeler-Nicholson `Can I borrow your towel?  My car just hit a water buffalo.' "},{"Title":"Fletch is OK","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Fletch places us in LA that is searching for some heroes that will help them get rid of some local hoodlums.Chevy Chase plays a good journalist.Thankfully, seriousness is in low amounts in this film, and comic hijinks ensure. Our three stumble through bars, the desert, and the final hide-a-way before their creative finale.I remember watching this film with my family when I was really young. I remember laughing at everything these three bumbling idiots did, and how impressed I was by the grace they did it with. As I grew older, this film remained with me. These three actors represent some of the funniest moments in cinematic history, and here they are gathered together to make a film. I loved this movie. I loved the absurdity, the randomness, and the sheer fun of these types of films. I miss this type of physical, pseudo-intellectual humor. I miss laughing as much as I did when I first watched this film, and when I watch it over and over again. The simplistic nature of this film allows it to be enjoyed at any time during your life. Chase is at the top of his game and never let go. It is sad to see these actors getting less and less work today.Overall, this film impressed me. It is funny, enjoyable, and so silly that you don't need to wade through the bathroom humor to get to the good stuff. It is all right there. I suggest this film to anyone that is looking to laugh and be entertained! "}{"Title":"Chevy Chase does what he can!","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  FLETCH is a movie so lamely written, unfunny, ill conceived, and so incompetent that it almost is worth watching just because of how bad it is. I used to like this movie. I liked it for a while, but then I realized that I never really liked it at all, I just had nothing better to watch. Chevy Chase does what he can to save this turkey, but that's not a good enough reason to recommend this. No stars. "},{"Title":"I Hate 80s Muzak","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Mystery","Review":" FLETCH suffers from one of the most intrusive soundtracks ever recorded on film . What makes it worse is that it's a movie from the 1980s when nearly every single soundtrack was camp synth muzak . I'm really glad LORD OF THE RINGS wasn't produced in the 1980s . Fletch walks along a beach and we're blasted by something that resembles sound effects from DOCTOR WHO . Fletch gets into a car and it's more DOCTOR WHO sound effects . The car drives off and we're treated to the eldrich moans of a DOCTOR WHO monster . I'm not trying to criticise composer Harold Faltermeyer too much because this type of film score has dated very badly indeed , but it's impossible not to notice it This is a shamebecause I wasn't expecting very much from FLETCH but was very entertained . I'd almost switched the television off after the movie had started if only to save my ears from more torture but as soon as Fletch arrives at the house and is given a request I was hooked . It's billed as a comedy but that's misleading , it's more like a Chandler novel with some very wry humour written in , can't you see Bogart starring in this if it was made in the 1940s ? I won't give the plot away , I'll say if there's nothing else on TV and you're looking for a time waster then this movie comes recommended - Apart from the film score "}]