[{"Title":"Laptop Critics Don't Know Jack","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"51 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Personally this is one of my all time favorite movies since I was very young. That being said I had not seen this movie in over a decade before seeing it on the shelf at the grocery store where I purchased it.I had just watched the two Conan movies a few nights prior and I sat down with my lady to watch an old favorite.To me this movie was infinitely more enjoyable than the Conan movies. And even as an adult some 20 years later with a much wider and esoteric taste in movies, music and games; I found this movie a blast and I'm not going to say it's a 10 and nor am I going to play the role of lap top critic.I'm just going to say this In a world of horrible blockbusters like GI Joe and Transformers I feel Red Sonja was money and time well spent. "},{"Title":"Good Spin Off From Conan Series","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a great fan of the Conan series and of course my favourite is the first of the series Conan the Barbarian. I bought Red Sonja on DVD for only $9.95 and I was surprised to find as entertaining as the first two Conan films. Arnold Schwarzenegger executed his character outstanding throughout the fight scenes and as Kalidor even though the film was focused on Red Sonja. Brigitte Nielsen was beautiful and played Red Sonja perfectly to heighten the suspense and action through the fight scenes. The Film quality was good into creating a fantasy environment. The Action scenes in this film was the main part that me through this film even though its PG there's enough blood for the warmongers to enjoy. To conclude whoever loves Barbaric films such as the Conan films or Kull the Conqueror this is the film for you. Conan The Barbarian (1982) 8/10 Conan The Destroyer (1984) 6/10 Red Sonja (1985) 6/10 "},{"Title":"Reminds me of the good-old Drive-In movie days.","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie gets better with age.  If you've got a sense of humor and don't need Industrial Light and Magic special effects, the combination of actors (all playing off the winsome Brigette Nielson) makes this a fun movie to see again...or for the first time.It's probably also the movie that got Arnold in hot water during the recall. "},{"Title":"Arnold, Brigitte, Sandahl!","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a wonderfully moral sword and sorcery epic. Arnold Schwarzenegger portrays a heroic man of high character unlike the amoral Conan. His portrayal of Kalidor is understated and that makes it WORK.Brigitte Nielsen while a raw talent, still manages to put this film over.She is what one expects a Red Sonja to be a simple, brave, barbarian woman with a sense of loyalty and oath upholding that is so alien to our modern world.Sandahl Bergman as the nefarious Queen Gedren is marvelous. She has a plum role playing a villainous megalomaniac and she enjoys every minute of it.Paul Smith and his sidekick Ernie Reyes Jr. almost steal the show, quite charming. Again there is a humanity in Smith's character, this loyalty and taking seriously of an oath that rings true for the imagined world of this sword and sorcery entry.Tutte Lemkow's portrayal of a wizard is one of the minor roles that is very well done.Of all the sword and sandal movies I have seen over the years I have a special place for this 1985 film.It is a feel good movie, romantic, exciting, beautiful scenery and costumes and an excellent ARNOLD film. "},{"Title":"so it is true, only women may touch it","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Quote of the movie so it is true, only women may touch it What was goodThe Soundtrack was really good thanks to genus, Ennio Morricone. Red Sonja looked really good in that little cloth piece she wore throughout the movie. There is more red hair in this film than a shedding Irish Setter. What was bad The little kid playing the ruler of a land terribly over acts. I am not sure if this is because he is a bad kid actor or if it was suppose to be.There was a scene where Arnold rides around hitting people from his horse, but in a wide-angle shot, there is nobody dead on the ground.The special effects for 1985 are fairly lame, including the mechanical spider in the castle lair is so bad-dd.The costumes were designed as if there was a sale at a early 1980's salvation army. Costume of the movie goes to the oriental old man, grandmaster, with the white sheet and black straps is quite a sight. With poles that come out of his back, I don't know how he can enter a doorway. It takes 18 minutes for Arnold to actually read a line. A fun movie to drink a little and laugh at the action or lack of action. This movie could of been done a lot worse. "},{"Title":"I'm glad I gave it a chance","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"29 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Not really my bag as far as movie types go (not really into the fantastical) but I'm glad I saw this film.  There seemed to be very little use of stuntpersons or body doubles in the majority of fight scenes.  Bridgette Nielsen clearly worked it off to put on a good showing. How Schwarzanegger got top billing I'm not sure, but his limited part was, of course, excellently portrayed. Film quality was fair, considering the fantasy-esque backdrop and the fact that it was shot in the early 80s.  I'll go out wide on a limb and give it a couple of stars.My take  6.5  "},{"Title":"Fun romp despite some wooden performances","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is Saturday afternoon fodder, and it is great fun. Brigitte Nielsen plays Red Sonja a little as though she is reading her lines off hidden cue cards, in fact the entire cast appears to have received the script on the day they began shooting, but this is still great comic book stuff all the same. It lacks the fancy CGI that we have come to expect, and is, in my opinion, actually the better for this lack. The set pieces all work well, and even the very tentative love story is not a major distraction. Settle back to enjoy skimpy skirts and lots of sword play, years before Xena the Warrior Princess hit the small screen. "},{"Title":"A fun guilty pleasure","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" OK, I know I'm going to either get a lot of hate for this and a lot of confused emails, but Red Sonja to me is an ultimate guilty pleasure. My sister and I used to watch this movie all the time when we were kids, we both wanted to so badly fight with Red Sonja and be apart of the group. So oddly, after years of not watching this since I was a kid, my sister and I found the DVD for 5 dollars and decided to watch it. Oh, the things that are so wrong with this film that makes it so right again. Looking to be a spin off of Conan, we were introduced to Red Sonja played by Flava-Flav's ultimate true love, Bridgitte Nielson. The 6 foot tall drink of glass shows us that this was her acting class as she rehearses her lines as if she had just read them the night before and screams Gedren, where are you?! while moving her mouth in the strangest way. She teams up with world's other tall drink of &#x85; beef(?) Arnold Schwarzenegger as they battle it out on who can act the worst? Well, who knows who will win with this silly story.A large temple full of white-robed priestesses are getting ready to destroy a large, glowing green orb called the Talisman. This dangerous artifact's destructive power increases from exposure to light and the priestesses intend to destroy it before it gets out of control. However, the evil Queen Gedren and Ikol attack with their army. The warrior-priestesses resist, but are ultimately subdued by Gedren's forces. Gedren gets her hands on the Talisman, but not before proving the myth that only women can touch it and survive. Gedren orders the remaining priestesses to be imprisoned in the vault which held the Talisman. One of those priestesses, Varna, manages to escape. She doesn't get far before she's mortally wounded by an arrow in the back. As luck would have it, she literally falls into the arms of the mighty Lord Kalidor. She begs him to help find her sister, Red Sonja. Sonja has been training with a Chinese sword master when Kalidor informs Sonja about her sister. Sonja arrives just in time for Varna to tell her about what happened at the temple. Before dying, Sonja's sister urges her to find the Talisman and destroy it, or else the world will be destroyed. Everything about this movie is bad, but that's what I love about it. You know how sometimes you just need a bad movie that you can make fun of and have a good time with? Supposedly, Arnold Schwarzenegger jokes that he uses this movie as punishment for his kids when they act up. Is it that bad? It is bad, but it's a ton of fun. I loved the action, Arnold fighting Bridgitte for her love as no man may have her unless he's trying to kill her, lol. I loved the last fight scene between Red Sonja and Queen Gedren, Gedren loves pulling a ton of jump cuts on her as well as one of Gedren's wizards who is using vodoo to cut Sonja to weaken her, then when she discovers the wizard, instead of him cutting her again, he just stands there, lol. Also the little Prince Tarn with Falkon was classic and they worked so well together. I think the scene that made me laugh the most was when Red Sonja, Prince Tarn and Falkon are stuck in the cave with the machine dragon and Arnold is just riding around with it making it look more like a roller coaster ride rather than a fight for his life, lol! My opinion, if a movie entertains you even if it is bad, why fight it? This is a good bad movie and I know I will always enjoy it. My recommendation being if you have an open mind and decide to just let go and enjoy the ride Red Sonja takes you on, take it or leave it.7/10 "},{"Title":"Conan III","Date":"25 March 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It's been ages since I've seen this film, and it holds about as much interest for me as when I first saw it. It's entertaining on a certain level, and holds some interest.Some minor notes before progressing with my comments; Kalidor in reality is Conan's alternate name. That is to say Conan and Kalidor are one in the same person as per Robert Howard's authorship. Ergo Laurentis casting Arnie in the role was most likely deliberate, though Governor Schwarzenegger and his then agent may have had the wool pulled over their eyes and had this little fact kept from them when approached for the role. In fact and essence you're seeing Conan the Barbarian III, in spite of the Red Sonja title.But, enough of that. Can Bridgette Neilson act? Yeah, sure. Is she Oscar material? Err... no. Was she right for the role? Probably. How about the other roles? Me, I think Sandahl Bergman rejoining the Conan cast as a lesbian queen was a fine choice. And pardon my prurient interest, but I think she's hotter as a brunette with short hair than as a natural blonde )The film is what it is; a thinly veiled knockoff of the first two Conan films, though again, it really IS a third (albeit unofficial) installment of the franchise, so to speak. The sets and art direction for a moderately budgeted sequel are actually fairly impressive, though one gets the sense that there's some slight of hand being used to mask budgetary limitations. And, believe it or not, it works after a fashion. There's the usual we can't afford to costume real life size armies, so we'll allude to armies and battles in dialog, than actually show them thing going on. But there're enough costumed bodies to get the gist across that our antagonist does command vast hosts to conquer the Hyborean world. Other technical aspects; it's not a poorly shot film, but the cinematography doesn't recapture Milius' touch with the first Conan film. But, then again, there is a kind of artistic professionalism that comes across in this movie that can be admired after a fashion. The one thing that strikes me visually, other than the elaborate and well designed costumes and set pieces, is the fact that even though the cinematography is respectable, there's no real theme to it. The shots are fairly static, but well composed, yet there's no underlying dynamic to them. In essence the cast and crew were told to do their best with the material they were given, and they do so in spades.This isn't to say the film is outstanding, because it isn't. But everyone puts their best foot forward in a film that's pretty much all- business. That is to say it was given a nice clean professional coat, but lacked a certain integrity that comes across in the script. We are, in fact and essence, watching Robert Howard's feminized version of Conan do her thing and not much else.What could have improved this film? Lots of things, I suppose. A bigger budget for one to actually stage some large battle sequences as Sandahl's character goes about conquering the world. Neilson does her double-Y chromosome thing as an Arnie imitation, but is perhaps off par by a stroke or two in terms of performance. Arnie does his thing, and Sandahl does hers (she actually gives a respectable performance). Reyes Junior is who he is, and does an adequate job as a spoiled brat.The truth of the matter is that this film was made in the 80s, when female marketed films weren't seen as big money makers, and so it was budgeted as such; i.e. it wasn't expected to make lots of money, but financed to put on a good show. Red Sonja is to the Conan films as Supergirl was to the Superman films. All in all it's another De Laurentis production. Take it for what it is, interesting and entertaining popcorn fare. "},{"Title":"OK I admit I enjoyed it!!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Let's just settle this before I start - this is a bad bad movie! You will be hard pressed to find such awful acting anywhere as Miss Nielsen, 'veteran' director Richard Fleischer stumbles blindly through a non-existant plot, and you will feel absolutely no sympathy for either the good guys or the bad - in other words you just won't care!I would love to have hated this film - as a self-proclaimed 'movie-buff' this is the kind of film I should not even go near. But I'm loathed to admit...I enjoyed it! The two stars, amongst their awful acting, are actually quite engaging in a comedic way (intentional or not!). I began to relish the dialogue scenes just to see if a line could have been delivered with any more wood! The intentional comedy comes from a young prince (Ernie Reyes Jr) and his bodyguard (Paul Smith). Although I wished the prince to find the end of a sword as quickly as possible from his first scene, the interplay between these two characters was amusing, with some one-liners that could not have been more out of place in this film! The villainous queen (played by Sandahl Bergman) is unfortunately bland and forgettable. But one real treat for me was another completely out-of-place commodity - a great rousing score from maestro Ennio Morricone!This was Schwarzenegger's return to his CONAN genre after hitting it big with THE TERMINATOR. It isn't too surprising that this was the last 'swords and sorcery' movie he did - but I promise you won't hate it! You'll want to!....but you won't! "}{"Title":"the honest shot","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  you know, i gave this movie an eight.  yeah.  really.  i shouldn't have, but i did, and it's because it's a feel good movie, and better then that santa clause the motion picture, thing, even though santa and sonja are both kinda red.  sort of.  like, whenever you're watching it, you have this stark realization that life isn't so bad, that the vapors vapping your inner peace are really just the nasty shrimp you ate for dinner.  i don't recommend shrimp for dinner or any time else.  but shrimps are red, like sonja, and red sonja, unlike shrimp, is worth it if only for some of the sword play and the fallen limbs, heads, rocks, etc.  plus there's a bunch of scars and costumes, and costumes that are scars.  oh, and arnold lifts a bunch of stuff too.   "},{"Title":"Girl-power, action packed, all around good movie","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie! I know, I know, maybe the acting isn't the BEST we've ever seen, but it's not bad. I loved Brigitte Nielsen in this; she was awesome. And not to mention Ernie Reyes Jr, he was so adorable! I love action movies, and this is an action movie by all means. Arnold was really good too. This movie was really fun and very visual. I really recommend it if you're a fantasy movie nut! "},{"Title":"Actually, As Much As People Hate This, It Still Runs Like Conan 3.","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" It is sad that Schwarzenegger was the best thing about this production, especially considering the fact that he had not yet come into his own, and was still as stiff as cardboard in his dialog delivery.Actually, this isn't as bad as some critics say, but it isn't good, either. It IS amusing, and DOES play like a poor country cousin of the Conan line, making it a conflicted, uneven, poor work. And speaking of poor, the quality is terrible, due to the era in which this was filmed, but that is not the only reason.The story herein is inferior, even to the Conan line, but moreover, it loses itself in the Red Sonja must be dominated by big strong Schwarzenegger ploy, and entirely forgets its purpose, if it ever had one.It's entertaining, but in a low-budget, guilty-pleasure B kind of way.It rates a 4.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining if not taken too seriously","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"24 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Have just seen this film for the first time after purchasing it on DVDIt comes across as a cheap attempt to cash in on the two Conan movies.Unfortunately, this film didn't appear to have the same budget as the Conan films and hence some of the sets and effects aren't as flash and some scenes seem hurried. Nielsen is OK to look at but unfortunately she couldn't act if a gun was put to her head. Arnie's supporting role looked like it was done as a favor to director Fleischer, who also directed Conan the Destroyer. Maybe Arnie wasn't confident that he would go on to headline films like Predator, Total Recall, T2, etc.Some of the female guardians of the talisman early in the film looked like they were struggling to lift their swords and the looks on their faces suggested they were having great fun making this film. I couldn't be so jovial if I was fighting for my life.All this aside, this film required very little concentration to watch and was mildly entertaining. I've seen a lot worse. Two stars.  "},{"Title":"Campy swords and sorcery fun, decent mindless viewing","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I checked this out one afternoon after a long lie in. With nothing else on TV I came across this whilst channel hopping and somehow I decided to give it my time. A good choice as it turns out for though this is a low rated and oft mocked piece of trash, its also lively and fast paced with a fair degree of brainless endearment. The plot has barbarian warrior Red Sonja up against the evil Queen Gedren who not only murdered her family but is also likely to destroy the entire world with an powerful ancient relic in her insatiable quest for power. With help from Arnold Schwarzenegger, an irritating young prince and his noble retainer our barbarian lass sets out to get revenge and save the world. In conventional terms this isn't such a good film. As Sonja, Brigitte Nielsen is pleasingly wooden, though slightly more animated than Arnie's oaken turn. Ernie Reyes Jr. is thoroughly obnoxious and punchable as the young prince, though Paul L. Smith puts in a good performance, likable as the retainer Falkon. To make up for the low key acting from everyone else Sandahl Bergman overacts to good effect as Queen Gedren, but none of them are particularly well served by the script, which isn't quite bad enough for proper camp value but never very good either. Fortunately the film has a sprightly pace and exciting direction from veteran Richard Fleischer, the sword fighting is regular and fairly well choreographed and edited. Ennio Morricone contributes a suitably rousing score and the budget is decent enough to allow for quality art direction and effects that include a cool robot water snake, so the film actually conveys a pretty fun ancient fantasy world with some good locations. Always predictable but never dull there is a lot of fun to be had here for the more forgiving viewer though the film should definitely have aimed higher. It is slightly awkwardly perched, a bit too juvenile and silly for older tastes but slightly too intense for younger children and the sort of thing that most viewers these days will likely scoff at, it is best poised to elicit easy smiles and chuckles from junky fantasy fans. In fact its easy going trashy fun is almost enough to push it up to a 7/10, but Ernie Reyes' character is just so danged annoying I can't bring myself to it. Seriously, that kid deserved a serious seeing to, Red Sonja should have whupped him like she threatened to. Ah well, can't be helped. Altogether then, this is no classic, but I liked it enough and if you go for this kind of silliness you might too. "},{"Title":"Sword-and-Sorcery epic with female lead accompanied briefly by a He-man taking on multiple adventures","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Thrilling and spectacular movie full of imagination and fantasy that introduces us a brave heroine , female counterpart to Conan , and appointed to juvenile public and full-blooded adventure aficionados. Sword-and-sorcery saga with silly action , spectacular images and fantastic scenes with witchcraft and necromancy . This is a tale of fantasy , magic , imagination, blood and wizardly set in a mythical primitive world of barbarisms. This is an amusing adventure saga inspired on Robert E Howard's pulp tale , it stars Brigitte Nielsen ( by that time married Silvester Stallone) who join forces with the mythic and valiant warrior Kalifor ( a super-swordsman Arnold Schwarznegger in a brief guest spot), a Hyborian Age hero , a Conan-alike , taking on heinous forces of devil and evil minions . A nasty sorceress kills the keeper (Janet Agren) of a powerful green bulb that gives her great power , but Red Sonja is sister of the keeper and seeks vengeance on villainess Gedren who also massacred her family . A selfish little boy prince named Tarn (Ernie Reyes Jr) and his underling Falkon (Paul L. Smith), whose kingdom was wiped out by Gedren soon joins them . They undergo on a perilous trip to find the talisman , confronting magicians , spectres and dangerous adventures. Our heroine fights the evil hoodlums of brutal Queen Gedren (Sandahl Bergman) who seeks the total power and leading a vibrant ending.This exciting film packs noisy action, fantasy, adventure, witchery , and rip-roaring fights . Dumb images , unintentionally hilarious and lots of amusement and entertainment . Made on a fairly big scale with spectacular set design and glimmer photography . Quite budget for an Italian/Netherland/US co-production and lavishly produced by Dino De Laurentiis , her daughter Francesca and Jose Lopez Rodero. This entertaining picture contains frenetic action , tension , necromancy, and moving action scenes . The film is full of freaks and bemusing situations ; it is quite entertaining because being a laborious and intriguing adventure tale with some humor . Colorful cinematography by Giuseppe Rotunno , Federico Fellini's usual . Very derivative special effects , grand production design by Danilo Donati ,and matte paintings by Albert Whitlock and Emilio Ruiz del Rio . Impressive musical score composed and conducted by the master Ennio Morricone. The motion picture is middling directed by Richard Fleischer . He's an expert director , with adventure classics (Vikings, 20.000 leagues under sea) and noir cinema (Narrow margin,Clay pigeons,Trapped). The film will appeal to fantasy buffs with enough action to make it worth looking in on . In other words, it seem likely Conan enthusiasts and juvenile viewers will be delighted because thrills, action and adventures are brilliantly presented and edited to offer the maximum impact. Rating  5,5 ; it's an old-fashioned B film on an acceptable scale and basically enjoyable because of it. "},{"Title":"Favorite Fantasy movie of all time!","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I loved this movie! For anyone who loves swords and magic with stars who are the best actors to be in this? I give Red Sonja an overwhelming ten. They were the perfect couple in this movie and despite all the arm chair critics this movie is great entertainment-especially for kids. The action scenes are very well done and Bridget and Arnold should have gotten married after they made this. I thought, my goodness they just looked so good together. As it later came out that they were having a roaring romance during the making of the film and I think this came across in the movie which added to it's class. Wonderful fantasy movie. For the adults you can feel the electricity between Arnold and Bridget in this and although it's a fantasy movie it's really no different than Bogart and Bacall in Key Largo or To Have and Have Notbut in their own way despite it being just a fantasy flick. Much better than the Conan movies because of their interaction. For the time period the special effects are quite good! Never boring, a great fun movie with an interesting real life story to boot! Oh and any guy that is honest will admit Red Sonja is one of the hottest damn movies made without being porn. That's the huge attraction and ten times better than say Barbed Wire with Pamela Anderson. "},{"Title":"Really not bad; better than Conan the Destroyer.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't think anyone ever likes admitting they enjoyed a movie with Brigitte Nielsen- nor do they enjoy admitting they like a hokey comic book movie.  But hey- this really is a pretty fun flick, and this is one of the few roles that seem meant for Brigitte.Red Sonja properly belongs in the Conan series- Sonja herself is a character first introduced in the Conan story series.  It seems quite a coup to have gotten Arnold himself for the film, even though with licensing rights tied up they couldn't *say* Conan.  Everyone knows who it's supposed to be.As to Arnie's top billing- it makes sense when you realize that when this movie came out, Arnold was very well known and loved as Conan.  The producers had to do everything possible to attract the Conan-fan who isn't aware of who Red Sonja is... so hype Arnie's name, and you get bigger box office.  Simple, really.Don't watch the movie expecting anything more than an adventure film, though! "},{"Title":"I've loved this movie ever since I watched it when I was but a young lad.","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I found that this movie, obviously low budget, extremely enjoyable. As Tarn of Hablok, Ernie Reyes Jr. stole the show. His portrayal of the rich spoiled brat is outright hilarious. Not to mention his guardian Falkon. The interactions between him and Red Sonja provide for much of the comic relief in the film. Sonja and Tarn are the two characters with major flaws that as the movie progresses are worked out. Tarn is a selfish little brat that at the end is willing to die so that his friends can make their escape from the crumbling palace around them. Sonja, in the beginning, will not allow anyone born with a Y chromosome touch her (can you blame her after being gang raped by Gedren's army.) In the end, she allows herself to fall in love with Kalidor. I remember watching this movie when I was a child and it wasn't until I watched it again as an adult that I finally caught some of the innuendo. For example, that Queen Gedren was a lesbian who wished to force Red Sonja to be her love slave. It was also quite humorous for Gedren to think that should could actually take on Sonja (who has been given supernatural strength by a goddess) in a sword fight. Again, I still enjoy watching this movie to this day. The part where she is knocking her around the Chamber of Lights and that look of uh-oh on Gedren's face is enough to make you fall off the couch in laughter. "},{"Title":"Inept sword 'n' sorcery flick which pretty much destroyed its own genre.","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"30 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Red Sonja is a career-step-in-the-wrong-direction for Arnold Schwarzenegger. Having made a couple of sword 'n' sorcery films (as Conan) he had moved onto slightly more serious acting roles in films like The Terminator and Commando, only to make a mystifying return to the sword 'n' sorcery genre for this 1985 debacle. It's hard to figure out why he bothered, as this is weaker than both Conan films in every conceivable department. Allegedly, this was to have been the third Conan film, but for one reason or another the emphasis was shifted onto the leading female character, the titular red-head, leaving poor old Arnold to play an incredibly dull supporting role. Spare a thought, too, for director Richard Fleischer who had given the world classics like 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea, Fantastic Voyage, The Boston Strangler and 10 Rillington Place. In this - his penultimate film - Fleischer also has taken a gigantic career step backwards.Evil queen Gedren (Sandahl Bergman) wants to rule the world, and she needs a priceless and powerful talisman to do so. She and her brutish army storm a keep populated by priestesses and steal the said talisman, massacring the helpless priestesses as they go. One of the dead priestesses has a sister named Sonja (Brigitte Nielsen), a fiery red-headed warrior, who upon hearing of her sister's death swears revenge upon the evil Gedren. Sonja rides across the land in search of Gedren's lair. Along the way she picks up travelling companions in the shape of a boy prince, Tarn (Ernie Reyes Jr) and his bodyguard Falkon (Paul Smith). She also meets the muscular warrior Conan - sorry, I mean Kalidor (!) - who offers to join her in her quest. Initially Sonja doesn't want the help of Kalidor (Arnold Schwarzenegger), preferring instead to prove that she can confront and defeat her enemies alone, but eventually she warms to him and accepts his assistance.Red Sonja is a staggeringly poor film, all the more so when one muses that it was made in 1985 when the sword 'n' sorcery genre was close to its end. It seems so simplistic and amateurish that one could easily mistake it for an early example of its kind. The performances are poor on the whole, ranging from Bergman's embarrassingly OTT villain to Reyes' unbelievably irritating spoilt brat to Schwarzenegger's wooden and unenthusiastic hero. Nielsen is slightly better as the heroine - presumably full of enthusiasm at the thought of being in her first starring role - but she is let down very badly by the stupidity of Clive Exton and George MacDonald Fraser's script. The film is riddled with goofs, including a scene where Schwarzenegger is seen in close-up hacking down bad guys but in a long-shot in the same sequence there isn't a corpse in sight. Technically it is very inept too, with sub-standard special effects and appallingly mechanical monsters. There are a few compensations, such as Ennio Morricone's enjoyable music (Morricone spent a great deal of the '80s providing good music for awful films, e.g The Island, Treasure of the Four Crowns and Hundra). Another compensation is Giuseppe Rotunno's lensing of the locations - in fact, much of the time it's a hell of a lot more gratifying to look at the lovely scenery than the actors standing in the foreground! There were very few sword 'n' sorcery films after Red Sonja, so in some ways it might go down in history as the film which destroyed its own genre. "}{"Title":"Regarding the quality of the film","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I have been an avid Swords and Sorcery fan for over 27 years and this is one of the best films I have ever seen. The sword fight scene is particularly good, in that it is the most realistic one made. People would get tired after swinging a broadsword around, I am a member of a battle re-enactment society, and those swords are extremely heavy. This makes you tired very quickly, especially if it is a hot day and you have to use a shield as well. Waes du Hael "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Rather than make another, deserving Conan film, someone decided to make this fantasy yarn staring Bridgette Neilson as Sonja and Arnie as Kalidor. Evil Queen Gedren steals a mystical talisman from a group of virginal priestess warriors, and butchers them all in the process. She plans to unleash a great evil on the world, but one her victim's was the sister of Sonja, a fearless warrior. She decides to travel to Gedren, stop her plans, and get revenge. On her way she meets an impudent young Prince and his servant, and Kalidor, a great swordsman. Together they try to save the world, but Kalidor and Sonja still wish to prove to each other who is the superior fighter.Unfortunately the whole film looks cheap, and most of the effects aren't great. Even the sweeping camera-work used to great effect in Conan the Barbarian is nowhere near as good here, and the plot is basic. Arnie is good in the role, but his part is not very big. Neilson is OK, credit must go to both for their training and stunt-work, but she fails to show any great emotion. The character is not given much depth though, focused on revenge rather than going through any grieving process. The young Prince is constantly annoying, but he and his master do provide a few laughs. Bergman is good as Gedren, but she has begun to be typecast which is unfortunate as she is a strong performer. The action is good, but without proper involvement in the story it seems hollow. Arnie fans should enjoy it, but it is over course vastly inferior to his later and prior classics. Still an average fantasy though.6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Reminds me of the good-old Drive-In movie days.","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie gets better with age.  If you've got a sense of humor and don't need Industrial Light and Magic special effects, the combination of actors (all playing off the winsome Brigette Nielson) makes this a fun movie to see again...or for the first time. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I rather enjoyed red sonja, Conans were better though...It always did bother that this was not officially a conan movie...Same actors! this should of been Conan 3...Just the lesser of the sequel. The film had adequate action, but for an adolescent! this was a very sexy movie, pretty actresses lots of mones and grunts, skimpy outfits, a queen that was attracted to all parties...well you get the picture. Just hate to see someone play a same roll in two seperate movies "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie came out when I was three, so of course I didn't see it then. I saw it on TV when I was about seven, up late and bored. Unfortunately I kept coming into the middle of it, every time it came on. Finally one day I saw the entire thing, and adored it. I was about thirteen. A few years ago I had the fortune of finding it on video for a cheap price, $6.95. I watched it a lot, and loved it every time. This was a very unique movie, to me. It was the first Swords and Scorcery flick I ever saw, and ever since I fell in love with the genre. Fans of medieval, fantasy, adventure movies will have to check this one out, if they haven't already.  "},{"Title":"Lots of problems but still fun...","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Firstly, it has to be said this film would be nothing were it not for Schwarzenegger and Ennio Morricone. The story makes as much sense as you would expect and there are a few good lines. All the actors are rather wooden which is not necessarily a bad thing as it makes Brigitte Nielsen's performance more bearable.The films' score is good, the only problem with it being the monotonous vocals; a bit more lyrical variety is would have been appreciated. The sound effects are pretty good too, despite the mono soundtrack.Red Sonja features some of the best swordplay of the Schwarzenegger Sword & Sorcery films. I did not spot one stunt double in the fight scenes. Schwarzenegger shows great confidence (as expected) in the action scenes.The cinematography is nice, as are some of the visual effects, with matte paintings courtesy of the master, Albert Whitlock. The look of the film is a little cheesy but nevertheless nicely designed.The little kid may be annoying to some but he actually gives an OK performance; when asking Sonja to teach him to fence more depth of character is revealed.I cannot help but enjoy the film as a guilty pleasure. It is certainly not perfect but it has a good score, fun action, Schwarzenegger and cheese galore. "},{"Title":"A great sword fighting classic!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time.This is such a great sword fighting moving that is really magical. Arnold is very good as always and Brigitte Nielsen is something else! She is perfect for the part and she is so neat. Pat Roach aslo has a good part and he does it well. Sandahl Bergman is beautiful! Wow is she pretty! Anyway all Conan, sword fighting,  and Arnold fans with love this for its nonstop action, its scenery, its terrific and magnificent score, and it great scenes with Arnold and Sonja herself! "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is another masterpiece from Richard Fleischer the camerawork is great, as is the editing, the music and the sets (just look at that wonderful interior of Geddren's throneroom! Or the outside of her castle with it's expressionistic wall-design full of mourning faces!)! Sandahl Bergman as Queen Geddren is so wonderful that you wish there would be more scenes with her in the movie. OK, the voice-acting abilities of Nielsen and Schwarzenegger are somehow limited, but the german-dubbed version extinguished this fault with great voices for Bergman, Nielsen and Schwarzenegger! Really, there is nothing dumb or clumsy in this movie, Fleischer again shows that he is one of the best directors! "},{"Title":"Good for laughs.","Date":"12 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Veteran director Richard Fleischer follows up his movie Conan the Destroyer with this fantasy-adventure also based on the writings of Robert E. Howard. Ultimately, this movie is a trifle compared to the original Conan the Barbarian, but if the viewer isn't too demanding, it may yield adequate entertainment.Like Conan the Destroyer, it's supposedly aimed at a younger demographic, but is actually a little strong for its PG-13 rating, with some gory bits, decapitations, implied rape, and the lesbian overtures made by the villainess towards the heroine.The movie is basically competently made, with good production design (by Danilo Donati) and stunts, reasonably diverting swordplay, and a decent pace (this only runs 89 minutes long). There's also a fairly effective score by the great Ennio Morricone. However, there's never much of a sense of danger; this story definitely lacks edge.Said story centres around the title character, played by Brigitte Nielsen in the role that introduced her. She's a warrior whose people were wiped out by an evil queen (Sandahl Bergman, who of course was Valeria in Conan the Barbarian) and she embarks on a quest to destroy a powerful talisman that's fallen into the queens' hands. Her fellow travellers include muscle bound Kalidor (Arnold Schwarzenegger, presumably doing a favour for Fleischer), an insufferable brat of a prince (Ernie Reyes Jr.) and the princes' put-upon, comedy relief guardian Falkon (Paul L. Smith).The acting ranges from acceptable (also appearing is Ronald Lacey of Raiders of the Lost Ark as the queens' creepy flunky) to just incredibly laughable. Nielsen and Bergman are so terrible that their performances are sure to generate some big guffaws from the viewer. Still, they both look great, and that has to count for something. Reyes Jr. certainly does succeed at making his character annoying.While it manages to remain watchable throughout, this is pretty forgettable once it's over. It's got some amusing moments, but none to give it any real spark.Five out of 10. "},{"Title":"I know you're a brave girl, but danger is my trade.","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I started watching this once before but opted out fairly quickly. Figuring to give it another shot, I pressed forward and managed to make it through Schwarzennegger's self-professed worst movie ever. At least he was honest about it, which is as much as you can ask. I guess if you were going to team up Mr. Olympia with a female counterpart, Brigitte Nielsen does seem a natural with her height and physique, providing some credibility as an Amazon-type queen.For a warrior genre film, this one had it's comical moments among all the fighting and swordplay. Arnold has a Johnny Weissmuller moment when he battles the mechanical mini-Kraken, the idea of which is fairly ludicrous considering the era when this would have taken place. Then there's that scene where Sonja, Kalidor and Prince Tarn (Ernie Reyes Jr.) hug the face of a rock wall attempting to traverse a narrow ledge, when all of a sudden, Falkon (Paul Smith) breezes by on foot just two feet below them on solid ground. What were they thinking with that one?As far as goofs go, keep an eye on Queen Gedren (Sandahl Bergman) right after she reveals the scar on her face in the latter part of the picture. She immediately begins her sword fight with Sonja, and repeated shots of her face show the scar no longer there, except one time when it reappeared.As for the junior Reyes, I kept thinking a diminutive Bolo Yeung, the resemblance was uncanny. I guess it's a credit to his ability to pull it off that most viewers find him just plain annoying. Come to think of it, I wouldn't have been too upset at the finale if Arnold might have dropped the beam. "}{"Title":"Enjoyably kitschy big budget fantasy nonsense","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Fierce'n'feisty redhead warrior woman Red Sonja (ineptly played with endearingly awkward woodenness by the gorgeous Brgitte Nielson) vows revenge on the evil Queen Gedren (ripely overplayed with deliciously campy'n'zampy panache by the stunning Sandahl Bergman, who looks absolutely smashing in a form-fitting black spandex outfit), who slaughtered Sonja's people and has stolen a powerful magical orb that could possibly destroy the world. Gallant master swordsman Kalidor (essayed with charming stiffness by Arnold Schwarzenegger) helps Sonja out. Director Richard Fleischer, working from a sublimely silly script by Clive Exton and George McDonald, treats the blithely inane story with gloriously ludicrous seriousness, thereby giving this jaw-dropping tosh a certain lovably asinine appeal that's impossible to either resist or dislike. Moreover, the plentiful sword fights are staged with rip-roaring skill and gusto, with the ferocious final confrontation between Sonja and Gedren rating as a definite exciting highlight. The cast has a field day with the cheerfully absurd material Ernie Reyes Jr. as bratty and arrogant little boy Prince Tarn, Paul Smith as Tarn's loyal bodyguard Falkon, Ronald Lacey as Gedren's slimy and sniveling henchman Ikol, and Pat Roach as disgusting fat pig Brytag. Familiar Italian exploitation cinema siren Janet Agren has a small part as Sonja's ill-fated sister Varna. The flashy special effects, lush scenery, Giuseppe Rotunno's sumptuous cinematography, the lavish sets and costumes, and especially Ennio Morricone's robust and majestic full-bore orchestral score give this endearing twaddle an impressive sense of scope. A total high camp howler. "},{"Title":"Here comes the cry from the game Barbarien","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  In this movie you can see two remarkable things. First Brigitte Nielsen without implants and the scene which inspired the programmers of the game Barbarien (C64 / Amiga).If you like fantasy movies it isn't that bad.  "},{"Title":"Arnie holds up a pillar using just his back - he's that strong","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A girl is raped and sees her family murdered by a cruel Queen. She survives, swearing revenge, and later seeks out the evil Queen who has possession of a special talisman which can bring an end to the world via storms and earthquakes. Teaming up with a mercenary and a boy King, the heroine travels to the Queen's palace to fulfil her destiny.A sword and sorcery epic which is let down by wooden acting and a lethargic, plodding storyline. Following Conan the Barbarian and Conan the Destroyer as a sort of semi-sequel, there is also a surprisingly lack of onscreen violence, with only one or two beheadings, no blood spraying anywhere, people just being run through with swords. Red Sonja may not be the worst of the worst but it is pretty uninspiring.Brigitte Nielsen (Terminal Force) stars in her first role. Surprisingly she turns out to be even more wooden than her co-star Arnold Schwarzenegger. Nielsen might look good in a tunic but she totally lacks any natural charisma which makes her character a difficult one to like. Sadly Schwarzenegger is relegated to a supporting role in this one and he is given little to do apart from hack up some bad guys and do some silly strongman acts. Sandahl Bergman makes a good, wicked villainess but she sprouts cliched dialogue which makes her look idiotic. Ronald Lacey (the Nazi in Raiders of the Lost Ark) also appears but is wasted in a supporting role. Look hard and you may spot Italian exploitation babe Janet Agren filling out a minor role.The film opens with some pillaging, burning, a massacre and a young survivor swearing vengeance. Strange, exactly the same of both The Beastmaster and Conan the Barbarian. To add insult to injury there is only ONE monster in the entire film, an underwater creature made of metal which Arnie gets to ride in the film's highlight. Negative points include an annoying kid who should have been wasted and some poor comic relief. At least the ending picks up and there's ample opportunity for shots of falling rubble and a hilarious moment where Arnie holds up a pillar using just his back - he's that strong. Sadly the rest of this is a cliched mess, to be viewed only by fans of the sword and sorcery flicks which were so popular back in the early 80's. "},{"Title":"Conditions","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was good... but only under conditions. Some of the worst acting I have ever seen, bad even for Arnie's early days. A plot so weak and simple it seemed to barely hold the rest of the movie together. Some of the worst looking swords I've ever seen (particularly Sonja's) and to go with it, some of the worst sword fighting I've ever seen. It's almost hard to believe that it was made after Conan, because Conan could actually use that sword of his. It was nice, however to see Nielson without implants and sorta decent hair. However, if you are... so to speak... under the influence, this movie can be exceptionally funny. The perfectly timed she's dead from Arnie (about Sonja's sister), straining against a huge door to to abruptly turn around with the door doesn't move, some of the worst screen panning I've ever seen, and an annoying young kid pulling of way more impressive moves than the so called professionals. All in all though, this movie is only worth watching if you're an Arnie fan, because he does have action, he does have his accent, but most importantly, he does have his dreadful one liners. "},{"Title":"Distant cousin of Conan","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Since first seeing this on TV back in the 80s, my feelings about this have gone up and down like the proverbial roller-coaster. Initially high on the film's mix of swordfighting, skin, and magic, I eventually became a fan of Robert Howard's fantasy writing and the film seemed to suffer greatly by comparison. Of course such overly literal comparisons are un-necessary. Red Sonja is only marginally even a Robert Howard character, and more a creation of Marvel Comics' Roy Thomas and others. But she does walk the same dusty streets as Conan and Kull, and her Conan-esquire prince in this one is supposed to be a Hyrkanian Lord named Kalidor (Arnold Schwartzenneger). What should be said is that the character is not identical to Conan, but Arnold's performance as Kalidor is exactly the same as his interpretation of Conan.He seems only too happy to sink into the background as much as possible on this one; his original Conan co-star Sandahl Bergman is comparatively ambitious and scenery-chewing as a witch queen who seizes a glowing orb that controls the weather. As for the star of the show, Brigitte Nielsen, the less said of her acting by far the better. Seeing as most Italian movies are fixed in post-production, I'm astounded that even dubbing could not have solved some of the most woeful problems with her lack of inflection. There's literally no emotion in her voice at any time really. On the positive side, that does make her an equal match for Schwartzenneger. Ernie Reyes Jr., who made his film debut in Berry Gordy's The Last Dragon the previous year, is fun comic diversion as an undisciplined prince, and he shows off his martial arts skills to good effect.The best thing about the film is the great score supplied by Ennio Morricone which lifts everything up a notch. The matte work is also quite well done, and despite what perhaps others have said about the film its production values are generally high just as usual for a DeLaurentis production. The photography is quite beautiful in some places, thanks to Giuseppe Rotunno (who also shot Gilliam's lovely Baron Munchausen), but Richard Fleischer's monotonous direction drags the film down at every opportunity when it could have soared. The script is very hollow too -- basically the plot consists of leaving one member or other of the group behind so that he can suddenly appear in time to *surprise* save the rest from whatever monster they've encountered.Basically what we have here is something that you can enjoy if you have a few drinks in you, the music and the photography will carry you if you're in the mood for a fantasy vibe, but the acting in general and the story are very dull. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, may contain SPOILERS!!","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" All in all this isn't that bad a movie if watched in the right frame of mind. Some movies are supposed to be a thought-provoking experience while other are just there to pass the time. This is a film thats purpose is the later.Arnold play a role very similar to his Conan character but takes a back seat to Brigitte who plays the fiery red head Sonja. The plot is quite simple and does not require a lot of brain power to keep up with Young woman's family get slaughtered and she is left for dead by the evil Queen Gedren, Sonja then heads off to get revenge. Arnold's character is then brought into the plot to add a little muscle.Overall this is a film for a lazy Sunday afternoon where you can switch off and enjoy the rather drawn out but easy ride.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"not bad..","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It could be better if the movie had more fighting scenes but its still pretty nice specially the backgrounds , they are excellent.The movies running time is short it should be longer and they could have done a better sound track for it..anyway its still nice and deserves some stars. i give it 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Fabulously bad!","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie when I was very, very young, and I thought it was mind-bogglingly cheesy back then. It's been over twenty years, and I still think it's cheesier than a garish purple Mack truck hung with bling-bling and stuffed to the gills with Velveeta.Not only is the acting bad, but the casting is even worse, and the dialogue just rounds it off into the depths of the infinitely awful. Red Sonja is... well... bad. Just... bad. I remember one fabulously dramatic shot wherein our brave female hero is dashing down the hall of the Wicked Queen Gedren's castle she pauses right in front of the camera after running about fifteen paces; there's a super-tense closeup as her eyes dart around the empty corridor, looking for... well, I'm not really sure, since there's nothing but camera and blank walls around her. But the eyes darting? Oh yeah. Real tension there. And just when you think you can't take it any more, she yells in this grating, echoic voice, Gedren!! Where are you!?? And as she says the word you, her lips purse up into this awful horse-mouth, and you're looking at four stories of gums there. I laughed at that even as a six-year old. And where IS Gedren? Well, gee, I dunno, try the THRONE ROOM. Even the stupid kid managed to figure THAT one out, honey. Why are you the hero, again? Prince Tarn has got to be one of the most annoying children on the face of the earth, although his fighting scenes are admittedly cool, and I'll admit that by the end of the film, I was hoping he'd get killed off. Oh yeah, and his big, fat, clumsy bodyguard is the typical big, fat, clumsy stereotype, right down to his weapon, which happens to be a club made out of some sort of LEG BONE. Hands up if you immediately thought he'd eaten the meat off that bone, decided it was the best doggone meal he'd ever had, and decided to dry the bone out and keep it as a memento. C'mon, you so did.And while we're talking stereotypes here - Gedren. Good God, the woman is a walking billboard for anti-lesbian/feminist sentiment. Let's see, she slaughters an entire colony of people for the illegitimate offspring of a Jell-O Jiggler and a Lite-Brite - which only women can touch, of course - and proceeds to hit on poor scantily-clad Sonja with as much finesse and grace as a drunken panda driving a four-wheeler through a nitroglycerin plant. When Sonja refuses the Queen's oh-so-winsome advances, the latter has the former gang-raped by a bunch of big nasty guards. Of COURSE she does. And just in case Sonja missed the whole rape-and-pillage thing, not to worry, the villain fires up the Ford Exposition and EXPLAINS it to her.Enter Kalidor, stage right, looking exactly like Conan, sounding exactly like Conan, and acting like he's got a bad head cold and is doped out on NyQuil. Get used to it, he doesn't get any better. Except for maybe that part where he grabs that annoying kid and lifts him up in the air with one hand and gives him this look that says, If you don't shut the #$%^ up, I'm going to beat the crap out of you with this block of Velveeta. Yeah, I kinda liked that bit.The ending fight sequences are really and truly awful, right from the moment Sonja walks in and starts trying to sound tough. Sonja You slaughtered my parents! Like CATTLE! My brother, MY SISTER!! Gedren Vermin! What were their lives compared to THIS!? (rips off her sequined Mardi Gras mask to reveal horribly fake scars, from a wound inflicted by Sonja) Sonja You're a MAN! The Talisman will destroy you!Apparently Gedren can't come up with a witty retort for this, or even a basic denial, so she just gapes like a goldfish. Wretched.Then, of course, comes the big battle scene in the room stocked with a squillion candles, the big iron gate comes down, the swordfight begins, and the rest of our heroes come rushing over to watch and eat popcorn. Kalidor, in a burst of incredible stupidity, shouts, Sonja! Over here! What the ^&*@ does he expect her to do? Stop fighting and go, Oh, hey guys? Maybe he's just trying to make her turn and look at him, in which case Gedren could get in a cheap decapitation and mercifully end the film. Unfortunately, this isn't what happens.Of course the Evil Lesbian Queen gets her dues, the good guys get out, and for no particular reason at all... the castle blows up. Repeatedly. Seriously - the parapet blows up, cut to the good guys running. The upper level blows up, cut to the good guys running. The main bulk of the castle blows up, cut to the good guys diving behind a rock for cover. Aaaaand the parapet blows up again. Cut to the good guys cowering. Aaaaaand the parapet blows up AGAIN. I am not making this up. After they've blown up the castle three or four times, a huge unexplained pillar of flame rises from the ashes, and thank GOD for that, because if the parapet had blown up one more time, I would've begun thinking they were changing something in the Matrix, and I would've had to check and make sure my windows hadn't become brick walls.All in all, yes, it's a terrible movie, but you'll laugh yourself sick, and that's what makes it fabulous. "},{"Title":"Underrated Movie.","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Red Sonja might not be the greatest movie of all time and the effects be a little bit crap but for a first time chance the movie is definitely a hit in my eyes at least. Brigitte Nielsen as Sonja is not exactly the perfect casting but she was good although the movie doesn't feel that she is the leading star since she is overshadowed by Arnold Schwarzenegger's Kalidor who by the way was going to be Conan at first but they changed the name. The critics described the movie as the 3rd film in the Conan Franchise but Red Sonja has nothing to do with Conan here maybe in the comics but in the movie there's no Conan the Barbarian. If you don't take the movie way too seriously and just sit back for a one liner sword fights and explosions then maybe just maybe you will enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Red Sonja","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The third film in the Conan trilogy...well it pretty much was wasn't it. This film is directed by Richard Fleischer who also directed 'Conan the Destroyer', the same studio, Dino De Laurentiis Company, made all three films, Sandahl Bergman was in this film and 'Conan the Barbarian' and of course Arnie starred in all three.I mean lets be honest here, Arnie plays Lord Kalidor, the character is virtually a Conan clone, I dunno why they didn't just make him Conan and be done with it. I believe Sonja comes from the Conan universe originally (I may be wrong) so why not? I'm guessing there may have been copyright issues somewhere.So its the same story again for this fantasy adventure, need I describe the plot? A small band of goodies up against an evil baddie leader and all her baddie warriors who are all holed up in an intimidating fortress. Arnie rides around in his rather unattractive red sparkly jumpsuit (changes to a black number out of the blue half way through) whilst Nielsen sports a long red mullet cut, but she's still cute.This is suppose to be the weakest of the Arnie broadsword adventures but personally I don't see it. Its no worse than the other two and gives you just as much visual sorcery. In fact there's more fantasy stuff going on here than 'CtB', giant pet spiders, giant skeleton bridges, a metallic sea monster thingy and a silly Flash Gordon style baddie wizard. This film boarders more on other films such as 'Krull' and a bit of 'Willow' in my opinion.Reasonable amounts of blood and limb chopping but not overkill. Everything looks a bit tacky later on in the film but again no worse than the other two films. Unfortunately there is an annoying kid in this film, kinda like Data from 'The Goonies' or Short Round from 'Temple of Doom' (same kid actor there), tends to give the film a more slapstick approach at times, 'Conan the Barbarian' was always the most grown up of the three.At this point I reckon Arnie was possibly getting worried he may end up typecast as a barbarian meathead in fantasy films. I can see why this was his last as all three of these films are very similar and not overly wonderful frankly. Still the musical score was always in good hands with Morricone at the helm, how did they manage that? As a kid I loved these films, nowadays the rose tinted shades can't quite save them, amusing and naff, oh and the baddie Queen is a lesbian. Oh yeah, the whole story is down to Sonja simply rejecting her advances at the start, fancy that.5/10 "}{"Title":"Not good, but entertaining in some ways","Date":"16 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Red Sonja (1985) is essentially Conan 3, after Conan the Barbarian (1982) and Conan the Destroyer (1984). Schwarzenegger plays the barbarian 'Kalidor' here because the filmmakers didn't have the rights to the 'Conan' name since 'Red Sonja' was owned by a company separate from the REH people, yet -- strangely -- they could use REH's Hyborian setting (albeit in a half-axxed way).Red Sonja is the least of the three films. In other words, if you couldn't stomach parts of Conan the Destroyer you'll loathe Red Sonja. It starts out pretty good but by the 25-minute mark the cartooney goofiness kicks in with the introduction of Prince Tarn (the spoiled child who deems himself a king) and his loyal assistant Falkon. The sword & sorcery silliness turns full throttle by the final act. Needless to say, Robert E. Howard was rolling over in the grave at such roll-your-eyes treatment of his S&S fantasy world.It's strange because, for the most part, the film gets the LOOK of the Hyborian Age down pretty good, although there are some really fake-looking props/costumes/effects here and there. But, generally speaking, they did a decent job with the locations, costumes, cast and props. The problem is the overall cartooney vibe. It's like Conan for kids or something and it's almost saddening to observe all this expense & effort wasted by the inexplicable decision to go the camp route. It ruins what could have been a quality REH-influenced picture. John Milius' Conan the Barbarian may have deviated from REH but it made up for it by taking Conan and the Hyborian Age seriously, not that it was totally humorless. Laughter and lightness are an intrinsic part of life but they don't need to devolve into campy silliness. Red Sonja,, by contrast, is so silly at points that it's impossible to take seriously.Which isn't to say it's all bad. If you're in the right mode Red Sonja can fill the bill. It's not good, and you can't take it too seriously, but it's somewhat entertaining. What works? For one, as already noted, the film scores decently as far as visuals go. For instance, the Italian locations are gorgeous and, although Brigitte Nielsen in all her 6-foot glory doesn't match the comic's depiction of Red Sonja, I have to admit that she's pleasant to look at, and her swordplay is pretty impressive. Also, the score by Ennio Morricone (famous for scoring all those spaghetti-Westerns back in the day, like The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly) is pretty good too, although no where near the exceptionality of Basil Poledouris' compositions for the first two Conan flick; those are in a league of their own.Also, although Prince Tarn & Falkon are roll-your-eyes characters, you can't help but start to like them as the story progresses. As a matter of fact, the story in general pretty much maintains your attention, despite the silly antics.Another plus is Sandahl Bergman as the villain queen, but the filmmakers dropped the ball here because she appears fully clothed from head to toe throughout. The thing is, although Sandahl's face isn't ultra-cute like Brigitte's, Sandahl has a killer body that far exceeds Brigitte's. But you won't see it here; you'll have to re-watch Conan the Barbarian for that. Not that I'm suggesting a need for nudity or sex; it's just that Sandahl's a gorgeous woman and they should have taken advantage of that with some more form-fitting attire to show-off her beauty. But she still looks great here, particularly in black hair and a cool mask.BOTTOM LINE Red Sonja is a real mixed bag. It fails as a cinematic interpretation of REH's Hyborian world, but only because the filmmakers opted for kid-friendly goofiness at the expense of brutal S&S pseudo-reality. However, the film looks and sounds good, for the most part. Bergman and Nielsen are quality eye-candy and it is somewhat charming if you're in the right frame of mind.GRADE C- (but sometimes amuses to the level of C+ or B-) "},{"Title":"Not as good as the Conan movies","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Red Sonja definitely felt as a step backwards from the Conan movies. Being this is a story set in the same universe, I really expected it to be as good as the earlier movies.Sadly, this is not the case. Red Sonja feels a bit too civilized for a world as brutal as Hyboria. She speaks as if she's a lawyer in the courtroom instead of fighting with big swords. Arnie does quite a good job playing Kalidor. His only really let down was a scene where he put on an overacted cheeky grin towards Sonja which really made me chuckle. But these things are small compared to the movie's major flaw The child.About 1/3 into the movie, this child gets introduced but I wish the scriptwriters had never included him. He is so irritating and constantly shouts Ya ya ya which will make your ears bleed. Its so annoying and he has a role till the very end of the movie. Now I don't know if Sonja shares the same idea, but she actually comments that the boy shouldn't be so annoying and be thought a lesson. I really think she has the right idea! If you didn't know of a movie that was ruined by a child, now you do know.In you are a fantasy fan, I would recommend picking this up but don't expect it to be as good as Conan the Destroyer (which was an alright film, but not great) and not nearly as good as Conan the Barbarian. "},{"Title":"Thanks dear","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Watching the lottery show on Saturday, there was a question on Arnie Films...Could the people name 15, me and my better half tried and when this got mentioned she told me how bad it was, she'd seen it several times and laughed a lot every time. Mental note made by me to pick it up if we saw it cheap.Cut to Today (Monday) we go to a Car boot sale and there it is for 1, 'Fate' i thought and we got it...The Acting is bad even Ronald Lacey can't save it.Ms. Neilson looks damn good in shammy leather (What the bleep happened there!) but the film lacks plot, drama, convincing effects (Especiallly the Water machine...Oh dear) Somehow though I rather enjoyed it though...Which says more about me i think Go with it as a guilty no brain pleasure... "},{"Title":"All style and no substance","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"22 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I am quite fond of this movie, because, like Conan The Barbarian and Conan The Destroyer, it was one of a handfull of Schwarzenegger movies i used to watch when i was was growing up. Like both the Conan Movies, and later films like Masters of the Universe 1987, it has just about the right blend of adventure and fantasy, not to mention the odd racy sword play action, but iam afraid that Red Sonja is a classic example of all style and no substance, and unfortunately, as i watch it now as an adult, iam forced to admit that it doesn't bear to well with repeated viewings, let alone close scruitiny. The main problem is the direction. Richard Fliescher's direction is usually reasonable, and at the very least watchable, but as the director of Red Sonja, he has on his hands one of the worst and most embarrising leading ladies ever in Brigitte Nielsen, who cant have been the easiest person to work with. You would think that with Fleischer's experience he would have at least have been able to get something good from Nielsen onto the screen, he fails. Wich raises the question, why was Nielsen chosen in the first place. Maybe Sylvester Stallone's star power led her to it, maybe she managed to get round the producers herself. Either way she is the major flaw, and the final nail in the coffin of a little, but well meaning Adventure fantasy movie. Richard Fleisher, who streched things a little in Conan The Destroyer, comes up with even worse scenarios here, such as Sonja's Sister dying, cue She's dead from Kalidor Ah-Nold. Some action set pieces, such as the young prince being roasted by thugs, or Sonja's and Kalidor's exhaustion after a fake duel, are plain embara ssing. Equally baffling is the casting choice of Sandhal Bergman, Conan's dommed lover in Conan The Barbarian, to play the villainess here. Bergman is a strong actor, and a beautiful prescence but can't come to grips with the demands of a screen heavy. Maybe it is that i cant see her as anything other than a hero, Bergman, though would have made a far stronger Red Sonja than Brigitte Nielsen did. You would be forgiven for expecting too much from the screenplay by future Poirot writer Clive Exton and Octopussy 1983 scribe George MacDonald Fraser. The sad thing about the script is that ther is actually a good story hidden away beneath the tragedy of Red Sonja, and you get the impression that it was written in either a rush or chopped and changed in pre-production. On a better note the costumes and sets by Donello Doneti, a Dino De Laurentiis regular, are beautiful, with the most impressive being the red gartments worn by Kalidor, Sonja's armour well filled by Nielsen it has to be said The Swords and Weapons, and on the set stakes the impressive torch lit palaces and watery grave of sankes at the movies climax. Ennio Morricone's score is quite impressive too. Perhaps not in the league of the mighty and thunderous Basil Poledouris Conan scores wich would have enhanced Red Sonja immensly, but quite good in their own right. In the end though, there is only one thing that makes Red Sonja work and his name is Arnold Schwarzenegger. Arnold manages to bring a light of touch and humour to the role of Kalidor,in what little material he is given, an obvious Conan clone, and is once again impressive in the action scenes and sword play, and does well to carry Nielsen through the movie. It is a pitty that De Laurentiis didn't just comision another Conan movie instead, the legacy of wich is that John Milius is returning to direct King Conan  Crown of Iron, with Scwarzenegger and The Matrix Maestro's Andy and Larry Wachowski. Red Sonja though is in another world and rating that both old and new Conan movies and can only be seen as a fairly enjoyable and at times exciting waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Will have you seeing red","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Richard Fleischer was not the right man to direct this movie, not only being long past his prime, but that fantasy was not his forte. Some scenes go on forever, while other scenes are cut short or seem missing. (There are indications that they tried to save this in the editing room.) In fairness to Fleischer, he was working with a tight budget that made everything (even the wilderness scenes) look cheap and cheesy. Also, the screenplay is hard to take seriously, with its unfunny comic relief and goofy touches. Some of the swordplay isn't bad, but a little of that goes a long way. An embarrassment to everyone involved; even the Morricone score manages to be lackluster.  "},{"Title":"Not much of anything.","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Sometimes intentionally campy, at other times unintentionally silly (like in the opening scene, where a woman is informed that she has been raped and that her family has been slaughtered, just for the sake of exposition), this film is ultimately neither funny enough nor competent enough (as a straightforward adventure story) to be really enjoyable. I'll leave you to decide which may be the highlight, but the low point is probably the fight with a silly metallic dragon. Brigitte Nielsen was a good choice for Sonja, with her fresh face and her firm, slightly muscular body (and I think that her dark-red hair suits her perfectly), but Schwarzenegger gives one of his few colorless performances as Calidor.   (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Excellent visuals but poor direction","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This one could have been a lot better, but was ruined by some silly mistakes.The movie begins as if it was intended to be a serious movie for mature audiences, for example Sonja being gang-raped and the slaughter of the priestesses. But when the child and his servant appear it seems as if it was being marketed for small children. Adding those characters just ruined the movie - the kid was a poor actor and very annoying. And although Paul L. Smith was perfect for his role in Midnight Express, he was awful in this one. But the cinematography and costumes were very good. I thought the acting by the beautiful Brigitte Nielsen was adequate, and she was physically the perfect actress for the role. The natural good- natured personality of Sandahl Bergman made her an unwise choice for the role of an evil queen, but being an intelligent actress, she did a credible job.The scene where they fought the machine in the water was rather silly and dragged on too long. What was the director thinking? The latter part of the movie (when Sonja was fighting Gedren and when the castle was gradually breaking down and exploding) was likewise childishly predictable and silly in parts. So the movie could have been a lot better with its big budget and the talented people working on it, but failed because of some poor decisions and bad direction. "},{"Title":"Red Mullet.","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Arnold the Barbarian meets his match in the shapely form of statuesque Brigitte Nielsen as Red Mullet, who rivals The Austrian Oak's ability with a blade while proving herself equally as inept as the musclebound star at delivering her lines. With these woefully wooden performers sharing much of the screen-time, working from a pitiful script that is heavy on the cheeze, Red Sonja is unintentionally camp, mid-80s sword and sorcery adventure that proves far more amusing than thrilling.In the film's horribly trite opening scene, young Sonja rejects the sexual advances of evil Queen Gedren (Sandahl Bergman), slashing the wicked ruler's face as she struggles to escape; as a result, the queen orders her guards to kill Sonja's family and gang rape the insolent young woman. Years later, having learnt fighting skills from an old master, Sonja is given the opportunity to settle the score when she embarks on a quest to recover a powerful talisman that has been stolen by the despotic Queen Gedren. Together with man mountain Kalidor (Arnie), irritating Prince Tarn (Ernie Reyes Jr.) and his willing slave Falkon (Paul L. Smith), Sonja travels to the queen's fortress to destroy the talisman and put an end to Gedren's tyranny.Despite fairly decent production values&#x97;the film boasts impressive sets and costumery, reasonable effects (including some lovely matte paintings), spectacular cinematography, a rousing score from Ennio Morricone, and some well choreographed swordplay&#x97;Red Sonja is a rather embarrassing addition to the barbarian genre as a whole. The flat direction from Richard Fleischer renders the action scenes ineffective, the acting is diabolical, the storyline and dialogue utterly asinine, and the film's uneven tone makes it hard to figure out who the intended audience was much of the movie seems light-hearted and rather juvenile at times, but the severed limbs and gouts of blood make it unsuitable viewing for children.Of course, quite a few giggles can be had from the film's shoddier elements, which include a glowing wood spirit that inexplicably bestows special powers on Sonja (although just what these powers are is never really clear), Arnie riding a mechanical water dragon, Queen Gedren's giant vibrating pet spider, and a shonky steam-driven video screen that wouldn't have looked out of place in a Buster Crabbe Flash Gordon serial from the 30s. "},{"Title":"What Matters  Coolness Factor","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I was truly expecting an abysmal experience when I finally sat down to watch Red Sonja. After reading many reviews, it seems to be the consensus that the plot was simple and boring, the acting sub-par, and the special effects hideous. When the movie was over, and the credits rolled, I sat up and put out my joint and really had to stop and ask myself... was it really worse than Conan the Destroyer? The plot was definitely timid, and the runtime short... but Destroyer was equally painful. The acting? Let's just say I think both films had lame character development, acting and direction. The special effects were pretty bad in Destroyer, and this movie follows suit. I had heard in advance about a particular fight scene with a metallic creature that was the low point of the film. This shocked me, because for me it was the high point! I suppose I should also mention that the music is pretty good, if only in contrast to how horrible everything else in the film is.At any rate, it's hardly worth going over the cinematic aspects of a film like this. I think ultimately it is the coolness factor that is of the utmost importance. Red Sonja has a very low coolness factor. And why? Why is it rated less than Destroyer?2 very important reasons- No Conan. Seriously, no one cares about Red Sonja or Kalidor. - Little screen time and dialogue for Schwarzenegger. Note T&A factor for this movie is also depressingly low, though I could have sworn I saw Brigitte Nielsen's nipple. "},{"Title":"Arnold is Arnold, as always, but the rest? <sigh>","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger is here, in all his buff, bulked up prime CONAN-era warrior greatness. When you see Arnold movies of those days, you didn't expect him to be a good actor also. That's why he needs a good supporting cast.Sadly, he does not get one in this movie. Brigitte Nielsen walks so woodenly though her role that you would swear the surprise ending would be that she was in fact a poorly-programmed robot. She seems to read her lines off of cue cards, without the slightest conception of what emotion to add to the words. Sandahl Bergman? Terrible. And this is from a man who has a secret soft spot for her, after her kick-butt role in CONAN THE BARBARIAN. Even I have to admit, though, she never was a good actress.Special effects? Cheesy is being kind. 10th grade school play level at some points.Watch it anyway, just to say you did. But don't buy it, unless it's in a clearance rack. "}{"Title":"In life, all is not swordplay.  Hatred of men in a lovely young woman...it could be your downfall.","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" One of the great '80s cheeseball classics. A young red-haired woman named Sonja (Brigitte Nielsen) is the only survivor of a raid on her village by the evil Queen Gedren (Sandahl Bergman). She becomes a swordfighter and sets out to get revenge on Gedren. Oh and she swears she will not make love to any man unless he can best her in combat. Enter Arnold Schwarzenegger. Literally.Amazonian Brigitte Nielsen's performance is laughably wooden. She is attractive, though, and does well in the fight scenes. Arnold is top-billed due to his being a bigger star than Nielsen but he also does a better job acting. Not saying he would win any awards for this role but he at least gives the part some humor. Brigitte barely manages to speak her lines properly half the time. In keeping with the Conan movies, Red Sonja has comic relief sidekicks and a villain dressed all in black. Ernie Reyes and Paul Smith are the sidekicks and they're both funny. They steal the movie, really. Sandhal Bergman is the villain and she does fine considering. She was much better in Conan. The sets and props are nice. Probably were considered cheap for their time but in today's age of CGI it's nice to see people interacting with real things.It's not a bad movie of its type. You just can't take it seriously. If you enjoy cheesy sword & sorcery movies, you'll find something to like here. But if you're expecting a female equivalent of Conan the Barbarian, forget about it. It's a fun time-passer but nothing more. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Red SonjaContrary to popular belief, women do utilize sharp blades for more things than just slicing off penises and stabbing their besties in the back.For example, the buxom broadsword-wielding babe in this fantasy film.When a malevolent queen (Sandahl Bergman) murders her family, young Sonja (Brigitte Nielsen) vows revenge.After years of training with cold-hard steel, she finally gets her chance at retribution when she learns of how the queen who killed her clan has just purloined a powerful orb.Unfortunately, in order to defeat the queen's forces, she must put aside her hatred towards men, and enlist one (Arnold Schwarzenegger). Based on the red-haired warrior woman conceived by Robert E. Howard, Red Sonja is a silly sword and sorcery script with over-the-top performances from both muscle-bound leads.As for her best battle manoeuvre when it's Sonja's time of the month, she tricks her enemies into thinking she's injured. (Yellow Light) "},{"Title":"one redeeming feature","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Apart from the annoying young kid, who really makes this movie totally unwatchable, I did manage to stay with it till the bitter end. But one thing that this movie didn't really deserve was the excellent music.3/10. All for the music. "},{"Title":"RED IS DEADLY!","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie could mean the next chapter of the Conan series. Even though this movie is about Red Sonja, it seems that Arnold should be the second main character of the movie. I've read the comics a little bit, but watching the movie made more interesting. Bridgitte Nielsen did a spectacular performance of the fiery redheaded heroine. I felt sorry for her when her parents and sibs got attacked and killed. And Sonja herself got violated herself. That's why she shunned the men. After she disfigured the nasty queen, she (the queen) seemed to gone over the edge. This movie has got a lot of good stars and characters. Ernie Reyes, Jr. maintained his fighting prowness, Paul L. Smith finally play a hero! I remembered him from The In-Laws(1979) and Popeye(1980) playing the burly Bluto.I liked the part when Sonja beheaded the wizard who kept teleporting the queen, and scarring Sonja. He had it coming. This moving was action-packed, very thrilling, and was very surprising all the through. Just don't let your guard down when you're fighting Sonja!2.5 out of 5 stars 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"RED SONJA (Richard Fleischer, 1985) **","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is another childhood 'guilty pleasure' Arnold Schwarzenegger's third medieval fantasy-adventure romp following two Conan pictures was similarly inspired by a Robert E. Howard comic-strip and directed by the man behind CONAN THE DESTROYER (1984) itself. I wonder whether this was supposed to be longer and suffered severe cuts in the cutting room because, not only is extra footage included in the theatrical trailer, but it feels distinctly undernourished at a mere 89 minutes (note the utter pointlessness of the villainess's giant pet spider) &#150; with the muscular action star virtually turning up only during action highlights! In fact, the nominal lead is newcomer Brigitte Nielsen (who does surprisingly well by her one-dimensional role) playing the titular character, a warrior with a mission to retrieve a talisman and save the world from an evil sorceress (Sandahl Bergman) &#150; the latter having been left facially disfigured when Red Sonja rejected her amorous advances! Flanking Nielsen are an initially arrogant Chinese child prince and his long-suffering, burly servant (Paul Smith, a Bud Spencer wannabe and perhaps best-known for playing Bluto in Robert Altman's POPEYE 1980 misfire) &#150; while Bergman's campy lieutenant is played by Ronald Lacey (whom I've just watched in the contemporaneous medieval epic FLESH + BLOOD 1985).The film's raison d'etre, ultimately, are its plentiful action sequences &#150; which are vigorously enough handled by Hollywood veteran Fleischer. Incidentally, while the overall look isn't particularly memorable, the production values here involve many a renowned Italian artisan &#150; from producer Dino de Laurentiis to cinematographer Giuseppe Rotunno, composer Ennio Morricone (providing a typically rousing score), and production/costume designer Danilo Donati. Striving to inject a modicum of literariness into the heady brew, then, the script has been assigned to a couple of Brits &#150; namely, Clive Exton and George MacDonald Fraser but it still emerges as a surprisingly witless affair! Apparently, the film-makers of RED SONJA &#150; which, incidentally, is about to be remade as a Hollywood blockbuster &#150; were inspired by the Luigi Cozzi/Lou Ferrigno HERCULES (1983) &#150; with which I've also reacquainted myself recently &#150; for the sequence in which our heroes get to grips with a giant mechanical fish! "},{"Title":"Made for the fans, I think.","Date":"20 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A 'must watch' if you're a fan of the De Laurentis Conan films, or perhaps a fan of Sandahl Bergman, Brigitte Nielsen or Arnie.Otherwise, you may find this film sadly lacking.Casting Sandahl Bergman in another 'Conan' film was perhaps a mistake, although her performance in this is enjoyable enough. Given the atrociously awkward script and low-budget feel of the production, I thought she did no wrong. She looks different enough (the mask helped) that you can allow yourself to be fooled. She was originally wanted to play Sonja herself, but wisely chose to play the villain instead. She does the best she can with what little they gave her and is worth watching.Brigitte Nielsen... OK, she is pretty and had the right look at the time, but it's clear she'll not be winning any Oscars for this performance. The voice dubbing made it worse and she sounds like Deanna Troi. Fresh off the boat from Denmark, she was hired on the basis of a modelling shoot... and it shows.Supposedly there were some issues with the rights to the planned third Conan film, or some-such, so this was a way to have Arnie playing Conan again in everything but name. Kalidor, Lord of the Land is a nice hint at a mid-career Conan. I heard that Kalidor is one of Conan's travelling aliases, or a title he took as a lord. Regardless, he's still Conan.The story reads well enough (and possibly even better on paper), but the execution is woefully half-hearted and fails from the start. Characters who add nothing, dialogue that isn't remotely believable, choreography that is unrehearsed and telegraphed well in advance - The whole thing seems like the vast majority was cobbled together one afternoon when the crew woke up late and remembered they had a film to make.Nevertheless, fans of the genre will likely enjoy it. It belongs to a certain crowd (I'd like to say those who couldn't even afford the Dungeons & Dragons rulebook) and the fact that people are still talking about it so many years later at least shows it has a nostalgic charm that has provided such longevity.I happen to like it at least enough to review it here. "},{"Title":"There might be something else than a sword in a man","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" A small film in many ways with little to say about it and to bring up and to tell and to speak for it. A mysterious talisman, green in light, is the creating stone of this world but is getting out of hand and has to be destroyed. Only women can touch it without running any risk but there are plenty of people who want to have that stone of power.Another evil ambitious woman gets into the picture and tries to get the stone from the priestesses that keep it, at the very moment it was going to be destroyed. Many men and women die, all the priestesses and attendants except one that runs away through a back door.There comes our man, the only positive man or nearly the only one in the story, since the other one is a child, comes into the picture, saves the messenger and let Red Sonja know about her mission recapture and destroy that green talisman of bad omen. Don't worry, they will succeed.What's maybe original, if not entirely new in this fable the government of women is in no way better than that of men. Women are just as bad as men when jealousy and ambition seize them by the hair. And men are as bad as women with their drives and other impulses.So what's left after all that. Not much, except a man and a woman who of course fall for one another and each other. Hollywood cannot avoid such simple endings, though they forget to marry them and make them have twenty-five children after that.Enjoy the suspense of that suspense-less film and the thrills of this thrill-less story. They even invented a mechanical metal underwater monster that has to be blinded to be defeated. You can hear the popping noise of each eye falling out of their orbits under the sharp point of some nice and useful knife. Better than picking your teeth with that dagger.Apart from that the music or Sergio Morricone is not bad at all. We are close to some macaroni barbaric age films, but we can survive that experience, with spicy olive oil and Mozzarella and Murazzano.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"End of the Hyborian Age","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Conan the Barbarian essentially started the sword-and-sorcery genre of film while Red Sonja basically killed it. Sure there were more afterwards but never to the same high profile as before Sonja.The movie is the third film from the Conan series by Robert E. Howard started with Conan the Barbarian and Conan the Destroyer. Red Sonja is a character from Marvel Comics' adaptation loosely adapted from a Howard character. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who played Conan in the last two, plays Lord Kalidor. Why they didn't name him Conan is anyone's guess since he is basically the same exact character and would have created some interesting continuity between them.First, what I liked about it. The technical aspects of Red Sonja is as good as Conan the Barbarian and Destroyer. The sets and creatures look as good as the others. Sonja may not make any big technical leaps forward but nothing looks worse. And visually, the style looks the same helping with some continuity. It seems like the producers were able to do the most they could with their lower budget.The acting is also about the same. I never thought much of the series' acting before and there are no improvements but overall it stays the same. At least it's consistent. However, this was Brigitte Nielsen's first role and shows she wasn't ready to headline a movie yet, or at all. This is another reason why it should have been Schwarzenegger as Conan, with Nielsen in a secondary role like she was in Rocky IV.Some characters seem to acknowledge the silliness of it all, while others take things seriously. It's not as overly silly as Destroyer, though could have been more serious like Barbarian. The tone was certainly handled better than Destroyer.The music is also quite entertaining. May not be catchy but it is effective and sounds good.Now for the bad, which is to say everything else. Schwarzenegger has all the charm in the movie, and whenever he's not on the movie drags. It's hard to get into a movie when the title character is played so blandly. Most of the characters are pretty one-dimensional and bland without much to do. The story is predictable, but at other times the story is muddled and you don't know why characters act the way they do.Overall, the movie failed to justify itself. There didn't seem to be much reason beyond cashing in on Schwarzenegger's two Conan movies' fame. Sonja fails to prove that she is anything but a Conan clone. I've never read the comics, or the Howard books, but I'm sure that the worst of Sonja's stories never felt as tedious as this film.Schwarzenegger said he uses this film to punish his children. I wouldn't exactly call that fair. You can either view this as a so-bad-it's-good or not-quite-as-bad-as-people-say kind of movie. And certainly Junior or End of Days is more punishing to sit through.The whole sword-and-sorcery genre and Hyborian Age was fun while it lasted and there certainly were some interesting ideas thrown around. Much like how superheroes movies rose, fell, and was resurrected, I hope SAS films get their own revitalization. I write this the same weekend as the Conan the Barbarian reboot/remake was released, but given the poor reviews there's not much hope on seeing more Hyborians in film. "},{"Title":"O Sonja! Terrible is thy name!","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Right after Conan the Destroyer, Arnold badmouthed producer Dino de Laurentis all over the show business press. Lousy mogul who made lousy movies, Arnold said. Then he made this piece of crap for de Laurentis, who must have had him under contract. Heel, Arnold. Roll over, boy.You'd expect the big guy to sleepwalk through his role, but he actually turns in a credible performance. He's not exactly a high-watt bulb in any of his performances; but he does a stalwart job under tough circumstances in this turkey. That's a whole lot more than you can say for Ms. Neilsen, who, in the title role, shows about as much acting talent as a boiled chickpea.But the real opprobrium must be heaped on director Richard Fleischer, whose previous work has always been workmanlike if not inspired. In Sonja, he opts for tedium there are long, long shots of badly costumed people walking down long, long hallways, and riding slowly, slowly across wide, wide valleys. It also has a long battle with an unbearably fake water-dragon. Oh... and Ernie Reyes Jr. MUST DIE! This movie opened July 4 weekend in 1985, and probably made a spot of cash because of that. If so, that just proves some of the people can be fooled some of the time. Yawn. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say it is but it also isn't that great  WARNING!!!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!!","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Not as bad as people say it is but it's not that great either due to some dull scenes and and a couple annoying characters plus Arnie is stuck in a supporting role i have no problem with Brigitte Nielsen she did well here i just missed Sandhal Bergman here (not the way she looks in this movie the hot blonde she played in Conan The Barbarian. the finale is exciting and there are some great battle sequences it's just the rest of the time it's WAY too talky for it's own good. there is a bit of blood we get a a couple of slashings in the stomach with spurting blood one slash where it leaves a big hole with blood pouring we also get 2 decapitations and minor cuts. The Acting is decent Arnold Schwarzenegger does good here but it looks like he isn't having fun for some reason, Brigitte Nielsen is very pretty and does well i liked her lots. Sandhal Bergman is wasted here in my opinion i never recognized her until the very end. that prince kid was annoying. Overall maybe worth one rent but do not expect much what so ever ** out of 5 just barely "}{"Title":"Not actually about communism","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I haven't read anything by Howard(R.I.P.). Given that they're all his creations, I'm not sure why the Governator couldn't just be named Conan, as he is him in all aspects but the name. Oh, I know why he's in this in the first place; so they could put someone famous on the cover and poster, and so he could rescue Sonja. You didn't think this was promoting feminism, did you? Anyone with girly parts needs help! They were made from one of our ribs, after all. Oh, how I wish I was exaggerating the blatant sexism in this. The logic has gaping holes. People sometimes teleport around, appear where they shouldn't or couldn't. How about the kingdom of two? Why doesn't he drop(literally) the brat? And why is the servant fat? How did that happen? Again, I know why To add yet more horrible comic relief. Honestly though, there is so much to like, and not *that* great an amount to hate, in this. Yes, there are goofy moments; however, there are some really cool instances(and numerous that genuinely feel epic; how about that ending?), too. The swordplay(which is *plentiful*, thank you, whoever was responsible) is mostly awesome, and the rest of the action is not bad. This has a fairly great score. FX are pretty good, with notable exceptions(such as the spider). The characters are even a tad developed! Heck, the dialog is above average; it's the delivery that nearly invariably sucks. Let's face it, Stallone's then-wife(gawd her Danish accent is obvious), as well as the kid, were cast for their fighting/acrobatic skills. Neither of them can act(few in this can); she's particularly atrocious, being utterly expressionless. This is cheesy, and there are many silly designs. The plot is without surprises. Editing and cinematography are unremarkable. There is a lot of occasionally bloody violence and brief gratuitous toplessness(and numerous scantily clad hot chicks) in this. I recommend this to fans of the sword and sorcery fantasy genre, B-movies and of the trilogy. It's enjoyable enough, on the whole. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Mostly lousy, but it has some camp value","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Dino de Laurentiis took another stab at a Robert E. Howard character after the massive success of the two Conan movies with Red Sonja. This one features a female warrior played by Brigitte Nielsen, a Danish model. To sweeten the deal a little, they brought in Arnold Schwarzenegger for support. His name might as well have been Conan, as Schwarzenegger does nothing to differentiate this barbarian (named Kalidor) from the more famous one. The story has Red Sonja tracking down the murderer of her sister and stealer of a sacred talisman, Queen Gedren, played by the ugliest beautiful woman in the world, Sandahl Bergman (her face is behind a weird mask most of the movie, which might make normal women look uglier but which improves her looks). Along the way, Sonja has some ill-defined adventures in cheap-looking landscapes. Along the way, she picks up a child ruler and his manservant (Ernie Reyes Jr. and Paul L. Smith respectively), and the four heroes make a kind of Wizard of Oz-like quartet as they battle Bergman's warriors. This movie is generally a bunch of crap, overproduced but somehow still cheap looking. Still, it's kind of entertainingly bad. The acting alone made me giggle almost constantly - it's pretty sad when pint-sized ninja Reyes is the best performer in the film (he co-starred in The Last Dragon the same year). This is the kind of movie you don't mind seeing remade, and the new one is coming next year, and is starring Rose McGowan. Color me cautiously optimistic for that one. "},{"Title":"Sonja The Destroyer","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember the trailer for this infamously weak spin-off of Conan. I saw the movie years later and laughed my head off. Unintentionally! Poor Briggite Nielson. Her career never had a chance thanks to Cobra and Red Sonja. The plot of the movie is this Sonja(Brigitte Nielson) hails from a tribe of female warriors who were killed off by an evil queen Gedren(Sandahl Bergman). Queen Gedren steals the orb the female warriors were protecting and uses it to destroy each town she passes by. Sonja goes on a hunt for Queen Gedren and later finds out that Gedren killed her parents. On her quest she reluctantly joins Kalidor(Arnold Schwarzenegger), an arrogant prince named Tarn(Ernie Reyes Jr.) and his bumbling idiotic servant, Falkon(Paul L. Smith). Together they go on a hunt for Queen Gedren and the orb. The acting is sub par and the action scenes are soso. I mean Briggite Neilson looks so emotionally distant. For someone who lost her whole family as well as her female comrades, Sonja doesn't look fazed at all. Arnold is playing his usual stoic role and Ernie Reyes Jr.... what an annoying snot-nosed brat he was in this movie! The moronic manservant Falkon had more personality than these guys. The action scenes are the only redeeming moments of the movie even though sometimes they fall flat. The scene where they fight the mechanical sea creature made me laugh till my ribs ached. The dialog is a hoot also. Its as if the screenwriter thought that nobody was going to take the movie seriously so he gave everybody stupid lines to work with. I can only recommend this movie to you if you like your epic movies extra campy. Anyone else don't bother. "},{"Title":"a little bit technical disappointed fantasy movie","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This is a important culte film for my very personnal universe, but...what can we say? red Sonja looks like a Conan 3. Indeed it is done just after the second episode is an adventure independent, Kalidor looks like Conan but it will eventually Red Sonja (the original title). It remains in the spirit of Conan the Destroyer also directed by Richard Fleischer, a simple action film in the barbarian fantasy universe. Despite the promising features such as the introduction superbly served by the theme music of Ennio Morricone, the film is still disappointing, in the tradition of Conan the Destroyer elsewhere.Red Sonja warrior wants to avenge the theft of an artifact to excessive and destructive powers and the death of her sister. Kalidor who have just enough time to bring Varna (Sonja'sister) to Sonja, will travel with Sonja to have this revenge. By the way they will encounter a couple slightly loufouque a young prince insolent child and his faithful servant, who go to avenge the destruction of their city kingdom. This group of four raiders will travel to the palace of Queen Gedren to avenge her.The plot is fast. We quickly found the palace And very quickly to meet the wicked queen and the four raiders. A very fast action and fighting clumsy especially in the interpretation of stunt or figuration with a great reinforcement of the decor that smell strong cardboard a inanimate sea monster and the atmosphere of the film resembles a large series B to moderate budget.This movie is disappointing despite the talents involved. But all fans of barbaric fantastic and simple fantasy films must watch it because this universe is too rare in a movie.jelios jelios@hotmail.fr "},{"Title":"Has all the fantasy elements but very badly executed","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is advertised as an Arnold Swartzenegger movie but he really only plays a supporting character to the role of Sonja (Bridgette Neilson). The story of this movie is quiet good, carrying lots of fantasy elements in it like guardian beasts, huge spiders, wicked queens, and a powerful artifact that can destroy the world. Unfortunately the acting is really bad. One may think that the actors in this movie, even the famous Arnie, never went to acting school. This is surprising because Neilson was much better in Beverly Hills Cop II. But in this movie most of the lines were poorly delivered and the script was incredibly corny.The plot is a typical fantasy plot. A powerful artifact is to be destroyed but the wicked queen Gedren (Sandahl Bergmen) comes along with her powerful army and kills all of the priestesses and steals the talisman. The thing about the talisman is that only a woman can touch it so Gedren is very happy. She then takes the Talisman to he castle and begins her plan to conquer the world. Sonja, who has come afoul of Gedren before, learns of the attack in which her sister is killed and storms off after Gedren.This movie seems to be an anti-feminist movie. Women have the power in this movie, in regards to the talisman, and play a prominent part. Sonja hates men and believes that she can get along with out having to rely upon any man. Yet Prince Kalidor (Arnold Swartzenegger) always appears and fights for her when it seems that she is almost defeated. This movie seems to try to say that women and men need to work together and they cannot write each other out. There is also the idea, as symbolised by Kalidor and Sonja being swordspeople of equal ability, that there is no difference between men and women and that they are equals.It is a shame that most fantasy movies only come out as half-hearted attempts at some entertainment. There is truly very few good fantasy movies on the shelves of the video store. Fantasy is more of an uncliched genre as it has not really been explored as much as it could be. So far it has remained the realm of the novel but there is much room for it to move to the big screen. "},{"Title":"Red Sonja is number one with a mullet!","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Red Sonja is,for me a guilty pleasure for sure .The best acting comes from Arnold,where he basically plays himself . Everyone else is bad,real bad. Most of the dialogue is delivered like the English overdubbing in a 1970's kung fu flick. The acting is wooden , the sets are real shoddy looking and cheap .The special f/x look like crap. Brigitte's swordfighting skills is worst, and even less convincing than her acting ,which is horrible at this point . Even so, I found this to be an improvement to Conan The Destroyer . As a fan of campy barbarian movies, Red Sonja is a lot of cheesy fun .Even with a ridiculous red mullet, Brigitte was still nice to look at and a big time 80's babe.There is cheesy, quotable dialogue and for as poorly made as this was,it is never boring and a lot of fun .This is not in the same league as Conan The Barbarian, but not a schlock grade ripoff like Ator The Fighting Eagle or the Deathstalker series .(both of which I like ) Red Sonja is not a good film,but is good entertainment for sure. "},{"Title":"Hard to watch","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this movie, or part of it, in hope that it would be fun to laugh at how bad it was, but it soon became clear that this was just plain silly. For one you have the worst acting EVER! The lead actress Birgitte Nielsen is terrible, uninspired and hardly even attractive. And she certainly do not look like the female warrior who could easily kick some veteran warrior kings butt, but she does. And whats with the feminist attitude, it's plain hypocrisy. For one her family was killed by a women, then she joins some warrior school or something so she can learn how to fight men. She then joins up with a fat servant and his child king, whose city was destroyed by Gedren. Those two characters are just plain stupid and destroys the little of atmosphere that the movie managed to create. After this i could not take any more of Nielsen painful acting, and the stupid clichs and lack of some real action.Schwarzenegger as Kalidor was the only part of this movie which actually made it remotely watchable. I liked the Conan movie, but this is pure crap! "},{"Title":"A movie that actually gets better...","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" ... when dubbed into another language. Let's face it Neither Nielsen nor Schwarzenegger are really good actors when it comes to dialog. And given the campy lines they are supposed to utter this is a loose-loose situation. Any type of voice-over is sure to be an improvement (and it actually is - at least in the German version).But that is only a minor point. The acting is bad. The speeded up combat sequences are pathetic. Nielsen couldn't use her sword to fight her way out of a wet paper bag. This becomes painfully obvious when compared to the fluidity of motion exhibited by the kid (who has had some martial arts training, no doubt) and to the athleticism shown off by Sandahl Bergman.Schwarzenegger does his Conan thing - nothing new here.Some of the visuals are nice, I'll have to grant that. The dragon skeleton bridge looks cool. But more often than not the plaster is all too evident.Overall the movie isn't worth seeing. Even 'Conan the Destroyer' is better than this (although only marginally). I would have much rather seen Bergman as Red Sonja as she was originally supposed to be, but I doubt that that could have saved this movie - oh well.3/10 "},{"Title":"sad attempt","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The only good thing about this movie was watching the boy-prince grow up. He doesn't age much, the movie isn't that long (thank goodness!) but he does mature some. The girl's character isn't very believable, if at all, which I guess some would say it wasn't meant to be. For me, that detracted from the whole story. The medallion also detracted. Wow, that word doesn't even come close to describing the actual item. Now, I hate to say this, but Arnold (I can't spell his last name, never paid that much attention) actually put in a pretty good performance. The fact that the girl had an accent, too, made it easier to tolerate his. Don't get me wrong, I love accents. Somehow his drives me up the wall. But I don't think that even Matt Damon could have saved this movie.  "},{"Title":"Dread Sonja","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" As a big fan of Conan the Barbarian, I had hoped that the criticisms levelled at the 'comedy' content of 'Conan the Destroyer' would have resulted in a movie more like the original in tone. Instead in Red Sonja, we were given more ham fisted attempts at comedy, cheap looking sets, nasty costumes and irritating sidekicks. The main problem with the film is the 'lead' Brigitte Nielsen. She is just awful in every department. Maybe I'm wrong, but I've always wondered whether her casting had anything to do with her relationship with Sylvester Stallone. Compared to the buxom comic character in her chain mail bikini, the skinny Nielsen looks awkward, is an unconvincing fighter and her total lack of charisma soon relegated her to the world of low budget straight to video. Sandahl Bergman is totally wasted in her role as the evil queen, and her shiny spandex outfit is one of the worst of the costumes in a movie obviously aimed at a PG audience. On it's release, the distributors tried to market it as a Schwarzenegger film because Brigitte Nielsen was so bad - but no-one was fooled & it deservedly bombed. Hard to believe this rubbish was directed by the same man who did 'Mr Majestyk', 'Soylent Green', 'The Boston Strangler', '10 Rillington place' & '20,000 Leagues Under the Sea'. "}{"Title":"Why are these movies even made?","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This, in my opinion, is a very poor movie that advertises Arnold Schwarzenegger as starring (despite him being the co-star) only to sell more copies. Obviously taking influence from the similarly themed &#145;Conan' movies, this film fails to prove as enjoyable and eventually fails to entertain at all.Bridgette Neilsen stars as Sonja, a beautiful woman who has been given unbelievable strength by a ghostly figure after her village was pillaged, her family killed and she herself raped by the soldiers of Queen Gedran (Sandahl Bergman). Gedran is a tyrant Queen who wants control over the barbaric world and seeks out a talisman protected by Sonja's sister to do it. After discovering what has happened Sonja sets out for revenge and at the same time she must save the world from the wrath of Gedran. Kalidor (Schwarzenegger), the master of the talisman, sets out to protect her whether she wants him there or not.The first major problem with this movie is the beginning. The events leading up to the point where Sonja receives her powers could have easily made a good ten to fifteen minutes of enjoyable film. However, the beginnings are rushed into what seems like a quick one-minute `Previously on&#133;.' segment from a television show. Had they actually made these events part of the story and cut out some of the filler later on they may have been able to start redeeming this movie but unfortunately they didn't (I wonder why director Richard Fleischer has only currently directed two movies since Red Sonja).This film also features some of the most annoying characters in history like Tarn (Ernie Reyes Jr.) who is a stupid character and just adds an over abundance of camp to the movie, which sometimes works but in this case fails miserably. He was quite obviously written into the movie for some comic relief but with the overall absurdity of the film anyway this was another costly mistake for &#145;Red Sonja'.For all it's faults there were some good fight scenes involving both Neilsen and Arnie which are worth noting but these are nowhere enough to save this turkey. The acting is about as good as it gets for movies of this quality and even Arnie didn't seem too bothered about his performance. I don't recommend this film at all; to me it's a waste of an hour and a half. My rating for &#145;Red Sonja' &#150; 3/10  "},{"Title":"DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  The script for this movie is terrible., and I think that's where 90% of the problems lie.  I don't think any director could've made anything of the script.  Nielsen got a bit better in later films.  Arnold is Arnold.  But the best thing about this is the score by Ennio Morricone.  Ironically, Basil Poledouris WAS to score it at first, as someone mentioned that composer, but he went on to use some of the music he composed for SONJA for FLESH AND BLOOD w/Rutger Hauer. "},{"Title":"Wretched, Wretched, Wretched...","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Some people might argue that Red Sonja has a certain campy quality to it, the sort of thing that makes a bad movie watchable just because you want to see just how bad things can get.I'm not one of those people.  There's camp, and then there's just plain ineptitude.  Very few movies are painful to watch, but this is one of them.  It should be used as a punishment people who commit crimes against cinema should be forced to watch this movie over and over until they repent their sins.What makes this movie so bad?  Brigitte Nielsen's wooden acting (when she gets cut in duels, I half-expected her to bleed sap) quickly moves from astonishingly bad to just plain awful.  Ernie Reyes is irritating beyond words -- whoever conceived of that character should be taken out and shot.  Arnold Schwarzenegger sleepwalks through the whole movie; this was his third S&S movie, and it's easy to see why it was his last.  Of course, all the actors are stuck with a boring script that is neither exciting nor fun, just a framework to move from swordfight to swordfight.  After twenty minutes, I didn't know what was going on, and I no longer cared.So, to sum it all up... Red Sonja is a dog, no matter how you look at it.  I realize some people admire it for it's unrestrained awfulness; good luck watching this movie and trying to keep your lunch down. "},{"Title":"Corny, typical golan globus fare","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Corny and some really bad acting but for a Golan-Globus film about right on par. Saw this movie back in 1985 mostly because I liked sword and sorcery films(what was i thinking?). Arnold is in it playing a high lord trying to make sure an ancient talisman is destroyed before it blows up the world.Brigitte Nielsen is the title character who at the time was Sly's girl and a pretty bad actress.Movie producers like to cast Playboy type women who cant act in low budget B movies. Brigitte cheeses it up as Sonya and Arnold acts wooden as Lord Kalidor.There is also Sandahl Bergman(who was in the original Conan movie as Valeria)here she plays the evil Queen Gedren,an obvious camp to her Conan role. And then one of the most irritating child actors onscreen(ernie reyes)as Prince Tarn who should have been slapped hard and sent to bed.What a little irritating scut. Some of the swordfights arent too bad but the music really sucks. Special effects are cheap and look very 70's ,like the explosion of the evil queen's castle at the climax of the movie.  Overall a very low par film but b movie film buffs might like it for its campiness.   "},{"Title":"It's just....well.... boring really.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  It's a shame that director Richard Fleischer, who gave us such classics as Tora, Tora, Tora!, Soylent Green and The Jazz Singer, should seemingly end his career with turkeys such as Conan the Destroyer and this, Red Sonja.Not that Red Sonja is awful in the way that Conan the Destroyer was, but it ain't that good. It's just....well.... boring really.You have Arnold Schwarzenegger as Cona...err... Kalidor and he has some truly dire lines to deliver. For instance he says I make it a rule to never take a woman unless I can beat her in a fair fight. I mean, what kind of a fair fight could it ever be for any woman against someone of Arnie's size? What a dumb line.You also have the most annoying child actor (until Wil Wheaton's Wesley Crusher performance, anyway) in the form of Ernie Reyes Jr. Grace Jones was intensely irritating in Destroyer, but Reye's child Prince character is just maddeningly infuriating. You keep hoping he'll be killed in some entertaining manner, but it never happens.Finally, Brigitte Nielsen. An actor so wooden I wanted to shout at Arnie not to touch her in case he got splinters.Then there's the plot, or lack of one. Evil Queen Geddren must be overthrown. Wait a mo', wasn't there an evil queen in Destroyer? Released only a year earlier. Sure there was. Hmmm.This film is another in the series of quick cash-in's on the Conan the Barbarian success. Little thought out and relying on visuals and Arnie's muscles for ratings. "},{"Title":"Sonja is Red","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Beautiful farm girl Sonja (Nielsen) is attacked, raped, and left for dead by the evil Sandahl Bergman and her forces when she refuses to be Sandy's lover girl and her home and family are burned to the ground. Sonja survives the incident thanks to a magic spiritual thingy that leads her to undertake some exhaustive training to become a kick ass warrior. Later while on the path of vengeance, she gets caught up with a young Ernie Reyes Jr., an initially spoiled prince and his bumbling guardian, Arnold Schwarzenegger's swordsman lord who has tomake sure that a certain talisman is destroyed and guess what, SandahlBergman stole that talisman and only women can touch it.Kind of cheap to look at and unimpressive in certain fight scenes, film issometimes entertaining in a lower than low kind of way.Too bad Sandahl Bergman didn't steer clear of this one, as it's probably one of the reasons why she never got to have a better career. I think she was actually offered the lead role but asked to be the villain for some reason. Bridget's pretty to look at and Arnold has his moments.  "},{"Title":"Make it stop - 26%","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" After a long hard night being partied away at the Walkabout in Islington, I needed a pick-me-up. My throat hurt, my wallet was empty and I ended up chatting to a drug addict at a bus-stop trying to sell me some petrol. Today, I watched Red Sonja and I can honestly say that I felt much better last night than I do right now. Brigitte Nielsen leads a bunch of ass-kicking warriors in various shapes and sizes to recover a green rock from some evil queen whose motives are never fully explained. Yep, it's that good.Red Sonja isn't in a genre known for great films until Peter Jackson came along with a certain Oscar-winning trilogy. In fact, the best swords-and-sorcery film I could think of before Lord Of The Rings was George Lucas's kiddie-friendly Willow. Perhaps, in view of this, one should go a little easy on this film. But I can't - it's poorly written, badly acted (with the exception of Paul Smith, who's just average) and dreadfully put together. The film is as convincing as an episode of the Flintstones, with costumes and scenery seemingly lifted straight outta Bedrock. Considering the comic-book source material, it is easy to forgive the various plot inconsistencies. Why Sonja insists on saving the most annoying kid, in this world or that one, is bewildering. His personality seems to flick from spoilt brat to polite gentleman at the flick of a switch. Schwarzenegger displays less charisma than a field full of cows and just goes through the motions, a perfect actor for his breakthrough role in The Terminator.It's simple to kick a film when you're down but the fact remains that this is not a good film, by any stretch of the imagination. When Nielsen mourns the death of her sister and Schwarzenegger tenderly places his hand on her shoulder to comfort her and then blurts out, in that distinctive Germanic accent, she's dead then you know you're in for a rough ride. A few smiles were raised at inappropriate points, such as the priestesses of a temple who, when sent plunging to their deaths in a hole in the ground, seemed to enjoy the experience - at least, judging from the orgasmic moans that seemed to echo around the place. If you have to watch an Eighties fantasy film that wasn't porn, watch Willow (but never take that as a ringing endorsement). For the real thing, take yourself to your local multiplex and show Peter Jackson what a great job he did with Lord Of The Rings. Trust me, 11 Oscars really does mean it's a great film - unlike bloody Titanic. "},{"Title":"Not even the camp-ness is good.","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Red Sonja is flawed, weak and lacking. Even the camp-ness isn't good.There are only two good things about Red Sonja; The costumes (even though the Red Sonja costume is ridiculous. It's ironic that a girl who is even afraid to be touched by men, because she was raped, still choose to wear so few little clothes, even when it rains.) and the music by Ennio Morricone. Still the movie is somewhat watchable but certainly not recommendable.The story is extremely simple and they didn't even bother to make it interesting. The story could have been forgotten if there had been some good action sequences and some humor, both are present but are seriously flawed in many ways. The movie takes itself too serious and tries to impress but fails completely.Brigitte Nielsen is an horrible leading lady. I don't know who's accent is worse; Hers or Arnie's and on top of that; She can't act. There is also absolutely no chemistry between the two characters which makes the love story totally unbelievable. Even worse was Sandahl Bergman as the main villain who acts more poorly than a paper bag. Ronald Lacey was somewhat good in his role, but my God he looked horrible, he changed so much since his (only well known) role in Raiders of the Lost Ark. Maybe it had something to do with his illness which claimed his life in 1991? And by the way, what was with all those Raiders of the Lost Ark actors in this movie? Next to Ronald Lacey, Pat Roach, Terry Richards and Tutte Lemkow appeared in a role, it seemed like some kind of Raiders of the Lost Ark reunion.The only times when the movie gets a bit interesting is during the (sword)fights even though some of them are needless and weak.Only really watchable for the fans of the fantasy-genre.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Bad, even by Sword & Sorcery standards","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" The 1980s saw the rise of the Sword & Sorcery genre. Despite notable mainstream success stories like Conan the Barbarian, most films in this genre were B-grade, and unashamedly so. However, for many of these films, the term so bad it's good applied. Cheap, weak plot, weaker acting, but somehow they were entertaining. Red Sonja is not one of those.Red Sonja is clearly an attempt to cash in on the success of Conan the Barbarian, and it fails miserably. Conan had a decent story, good action scenes and even some character depth. Red Sonja is more a B- grade movie with A-grade pretensions. Has the weak story and woeful acting of B-grade with seriousness of A-grade. The worst of both worlds.Really nothing going for it. As mentioned, weak plot, what little there is. Action scenes are standard, and sometimes quite farcical. Performances are laughable. Brigitte Nielsen is particularly bad (though looks good ...). Arnold Schwarzenegger is there for his star power, not his acting ability. Supporting cast are irritating, especially the kid. "},{"Title":"Just my opinion","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Honestly, this movie is weak. Very weak. Only capital character can something. She's work like supercharger on bad engine...so, if you like red-haired Valkyries - see that. But better find picture of Brigitte as Sonja and put it on desktop. It will save of disappointments. Well, Arnold also do his deal...but it definitely not best his role. Other characters - bad is not that word. Sword fights? Monsters? Ridiculous. Plot is really shame. Why was necessary rape she? Especially, we don't see it.Anyway movie is weak. Though worse movies exist...Without main characters it would be just ******. And if somebody even discusses it, maybe... "}{"Title":"Bottom of the Barrel","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the worst films ever made. It's soooo bad. The acting is pitiful. The story....umm...what story??? There is no story, or there isn't one that you care about. And some of the lines in the movie are so bad. It's painful to watch. It's an embarasment to the motion picture industry. "},{"Title":"Disappointing!","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, I admit I like Brigitte Neilsen in an unhealthy way, I just have a thing for 6' tall women with swords. There I said it.What's wrong with the movie? Just about every mistake you can make was made. You take a successful movie series (conan) and you drag it through the mud with a bad script, bad casting, bad effects, and the worst thing of all...you put a cute kid in there for comic relief. This kind of thing almost killed the Indiana Jones series ya know. Cute kids are for Disney movies, not real movies. Neilsen at least took the movie seriously, even though it seems nobody else did. The plot had Schwarzenegger repeatedly pulling Red Sonja's fat out of the fire and that undercut her character considerably. A warrior woman doesn't need a dude to get her out of a mess, thats her job! To not re-use the Conan character in this movie was a crime. Kalidor? Sheesh. The movie never set the proper mood and its pacing was rather disjointed and sloppy, unlike Conan the Barbarian which had multiple story lines that flowed gracefully. When it comes to fantasy movies, its okay to have cheesy costumes, its okay to have harryhausen style animation, its okay to have silly exorbitant sets that make no sense, but to have a horrible script is unforgivable.This movie could have been a classic, but the script felt like it was written by a 12 year old. "},{"Title":"Oh, this has got nothing to offer. nothing at all...","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Recap Since the warrior queen Gedren raised and slaughtered most of Sonja's family, she has trained in the art of sword fighting. Now, Gedren has taken a very powerful talisman, that threatens to destroy the world if not destroyed, killing Sonja's sister in the process. Now Sonja is out for revenge, and to save the world. Along the way, she meets the very Conan-like (but not Conan, no!) Kalidor, the child-prince Tarn and his bodyguard Falcon. At first Sonja declines all help, but is later forced to accept it, and together they go to save the world.Comments When you watch a movie like this, and you think that it is the story that the is the best element in this movie, the movie is in big trouble. Because 1) a movie like this should draw its strength upon good swordfights and effects, and 2) the story is really, really bad. It is simple, and uncomplicated and really offers nothing in way of character development or even suspense. It is predictable and boring, and the obvious couple, Sonja and Kalidor, has no chemistry at all. And the kid is just annoying. And most of the scenes is drawn out so long that they become boring. Though the movie is not very long, it has not material enough to fill its time. And so back to point 1). The fighting is slow, uneventful and really bad. It clearly shows most fighters clearly blocking the opponents strokes far ahead of the opponent has even begun to strike. In my honest opinion, I believe most kids, fighting with sticks, creates more exciting fights playing knights than this movie did. All in all, this is a really bad spin-off, that should be avoided by all who liked the Conan-movies.2/10 "},{"Title":"Why is Arnold in this?","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  I figure the company that made this movie wanted people to think of the Conan movies, but unfortunately for the ones who made this one it does just that.  You will be thinking, man the Conan movies were pretty cool...this one is totally boring and sucks.  The story, who cares?  It isn't going to help you like this movie more or less as it just seems like a really cheap film.  Arnold, doesn't look like he belongs in this one, why he agreed to play the role is beyond me.  Well probably for the money.  I just love the monster in the water that turns out to be a machine.  Lame!  This movie is just plain and simply terrible. "},{"Title":"Red Sonja is Slow-Moving, Unoriginal and Boring...Uninspired... Even Schwarzenegger Couldn't Save This One...","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  A Review on the Film `Red Sonja'                           By John Ulmer`Red Sonja' stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as Kalidor a Conan-type role, only this time he's not the main star of the film. He co-stars, protecting Brigitte Nielsen, the `Red Sonja' -- a red-haired, tough woman, who is trying to avenge her sister's death. She seems like a feminist-rights activist incarnate. This film is extremely slow moving and boring, which may explain why it is basically unheard of. Or perhaps it's because Arnold only co-stars &#150; something rare for the action-star. I'm not sure. `Conan the Barbarian' had a mystical fantasy-feel to it. Campy, if you will. `Red Sonja' is just inept and unoriginal &#150; trying to copy Conan's success as a film.  The only thing I know is that this film is very slow-moving, unimaginative, and boring. I really hate to see a bad Schwarzenegger film, and when I do, I hate to admit the film is  bad, but this film was really, really bad. 1.5/5 stars -John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was released soon after the Conan films, a sort of female Conan, Red Sonja played by Sylvester Stallones ex-wife Brigitte Nielsen. She's not a very good actress unfortunately as proved in Rocky IV and Cobra. The whole film feels cheap, but strangely Arnold Swarzenegger appears in this film but not as Conan, although he looks, acts and fights like Conan from the two Conan films, I don't know what thats about. Anyway he only appears about every twenty minutes and doesn't hang around for long. Maybe Arnold filmed this in his time off from filming Conan the Destroyer or something? Anyway the film is way to slow and boring for an action film, skip this and watch Conan the Barbarian instead. "},{"Title":"I can smell you at a hundred paces......,","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" Gedren seeks total power, so she attacks and kills the keepers of a powerful talisman just before it is destroyed. Gedren then uses the power of the talisman in her raid of Hablac. Red Sonja, sister of the keeper, sets out with her magic sword to overthrow Gedren. The talisman's master Kalidor follows to protect her. He falls for her, but Sonja's power bases on the oath to never give herself to any man...It's not a good film, the makers are just cashing in on Schwarzenegger's success with his first few movies, that is why he is first billed and is so predominant on the one sheet.The film basically consists of Sonja and her group, stalking Schwarzenegger, a little prince who is smug, and his servant, walking from one scene to the next, occasionally having a sword fight.The villains spend the majority of the film in a candle lit room, staring at an orb, until the final battle.Oh, and there is a bit with a metal snake fish.It's boring, mundane stuff, but it has wonderful scenery, and an excellent score by Morricone.This is one of those films where you'd rather stare at the one sheet because it's more entertaining.Not very good at all. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood would have been proud of this one","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":"  Possible Spoilers As Peter Jackson has so brilliantly shown in his `Lord of the Rings' trilogy, it is quite possible to make good films, even great ones, within the heroic fantasy genre. The genre has distinguished literary antecedents, dating back to the mediaeval chivalric romances, particularly the Arthurian legends, upon which Tolkien and other authors have drawn. `Lord of the Rings' apart, however, it is difficult to think of any other sword-and-sorcery films which are any good. I would agree with the reviewer who said that the best of a bad bunch was Ron Howard's `Willow', and even that achieved little distinction other than that of being a merely mediocre film as opposed to a positively bad one. `Red Sonja', however, cannot achieve the even more modest distinction of being simply a bad film as opposed to an appalling one.As with `Willow', many of the plot-elements in `Red Sonja' are derived from `The Lord of the Rings'. An evil ruler seeks to gain control of an artefact with supernatural powers in order to achieve an ambition of world domination, but is thwarted by an assorted group of heroes. The film, set in the Hyborian Age, a barbaric era in the earth's remote past, starts with the villain of the piece, the wicked Queen Gedren, making unwelcome sexual advances to the heroine Sonja. When these are rebuffed, Gedren (not a woman to take no for an answer) reacts by murdering Sonja's parents and brother. (In 1985 it was presumably still considered politically correct not only to make the chief villain a woman but also to make one of the main motives for her villainy frustrated lesbian lust).Gedren's next move is to capture the Talisman, a sort of fluorescent green soccer ball with magical powers, by slaughtering the whole of the scantily-dressed female priesthood charged with protecting it, just as they are about to destroy it because they feel its powers have become too dangerous. Among the dead is Sonja's sister, her sole surviving relative. Sonja herself, however, has not been idle, but has enrolled in a martial arts academy from which she graduates summa cum laude, and sets out to avenge herself. Along the way she teams up with Kalidor, a heroic wandering swordsman-king resembling Tolkien's Aragorn, Prince Tarn, the spoilt child-ruler of a kingdom that has fallen to Gedren's powers, and Falkon, Tarn's loyal servant. The rest of the film is fairly predictable, as Sonja and her allies try to overthrow Gedren and prevent the destruction of the world threatened by the out-of-control Talisman.Just what is it that makes this film so bad? Well, the acting, for a start. Arnold Schwarzenegger as Kalidor gives the sort of typical wooden, poker-faced performance that became his trademark, at least in the early part of his career, complete with heavy foreign accent. Compared with Brigitte Nielsen as the heroine, however, he looks like Laurence Olivier. Miss Nielsen seems to have had even worse language difficulties, delivering every line in the mechanical, toneless voice of someone who has just completed lesson three of a `teach-yourself-English-by-correspondence' course. One wonders if she was hired for the role just to make Arnie look good by comparison. The other characters, while not conducting their own private struggles against the English language, are simply cartoonish caricatures, especially Prince Tarn who must be one of the most obnoxious screen youngsters ever.An even worse fault than the bad acting, however, is the film's almost complete lack of imagination. This is a particularly glaring fault in a fantasy film, as films of this genre need to rely on their imaginative power in order to persuade the audience to suspend the natural feelings of disbelief that would be provoked by a fantastic plot. When we watch Peter Jackson's masterpiece we can persuade ourselves, at least for the next three hours, that we are in Middle-Earth, that elves, wizards and hobbits do exist, and that the fate of the world really does depend upon the destruction of a magic ring. When we watch `Red Sonja' we are persuaded of nothing except that we are watching a bunch of actors with bad accents fighting one another on a hillside for possession of a lime-green football.This lack of imagination even starts with the film's title. The British science-fiction author Brian Aldiss, when challenged about the exotic names given to his characters, replied that there was little point in creating a fictional alien society with its own distinctive culture if you were going to spoil the effect by calling the hero Joe. (Admittedly, Tolkien was ableto get away with giving the name Sam to one of his main characters, but that was because Hobbits were supposed to be reassuringly familiar, the Middle-Earth equivalent of tweedy, pipe-smoking Englishmen). Similarly, giving the heroine of a tale ostensibly set in a long-gone barbaric age a common girls' name like `Sonia' (which is how the name `Sonja' is pronounced) is about as appropriate as calling her `Betty' or `Mary-Jane'.The film seems to have been made on a very small budget, which makes me wonder why they bothered at all. Fantasy needs to be done convincingly, or not at all. It was obviously shot in a remote mountain area, with little or no attempt to suggest a distinctive culture. The few buildings we see, such as the temple of the Talisman or Gedren's palace, are obviously cheap sets. We learn that Tarn's capital city has been destroyed by Gedren using the power of the Talisman, but we do not actually see this event; all we see is what might be a thunderstorm taking place on the other side of a hill. At first you wonder how Sonja intends to overthrow an entire kingdom with only a few allies, but when you see how small an army Gedren has at her disposal it becomes more understandable. When an earthquake threatens to destroy the palace, you wonder if this is the Talisman at work or merely a crew member inadvertently leaning against the set. If we can enjoy this film for nothing else, we can at least enjoy it for its inadvertent humour; a fine example of the so-bad-it's-funny school of filmmaking. Ed Wood would have been proud of this one. If it had been shown on Californian television the night before the recall election, Gray Davis would still be governor. 2/10.  "},{"Title":"limp performance, limp script","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" You know that this film is in SERIOUS trouble when the BEST acting job is the support role played by Arnold Schwarzenegger. While this was still relatively early in his career and he wasn't the best actor, compared to Brigitte Nielsen, he's Sir John Gielgud. In fact, this film proves that the only reason she got much of any attention were her boobs and because she was involved with the incredibly self-destructive football player, Mark Gastineau. So, instead of this being her break out film, this and a Beverly Hills Cop movie mark about as high as she went in her one-note career. It was obvious, too, that the financing wizards gave up on this movie as well, because the supporting cast (aside from Arnold) is pretty lame and the script is dull, dull, dull. Fans looking for another CONAN movie would no doubt be very disappointed in this slow and uninvolving film. "},{"Title":"Red Sonja","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Fantasy","Review":" I remember seeing this film only once before, and I knew it was rated terribly by the critics but I had to see it again to give a proper opinion, director Richard Fleischer (Doctor Dolittle, Conan the Destroyer). Basically young red-headed master of the sword woman Red Sonja (introducing Razzie winning and nominated Brigitte Nielsen, best known for being married to Sylvester Stallone and Celebrity Big Brother) is seeking revenge after her brother and parents are slaughtered by the army of evil Queen Gedren (Razzie nominated Sandahl Bergman). The Queen naturally wants to take over the world, and she has stolen a powerful glowing orb that was due to be destroyed, and it is capable of control natural forces and create storms and earthquakes. Also trying to retrieve and destroy the powerful orb and save the world is warrior Kalidor (Arnold Schwarzenegger), who despite her objections joins her in her quest to the same place. Joining the two fighters travelling to the lair of the Queen is the young confident and overconfident brat Prince Tarn (Ernie Reyes Jr.) and his loyal servant Falkon (Paul L. Smith). In the end obviously good triumphs over evil, Red Sonja gets the revenge she was seeking, the orb is destroyed, the Queen dies in the destruction, and Kalidor and Red Sonja kiss before departing. Also starring Pat Roach as Brytag, Ronald Lacey as Ikol and Donna Osterbuhr as Kendra the High Priestess. Nielsen may look the part but is dull, Schwarzenegger should be the leading star but isn't used enough, Bergman is awful as the villain, and Reyes Jr. is very annoying as the little kung fu loving Prince, and the story is no different in quality, dull, boring and predictable, a stupid and pointless action adventure. Pretty poor! "}]