[{"Title":"A thought-provoking, cinematic tour-de-force...","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"33 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...Howling II is not. It is, however, a comically bad and therefore highly enjoyable film.The plot (if you can call it that) goes something like this Some Flock of Seagulls-looking bloke loses his sister to a werewolf attack (yet another peril of living in Los Angeles). He and this reporter chick meet up with a werewolf hunter (a deadpan Christopher Lee) at the dead girl's funeral. For reasons unclear, the trio voyage to Transylvania, where they do battle with the queen of the undead, Stirba (the frequently nude Sybil Danning). From there on, things get confusing.There's some sort of arts fair going on in Transylvania, which I thought was vampire country but apparently has a burgeoning lycanthrope population. The Flock of Seagulls dude nails the reporter chick with his pants still on. Three partially transformed (read hairy) werewolves enjoy a spirited, if somewhat testy, menage a trois. A dwarf's eye explodes. Much fun is had by all.Howling II Your Sister Is A Werewolf (its alternate title, Stirba the Werewolf Bitch had me laughing for days) is, indeed, a terrible movie. I hadn't seen it since I was a kid, and after watching it on cable the other night I can't believe how bad it was. But I'm giving it a high rating and a sincere recommendation because they just don't make horror flicks like this anymore.The werewolf transformations are just awful. The filmmakers were definitely going for An American Werewolf in London (which won an Oscar for its special effects), but, ahem, fell prey to their own kitschiness, which permeates the entire film. There are some incredibly cheesy transitions between scenes; swipes, swirls, and spirals abound. And the script? I've seen more substance on a roll of Charmin. But it's great; how often do you get to hear lines such as, That dwarf is staring at us?Compared to today's era of Macintosh-generated special effects (which look incredibly dated now, and will look even worse in ten years), a film like Howling II is a gem, a last hurrah of the last great era of horror films. You'll never see pools of blood or cheesy puppets or laughable laser rays done like this again. Get some beer, pop it in, and laugh yourself stupid. By the film's conclusion (in which Sybil Danning rips her clothes off seventeen times, all in time with a Cramps-sounding 80s band called Babel), you'll be glad you did.By the pale, pale light/pale, pale light of the moonglow... "},{"Title":"Not a sequel, a send-up!","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think perhaps the most apt comment should go to Christopher Lee himself who has often described HOWLING II as his own personal embarrassment!  Since we have the film in our own library (in BETA format of course) we are probably the only family world-wide has seen it upwards of 20 times over the last 17 years....never fails to give us a laugh...I would almost miss it now! We all just watched it again tonight!El cheapo film-making any which way you want to look at it...script, acting, direction, editing, production values, fx...love the early shot of the werewolf where they have only given the poor guy a furry arm the rest is normal! But hey...this is a fun movie....how many other films do you get to see a girl rip her bra off seventeen times during the closing credits. Sybil Danning should have received a special Oscar for this alone!Tries to link itself to the original with the most pathetic re-shot footage of Dee Wallace Stone's demise in the original that looks absolutely nothing like her, not to mention the body in the coffin. Still ya gotta love the theme  In the pale pale night of the moon above....Hell, give it a break! "},{"Title":"So bad, it's actually funny!!","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Howling was a horror movie that had horror in it, Howling II is a horror movie that's hilarious!!  It almost makes fun of itself!! Christopher Lee was so funny, he should of won an Oscar!  And as for the rest of the cast, they make Airplane look like a drama.  You'd think they picked these guys off the streets.  And as for Stirba- the Werewolf Whatever, her character was SOOOOOOOOO funny, she made the film a comedy!! I mean, Stirba.  Every time they mentioned her name I had to stop the tape and run into the next room, crying with laughter.  Yes, I own this film. Of course, I bought it because I'm a collector and to pass the time by! Usually, you wouldn't find the content of this film funny, as my father found out the hard way, but it's presented in such style that...  well, it's very hard to explain.  Howling II is so bad, it's funny!!  And that's all there is to it!!     "},{"Title":"Your sister is a werewolf.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched two Christopher Lee movies this weekend, Horror Hotel (Lee at his best) and Howling II (Lee at his worst).  This is definitely the low point of the man's career.  You can tell he did not want to be here and I feel so sorry for him.  The film is pretty bad...but it's funny at the same time. I almost peed in my pants when Reb Brown (Captain America himself) ran into the room and screamed BOO!!  The man is a comic genius and it's laugh out loud funny.  Equally funny are the exploding dwarf, the drunken werewolf orgy, and the use of the eighties swipe (that device used to cut from scene to scene).  We get some of the corniest swipes ever; a fan, diamond, swirl, and just the classic swipe are all used.  Perhaps the funniest thing comes in the credits.  The scene where Sybil Danning strips her clothes off is shown 10, count em, 10 times again over the credits.  This does not compensate for the crappiness of the movie though.  The most unbearable quality about the flick is the lighting.  You can't see anything.  If there is any werewolf action going on here, you can't see it!  It's so dark and sometimes very painful to watch.  Howling II is worth watching only if you're a Reb Brown fan or if you want to see Christopher Lee wearing some ridiculously cool eighties sunglasses, or maybe to see some Frankie Goes To Hollywood-lookin' band sing a song about the pale, pale light of the moonglow. "},{"Title":"A real mess with some eye candy.","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" From the moment Christopher Lee puts on a pair of punk sunglasses and tries to sneak into a punk rock club, you know you've got a stinker on your hands! This film had potential. Beneath all of the sludge there are the remnants of what could have been crafted into a decent film, if not an interesting one. The final product is a real mess, however. Aside from the gratuitous nudity and some very attractive women, Howling II winds up being a laughable excuse for a horror film. Christopher Lee gives it a nugget of credibility, but even he cannot raise it above the level of crap.Having never seen any of the other films in this series, this critic will be forced to accept on face value that this is a genuine continuation of the events in part one. We start off at a funeral for one of the characters from the original, and within the first ten minutes we find ourselves in Transylvania with a small group of heroes ready to battle a coven of werewolves. The film is paced fairly well, and there are not too many dead spots. The action is there; it just isn't filmed well. One bright spot is the music of a punk band called Babel. Though their song is played quite often, it is rather catchy.The problems with this film are great in number. First off, the acting is worse than pitiful. Christopher Lee is good enough, but that's where it ends. The two leads Reb Brown and Annie McEnroe are lacking in just about everything you'd want for such characters. The writing is wretched, the editing redundant, and the direction amateurish. There are a couple nice special effect gimmicks, but the cheesy ones far out weigh them in number. Sybil Danning is nice to look at, but her acting performance is less than satisfactory. Judd Omen looks the part he plays, but his voice and acting are unconvincing to say the least. Much of the dialog is in an unintelligible language that may or may not be Latin.I liked the general idea for the story. I always enjoy stories of true believers out to battle seemingly invincible forces of evil. One scene where a small group of good guys are trekking through a dark forest and shooting down a bunch of werewolves is even kind of exciting. Kind of. Maybe a bigger budget or a better director could have made the rest of the film a bit more compelling. 3 of 10 stars.The Hound.Side note As of this writing, the censors at youtube.com have still not taken down the ending credits with Sybil Danning ripping off her top several times while the Babel song is playing! Catch it while you can! "},{"Title":"Why in God's Name Did Christopher Lee Do This Piece of Trash?","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After watching this, I had lost a little respect for Christopher Lee (This has passed over time). This film was utter garbage. First, they tried to recreate the ending from the first Howling, with incredibly bad make-up. Then they try to turn it into a sad excuse of a werewolf porn film! The plot sucks and the whole film is just AWFUL!!!! A brother of a werewolf victim from the first film (From the look of it, it was SUPPOSED to be Dee Wallace Stone)teams up with Lee and another woman to destroy the group of werewolves, lead by Sybil Danning, who seems to be naked all the time.This is not even worth renting (Unless you want to waste your time and money watching the nudity.). Try to catch it on cable instead. It would be so chopped up, it may actually make sense. "},{"Title":"by the pale, pale light... by the pale, pale light, of the moon...","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have already seen The Howling (worth watching), the vampire versus werewolf Part 6 (fair), and the were-thylocenes of Part 3 (awful).  Prior to viewing Part 2, I noted with some trepidation that it too was directed by Philippe Mora who did Part 3.  Is Part 2 worse?  Almost.  Part 3 is more consciously tongue in cheek and plain daft.  Part 2 is still a below par horror film.  Here are some reasons why -The American couple lack charisma, spark, and can't act their way out of a paper bag.  The film moves at break neck speed with no time for character development, plot exposition (both possibly intentional) and fatally, for a horror film, any atmosphere and tension build up.  The werewolves are too vulnerable and exude no threat, being killed in droves.  Why bother with the titanium/silver malarkey.  The nighttime forest scenes are too dark, you can't tell what the hell is happening, just a flash of teeth, some gunshot, and an axe flapping about.  The needless flashbacks to earlier scenes and events grate.  For example, a characters name is mentioned, cut to scene of that person, cut back to conversation.  Any continuity in a scene is broken and it is patronising to the viewer.  Speaking of `flash'backs the closing title sequence is a highlight, with the same footage of Stirba disrobing in time to the music.  Superb!  You'll love the theme song by the end as well!*spoilers*Some important events are too rushed.  The worst example is the death of the black werewolf, Mariana.  Throughout the film she is presented as a powerful wolf and a leading villain.  You'll hardly notice her death it is so botched.Some moments and ideas have potential, particularly the scenes in Transylvania (where else).  The village carnival, the macabre puppet show, and the pursuit of the `laughing ` dwarf through the streets and building (cf. Don't Look Now) have promise but fail in execution.  The imagery of old European architecture, such as church gargoyles and grim murals, is a highlight.Mercifully, the presence of horror veteran Christopher Lee adds some much needed levity and style.  Last year I saw him in Jesus Franco's The Blood of Fu Manchu and thought it a horror lowpoint for him.  The film is let down by sloppy editing and a banal finale.  How wrong I was.  Here Lee plays a goodly occultist/lycanthropy expert.  Those silly wolves shouldn't have messed with the `Prince of Darkness' on his home turf of Transylvania. Watch out for Jimmy Nail playing a `cool' LA biker complete with Geordie accent.  Thankfully for him and us he dies before he manages to do any singing.  Why else was he at the gig, he was about to clamber onstage.  If so they could have renamed the film, The Whining Your Northern Actor is an Atrocious Singer. "},{"Title":"Christopher Lee's Skeleton in a Very Distinguished Closet","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Lee hosted the 100 Years of Horror for Ted Newsom and was talking about filmic werewolves. He said something to the effect that his only brush with lycanthropy was The Howling II, then he quipped, The less said about that the better. Indeed he was right as this film may very well be the worst in his entire catalog of screen performances. The first Howling by Joe Dante was a groundbreaking werewolf film with its incredible special effects and its campy sense of style and subject matter. It was a film to be taken seriously. Like other good original films, filmmakers for some strange reason thought that even more campy sequels were needed rather than what worked the first time(See CHUD then CHUD II to illustrate this point). This film is miles and miles away from the first on every front. There is absolutely nothing scary about it. It looks cheap and is pitch black through most of the major scenes. Lee is the only actor in the film worth mentioning(okay, I'll cede Ferdy Mayne too). Lee looks embarrassed as he says inane dialog and does ridiculous things(check out that ending with him and Stirba). Lee looks incredibly tired and knows what dreck this is which is a tad more insightful than the two leads who leave America to go to Romania. The story isn't really worth examining here, and you can bet there is very little story worth mentioning when you have to have Stephen Parsons and his band Babel play through much of the film in the beginning and the ending with that dreadful noise. Sybil Danning is here and, yes, she disrobes once and then we get that scene showed again and again and again - one reviewer said 17 times(I counted ten - but might have been so bored out of my mind by that point). I gave the film three stars, but it really deserves a zero - the three I gave it are 1 for Lee and two for Ms. Danning's contributions. Yuck! "},{"Title":"Sybil Danning's perfect breasts saves flick from garbage dump","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*I bought this video for 3 bucks at my local video store. I bought it for one reason and one reason only Sybil Danning's perfect breasts. The filmmakers knew their greatest asset and exploited it for all it was worth. Over the closing credits, Sybil rips off her shirt a total of SEVENTEEN TIMES! Yes! I counted! If you add the shirt ripping moment in the actual movie, that's EIGHTEEN TIMES! Eighteen shots of her breasts! I felt like The Count on Sesame Street. Sixteen..Seventeen..Eighteen breasts! AH-HA-HA-HA!The rest of the flick was a cheap-o werewolf movie. The werewolves looked like guys in gorilla suits. The special magic laser (?) effects Sybil was doing looked awful. The acting was wooden. The werewolf sex scene between Sybil and two of her minions was too silly and definitely too hairy. Add it all up Howling II = Bad Movie.On the plus side, there were Sybil's naked breasts. If you want people to sit through your ending credits, call on Sybil Danning. "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid, stupid.","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Gee, my first 1 rating on IMDB! Deeply idiotic movie that does a great disservice to the original (which I LOVE). Badly made, awful quality (it looks like sh*t on both video and cable), unsexy, crappy music and totally embarrassing for all involved. Christopher Lee comes out all right, but that was never hard for the Master. This must be for him what my brother and I call a mortgage film The mortgage was due, so he took it. Faugh. Go back and get the original.  "}{"Title":"It's sooooo bad.","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ben a out-of-town cop is convinced his sister was brutally killed and wants to bring her killer to justice, but he's approached by Stefan who believes his sister was a victim of a werewolf cult. So Ben, his sister's best friend and Stefan travel to Transylvania to put a end to this evil.This is incredibly awful B-grade stuff and I wondered how it even got released. It makes the original 'Howling' look like a masterpiece. What was Christopher Lee thinking, as this has to be his worst performance I've seen.There was a lot wrong with this real cheap-ass film, ranging from the really hammy and wooden performances from Annie McEnroe, Reb Brown, Marsha A. Hunt and Sybil Danning (not to forgot Lee), cheesy fashion (those sunnies), cheap and lame special effects, bad use of lighting, the humour... if there was any, trashy 80s music (with some of the film just focusing on some unknown band playing), werewolf's having orgies which is a sight to see and a tiresome story with flat and annoying dialogue. I thought if it was that bad it would be awfully funny, but I was wrong. The positives were the location and settings of the film looked great, but that's about it... actually I'll add Sybil Danning short stripping scene too.During the end credits the band plays their crap-house song during a weird montage of scenes from the film, which I beckon the question why?An awful piece of mess, however at least it isn't boring.1/5 "},{"Title":"This is horrible","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  DEAR LORD WHY DID I STOP TO WATCH THIS MOVIE!? This is one of the worst pieces of crap I have see in a long time. Horrible acting, cheesy visual effects, stupid plot. Was this suppose to be scary or just a waste of money?  Wait, did it cost any money? Why am I even wasting my time commenting on it?  What is the point of the stupid wolf sex scenes? How was the main couple having sex with their pants on? Why did I waste my time watching this in the first place? Why did I type so many questions?  "},{"Title":"Possibly the only film ever made to feature a Transylvanian dwarf whose eyes explode.","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Howling II starts as it means to go on with a bizarre and surreal opening narration by Christopher Lee whose image is imposed over a moving star field, oh and a skeleton appears as well for some reason. He says for it's written the inhabitants of the Earth have been made drunk with her blood. And I saw her sip upon a hairy beast and she held forth a golden challis full of the filthiest fornication's and upon her forehead was written, behold I am the great Mother of #an inaudible word I couldn't make out no matter how many times I rewound the tape and tried to, sorry# and all abominations of the Earth. This opening narration means nothing at all and is just downright bizarre. After the opening credits which are set over shots of Transylvanian architecture we get an on screen caption that informs us we're in 'Los Angeles, California U.S.A. City of the Angels'. I knew I was in for a long 86 minutes. It's probably not too long after the events of the original Howling (1981) and it's Karen White's funeral. After the ceremony Karen's brother Ben (Reb Brown) is spoken to by an 'occult investigator' called Stefan Crosscoe (Christopher Lee) who says that Karen is a Werewolf and that she will come back to life. Ben dismisses such nonsense. But together with one of Karen's friends and colleagues Jenny (Annie McEnroe) he visits Stefan at his home. There Stefan tells them about Werewolves and how they can be killed, he mentions Stirba (Sybil Danning) who is the queen of Werewolves. Stefan also shows them a photograph taken at Karen's funeral of a woman named Mariana (Marsha A. Hunt) and that she is an extremely vicious and dangerous Werewolf who wants Karen. Stefan says he will stake any Werewoves through the heart with titanium. Ben figures out that Stefan means he will stake Karen as well so together with Jenny he travels to the graveyard where his sister's crypt is to stop Stefan. However lots of Werewolves turn up and attack Stefan, Ben and Jenny. They survive the attack and manage to find out that Stirba is to be found in Transylvania. They all decide to travel to Transylvania and stop Stirba and her Werewolves from taking over the Earth by fulfilling a centuries old curse. Once there they travel to a small town called Vlkava which means 'where wolves live' and meet up with the local priest, Father Florin (Ladislav Krecmer) and his small but loyal group of Werewolf hunters, hey what else can I call them? Oh, and a dwarf named Florica (Ludmila Safarova) helps too. They follow Mariana who they hope will lead them to Stirba. But Stirba knows of Stefan's arrival and has plans for him Ben and Jenny. Will Stefan be able to put an end to Stirba's plans for world domination? Will this film get any more bizarre or surreal? Watch it and find out. Directed by Philippe Mora this is one strange mess of a film. It's poorly edited as certain sequences just jump around incoherently. The single biggest problem is the script by Robert Sano and Gary Brandner based on his novel which is all over the place and doesn't make any sort of sense or introduces us to any proper characters that we like. Luckily it moves along like a rocket and is never dull or boring, unlike the original. Something strange or bizarre is always happening to keep the viewer entertained. Most people will probably hate it, but for those of us who enjoy 'bad' films this is right up there with the best of them. There are Werewolf orgies which are just freaky to watch. We get some cool Werewolf killing weaponry. The sets and locations just seem so out of place and I don't know if this was actually shot in Transylvania but it doesn't look like what I thought mid 80's Transylvania would. Stirba's castle is part dungeon, part Gothic castle and part modern luxury house. Stirba and her servant's costumes are very over-the-top, Stirba wears an outfit that looks like it belongs in a S/M video and to be fair to her she looks pretty sexy, and her minions wear skimpy leather clothing too. The special make-up effects range from good to poor, a dwarf's eyes explode, someone has their hand ripped off and a priest has some creature emerge from his mouth but this isn't a film loaded with gore, although there are plenty of effect sequences with Werewolf transformations and attacks. There is plenty of nudity as well as Stirba and her minions are a real randy bunch of Werewolves! I should also mention the music, the soundtrack is dominated by awful rock music that I hated and I ended up turning the volume down. Acting is weak all round and what on Earth was Christopher Lee thinking about when he accepted this film?! I wonder what he thinks of it. Basically the whole thing is a real mess, but I found it a fairly entertaining mess all the same. Impossible to recommend but it kept me watching through to the end. Speaking of which the end credits run over what appears to be deleted scenes and cut footage, it also features the same shot of Sybil Danning taking her dress off and exposing her breasts probably in excess of 20 times! If that's your thing. "},{"Title":"How to fight werewolves - erm, vampires - er, whatever","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, as everyone has pointed out, this film is a complete dog. To some degree this is because it was a gory sexploitation film that had a lot of material excised (or darkened down to near invisibility) to escape the censor's X-rating; but the film has many other flaws as well.To begin with, the scriptwriter seems to have got his werewolves and vampires mixed up. The baddies in this film are furry and don't like silver but in every other respect they behave like vampires. Now you just can't do that with a crappy genre flick, you've got to stick to the rules of the genre or the fans get all confused and annoyed by suspending disbelief in the wrong thing. In fact the whole (confusing and poorly presented) plot is something that has already been done for vampires, but doesn't make any sense in a werewolf movie.Secondly, the werewolf costumes are the lamest you have ever seen. Anybody in the werewolf movie business ought to know that the werewolf costumes and transformations are something the fans assess critically, yet some of these werewolves are just plain goofy.There are a couple of slightly good bits. I actually quite liked the score. Others have mentioned Sybil Danning's tits. And...(***SPOILER***, if such a thing can exist)I also quite liked the plan for attacking the werewolves' stronghold. There are so many horror movies that rely on characters behaving stupidly, but in this case they first acquire a very sensible and effective anti-werewolf arsenal and go slaughter the monsters. I mean, you can kill werewolves with silver bullets, and we have some pretty powerful firearms these days. Shouldn't be too hard to put two and two together, hmm? But in typical style this movie goes over the top and adds some other very zany and amusing anti-lycanthrope weapons. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Many fans of the overrated original, find this sequel to be lame and stupid. Yes, it can be stupid at times, but it's not really that lame. !!!SPOILERS!!! Two siblings of the reporter in the first film travel to Transylvania where they meet a cult of werewolves led by that reporter. Christopher Lee is good like always. Entertaining, and good effects. **1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"A great piece of crap!","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have seen ever! The first Howling was great, but I stopped this horror movies serie with the second episode 'cause it sucked more than anything that had ever sucked before!Christopher Lee should have had some money problems in the 80s to play in such an horrific movie.  "},{"Title":"Director and Editor apparently failed coherency 101 and continuity for dummies","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably the worst movie I've ever tried to watch, bar none. Well, I hated Je tu Ill Elle also, but for pretentiousness and bad fake lesbian sex, not for stupidity or incompetance on the part of the crew.  The film came on television and I started watching - the band scene was pretty good, I'm currently trying to find out who they are because I liked the music.Unfortunately the bands clips were the best quality material the film had to offer.  To summarize The Director and Editor apparently failed coherency 101 and continuity for dummies.  The film is that bad.  Immediately following the nightclub scene is a stilted, confusing scene at a warehouse - eager posturing from a soon to be snuffed extra aside - there is not one coherent bit to latch onto.  Shots are edited out of visible, obvious order to construct a fight scene.  It's *bizarre*.Christopher Lee is *wasted* in this film apparently in both the drug-use and talent-use sense of the word.Prior 'Howling' footage is used, in combination with pathetic dialog looping, to particularly bad effect.The dialog written for this turkey is weaker than I'd have ever thought possible - perhaps the screenplay was actually written by one of the producers pre-teen children.The only reason I can see for trying to suffer through this piece of carbon dated 80's crap is on a dare.  It's bad, but it's not even 'Plan 9' interesting bad.  Viewer Beware! "},{"Title":"Mediocre sequel to a classic","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Howling II Your Sister is a Werewolf is a rather mediocre sequel to the first film.**SPOILERS**As the funeral for Karen White is complete, Jenny Templeton, (Annie McEnroe) is approached by Stefan Crosscoe, (Christopher Lee) a professional werewolf hunter, about Karen being a werewolf. Jenny and her boyfriend, Ben White, (Reb Brown) Karen's brother, are asked to meet with him and is able to prove that Karen really was killed as a werewolf and that a leader of the werewolves, Stirba, (Sybil Danning) has special plans for her. They travel to Translyvnia and find her in control of a large cult of werewolves that are planning a ritual that will allow them to take over the world. Teaming up together with some local villagers, they race to stop Stirba from unleashing her plan.The Good News Certainly, this is one of the more ostracized films in horror cinema, and looked at on it's own, it has a couple things going for it. Firstly, there are some nice action sequences towards the end that really lift up the film and make it a nice ending. The continuous attacks along the caravan are pretty nicely realized, and it gives the film a little momentum heading out to the finish. The castle sequences are the film's best moments, as the film covers two different plots at once, which are covered effectively and satisfactorily. The assault on the castle at the end is quite good, providing some nice suspense scenes as the group wanders through a forest teaming with werewolves with only torches to provide light. It's a nice stretch of sequences, as there are plenty of attacks along the way, providing the jumps that the setting gives. The film also has an abnormally high body count, providing for some nice, gruesome deaths. One has their eyes exploding due to a high-pitched screeching, another has their hand ripped off, a couple are savagely mauled, and a couple of the werewolves are stabbed, providing gore for them as well. Every now and them, there would be shots of a werewolf design that would be quite evil looking and a major deviation from the other werewolves in the film. Despite that, it has something new in the werewolf film the werewolf three-way, which is depicted in here for what could be the very first and only time. And sadly, the best part is the end, which features the film's best topless scene repeated ad nauseam over the credits spliced in between other scenes. That is the best part of the film.The Bad News There is a lot of people that aren't too high on this film, and I mostly agree with their critiques on the film. Every now and then, there was some sequence that would make you roll your eyes in boredom of the action. Outside of the ending assault on the castle and a nice part in a church early in the movie, there really isn't a whole lot to keep your interest in the action. The action scenes really needed to be more involving than what they were. The fact that the storyline about how to deal with werewolves was changed only slightly was a little but of a disappointment. It wasn't exactly all that shocking and it made no sense as what was chosen has any power over them in the first place. Also, an unrelated scene features one of the characters sprinkles garlic on the bed to ward them off, which is a protection against vampires, not werewolves, and they have been established as dealing with werewolves by then. However, I think the main problem with the film is the completely hilarious and ludicrous look for the werewolves. They look nothing like the ones from the first one, the transformations, while much more frequent, are nowhere near as groundbreaking as the first one and look laughable. The werewolves are the same way, with a merely caveman-ish style look to them with more hair. They don't look anything close to scary, and are not capable of generating fear. It's a pretty weird look to have after the first one's marvelous look.The Final Verdict Even though it should be viewed on it's own terms, but it's your choice as to which one of the cases brought up here apply to you. If you agree with the bottom one, only werewolf-completists should give this a worthy look. If you agree with the top, then don't go out of your way to see it.Rated R Graphic Violence, Nudity, several Sex Scenes of both man and werewolf, a werewolf menage-a-trois, and some Language "},{"Title":"The horror is this trash was ever made.","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is really bad,so bad that even Christopher Lee cannot save it.A poor story an even poorer script and just plain bad direction makes this a truly outstanding horror film,the outstanding part being that it is the only horror film that i can honestly say i would never ever watch again.This garbage make Plan nine from outerspace look like oscar material. "},{"Title":"Don't get much worse then this","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sfefan(Christopher Lee) is a werewolf hunter.He teams up with Ben(Reb Brown) who had a sister that was killed by werewolves.They go from Los Angeles to Transylvania on a mission to kill Stirba(Sybil Danning) who is queen of the werewolves.Annie McEnroe also stars.The Script was Written by Robert Sarno and Gary Brander.These two just might be the worst Writers. The Script was just horrible.Director Philippe Mora is nothing more then a hack.Howling 2 is just beyond bad, one of the worst horror movies ever made.Christopher Lee actually turned down the role of Dr. Loomis in John Carpenter's masterpiece Halloween.But yet he takes this role what was he thinking?You can see Christopher Lee just wanted to do his scenes and get the hell out.The only good thing about this movie was Sybil Danning nude.They don't get much worse then this.I give Howling 2 Your Sister Is a Werewolf 0/10 "}{"Title":"Some Sort of Horrible Misfire","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A young man (Reb Brown) whose sister was murdered by werewolves helps an investigator (Christopher Lee) track down a gang of the monsters through the United States and Europe.Although the original Howling is considered a classic, its run of sequels are less distinguished. They made several, but none ever came close to the critical reception of the original. Part three, with were-marsupials, is obviously clever, but few would go so far as to call it a good film.For part two, director Philippe Mora was told to go over the top by producer John Daly (who gets no credit), with everything short of singing werewolves. Daly provided Planet of the Apes suits rather than wolf costumes, and this brought about the birth of the monkey phase. Incidentally, Mora never saw The Howling (at least at the time of filming), so any ideas here (beyond the script) were pure invention.Howling II is today a cult film, no doubt due to the actors involved -- Lee puts on a dynamite performance, as always. And Sybil Danning exposes some things in this film that may be unintentionally humorous. And not just that strange black and gold ensemble. To say it is a good film would be a lie, but it does stagger back and forth between so bad it's good and just bad, which may make it the perfect party movie if you have 90 minutes and plenty of beer to kill.Interestingly, this was one of the first Hollywood films made behind the Iron Curtain, with the KGB watching the set (particularly during the concert scene) and Prague stunt men who did not know how to light people on fire or shoot blanks without serious injury. The crew was encouraged by the priest to desecrate the church containing King Wenceslaus. Even more interestingly, perhaps, is the bone room -- while it looks like a set, Mora insists this is an actual ossuary in the basement of the church.Lee is the strong point of the film, with Reb Brown showing some of the worst acting (doing nothing to improve the cheesy dialogue and script). The film very heavily leans on a single New Wave song from little-known band Babel. The song is actually rather decent and appropriate for the movie, but tends to be overused for the soundtrack. We certainly do not need to hear the same song five times (or more) in one movie.The old saying is that less is more. In this film, that could be a reference to the werewolves. Who can argue against an army of werewolves? That could be a lot of fun, and the effects shots for how they are exterminated are pretty good. But the costumes themselves are pretty silly, and after a dozen or so silly wolves, it is hard to take the movie seriously. (Of course, if you take any of this clunker seriously, you are in for a disappointment.)Scream Factory -- possibly the greatest distributor of modern classics -- has given us everything for their release of this film, including the kitchen sink. Two commentaries full of tidbits (including the movie's connection to The Terminator). Several interviews. And quite possibly the best the film will ever look. A world apart from the old, dark prints that that hit home video years ago. If there was ever a must-own for fans of cheesy horror, this could be it. "},{"Title":"Slammed way too often...","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have yet to read an intelligent review of this movie from someone who actually appreciates it, so here are a few words from it's biggest fan. Yes, this is my favourite film. No joke. I am not crazy. I am a seasoned horror enthusiast and film maker who appreciates true masterpieces just as much as what many would call 'trash'. When looking at Howling II, one must not compare it to the original. In fact, the only mistake this movie actually made was trying to tie it together with first Howling. I will agree that it was just plain stupid how they re-created Karen White's death. That was indeed awful. As for the rest of the flick? Well, it's an absolute gem! Starting with the poster art. Check it out- one of the coolest looking movie posters you'll ever see. As for the film it's self, you can read about the plot from some other reviewer. I simply want to highlight the fact that this is ultra cool, ultra camp, ultra awesome 80's stuff and there will never again be anything like it. To those who knock the music, you should realize that Babel's punk soundtrack is crucial to the movie. But it seems that not too many get this. Now, I've chosen not to dissect the movie for a reason you should just see it again, or for the first time without prejudice and don't worry about how poor you've been told the acting or technical quality is. There's nothing to necessarily 'get' in this movie, nor anything intellectual or political or any 'statements' to be derived. It is just pure lovable entertainment. And horror fans should especially like it for actually doing horror right. It really doesn't get much better than Sybil Danning clad in leather and chanting sweet lines of gibberish in the castle of werewolves. See it. Love it.NOTE- The hard-to-hear line Chris Lee utters in the opening sequence goes as follows Behold... I am the great Mother of Horrors... and all abominations of the earth! (for those who need to know) "},{"Title":"Your Sister is a Werewolf! ...in the pale pale light of the moonglow","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Danning at her best despite the awful direction and writing. It's understandable that Lee publicly dissed this film, because even with his experience in rescuing awful dark films from bad scripts and worse direction, he couldn't do a thing with this one except go along for the ride. He was probably grateful for the shades...Why do I then give this an 8? It's great! You have to view this film from the unique perspective it offers and *if* you're a fan of 80s kitsch 'horror' (though this one plays more like an older 'monster' movie), you should really enjoy it. Very good soundtrack, especially the credits track! Just make sure to have plenty of silver bullets to bite on so you don't pierce your tongue or cheek while trying to survive the horrid writing & direction.The orgy scene is a campy classic and there are some really (unintentionally) funny lines and scenes... Overall, a good idea gone bad, but definitely worth watching *if* campy monsters, Werewolf Queens in bdsm spacesuits and the 80s are on your hitlist ;) Howl! "},{"Title":"No wonder I see Horror Films as Comedies","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" We had STARZ free weekend and I switched on the station to see what was on . It was this movie Howling II The acting was terrible but the eye candy was great. Sybil Danning and Marsha Brown as the afore mentioned eye candy. I was laughing a lot from the few scenes I saw.My friends wonder why I never want to go to Horror movies , If they saw this film they would know why. I would get thrown out for laughing so hard.Just a couple of trivia notes  Reb Brown who played Ben White had played Captain American in a made for TV movie Marsha Brown was Mick Jaggers inspiration for the song Brown Sugar Mick has great taste in women for sure. "},{"Title":"Only Christopher Lee keeps this from getting a 1","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the first Howling, we are introduced to a world where werewolves exist and are somewhat organized. The plot in that film made some sense; a TV reporter investigates this and attempts to uncover the truth. She ends up having to kill many of them including her boyfriend who becomes one. Then she shows the world that they do exist by transforming on live TV. The special effects were just laughable in the first movie and they don't get any better in this one. Whether it's the transformations or the bad puppets or the cheesy computer graphics showing the superpowers.The plot line isn't all that bad; they must kill the leader of the werewolves for some reason. This won't destroy all werewolves and it really doesn't end the threat from werewolves as it...they just want to kill her. I think there was some cloudy reason for this but it really gets lost in the film.After the film ends we have a 10 minute montauge of the movie we just watched and every other scene is one where the female werewolf leader rips off her top exposing her large breasts while some Devo-esquire band plays to a crowd of werewolves. The only thing that makes this movie even watchable is Christopher Lee. "},{"Title":"Too many werewolf orgies and not enough werewolves","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" to be honest, i didn't watch all of the original 'howling', but those scenes i saw made it obvious that the first howling was a great movie. so great, that seven horrible sequels had to be made. they started off with Howling II Your Sister Is A Werewolf. i got this movie on VHS from my uncle sometime ago when he was giving away a bunch of old movies he bought back when Atari was brand new. i just watched it last night, and it wasn't really BAD, it was just weird. i mean, the whole thing with Sybil Danning going three-way with two of her werewolf minions was just out of place and quite disturbing (but kinda hot), Christopher lee about to stab a dead karen as if she's a vampire, etc. actually, this movie was actually like some sort of mish-mash of Dracula and The Lost Boys...except with werewolves, because everything Christopher Lee (whom played Dracula himself) was saying about werewolves pretty much ripped off from every other vampire movie (stake in the heart, garlic, the creature of the night must die AT NIGHT, and the ruler of werewolves lives in TRANSYLVANIA). not much for the acting, but the worst of it came from Annie McEnroe. i swear, at some point in the film i found myself rooting for the werewolves to rip her throat out, because that damn throat always had to say SOMETHING. Anyway, the plot is pretty silly and clichéd, so there's no real point in telling you, you could just read about it on Wikipedia. By the way, the thing that really makes me nauseous about this movie is the fact that it's the ONLY film out of all the seven sequels thats related in any way to the original (not counting Howling IV (1988), which was a remake of the original, or in other words, a sequel based on the same novel). so don't see this movie. there's no real horror, hardly any werewolves, and just horrible special fx. 3/10 "},{"Title":"When in Vlklava do as the Vlkavians do!","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Off-the wall movie about werewolf hunter Stefan Crosscoe, Christopher Lee, hunting down a pack, in fact an entire town full, of werewolves in the Transylvanian town of Vlkava. In his battle to prevent a resurrection of werewolves, when the moon is full, from all over the world. This in celebration of the Queen of the Werewolves wild and sexy Stirba ,Sybil Danning, 10,000th birthday party.Stefan got the bad news about the big canine get-together in Transylvania back in L.A where he saved Ben's, Reb Brown, sister the dead TV news reporter Karen Brown, Hana Ludvikova, tortured soul from eternal suffering, yes Ben's sister was a werewolf. It just so happened that Ben wanted to prevent Stefan from stabbing his dead sister but by her coming back to life, as a ferocious and blood-thirsty werewolf, Karen solved everyones, Stefan & Ben's, very pressing problem.Stefan together with Ben and his girlfriend news reporter and the late Karen's best friend Jenny Templeton, Annie MacEnroe, travel to Vlkava to prevent the wolf party from happening. It doesn't take long for the fur to start flying with the werewolves coming out into the open and having a wild time at the expense of the very few people in Vlkava who still aren't members, or werewolves.The many special effects in the movie with werewolves running amok keeps your mind off the almost incomprehensible story that keeps you interested with a number of wild soft-core orgy scenes. Including a manaja twa between Stirba and her fellow wolf man and wolf woman Vald & Mariana, Judd Omen & Marsha A. Hunt The sexy trio generated so much energy that it would heat a six story apartment building for an entire winters heating season.Taking on the werewolf cult with a number of townspeople Stefan and Ben have it out with them in the woods leading to Stirba's castle with the only thing that can stop and kill the wild and Satanic beasts silver bullets and titanium and silver knives! You can just imagine what the cost of those expensive items Were. After the whole pack of werewolves are put away by Stefan & Co. the big secret is revealed about Stefan and what his connection, or relationship, with the evil Striba really is to the absolute surprise of no one watching the movie. The movie The Howling II ends to the sounds of a rock band pounding out an ear-splitting song. Were also titillated with the films closing credits having inserted into them a clip of buxom actress Sybil Danning, Stirba, stripping her top off, like she did earlier in the movie. Danning does it more times then the entire group of Dallas Cowboy Cheerleaders do when they undress to take a shower. "},{"Title":"Horror Classic or Mastebatory material for 13 yr. old boys??","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Before my rediscovery of this movie at the age 16 I had only remembered small snippets of the film from my childhood. Impressions of the film, based solely on my childhood memories, would leave one to perceive the film as a high paced action/horror film, but that is what would happen if a person was to describe a film based off of assertions that they had made as a child. In actuality this film just barely stays out of the realm of soft core pornography. Yes, this film is one of few that can boast undead orgies and a Werewolf/ Hybrid/semi-human form Menage twa.Thinking back I can now understand why snippets were all I could remember. Either my parents never let a child of the ripe age of four or five finish watching this movie, or they spent most of the 80 or 90 minutes of run time shielding my virgin eyes of cheesy 80's semi- soft core porn. Not even Christopher Lee, one of the grandmasters of the horror genre, could pull this movie up from the metaphorical street corner that it works. Terrible acting, an even worse story line and plot inconsistencies leave much of this films redeeming value in it's strong sexual content and nudity, which if you're over the age 18 and can purchase actual adult films, or are capable of picking up a girl and experiencing the real thing, leaves little reason to watch this film. "},{"Title":"Howling we will go...","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  to what's been uncertain why so many sequels that do not relate to this movie. Sybil Danning shows her breast and makes love to her critters. Christopher Lee is as ghouling as can be for this type of movie. I do own the movie only because of the breast Sybil shows off to her critters. A lot of blood, screaming and eating going on for this low budget and out of production sequel to the first movie...this movie is lacking. "},{"Title":"What a joke of a movie!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film was terrible! Oversized teddy bears that were meant to be werewolves ran around making fools of themselves! The camerawork was so shoddy, all you could actually ever see were blurs that were meant to be people! The werewolves really did look like big teddybears! The sound was horrendous, and due to awful dubbing you could barely grasp the storyline, not like it was much of one!This is the kind of film an enemy would give you as a practical joke, it is that bad! The only scare you will get from it is that you paid 3 bucks for renting it! Watch paint dry, far more entertaining! "}{"Title":"The Downfall of a Great Series","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Every Installment of The Howling Series is Perfect and Scary. Every one Except this Trash. VERY Poor Special Effects and Terrible Acting. And The Worst Thing is that the Werewolves are Now More like Witches. I Highly Recommend that Fans of the Original Skip ahead and Watch Part 3 and on. You Will be Very Disappointed. I Give it 3 out of 10. Absolute Garbage! "},{"Title":"STICK TO THE ORIGINAL!!","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A pretty bad sequel. The first movie had great scene in it, but this lacked entertainment. I saw this a long time ago so i haven't got a really good recollection of it. Although I do remember the first one being much better than this. "},{"Title":"A true visionary work of a great film pioneer!!! A mind blowing cinematic masterpiece that will hold and captivate you for 91 minutes!!!","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let me tell you that this is the best sequel ever made.The storyline sets in in Transylvania(vampires!!)and it seeks to resolve the werewolf problem once and for all.With world class director Philippe Mora and Christopher Lee,you can't go wrong.It's a cheesy movie with a rocking soundrack.Philippe Mora's editing is groundbreaking just like Takashi Miike's Saam gaang yi,where Miike's gradually zooming forward camera provides a haunting,thought-provoking effect.It also uses fake footage from the original film. And there is a picture gallery at the end.I'm not telling you what pictures.Now let's go to the effects.The gore is over the top!!! There are severed limbs,yards of intestines,slashed throats and mutilations.The werewolves look like a drunk and stoned Rick baker made them for a movie featuring old,furrowed men!!The bat creature was also hilarious!! Howling 2 could not have been made without the groundbreaking use of children's crayons.Kids would love to see the final battle scene!!!!Why hate the movie so much??It tries to be serious but it ends up extremely funny!My thanks to Philippe!!Now there is another director to join the ranks of Scorsese,Coppola and De Palma.Phillipe Mora! "},{"Title":"Seriously Undervalued","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think that this film has been seriously undervalued. It is entertaining, full of screen moments, the kind of film that can stimulate an endless series of endless debates.The first half of the film is set in Los Angeles, the most unlikely vision of Los Angeles filmed so far. It seems to be a montage of the back streets of Newcastle. The famous Batcave stands in for a Los Angeles nightclub. That'a s seriously good song being played by an interesting band. Who are they? The American clubs turn out to be suspiciously Geordie. Good material for Before They Were Famous.Mick Jagger's ex, Marsha Hunt, is in fine form, and deserves to have her role extended.The werewolf attack in the warehouse is a classic of its kind - When Packing Cases Attack.The nominal hero, Reb Brown, is the kind of American that fits our stereotypes well. What kind of person wouldn't believe what Christopher Lee tells him? After a faux-Los Angeles the trip to Eastern Europe is a bizarre contrast.The vampire crown prince is a Jewel with his matted chest and receding hairline. I like to think he's an Italian.Vampire love-making is absolutely defined in the film without any sexiness creeping in. A totally original scene, a little short of ballet.I like the fact that the American hero runs away from Werewolf Castle while the little man stays to be eaten.It's hard to think of a misconceived film that is more stunning. "},{"Title":"Uh... Magic werewolves?","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is hands down, one of the strangest movies I've seen.  I don't mean strange like David Lynch strange - I mean strange for no reason.  The weirdness of this movie doesn't even begin to make sense, nor does the plot.This movie is bargain basement in almost every way.  Barely watchable at that.  The effects are awful (and nonexistent in one scene where there's obviously supposed to be some).  The actors make cardboard boxes look like Oscar nominees.  Even the werewolf makeup is weak - a fatal flaw for a werewolf movie.What I found most confusing was that somewhere between The Howling (a good movie) and this one, werewolves became magic beings from Transilvania?  Uh, these are werewolves, not vampires.  Then there's this cult which somehow summons the ancient werewolf queen, or something.  Some blond woman who spends most of the time walking around in a hideous leather outfit that belongs in a very, very bad music video.  The night scenes are so dark you can barely see what's going on.And then who can forget the immortal line That dwarf is staring at us.  Classic.Surprisingly, what this movie does very well is the editing.  You have to see it to understand what I mean, but I thought the editing was really cool.  Quick cuts to close ups for a second.  Repeatedly cutting back to one scene towards the beginning. Etc.  Also the music is pretty good, by eighties standards.That is not enough to recommend it though.  By all means, avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"Disjointed. Exploitative. Agony to sit through!","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Christopher Lee must have cringed on seeing the outcome of this second entry in the Howling franchise. Everything about this film appears rushed and thoughtless. The acting is appalling, direction (was Phillippe Mora actually on the set?!)appears to be free-associated and the production is superficially sexploitative. This film should have been titled 'Howling 2 - Caligula the Werewolf.' "},{"Title":"Wow!  This was BAD!!!!!","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dreadful horror sequel to The Howling. This picks off with Karen White's funeral (she was killed at the end of the first film). Stefan Crosscoe (Christopher Lee sadly) arrives there and tells Karen's brother Ben (Reb Brown) that Karen was a werewolf. He's going to Transylvania to kill Striba (Sybil Danning) the head werewolf. Ben and a coworker of Karens (Annie McEnroe) join him.A terrible script, bad direction, inept editing and truly horrendous acting by Brown and McEnroe single handedly sink this one. The werewolf effects are mostly kept in the dark--for good reason! They're terrible when you see them. Subpar special effects also--although I DID like the cartoon lightning that comes from Danning's fingers. There's also a werewolf orgy which is particularly stupid and Danning takes off her top at least EIGHT TIMES during the closing credits! There are a few good things--I found the village in Transylvania amusing--it looks like it came from a Universal horror flick from the 1930s! There are interesting camera tricks between transition scenes; Brown and McEnroe have good bodies and Lee and Danning are good in this--but they can't save it. Really--WHY did they do this? Where they that hard up for money??? This is one of IMDb's lowest rated movies. That alone should tell you something. Supposedly Danning was horrified when she saw the movie--I can understand why! A must-miss. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The bad multiple sequels.","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Howling II (1985) was a complete 180 from the first film. Whilst the first film was campy and creepy. The second one was sleazy and cheesy. The production values on this one are pretty bad and the acting is atrocious. The brother of the anchorwoman werewolf from part one wants to find out what happened to his sis'. The scene from the first film was badly re-created. A skinny plain looking woman accompanies bro' (Reb Brown) to the old country (Romania) to uncover the mystery to her sister's murder/transformation/death. Christopher Lee appears and disappears over now and then as sort of a sage/guide to the two. Sybil Danning and her two biggest assets appear as Stirba, the head werewolf of the Romania. She also suffers from a bad case of morning face, ewww!Bad movie. There's nothing good about this stinker. I'm surprise Philippe Mora directed this picture because he's usually a good film-maker. The film is so dark that you need a flashlight to watch it (no, not the content but the film stock itself). To round the movie off you get a lousy punk performance from a Damned wannabe Babel. Maybe if they forked over a couple of extra bucks they could've got the real deal instead of an imitation.Best to avoid unless you're desperate or you lost the remote and you're too lazy to change the channel. "},{"Title":"Cheesy fun.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A man investigating the death of his sister, discovers she is a werewolf and part of a werewolf cult in Transylvanina. The make-up, effects, plot, acting, direction, etc. are either pretty much non-existent or down right silly, but the film is entertaining in a cheesy way and Danning rips off her clothes (again). Bonus at the end credits, that scene with Danning is repeated over and over again. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Terrible Film But Kinda Fun And Campy","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This second film is nowhere near as good as the original film - not even close. The only real reasons to watch this film is Christopher Lee (he's always great) and just to say I've seen that werewolf film - that's it.This should have been a fantastic follow up film to the original where her brother investigates her death but instead turned out to be another 1980s horror cheese fest. This whole script should have been scraped and rewritten into a great 2nd movie. I like Sybil Danning and LOVE Christopher Lee - but this film is just bad.I do find the movie an eye-roller at the stupid campiness and crappiness of it all. Kinda fun in a way but not a film to watch over and over again.4/10 "}{"Title":"In the pale, pale light, the pale, pale light of the moonglow...","Date":"25 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Incredibly idiotic, senseless, and utterly sleazy sequel to the popular 1981 werewolf film The Howling stars Sir Christopher Lee as Stefan Crosscoe, an occult expert determined to wipe out lycanthropes, in particular those who associate with the fiendish queen werewolf bitch Stirba (Sybil Danning). He makes a point of telling Ben White (Reb Brown), the brother of the Dee Wallace character from the first film, the specifics of her death. When Ben is unable to deny the evidence, he heads off, with reporter Jenny Templeton (Annie McEnroe) in tow, for Transylania, to help Stefan in his werewolf killing mission.The story is absurd, the dialogue hilariously awful; poor Sir Christopher and Sybil have to utter some pretty dumb lines. The makeup effects are crude to the nth degree, but are delicious in their egregious lack of quality. The scene with the eyeballs exploding is pretty cool. In some ways, Stirba - Werewolf Bitch goes back to Gothic basics in a way by exploiting flavourful European Old World atmosphere. But it adds a lot of spice to the deal by being so damn trashy. The sexy ladies present dress quite provocatively, and Sybil is willing to disrobe and show off her ample assets. The New Wave pop soundtrack is a total hoot; we're made to listen to that priceless title theme song a number of times. Original Howling author Gary Brandner co-scripted, from his novel Howling II The Return, and maintains a very tongue in cheek approach. With the level of both cheese and trash on display, it's clear that this was never meant to be taken seriously.Sir Christopher looks pretty serious here, though; the movie does benefit from his professionalism. Sybil is a mildly amusing antagonist. Brown and McEnroe are just sort of there as hero and heroine. Marsha A. Hunt, Judd Omen, Ferdy Mayne (who has the same character name as John Carradine in Howling No. 1), Patrick Field, Jimmy Nail, and Jiri Krytinar co-star.Directed by Philippe Mora, who has the distinction of being director on two Howling sequels, the other being The Marsupials The Howling III.The end credits are actually a highlight.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"In the pale, pale light. pale, pale light of the moon glow I've got a hunger that's in motion, a hunger that I can't control.","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It is of no debate that 'Howling II' is universally considered a bad movie. It is really bad but the question has been is this a diamond in the rough of eighties cheese that connoisseurs of corn can revel in? The answer is a no sadly. 'Howling II' does not meet the criteria for a good bad film because it has trouble filling it's ninety minute runtime. The movie is essentially the late great Christopher Lee spouting apocalyptic warnings in between cuts of werewolf S&M sex that is basically pornography. That it is such a boring movie is kind of beyond me...My draw to the film was Christopher Lee, the late horror legend. The loss of his great talent pains me but he left a magnificent legacy of wonderful performances in classic horror films. 'Howling II' is his turd. I used to believe that Lee and his frequent partner Cushing could do no wrong in this type of role even if the film was bad. The problem is that 'Howling II's complete ineptness brings Lee down. Largely it is the fault of the inane dialogue which Lee himself cannot save although by God he tries his hardest. The problem being that Lee emanates intelligence and depth in his on screen persona and when this dialogue is so slap together with no concern to theme or character, well it makes Lee look stupid. This is so unfortunate. Seeing as how Lee is wasted there was really no chance of this film working as everything else is pretty pathetic. The campiness of Sybill Danning as Stirba wears off quickly. I mean the werewolf orgies are funny at first but it ends up being the only thing the werewolves do in the film. One thinks that instead of the S&M costumes they should have spent a little more of the budget on perfecting the werewolves which look like second rate Chewbaccas. The cardinal sin of 'Howling II' is it's padding. It doesn't know how to fill a feature and thus a criminal amount of padding is added to the script to increase it's run time. The same theme song is repeated at least five times. We get harrowing scenes of our heroes looking for their hotel or pondering about whether a dwarf is watching them. In my opinion a bad movie cannot be a good bad movie if it doesn't have a sense of purpose or a brisk pace. 'Howling II' drags and it drags bad. It would be fine if we spent more time with Lee but with the shaved gorilla Reb Brown the whole thing becomes a chore.The excessive scenes are entertaining for a little bit but it isn't worth sitting through the whole thing. One gets the whole effect of the 'Howling II' in a short Youtube compilation clip and sometimes that is the best way to experience a bad movie. I wouldn't watch it again except in a Rifftrax scenario or if I were to pelt it with insults with a friend. "},{"Title":"Really ?","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Howling 2 1985This is my first watch of the sequel The one think I can say about this movie is that, it was not boring at all and it did not take to long to get startedI was a bit annoyed from first werewolf scenes as when doing people turn to werewolf in day? Full moon plot was ignoredAs rest of the movie people were turning in werewolf in day light throughout , Which really bugged me.What the hell was the whole supernatural finger magic near the end , that just felt so out of place.The make up effects were not good at all and transformation scenes were really badly editedOne thing I actually liked was the song that played most of the movie , I had it stuck in my head the all day.I felt the acting was just mediocre 3/10 "},{"Title":"How do you get funding for this?","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie's two main attributes are found on Sybil Danning's chest, but it's all down hill from there.The unlikely duo of Reb Brown and Christopher Lee take aim at werewolves in this entirely awful Howling sequel.Our hero, Reb Brown, is a graduate of the wooden Indian school of acting and really has no business being in the same movie with Christopher Lee. Lee for his part plays an intense and single minded werewolf hunter who travels to eastern Europe to do battle with werewolf queen Danning and her clan.Much of this movie is just an embarrassment of strange werewolf rituals and general bad acting. I actually do like the new wave band that gets screen time in this movie, although I think I'm the only one around here who does. Fortunately, if you view the end credits, you'll see that this movie doesn't take itself seriously in the least, and that's worth a star in this rating. Add a star for each of Sybil Danning's contributions, and this movie rates 3/10. "},{"Title":"Cinematic Ambien...After 15 Minutes You'll Be Out Like A Light","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Director Philippe Mora blamed the producers for the disaster which is; Howling II Your Sister is a Werewolf. He claims they extensively recut the movie and butchered it. He has also claimed that they bailed after running out of cash mid production. Hell, he's even blamed the inexperienced Soviet film crew for causing this cinematic sleep aid to be one of the worst sequel since Exorcist II The Heretic. I blame Philippe Mora who didn't direct one good scene in this badly acted, poorly written, grainy-looking piece of crap. A humiliated looking Christopher Lee stars as an occult investigator hunting down a slutty, bisexual werewolf queen played by Sybil Danning whose WORST film this is. Along for the ride to Transylvania are Annie (who must have been sleeping with somebody to get the part) McEnroe and Reb (?) Brown. Brown delivers the best performance in this appallingly bad movie which should tell you something. Fans of the Joe Dante werewolf classic The Howling should never watch this disheartening sequel. "},{"Title":"Stirbia werewolf bitch...","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The brother of Karen White who died in the first film is told the truth about his sister's death and helps an investigator track down the werewolves that made her what she is through Europe.This film starred Christopher Lee, Annie McEnroe & Reb Brown.Howling 2 is worse than the first film and I didn't like the first film. If I thought The Howling was bad I couldn't imagine the troubles I faced trying to watch this film. Many questions may be asked about this film but the only question i want answered is what class-A drug was Christopher Lee on to star on this film, I f I was him after this film I would have strapped my agent to a chair and made him/her watch this film over and over again until his eyes started to bleed through how bad it is.*/***** Awful. "},{"Title":"The second one is the worst...","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A werewolf hunter convinces the brother of Dee Wallace (the main character from the first film) that werewolves were the reason for her death and takes him and his girlfriend around the world looking for them to wipe them out, however what they don't realise is werewolves are multiplying fast and they could be more than they can handle.This film starred Christopher Lee, Annie McEnroe & Reb Brown.Howling 2 is without a doubt the worst out of the 4 howling films I have seen, it's absolutely terrible. I can't believe Christopher Lee was in this film because this man is a legend in the film business but what is this film. Not recommended at all.*/***** The pits. "},{"Title":"The greatest bad movie of all time?","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" No, but it's somewhere in the top ten. In my opinion, 1965's Village of the Giants takes the top prize, mainly because it's entertaining on different levels from beginning to end. Howling II is also entertaining on multiple levels, but it's often just dull, which is why I can't give it the top spot.First things first Howling II (1985) shouldn't be spoken of in the same breath as the original 1981 The Howling because that film is a werewolf classic -- one of the greatest werewolf films ever. Howling II is just too low-budget, low-grade and campy to compare. Let me put it this way, every Friday the 13th sequel is a masterpiece compared to Howling II. What's that tell ya? Still, there are a number of things that make this a worthwhile bad movie, like the priceless title (Your Sister is a Werewolf),Christopher Lee trying to keep a straight face, Sybil Danning hamming it up as the sexy werewolf queen in various eccentric outfits, the memorable theme song by Stephen Parsons (including a live lip-syncing), and the Los Angeles/Czech Republic cinematographic (featuring lots of Gothic props, buildings and the like).The film was directed by Philippe Mora who also did the next sequel The Marsupials The Howling III, which is slightly better, but not as memorable or entertaining. As far as I know, Communion (1989) is Mora's only real notable film, but then I haven't seen most of his movies and don't recognize the ones in his filmography either.The film runs 91 minutes (too long).GRADE D+ or C- (but C+ or B- for entertainment value) "},{"Title":"Room 666 smells great.","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Howling II ... Your Sister Is a Werewolf' is an incredibly dumb title for an incredibly dumb sequel.The film opens at the funeral of Karen White, the TV reporter who was shot dead after turning into a dodgy looking werewolf at the end of the original The Howling. As the mourners leave, occult investigator Stefan Crosscoe (Christopher Lee) approaches Karen's brother Ben (Reb Brown) and reporter Jenny Templeton (Annie McEnroe) claiming that Karen cannot rest in peace because she is a werewolf.They initially dismiss him as a wacko, but a later horrifying turn of events at the cemetery leaves them in no doubt about the validity of his claims. Equipped with titanium stakes, silver bullets, holy wax earplugs, holy water, and the holy grail, the trio head for Transylvania where the big breasted leader of the werewolves, Stirba (Sybil Danning), is about to celebrate her 10th millennium in the company of her hairy pals.Incredibly camp and unbelievably silly, Howling II is an absolutely awful piece of cheezy 80s horror, one that has to be seen to be believed. Among the incredible crud on offer Christopher Lee sporting 'cool' 80s sunglasses in a nightclub; Jimmy 'Spender' Nail as a new wave punk; crap punk band Babel, who only seem to know the one (bloody awful) song; Lee spouting random occult gobbledegook; a dwarf whose eyes explode; more Transylvanian peasant revelry than you can shake a stick at (the locals never seem to stop dancing!); a hilarious werewolf threesome; the return of the eyeless dwarf as a masked killer; Stirba launching a bat at a priest, the flappy critter seemingly taking up residence in the dead man's mouth.Some crude gore helps make matters a little more bearable, but the film's undeniable high point is Danning baring her impressive chest; director Philippe Mora was so happy with this shot that he repeats it numerous times during the film's closing credits (accompanied by Babel singing their one song yet again!). "},{"Title":"Your sister is a werewolf","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't know if the IMDb site administrators will count this a s a spoiler but I will list it just in case Howling 2 was a film about a man who's sister was Karen White who was played by Dee Wallace in the first movie. He is told about her being a werewolf and goes and helps a man wipe the rest of the werewolf species out across America and Europe.This was another bad film in the Howling series just like the first before it, I don't know how they persuaded Christopher Lee to be in this movie as you usually expect better things what he stars in a film. I was not to keen on the plot and the body in the coffin at Karen's funeral right at the beginning didn't even look like her one bit.**/***** Poor "}{"Title":"In the Pale, Pale Light of the Moonglow...","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" At his sister's funeral, Ben White (Reb Brown) meets Stefan Crosscoe (Christopher Lee). Stefan tells Ben that his sister was a werewolf. Surprisingly. Ben doesn't believe him. At the urging of journalist Jenny Templeton (Annie McEnroe), who was also a friend of his sister, Ben agrees to hear Stefan out. The two are then shown footage of his sister's transformation into a werewolf and supposed death. This footage is not from the original Howling. It's reshot with a different actress playing Karen White and far inferior werewolf makeup effects. Anyway, Ben has to wind up killing werewolf Karen. Then he's all on board the werewolf hunting train, headed to Transylvania to do battle with the werewolf queen Stirba (Sybil Danning).One of the greatest bad' movies of all time. From the hilarious sight of Christopher Lee in shades and jeans to werewolf boinking and eyeball-popping, it's a magnum opus of crap. The werewolf ménage a trois is actually the least absurd sex scene in the film, following distantly behind Reb Brown and Annie McEnroe's awkward lovemaking. The film's biggest pluses come from the catchy theme song by Babel and the buxom Sybil Danning. The two collide for one of the greatest closing credits of any movie ever. I rarely rate a movie up on the basis of being so bad it's good, but there a few cases where the entertainment value is just too great not to. Ultimately, entertainment value is paramount to me when scoring films. This is definitely an entertaining one.The original title is Howling II Stirba - Werewolf Bitch. I personally prefer Your Sister is a Werewolf, as it accurately reflects the ridiculousness of this movie. Definitely not for all tastes but if you enjoy bad movies and looking at Sybil Danning's large breasts you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"Best Worst Subtitle","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" So, I finally, after what?, 28 years, saw the first (and last for me) sequel to my favorite werewolf movie of all-time, The Howling.Oddly, for me, at least, I've seen all Howling chapters, but not the very first sequel, or Howling II&#x85;Your Sister Is a Werewolf, until now. And wow, I wasn't missing much.Sure, ALL of the Howling installments have been crap. I don't think there's a series in the history of cinema that had an incredible beginning and every single follow-up have been absolute trash. But, this one, Part II, actually had potential and an interesting idea a brother of the heroine of the original goes after those responsible for turning his sister&#x85;into a werewolf.But, after the premise (and Part II's singular effective scene with the Original's heroine in the coffin) goes nowhere, the movie is one incoherent mess of a scene after the next. Nothing made sense or had any continuity and it appears drugs weren't just on the mind of the writer/director, but in their system.I wasn't able to say it before, since I hadn't seen this sequel, but now with full knowledge, I can honestly say watch THE HOWLING and please never ever, EVER, venture to any of the seven follow-ups. It's too bad that not one of the seven could come close to the excellence of the original and it's even worse that they continuously made these movies when after Howling II&#x85;Your Sister Is a Werewolf was so incredibly horrible.* * * Final thoughts Okay, okay, if you like hairy breasts, you might like this. You will see them repeatedly. "},{"Title":"Lame but quite good fun","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a pretty bad movie. But not so bad as it's reputation suggests. The production values aren't too bad and there is the odd effective scene. And it does have an 80's cheezoid veneer that means that it is always kind of fun. Watch out, too, for Jimmy Nail's brief appearance - his attempt at an American accent is so astoundingly rubbish it's fantastic. Fantastic too are Sybil Danning's breasts - they make a brief appearance in the movie but the scene is repeated umpteen times in the end credits in what can only be described as the 12 remix of Sybil Danning's boobs. Has to be seen to be believed. As a horror movie it isn't scary, the effects are silly and Christopher Lee turns up to sleepwalk through his performance. I guess he was buying a new house and needed some cash for the deposit. The two central characters - the man and the woman - were so negligible that I have forgotten almost everything about them and I just watched this movie earlier tonight. The werewolves are noticeably less impressive than in the original movie, in fact, bizarrely, they sometimes look more like badly burned apes. The eastern European setting is quite good and the music provided by the new wave band Babel, while being pretty terrible, does at least give the film some added cheese.Overall? Good for a laugh. Not good quality but did you seriously expect it to be? And, at the very least, you've always got Sybil's knockers. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but for all the wrong reasons.","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Somewhere, buried very deep inside this film is a half-way decent movie trying to get out. The only traces are a few early scenes in Los Angeles (in a bar and a graveyard) and thereafter a couple of pieces of production design. Like I say, buried very deep. One of the biggest challenges faced by movies involving the supernatural is how to have characters react believably in unbelievable situations. Annie Mcenroe's reaction to being told that her sister (presumably Dee Wallace from the first movie) is (was?) a werewolf is, if I recall, along the lines of; Oh! Really?. Not one of the better responses to said challenge. The non sequitirs continue as the story moves to Trannsylvania in search of Stirba the (apparently self-appointed) Queen of the Werewolves. As Stirba, Sybil Danning is the two best things in the movie. Yes, even better than the werewolf group-sex scene, Reb Brown's acting, and the oddly simian-looking werewolf suits. The end credits have assumed minor legend status and are available in all their glory (at least until the censor finds them) on Youtube. Check them out to see why and remember, the whole film makes about the same amount of sense. If you happen to catch this on US television the credits have been re-edited to replace the endlessly repeated shot of Danning ripping off her top with another endlessly repeated shot of her ripping open a cloak only this time she has some kind of top on underneath. It's a sort of absurdity, cherry-on-top moment which defies satire. "},{"Title":"geronimo!!!!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  what a vast drop off from the first one!!!  the original is one of the best werewolf movies ever made.  on the brighter side, at least it isnt the howling 3the marsupials!!!   the great special effects went away, but it has a terrific halloween type atmosphere "},{"Title":"Cute and furry","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Pauline Kael wrote in her essay Trash, Art and the Movies that the movie lover has to appreciate garbage films due to their excessive quantity in comparison to excellent ones. I am going to apply her creed into actual comparison of bad films to each other. Everyone has discussed the merits of Citizen Kane in comparison to Casablanca. Few have talked about if Battlefield Earth is a superior film to Ballistic Ecks vs. Sever. That's what I hope to figure out. I may also gain an insight to evaluating modern movies people by looking at why crummy pictures are bad. Since I recently watched New Moon, which is a movie with bad werewolf effects, I'll start with a series of film reviews on similar films.The first entry in this ongoing series is The Howling 2 Your Sister is a Werewolf. I'm going to tear through all six sequels to the original The Howling, which are remarkable in their infamous awfulness. After I review part 7, I'll move onto a different category of bad movies.Usually, at least one for-profit-only sequel to an acclaimed horror movie is well-received. Not one of the Howling sequels has any kind of respectable legacy. Either audiences hate them (parts 5-7) or mock them (parts 2-4). Within the pantheon of bad movies, The Howling sequels form their own sub-category. It's a bizarre accomplishment worthy of consideration.The Howling was loosely based on a novel by Gary Brandner who would go one to write two sequels to his original novel and write the screenplay for the second film. This is where things get weird. The Howling 2 movie is unrelated to The Howling 2 novel. The film was directed by French-born Australian director Philippe Mora, and he somehow managed to get Christopher Lee to sign on. Lee only did the project because he had never stared in a werewolf movie.The film's numerous, humorous problems begin with its title. It was alternatively called The Howling 2 Stirba-Werewolf Bitch. The bravado of that choice is astonishing. Who references the word bitch in a movie about werewolves, let alone in the title. It's such an obligatory reference that it could only effectively be used as a quick joke. Even the main title doesn't work. Your sister is a werewolf sounds like the title of a costume fetish party.The budget was severely reduced from the first movie, and all of what remained was probably for Lee's acting fee. We are never treated to seeing a transformation in plain view. The camera instead shows half of a werewolf's face in a darkened room and then a human falling to his/her doom. When Mora shows us a proper attack, the werewolves appear to be people in gorilla costumes. The masks actually bobble on occasion. Couple this effect with Mora's strange power point-like transitions between certain shots, and you have a potential giggle fest. He was either inexperienced or severely incompetent.Following the first film, Karen White has died and it opens at her funeral. Her brother Ben is in attendance and meets the oracle Stefan (Lee) who says that Karen will come back from death. This must be why her corpse is seen breathing no less than three times during the funeral. Stefan leads them Transylvania (where else could they possibly go), where the werewolf queen Stirba lives. Maybe if they kill her, the franchise will have a respectable demise. But it isn't to be. There are still five sequels remaining. So, instead, they encounter her sex-deprived minions along the way to the ultimate showdown.Stirba has no apparent motive other than having sex with her subjects. Mora may have been trying to replicate the first film's the beast within us motif by showing werewolf sex, but he failed to make it erotic or relevant. The first film showed two people copulating before they transformed. As they reach climax, they are werewolves and we see only their faces. In this movie, we see partially transformed figures engage in soft core sex, WHILE THEY ARE IN BETWEEN TRANSFORMATION. Imagine watching a bunch of really hairy people roll around together, and you will have a good mental picture of what happens. There is even an infamous threesome scene. It isn't sexy. It isn't erotic. It isn't scary. It's really, really creepy.The owner of the independent video store where I rented the VHS tape of this film told me after the first Howling, they were all porn. While that isn't entirely true, it is certainly applicable to the first sequel. Mora's mistake was failing to realize that werewolves aren't sexy. No one expected to be titillated by this film. The only appeal of this movie is its unintended relentless push to make its audience cringe. Mora would improve in part 3.Not Recommended (except for furries) "},{"Title":"It's good to be bad","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I can sympathize with the various people who have written about how bad this movie is. Most people probably know that it made it into Roger Ebert's _I Hated, Hated, Hated This Movie_. I agree there are a lot of painful things to endure. The lame 80s band gets annoying after a while. And the werewolf orgy is pretty ridiculous, as is the final showdown between Lee and Danning. I have to say, though, that I love the closing montage with the repeated images of Danning stripping--one followed by Christopher Lee looking very interested. But the extras look like they're having a good time. And gosh, I've seen this movie about 10 times now and it never is so boring I can't finish it. I can't say that about a lot of movies that I try to watch even once! _Howling II_ is a camp-a-licious little treat! "},{"Title":"Whoa! Sybil!","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Now this film isn't going to scare anyone, but it was interesting for two reasons - two big reason and a smaller one- well, that's three reasons, isn't it.The first reason this is interesting is the special effects. I found them to be quite interesting and somewhat spectacular. To see the hair growing on Marsha A. Hunt and Sybil Danning was creepy, especially when they were participating in a ménage à trois.Of interest, is the fact that this Marsha Hunt is the famous Brown Sugar of the Rolling Stones song, and that she was in the infamous nude scene in the London cast of the rock musical Hair.Besides the special effects, there were two other points of note in this film, and they were brought out repeatedly during the closing credits. I lost count, but i swear that Sybil Danning bared those points for us in the closing credits at least a dozen times and maybe many more. Theyu were the most outstanding feature of the film. "},{"Title":"Bad, but not Bottom 100 bad.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the assumed death of Karen White at the end of the first film, her bland, big lunk of a brother Ben (Reb Brown) shows up at the funeral looking for answers and meets up with cult investigator and werewolf expert Stefan Crosscoe (Christopher Lee), who has his own business card and says, There are great numbers of werewolves living among us! The two team up with Jenny (Annie McEnroe), a TV news anchor, Pulitzer Prize hopeful and former co-worker of Karen's, and end up heading overseas to Transylvania to try to wipe out a cult of werewolves located there. International sex goddess Sybil Danning is sexy lycanthrope leader Stirba, who is approaching her 1000th birthday. Sybil (whose voice is often electronically altered) has one topless scene, is seen in a silly fur suit and fake fangs and likes to have threesome wolf sex with her dedicated male henchman Vlad (Judd Omen) and topless black daughter Mariana (Marsha A. Hunt). And then there's an unexpected revelation about Lee's character. I won't give it away, just to say Danish dish Danning and British legend Lee (who both deserve better material that this) do not make convincing siblings, but the casting director gets a gold (eh, titanium?) star for the idea.  To be fair, HOWLING II has an OK opening ten minutes or so, some great-looking sets, good location work (it was filmed on location in Czechoslovakia) and plenty of blood, gore and highly variable special effects (by the usually reliable Steve Johnson and cronies), but the writing is the worst and many of the performances are just plain terrible. While blonde musclebound dullard Brown (who played Hercules in Italy and Captain America in some American made-for-TV movies) may be sufficient eye candy to some, McEnroe just fails to generate anything other than annoyance with her mushroom haircut and squeaky voice. Danning has one of those can't-miss-in-theory roles that somehow manages to completely miss the potential for campy entertainment value. Many consider this Lee's worst genre role, but he comes across fine as always. A highlight (for me, at least) was seeing Lee, dressed in sunglasses and a leather jacket, hanging out in a then-trendy club listening to the Euro punk band Babel (whose song is repeated at least four times). Speaking of repetitive...check out how many times Sybil's topless scene is repeated during the end credits. Ferdinand Ferdy Mayne (THE FEARLESS VAMPIRE KILLERS) has a small role as well.Like I said, it's not a very good movie, but it has just enough going for it that it doesn't deserve to be among the Bottom 100 here at IMDb. "},{"Title":"Howling Two is garbage.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Howling 2 is an awful movie, just terrible. The main point of Howling 2 seems to provide a vehicle for Sybil Danning's large artificial breast inserts. Reb Brown provides his usual wooden performance. The whole movie is just ridiculous from start to finish. Lots of run towards the danger scenes, gypsy violin soundtrack and cheesy effects. Stupid, stupid, stupid.The only thing the film can brag about is the presence of it's only real actor, Christopher Lee. His inclusion in this movie practically CRIES OUT, In it for the money folks, in it for the money! Sad really, very glad Mr. Lee has returned to mainstream with movies like Lord of the Rings and Attack of the Clones. "}{"Title":"The movie is lame, so are the werewolves!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The werewolves in this movie are quite lame.  They are far from menacing and can be killed by a regular bullet as well as by sticking crosses to their hearts.  Excuse my ingorance, are werewolves siblings to the vampires???  Whereas the first movie has a straight forward but interesting plot that serves the purpose, this movie pretends to have an unnecessary mythology base.  The acting is the real horror in this movie.  The effects are cheesy (hence, the only redeeming value!) and sometimes non-existent.  The way the director/editor so laughably and shamelessly ripped off Sybil Danning's one strip scene, I hope she got paid handsomely for it.One last thing, as a sequel to the Howling, shouldn't the movie have the right to use the excellent transformation scene of Karen White at the end of the Howling?  Instead, we get a new Karen White turning unconvincingly into a gorilla.  (I am not kidding!) "},{"Title":"Ouch.","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There are some movies so horrendous that they warrant being seen over and over again. This one's much, much worse than that.  I've probably seen 60 movies this term at school, and Howling II is far and away the worst. Catch part of it sometime, but for heaven's sake don't watch the whole thing.  Tell your children not to do what I have done. "},{"Title":"Bad acting, no script, blokes in monkey suits and Sybil's t*ts","Date":"21 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I tried to make the headline rhyme and its does a little. Anyway the film. It is a bad film if you care about such things as script, characters, acting and suspense. I find it hard to find anything good about it really, Sybil Dannings boobs apart. Yet... I watch it now and again for some reason I find it entertaining enough to dig it out from time to time and bask in its awfulness. What does make me laugh is Christopher Lee trying his best to keep the sinking ship afloat and the three way werewolf scene that (a) goes on too long (b) is not sexy in the slightest and (c) ... well I stretched myself with c but lets just say the scene is embarrassing and pointless but who cares? Sybil shows us her glorious boobs, Christopher lee throws a midget out of a window, the midgets eyes explode, there are occasionally some creepy moments. Hell I like it! Its a strange film to review as it is clearly awful there is no defending that. However I find it strangely watchable. Did that make any sense? No me neither.... "},{"Title":"So Bad...","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I first saw this film many years ago after watching the classic The Howling. Even when I was a kid I thought this movie sucked. Recently, a good friend of mine bought the movie and has been raving about how great it was and how good the music was. So naturally I thought there might be some good aspects of the movie. So I went ahead and borrowed the movie from him. It was so dreadfully bad I could barely keep my eyes open. Now, the acting was so bad that it wasn't even laughable. What was Christopher Lee thinking when he was in this piece of garbage? And I read another persons review on this movie and he's right. You do need a flashlight to watch this movie! It's filmed so dark at times you can't see anything. And the music... I can't find words to describe how bad the music was. Of course, the only reason why this movie is worth watching at all is for the end credits. Bad movie. 3\10 stars "},{"Title":"Bad B movie schlock, not to be taken seriously.","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Second film in the Howling series, has the cop brother of the original films heroine (unmentioned in the first film) & his sisters best friend (a reporter like his sister) teaming up with an expert on werewolves (played wonderfully by CHRISTOPHER LEE) to travel to Transylvania to take out a castle full of werewolves & their queen, whom is a sister to the occult expert. The original HOWLING, has great werewolf effects, scares, humour, great acting, directing & a sharply written screenplay with plenty of in jokes & always something going on to keep you watching. Now just turn all that around & you have HOWLING II, a completely unnecessary sequel that was made by profiteers only & not filmmakers & it shows in every aspect of production. I will give the film points though, it actually is pretty decent & scary in the first half of the film, with werewolf growling sounds, werewolf POV'S & werewolf murders abounding & the score for the film was excellent & the cemetery scene was quiet atmospheric & had a few suspenseful moments as does the scenery in the second half. However once the films action switches over to Transylvania, it all falls right apart. Part of the problem lies in the fact that the film from here plays like it were a vampire film, with the werewolves acting like vampires, draining the life force from victims, residing in a castle(!) & heck even using black magic at one point to turn a midget werewolf Hunter into a demon that attacks the hero's! even worse the transfer for the film was handled very badly, resulting in tons of dark sequences that makes it very hard to see what going on. Early in the film, the occult expert tells the hero's that silver bullets cannot kill werewolves & that, that idea was a myth. When in the original, the owner of the occult bookstore says it's the only way to kill them. I can accept the occult experts explanation, since the bookstore owner from the first film probably believed in the myth & that it would work, but it's still a disappointing explanation simply because if Karen White, the cop's sister in the original film could come back from the dead, then where was Eddie the mangler? the doctor who took care of Karen? Karen's husband? & how is it that none of the hero's in this movie ever ran into any of them? it's just begging for some scenes where the cop hero Ben, meets with his brother in law or the guy that stalked his sister etc. & where's all the others that were shot & burned alive in the first? the film also ditches a lot of other characters from the first film as well, such as Marsha, the werewolf seductress. Plainly put, HOWLING II was the groundwork for all the (mostly) terrible sequels that followed & again had none of the original films charms. They were just cheaply put together sequels by the filmmakers, in an attempt to squeeze as many coins out of the fans as well & it really shows. All these qualities both good & bad help this sequel helps elevate it above above Parts 3, 4, 5, & even the beyond horrible HOWLING NEW MOON RISING. This film also is pretty exploitive with extensive nudity & that's really saying something when compared to most ultra low budget B movie trash. The sex & nudity pretty much dominates most of the second half & well the film doesn't even have a real ending, it just...well...ends? leaving behind a series of what looks like unfinished scenes, it's almost as if the filmmakers ran over time & budget & had to pack it in & decided to use what they have & what's more laughable, is the films end credits, which repeats SYBIL DANNING'S stripping scenes some twenty times, amidst shots of a rock group singing Howling on stage (a catchy tune) & other shots in the film. Badly panned by fans & most critics & understandably so, this second film in the series like I said is better than most of the Howling films. But only because it's so ridiculously bad in all areas of production & so sleazy that you can't help but consider it one of the better sequels, especially compared to how bad the other films turned out to be, because the other sequels (with the exception of the decent HOWLING 6) were attempting to be serious (I know Part 3, wasn't attempting to be serious, but it's comedy was lame) & fell flat on their face. In fact it's almost as if the filmmakers set out intentionally to make a really bad sequel, with even worst special effects this side of a student film. Like they started to make what they intended to be a serious sequel, but midway discovered how boring it would be & just gave up & came up with the script on the fly, coming up with & creating a new script as they were filming. Again, I liked the film, but for all the wrong reasons, the original when brought up is named for all it's good qualities, scares, acting directing etc. While HOWLING II will always be fondly remembered for it's bad acting, directing, look & effects & how enjoyably bad it is. Followed by an unrelated, comedy/horror sequel, directed by the same director of this film, called, HOWLING 3 THE MARSUPIALS *** stars "},{"Title":"Got flea powder?","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Good, you'll need it for this dog of a movie.  It howls, it sheds, its mangy, it's...  Okay, enough canine jokes.Howling 2 should have been better than it was, but it isn't.  WAY too much filler scenes of beautiful Transylvanian cityscapes, woodlands, castles and train stations for a horror movie, not enough werewolves are seen and there is much MUCH too little of the only good element in this whole mess. And I ain't talking about Christopher Lee.SYBIL DANNING, guys.  What else do you need to know?  She rips her dress off for a three werewolf orgy and snaps and snarls right there in bed with two other hapless actors with fur on their bodies.  Bless her heart, Sybil makes it worthwhile.But not that worthwhile.Just one star.  Just for you, Sybil.  You're welcome. "},{"Title":"Eroticism, Darkness and Punk Werewolves","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was one of the best Howling movies made. It certainly shows the culture of the 80s with the outfits and attitudes. It's erotic and dark and everything a b-flick should be!  "},{"Title":"Reasons why this unjustly maligned movie milestone rules","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This often fiercely ridiculed and much-derided sequel in name only to the outstanding The Howling quite simply doesn't get the respect it really deserves. In an (ill-advised) attempt to persuade you that this film seriously smokes instead of completely chokes I'm going to forgo the standard synopsis and critique approach to writing a comment and in its place list several solid reasons why this movie rules. With that obligatory intro stuff out of the way, let's get to that illustrious list 1) Sybil Danning rips off her top and exposes her breasts. 2) Christopher Lee goes to a trendy punk club and gets to wear these gnarly sunglasses. Moreover, the ever-amazing Mr. Lee somehow manages to maintain his composure and dignity throughout the flick despite the fact that he's saddled with a ludicrously demeaning crummy role in which he plays a veteran werewolf hunter (oops, I meant to say occult investigator) who comes across like a third-rate Van Helsing clone. 3) Sybil Danning rips off her top and exposes her breasts. 4) The groovy punk theme song by Babel is totally smoking. 5) Sybil Danning rips off her top and exposes her breasts. 6) Brawny male lead Reb Brown as the jerky joking hero gives a performance that's so atrocious and obnoxious that it will give you a greater appreciation for what a fine, accomplished and multi-faceted thespian Arnold Schwarzenegger truly is. 7) Sybil Danning rips off her top and exposes her breasts. 8) The lighting is so poor and shoddy that it almost hides the fact that the werewolf costumes and make-up are extremely sub-par. 9) Sybil Danning rips off her top and exposes her breasts. 10) Annie McEnroe as the scrawny and insipid heroine thankfully keeps her clothes on. 11) Sybil Danning rips off her top and exposes her breasts. 12) Marsha A. Hunt as a foxy black werewolf thankfully takes her clothes off. 13) Sybil Danning rips off her top and exposes her breasts. 14) A poor hapless dwarf's eyes explode and said dwarf becomes a hideously grotesque eyeless ghoul who tries and fails to kill Christopher Lee. 15) During the inspired ending credits sequence we are entreated to countless repeated shots of Sybil Danning ripping off her top and exposing her breasts. Wait a minute; I think I might have already mentioned that moment elsewhere in this comment. Oh well, it's without a doubt the undeniable highlight of this tremendously special, important and significant cinematic landmark. "},{"Title":"Mediocre sequel","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sequel was not as bad as I remembered, but it was not as good as I had hoped.The plot was replete with holes, and the sequences were slow, slow, slow. The acting quality was a bit better here, as was the production quality and story line, but the finished product left me wondering why they bothered?This played like a series of random scenes with the same actors, spliced together with no obvious intent, while at other times, it promised you a good story, but lost its way after a few lines.All in all, it was quite disappointing. What was so disappointing is that it had the potential to be a great movie and a superior sequel. SPOILERS HERE!!The premise of a cult of Lycan Magick Users is an awesome idea, which was utilized here, but the execution was slow, and just died somewhere after the first opening scenes. And there were immense blocks of dead film; scene after scene where there was no action, no character development, no continuity of story...nothing.There was too much T&A here, and it in no way enhanced this endeavor, nor did it help hide the fact that the director had little to no idea what he wanted to do with this script. That was a shame, and it shows with the complete lack of continuity between the scenes. Either that, or the editor needs to be shot. Either way, this movie failed miserably to live up to its potential. A shame. A real shame.It rates a 5.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Geographically incorrect and one of the worst sequels ever ...","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I haven't read all of the user comments here - just scanned through the first 20 or so - but from what I've read no one else here noticed this huge, gaping hole in the storythis movie was filmed on location in (what was at the time) Czechoslovakia and the story takes place in Czechoslovakia, which the story claims is (or at least used to be) Transylvania. Transylvania is a couple hundred miles away, in what is now Romania, not Czechoslovakia. That isn't some obscure little piece of trivia, it's clearly marked on most maps, even back in the 1980's when this movie was made. Christopher Lee has one of his worst roles here, when werewolf hunters go to Transylvania to hunt down the last of some ancient werewolf cult, lead by the frequently nude Sybil Danning. It starts out fairly interesting, but then quickly goes downhill after about the first 15 minutes, taking itself way too seriously when the first movie was so much fun. Christopher Lee looks about as bored as he could be, and we get to hear the same god awful new wave band play the same horrible song over and over, four or five times throughout this movie, we even get an extended performance by them during the end credits- I think this movie was made primarily as a showcase for this crappy band! And while I have no problem with look at Sybil Danning topless, is it really necessary to show the same scene of her ripping off her top over and over about 15 times throughout this movie?The effect of on location filming is the only good part of this movie, no matter how geographically incorrect it may be, but it's ruined by grimy, underexposed photography- I've just gone back and watched the Republic/Lumiere version of this, and they have corrected, to an extent, the overly dark photography, so at least you can enjoy the on location photography when you get bored to tears with the story ...1/2 a star out of **** "}{"Title":"Strangely enjoyable","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one schizophrenic film that through either some miracle or the genius of people involved with post-production manages to generate a distinct tone that I personally found extremely enjoyable. This is a film filled with contrasts. Some elements are really good. Cinematography is for the most part competent, and all those scenes shot at nigh are competently lit. But sometimes you will notice a scene that is shot in a weird way or that betrays either a zero budget, a total lack of concern for the quality of the film, or outright incompetence. It is as though the screenwriter, the director, the actors and the editor had completely different ideas about what the film was about. I wouldn't be surprised if the project started out as a straight horror film but after a week or two of shooting they decided to turn it into a comedy. I would love to know just how this messy project developed. I doubt that anyone had the vision from day one and wanted the film to turn out exactly the way it did.Christopher Lee is great as usual, and Reb Brown is his usual self lots of screaming and shooting on his part. Sybil Danning is clearly loving that crazy role of hers and her scenes are always fun to watch. All in all, this film is surprisingly enjoyable, in part due to the fact that every single scene is awkward in some way, be it the lines, the acting, the blocking, the costumes, the editing, or some weird element of the mise-en-scene. This film has it all horny werewolves, nudity, Reb Brown, zombie midgets, holy grenades, (in)voluntary humour, and an awesome score performed by Babel. For me personally this film is a comedy gold mine, because every time I see it I notice some new thing that makes me laugh. I think the charm of the film lies in the fact that whether intentionally or unintentionally it turned out to be outrageously funny and whoever had the last word during post-production realized it and apparently deliberately put the material together in a comedic way. Watch this, and watch it again. It will only get better. "},{"Title":"Not to be mistaken for a good film, but isn't one to dismiss so easily either","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The downside to Horror being so successful in the 1980s was that once fresh concepts would get beaten to death. One way to do this was to make numerous sequels, some of far lesser quality than their acclaimed predecessors. Some films warrant a sequel or two, which can take the concept into interesting and exciting directions. 'The Howling' ended with the impression that there would be more to come, which I imagine was a thrill to those who loved it at the time. It would be four years before the first of six, soon to be seven sequels was released and I don't think anyone expected something as out there as 'Howling II Your Sister is a Werewolf.' Pros Cast is game. Gorgeous cinematography. Though inferior, the effects are still pretty good. Director Phillipe Mora actually gets some great shots and adds a bit of style. Grand production design and unique Gothic architecture. High camp factor, including some truly bizarre moments. Fast paced. Adequate score and catchy title song.Cons Very little in the way of plot. Most attempts at humor are lame. Lots of unnecessary padding. Very dated. Silly visual effects. Completely lacking in scares.Final thoughts I really should not enjoy this film as much as I do, but I have such a soft spot for low budget Horror schlock. Out of all the 'Howling' sequels this is the only one to have any real ties to the first film, but by comparison it's just too weird. The first film successfully balances the humor and horror, whereas with this one the makers of it just went crazy. Must be seen to be believed.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Grrrrrrrrr","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I must be one of the few people who enjoys this movie. Apart from the 2 leads and the script writing its good. What? I hear you say. Well its got a great song that suits and an opening sequence in a club where Marsha Hunt struts her stuff and manages to get the guys (who think she is up for anything) as lunch for her Lycanthropic friends. And an early limited line piece from Jimmy Nail. We have of course Christopher Lee who was underutilised in this role that needed better supporting cast and then of course better writing. We get a trip to Transalvania and lacklustre dancing from the small group of extras and warped hoteliers, that oozed lechery and debauchery. But for me it was the castle and Sybil Dannings role that I loved filled with fornicating werewolves and old witches that looked uncomfortable and a little lost-should they have been in the aged care home, rather than there? The Howling song was played whilst the orgy was going on and Babel did a great job with it. It reminded me of The Hunger for some reason, still, it was fun. Loved the small mob that was out to attack the Werewolves and revenge for their loved ones. (Couldn't they afford any more?) This movie was fun and I think that with all the remakes someone could rewrite this and keep to the main format but with a better script and better leads (apart from the Werewolves and Mr Lee of course.) So relax, get out the popcorn and wish that the Werewolves would win "},{"Title":"Howling 2","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Quite a lot of people say that this movie is terrible but what they are failing to realise is that this film was shot in 1983 and released in 1984 so for its time it is pretty good. Of course if you have never seen it in your life and then in the 21st century you watch it for the first time you are not going to give it top marks as you are used to all the latest effects and make up. I watched it when I was very young (about 7 years old) in the late 80's and thought it was fantastic - what kid wouldn't - I then saw it for sale and thought I would give it another go 18 years later. I too thought it was not that wonderful and I thought the effects were rubbish but I realised how old the movie was and the fact that one of the greatest movie legends of all time stars in the movie so I gave it 9/10. "},{"Title":"The best bad film ever made?","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" From the opening credits with Christopher Lee talking about feasting on blood and filthiest fornications with a backdrop of rushing stars and a skeleton(?) I thought this film would be a winner. Bad dialogue, bad acting, crappy effects, awful 80's rock/new wavey music, loads of gratuitous nudity, exploding eyeballs. Whats not to like?I even turned to the person I was watching this film with and said this film needs some dwarfs and lo and behold one appeared! Another highlight is a Borat sound-alike who leads the heroine into the woods because he wants to mek luv with the preety ladee.What else? Truly awful 80's bondage fashions - like Hot Gossip but worse (sorry to non-uk residents who won't get that reference). The heroine also seems completely stoned which she probably needed to be to get through making this film.If you dig the whole so bad it's good thing then you NEED to see this film immediately! "},{"Title":"As good as the first.","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" One thing I like about Howling II is that it's completely different from the first Howling and that's what we want, something different. We don't want a sequel that copies the first films plot. (Howling IV is different, it's more of a remake since they made it closer to the novel) We have Chirstopher Lee who always plays a good part as the Werewolf hunter and is a great actor. We have Reb Brown who plays Karen's brother Ben who doesn't take any s**t from these Werewolves especially when shooting them with a manly yell AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH and also shouts Told you we'd get all these fuzz balls!!! And of course Sybil Danning as Stirba, a hot werewolf queen that kills her enemy's either by singer a chant that causes eyes to pop out or uses her staff with a bat creature on top.The other thing I liked about this was the song In the pale, pale light by Babel and is played about five times in the movie. The Howling films have such good soundtracks like Wipe these tears away from Howling III and Something evil, something dangerous from Howling IV.This film may not go for everyone but for those that like these kind of films then check out Howling II Your Sister is a Werewolf. 10/10.Phillipe Mora would return to write and direct Howling III The Marsupials. "},{"Title":"Naughty title name, but great!","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There are many retro horror movies out there that are so bad, they're good. So bad, they are worth watching. And now, the long search for such a movie is over.Howling II Stirba - Werewolf (bleep) has a title so naughty and so spooky sounding, this movie is the bomb for the ultimate horror movie fan. This movie is a must see in your living room in the dark, on a very, very stormy night. It's best seen on Halloween, for all that matters! This will give you nightmares for a month; it's that intense! However, I only wish that there was a better name for this movie - maybe Werewolf Woman or Werewolf Freak, perhaps? Anyways, great horror flick! "},{"Title":"Do you think that this is bad? Think again.","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Howling 2 is one of the most underrated movies that from the 1980's. I just don't seem to understand why many people hate this film. Is it campy? Oh god yes!!! but that does not make it less entertaining? Of course not!! campy sometimes mean more entertainment! Let me explain.The story sucks, yes I admit it the story sucks, but the way it is presented Its brilliant! The Nicolas Roeg influence can clearly be seen through the disturbing cross-edits and even a very obvious Don't look Now inspired scene. The aforementioned editing makes your blood run cold as you are bombarded with horrific (and funny) scenes in between peaceful and campy ones.Now lets go the part we all love, the GORE! This film has dismemberment, mutilations,disembowelments,throats getting ripped out and of course an exploding DWARF HEAD! The werewolf transformation don't really suck but they're not on par with the original.If you want sex and nudity, look no more!! The montage at the end will prove that.I can't over analyze the film so I will end now. "},{"Title":"Wow, they made more Howlings after this one.","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yes, the first Howling was a classic. A rather good werewolf movie that I admit started slowly, but gained momentum along the way to have a rather good finish then the anchorwoman changed into a cute werewolf only to be gunned down on camera. Yes that made for an entertaining horror movie to be sure...well forget all of that as this movie has nothing to do with that film. Oh sure, they kind of make it out that the anchor woman is the same and that her brother or something is wanting to find out what and why things went down as they did, but they go from the little cozy retreat from the first movie to Transylvania or somewhere here where they must battle evil magician werewolves or something. I often wonder what in the world Christopher Lee was doing in this movie, however I read the trivia here where it says he had never been in a werewolf movie before, but still read the script before you take a role. Maybe you could have gotten into An American Werewolf in London hell that could have been possible. It was set in London after all. Heck, werewolves do not seem to figure much into this movie except for a rather bizarre and prolonged sex scene. In fact, the most memorable death in this movie for me was when the one gal started talking loudly and this one dude's ear's started bleeding. "},{"Title":"So horrible, I love it!","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" THE HOWLING II YOUR SISTER IS A WEREWOLF (1985)starring Christopher Lee, Sybil Danning, Annie McEnroe, Reb Brown, Marsha A. Hunt.plot This takes place directly after the first, Karen's White's sister, Ben (Reb Brown) and a reporter (Annie McEnroe) team up with a werewolf hunter (Christopher Lee) and travel all the way from L.A. to Transylvania. There, they must battle Stirba (Sybil Danning), the Queen of Werewolves who loves to get naked a lot, in order to save the world.the good One thing that actually kept me interested was that I cared about the characters played by Christopher Lee, Annie McEnroe and Reb Brown. Lee was awesome as the werewolf hunter who reminded me of Van Helsing hunting Dracula or Dr. Loomis hunting Michael Myers, he was great. McEnroe felt very real as the reporter who cares about Ben and his sister but also wants to get her story, and Brown is cool as the at first skeptical brother who wants to avenge his sister's death.I also enjoyed the new wave music (the first couple of times anyway), it felt very 80's and gave the film a more fun feel.Sybil Danning is also a great actress as Stirba, the 'werewolf bitch' who is wicked horny and loves to strip naked every 15 seconds.the bad First of all, was this a werewolf movie, or a vampire movie? It is supposed to be a werewolf film but feels way too vampirish, you got the Transylvania setting, the fact that the villains search for their food in public places, the hunter played by Christopher Lee and even a Queen, I could understand a Queen of vampires, but of werewolves? I thought werewolves were cold-blooded monster killing machines?This also felt like a soft-core porn, those werewolves love to strip down naked, especially Sybil Danning, and this happened at least 85% of the movie!And then that new wave song, that I thought was cool at first, was played every other scene! It eventually got on my nerves!All in all, this film was entertaining enough, but I think it was originally written as a vampire soft-core porn, but in order to sell more money they brought in Christopher Lee, made the vampires into werewolves, and called this a sequel to The Howling.5/5 "}{"Title":"Best of the sequels","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now I haven't seen all of the Howling movies,I saw one,this one(if I didn't,why would I comment on it?)three, and five,I'm going to see four soon,and I've heard about six,which I might consider,but seven sounds like gabage!This movie was the only one,that's even the slightest bit linked to the origanal when it comes to the story.The wolves aren't shown as much as the first,but a lot more than 3 or 5.The leader of these pack of wolves isn't bad,and the part where the girl is hostage,and hangs helplessly bound and gagged,while that guy puts blood on her is somewhat disturbing.Best sequel(one's the best)sequel,but four,which I'll be seeing soon,may turn that around! "},{"Title":"This movie was terrible!","Date":"14 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, Just wanted to speak my mind for a moment on the Howling 11 Your Sister Is a Werewolf movie.  The orginal Howling was a great werewolf movie and the transformation scenes we're great. However, the second one was incredibly stupid!  The entire idea, plot and actual acting stunk.  I have not seen the Howling 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 but if they are as  bad as part 2 then I won't be watching them, ever! "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie Ever. No Joke.","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Apparently, there was something much worse than Hard Rock Zombies, which thanks to this, is now #3 on my worst movies list (It used to be #1 btw. Howling 4 is still the second worse. Read my review on that for more details.) And like I said in my Howling 4 review, just because that was awful didn't mean I would be put off from finishing off the series, but now that I've stumbled upon this abomination, I'm becoming more reluctant. Remember back in the 80s when VHS covers where awesome and imaginative? Yeah. Howling II had a very awesome cover for when it was first released on home video in the 1980s, and to be truthful, for 8 years, I had been wanting to see this movie, especially since the movie's theme song got stuck in my head. Then in 2005, it finally came out on DVD, uncut (The original VHS was cut, from what I understand.) Unfortunately, I was treated to a really crappy cover which slightly mocked the cover of the original and 3 years later, as a well as a very crappy movie. Now that I got that off my mind, let's move onto the movie. The movie revolves around Ben Brown (The brother of Karen from the first Howling. In this one, there's no Dee Wallace Stone, but some extra playing Karen) who's approached by a werewolf hunter, Stefan Crosscoe (Played by the great Christopher Lee, who must have needed the $$$$$), who claims that Karen has in fact, become a werewolf. So then, Ben, Jenny (His Girlfriend, who has the have the 2nd worst acting in this) and Stefan go to Transylvania, where Striba, The Werewolf Queen (Played by Sybil Danning. Okay, I like Sybil Danning, but her acting was horrible in this. The acting she did in those old Adventure Video Segments in the 80s were better than this, and in those, she intentionally acted poorly) resides. And I will also say that I definitely agree with HorrorMan. There were some extremely sick moments in the film, like, obviously, the werewolf sex scenes, the worst of them being this one scene with Sybil in the middle between these 2 other werewolves, apparently trying to kiss each other, yechh. And not only is it sick, it's also pretty ridiculous as well. And a very stupid part in the movie was the midget with the exploding eyes. The movie is also pretty boring, as the film's main song plays over and over and over. Overall, the film is just simply abominable. I also agree with HorrorMan on the factor that it's hard to believe that people could get away with calling this a horror movie, or god forbid, a comedy, as it ain't scary, and it's certainly not funny either. Other people seem to see this as a so-bad-it's-good-film, and that's perfectly fine. I'm pretty much the kind of guy to enjoy a so-bad-it's-good-film, but in the case of Howling II, this movie is so abominable, not even MST3K or RiffTrax would make this movie any better. The biggest WTF moment in this movie had to be the ending. And the worse part, like I previously stated in the Comments Section for HorrorMan's review of this movie, I paid only $3 for this at BigLots...and that's all it's worth. Avoid this movie like the plague, and like Howling IV, I wish I could give this a zero, but it's not a valid rating on either Amazon or IMDb, so a 1 will have to do. It'll probably go to Half Price Books soon. "},{"Title":"Truly Dreadful.","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Appallingly stupid, poorly conceived sequel stars Christopher Lee(quite a comedown from his Hammer Films stardom!) as a mysterious hunter of werewolves, who persuades the brother of Karen White(Dee Wallace from Part I, absent here.) to accompany him to Transylvania(of course!) where he must destroy a powerful female werewolf and her clan, before they take over the world(or some such thing). Havoc ensues.Joe Dante did not return to direct this mess(never asked, apparently!) which was good news for him, since this is a true embarrassment for all concerned, though if you're a Sybil Danning fan, the bizarre ending credit sequence will no doubt be the highlight(it was!) "},{"Title":"Christopher Lee and Reb Brown take Vamp.. Ehh..I mean Werewolves...","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Howling II Your Sister Is a Werewolf is one of the most notoriously bad sequels to the Joe Dante classic. It's a cheap looking film that has horrendous acting, laughable special effects and stupid, borderline insulting script.This film is textbook example for terrible, low-budget and laughably bad filmmaking at it's very best. It looks something like a Twin Peaks crossed with the production quality of Doctor Who and a budget of a porno film. So the end result looks like a crap TV movie shot on film and has some recognizable actors and plenty of gore and boobs.The cheapness of this production is so obvious that it's not even funny. The make-up effects, prosthetics and werewolf transformation sequences are really bad. They are some of the worst you will ever see in a film released theatrically. While the latter half of the film is set in Romania,it's so obvious that it's shot Czechoslovakia. It was easy to tell because of the dialog by the extras and the locations. It's funny for me since I have good eye to spot these things. They usually add certain charm and provide some ideas for drinking games.The acting is mostly terrible, to say the least. Christopher Lee is the only one who gives a solid performance and brings a lot of awesome moments. Reb Brown plays himself and is quite enjoyable, if you like his shtick. Sybil Danning acts all goofy and shows her magnificent talents for great effect and wears sexy outfits. Marsha A. Hunt plays the obligatory love interest to Reb and she is absolutely horrendous. The other actors do fare much better and we have loads of overacting, scenery chewing werewolves.But is it all bad and unwatchable? Not really... There is certain amount campy silliness to be enjoyed. Christopher Lee is entertaining enough paired with Reb Brown and Cybil Danning's chest. The constant running gag of mixing vampire lore with werewolf lore is hilarious, the bad effects, terrible editing and effects bring a lot of B-movie charm to it. Sadly, it's not as entertaining as other crap and works better if watched with a rifftrax/MST3k style commentary. It's just mostly dull and boring with sporadic moments of pure insanity and greatness. "},{"Title":"Could have been a decent Vampire film.","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The main problem with this film is it is a werewolf film (And a sequel). The film stars Christopher 'Dracula' Lee', who along with his band of clergy men stabs the creatures through the heart with silver stakes in Transylvania. These things scream 'Vampire' to me. Even the way the 'were-wolves' act is more akin to vampires, especially the lurid sex scenes which would have been far less embarrassing to look at if they where not covered in fur on top of that there is a strange bat monster near the end for no reason what so ever. If it had been the same cast, same basic plot, same budget and was about vampires it would have been a decent film.The were-wolf effects are so inconsistent it's cringe worthy, ranging from actors with some cheap fangs who look like the rolled around on a barber's floor to full on gorilla costumes. Don't expect anything close to the effects from the original movie. "},{"Title":"Christopher Lee loses a deathmatch to dignity or Sybill Danning","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had a hard time telling which.Someone snuck into the studio and stole the sequel rights to The Howling, and this was the result. Lee plays a Occult investigator who is the brother of a 10,000 year old Werewolf Queen, played by Danning. This relationship is never fully explained, much to my relief.It has copious amounts of pre-MPAA nudity, and Sybill Danning takes off her clothes frequently. They rerun the shot of her doing so several times in the end credits. Equally confusing is the presence of a punk rock band, which apparently was taking gigs at the Werewolf Orgy in Transylvania.The movie also fills up a lot of time with background footage of old European buildings with odd artwork on them. I think they just filmed some Czech folk village to get some background.The sad part of this was Christopher Lee. The man deserved better. I think he had no idea what a bad film he was stuck in and tried to make the best of it as a pro, but it just didn't work. "},{"Title":"One hell of a wrong sequel!","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Undeniably, when placed next to Joe Dante's original The Howling, this sequel is a total catastrophic abomination. But Howling II is one of those movies that, regardless of how bad it gets, remains a fun watch because of the utterly demented affair that it turned out to be. It's even more blasphemous when you realize at the beginning of the movie that it does try to tie in with the original. Not by using footage from the first film. No, by re-enacting the famous death-on-TV sequence of Karen White (a character originally played by actress Dee Wallace, now they opted for an unknown, uncredited actress). But what the hell. We got Christopher Lee playing a professor in the occult / werewolf hunter. We got Sybil Danning providing gratuitous nudity. There's the amazing Reb Brown (of Bruno Mattei's Strike Commando fame) acting not-so-amazing in this film. We have an orgy scene. A dwarf with exploding eyeballs. Lots of werewolves and juicy, low-rent transformation sequences. A fair amount of gore & bloodshed. Some touches of inexplicable evil magic. And a goofy '80s punk-rock band. All this in a ridiculous plot set in Transylvania about how the werewolves will inherit the world on the next full moon, or something. Furthermore, the editing seems like it was done on acid. Lots of cheesy wipe-transitions and flashes of returning footage making the least bit of sense. Howling II is a sequel for the books. For all the wrong reasons, naturally. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest B movies","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is by far one of the most hilariously bad B movies I have ever seen. Werewolves appear in the backs of cars and leave the occupants seemingly unfazed after they are forcibly removed; Reb Brown acts; there is a werewolf band which apparently plays throughout the action of the film. The list goes on and on. Midgets melt, Christopher Lee shows up to deliver his lines, and the end credits are simply ridiculous. If you hate B movies (probably 98% of people in my unofficial survey) you will most certainly entertain a most deep disdain in watching this film. But if you love them, then this is a real gem. "},{"Title":"Moronic, yet partly watchable","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Why was I watching this movie? Was it Sibyl Danning? Was it director Philippe Mora? Probably both, a little. It certainly wasn't the werewolves. I really don't know zilch about them, they seem to be pretty boring creatures, the constant transformations make me yawn. And what a waste of hair and denture, or does it always grow back, into the body? The Stirba episode has all the stuff that is the essence a good bad movie. It boasts the kind of stupidity around which legends may grow or on which you can build your own script for your own movie. An example? An American couple enters a conventionally modern, middle sized hotel in Europe, goes up to the reception desk and ask the clerk, in a conspirational tone &#132;Have you seen a stranger in town? Just considering the options of the clerk as to possible replies may occupy you for at least ten minutes (yes, but only strangers, I personally know, etc., etc.). In the movie, the answer is a sly &#132;no (In a nudge, nudge sort of way).Here I encountered the least curious journalist I have ever experienced. She accompanies the brother of a killed werewolf (not a werewolf himself) and a professional werewolf slayer (how do they earn the maintenance of their huge real estate property?) to Transsylvania. Somehow they want to get to the heart of the matter there (yeah, literally, with a titanium stake etc). But she seems to be truly comatose all the way through. She does not investigate, draws no conclusions and annoys the viewers occasionally with those dumb questions that make a good bad movie a good bad movie Medium length shot of a dwarf, motioning towards him. Cut to journalist asking the werewolf's brother &#132;do you see that dwarf motioning? Of a journalist I would at least expect questions like who might that be or why is he motioning. I suppose, she got the job through connections.Speaking of dwarfs, there are quite a few good, well executed ideas to be found in this movie, and the production values are better than other comments lead one to expect. A large part of the footage was filmed in former Czekhoslovakia which has to make do for Transsylvania. Much of the imagery is really beautiful and suggestive. The same goes for Los Angeles, the home of the werewolf slayer is in a Frank Lloyd Wright mansion (probably the same Mora used for his Snide and Prejudice). In Czekhosolovakia a whole full moon festival is staged in an old town center, and that is really well and beautifully done. There are many extras and minor roles played by local actors, the mentioned dwarf being one of them. Somehow I feel the movie lets them down.A last word about Sybil Danning. She is sexy all right, but she really does the movie great harm. She plays Stirba, the chief of the werewolves who resides in a castle in Transsylvania. Considering the realism due to the shooting on location, her appearance leads to a stylistic collapse. Her outfit looks modern (as well as darn uncomfortable) and makes you fantasize about Stirba's shopping spree at the local Transsylvanian S+M lingerie and apparel store. It kinda destroys the atmosphere, if you know what I mean. The end credits are a hoot, the crew seems to have abandoned any hope of making a respectable movie, and Danning does liberate her impressive torso a dozen times or so. Other commentators did count more carefully than I. "}{"Title":"Howling II...Your Sister Is A Werewolf (Philippe Mora, 1985) BOMB","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have always been somewhat underwhelmed by Joe Dante's original THE HOWLING (1981) &#150; so I wasn't particularly interested in checking out any of its sequels; some time ago, I did catch HOWLING III THE MARSUPIALS (1987) &#150; by the same director as this one &#150; and found it to be watchable but nothing special.The second instalment, however, has quite a bad rep and I knew I'd have a good time watching it &#150; if mainly to wallow in the sight of dear but pompous horror icon Christopher Lee squirming in the midst of it all (the gracefully-aged star has pathetically asserted a number of times in interviews that he hasn't appeared in horror-oriented fare since his last picture for Hammer Films back in 1976!). Anyway, this film should have borne the subtitle Your Movie Is A Turd &#150; being astoundingly inept in all departments (beginning with the all-important werewolf make-up)! The plot (and dialogue) is not only terrible, but it has the limpest connection with Dante's film &#150; strangely enough, the author of the original novel Gary Brandner co-wrote this himself! Still, one of the undeniable highlights (er...low points) of the film is the pointless elliptical editing &#150; which tries to give the whole a semblance of style, but only serves to accentuate its embarrassment factor! Similarly phoney (and grating) are the hokey transitions between scenes, the inane punk-rock theme song, and the cheapjack special-effects at the climax! What about the characters, then? Lee is the werewolf expert, naturally, whom everybody thinks a crackpot &#150; until they come into contact with the monsters, that is; at the very least, though, one has to admire the makers' ingenuity (or gall) in devising a stupid subtitle with a dual meaning! Incidentally, Sybil Danning (as Stirba, Werewolf Bitch &#150; the subtitle by which this is known in the U.K.!) is quite fetching in an assortment of outrageous S&M outfits...but her character is virtually given nothing to do (except preside over her brood of followers and engage in the occasional hilarious three-way lycanthrope sex!); her two snarling lieutenants (one of them a sluttish black girl) are especially irritating.Aiding Lee on the side of good are the two yuppie heroes (he being the brother of the Dee Wallace character from the first film and she a colleague of hers) and a ragged guerrilla-type band of Transylvians (still, they generally manage to effortlessly overcome Danning's rather dumb werewolves!). Notable among them is a knife-throwing dwarf who gets a particularly nasty (but, at the same time, side-splitting) demise; he's later revived, under Stirba's control, in order to lure Lee (by making childish taunts at him all through the village streets) into a trap. The latter scene has to be a career nadir for the distinguished and imposing actor &#150; well, either this or the early sequence in a discotheque where Lee is made to don a pair of ultra-cool sunglasses so as to appear inconspicuous among the partying youngsters!In the end, if I were forced to mention elements in this which weren't entirely displeasing, I guess I could say that the ossuary set (in which the heroine is to be sacrificed) is interesting, or that the hybrid werewolf/bat creature (Danning's pet who likes to 'inhabit' the body of its victims) is just too weird to be despised... "},{"Title":"Claptrap","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Howling II is one of the worst films of the series. It doesn't call for a review - it calls for a list of all its flaws, and boy would that be a long list! The special effects are laughable, and the film's age is really no excuse - the original Howling was made in 1981 and had far superior effects. We hardly get any complete man-to-wolf transformations in this one; we see either cheap hairy makeup or people in wolf / gorilla suits. Trying to cover up this gap, the film is badly edited as well. The script is peppered with lots of ritualistic hokum. Christopher Lee gives a surprisingly convictionless performance - he doesn't seem to believe a word he's saying! Not that the other actors are much better (Reb Brown and Annie McEnroe are both wooden), but at least Sybil Danning has her impressive bustline to distract us. In fact, that's the only redeeming virtue of this bloody claptrap. (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Faster paced but worse effects than original","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am a huge fan of werewolf movies and part 1 is a good film just a little boring. this one is a lot faster paced than the first one but it barely shows the actual wolves and instead keeps showing them in a form in between human and werewolf- a fuzzy human. It isn't as good as the first(which isnt too awesome anyway) but enjoyably and compared to howling 7 (worst movie ever made) it is good. "},{"Title":"a complete failure, story wise and editing","Date":"30 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Howling II picks in at the ending of The Howling (1981) and has Christopher Lee on board. We follow Ben White (Reb Brown) the brother of Karen White (who died in the first Howling) who wants to know what happened with his sister and decide to follow Stefan Crosscoe (Christopher Lee) to Transilvania to hunt down a gang of werewolves. This all looks promising but I can tell you that it isn't what it should be.The reason for this turkey is the fact that The Howling 2 should have been a comedy but once shot the producers decided to at scary elements to it. That explains the bad editing and the fact that inserts of the werewolves looked ridiculous. But not only that, the acting wasn't convincing too and it's clearly to see that Lee saw that he was in a turkey, he just says his words without any emotions. Not only that, some werewolves really looked laughable and people just howling didn't add towards the scariness or horror element. Some parts were shot in the UK so they added a Gothic/Punk club, but even that was a mistake. On the walls you can see Specimen (gothband) and G.B.H. (punk) amongst others but also Batcave. Batcave was a goth club in Soho London. Not only the movie looks like it didn't fit well, the end credits are the only thing really worth watching because it's a compilation of alternate takes and deleted takes combined with Sybil Danning ripping of her shirt 18 times to show her buxom juggs. Be advised, The Howling franchise is the worst entry you will ever see up to 2012. Gore 0/5 Nudity 2/5 Effects 2/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Your Sister sucks","Date":"18 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This dull and toothless example of how far sequels can stray from the greatness of their predecessor is so utterly stupid and incomprehensible that it doesn't even deserve its reference to Joe Dante's masterful gem in the title. The ludicrously lame sub-moniker should give you an idea of the level of intelligence you'll be dealing with if you decide to slog your way through this wretched mess, since the same minds who created this film also thought Your Sister Is A Werewolf was a good movie title. Amazingly enough, this isn't the worst name they came up with; their original idea was Stirba- Werewolf Bitch. Kind of sort of picking up where things left off, the action here begins at the funeral of Karen White (you won't recognize her because she's played by a stand-in; Dee Wallace wisely opted not to sully her good name by appearing in this), where we learn that she's not actually dead. Your Sister attempts to assert its originality by revising the guidelines of the lycanthropy mythology, and we're informed here that since the silver bullets were taken out of Karen's body during her autopsy, her werewolf super powers kicked in again and brought her back to life (conveniently, this doesn't happen until her coffin lid is closed after the memorial service, so there seems to be a few days of lag time on this go-go-resurrection). So, if we really think about this logically, that would mean that not only does every werewolf whose human body undergoes postmortem examination come back to life, but those who somehow get put into the ground without an autopsy or embalming taking place will have their skeletons rise from their graves after decomposition naturally removes the silver artifact that killed them from their flesh.But, wait... That's not the most fascinating addition the concussed film-makers cooked up for this feast of foolishness. You see, according to Howling II, the REAL way to kill a werewolf is to, of course, drive a stake through its heart (?!), and this is the method of dispatch which defeats several of the creatures we meet in this film. It gets better. The monstress queen's lair, where our heroes must travel to in order to rid the world of the lycan curse once and for all, is located in the place everyone immediately associates with werewolves Transylvania (??!!). Once the team of would-be werewolf slayers arrives and our female protagonist makes sure to point out that she brought cloves of garlic with her to protect them from the creatures, we have no choice but to wonder if director Philippe Mora even knew what movie he was making a sequel to.Oh, and by the way, werewolves apparently also have the ability to suck the souls out of human victims to rejuvenate themselves. And shoot lazers out of their fingers that make people's eyes burst out of their heads. And, yes, I'm completely serious.The creature FX range from serviceable to atrocious, and most of the monsters we see spend the film in a perpetual state of half-transformation, which is represented by clunky prosthetics that make them look more like puffy-faced apes than lupine shape-shifters; this impression is strengthened by the appearance of several of the fully formed beasts, whose bulbous, over-sized dimensions make it readily apparent that they're running around in modified gorilla costumes. This outing ramps up the gore and eroticism to make up for its sheer baffling inanity, so there is a lot more splatter and nudity on hand here than in the original Howling. If that sounds like an endorsement, go ahead and run with that, because it's the only thing close to one you'll find in this write-up.The inclusion of the great Christopher Lee should be a point of interest, but his scenes are actually heart-breaking to watch. Ever the gentleman, Lee demonstrates grace and professionalism throughout this farce, but it's patently obvious by his demeanor and general lack of enthusiasm how mortified he is to be tackling such insipid material.Miami Vice was the hottest show in the world when this was made, and, oddly, Howling II directly models entire sequences after that '80s staple. Any scene which features a car driving at night is shot and edited in a blatantly similar style, and the pulsing synth-rock soundtrack blaring in the foreground cements this homage. Unfortunately, the producers only sprang for one band to appear on the soundtrack and apparently only paid them for three songs; one of them is actually about werewolves, and you will have the dubious pleasure of hearing it over and over and over and over and over and over again throughout the film.If you find yourself wondering why Sybil Danning was afforded such prominent placement in this movie despite the fact that, as evidenced by her performance, she has trouble even forming a four-word sentence like Go get the girl, you'll get two reasons during her check THESE out scene, in which she tears her top off and exposes her breasts. The vital importance the film-makers place on this epochal shot is emphasized during the closing credits, where Danning's reveal is repeated precisely 17 more times (I counted).The two stars in my score are solely for Christopher Lee's presence and the film's ample allotment of diversionary bloodshed (okay, we'll throw Danning's boobs in there too). Everything else in Howling II from the stilted introduction to the hokey climax is simply abominable. I love bad movies as much as anyone, but this is just plain unbearable. "},{"Title":"Atrocious, absurd AWESOME!!","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ben White, brother of deceased journalist Karen from the first film joins up with Karen's colleague, Jenny and Occult specialist, Stefan Crosscoe (the legendary Christopher Lee) to reluctantly go to Transylvania to do battle with Stirba (the stunning Sybil Danning) the queen werewolf bitch.This movie is awesome in it's sheer awfulness. From the atrociously laughable dialog to the garish costumes to even the utter blatant disregard for simple geography, this flick is cheese city and is all the more awesome for it. I'd VERY gladly watch this film a million times before ever setting my eyes on ANY of the sequels that followed it.Eye Candy the divine Sybil Danning gets topless, as does Marsha Hunt (and a few extras are topless too)My Grade B-Where I saw it Retroplex "},{"Title":"The Ultimate guilty-pleasure; so bad it's actually entertaining !!","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Howling (1980) from director Joe Dante is a true classic in it's genre. Along with American Werewolf In London (1981) from John Landis, they're still the best werewolf films ever made. The effects from Rob Bottin (The Thing)are awesome, Rick Baker (from Werewolf In London) did also a couple of effects on that one. The story of The Howling II picks up right after the events of Part I. Karen's brother discovers that his dead sister is in fact a werewolf. The story falls apart right here. The werewolf thing is considered a big mystery here which is strange since Karen transformed live on national TV at the end of the original. Here they have a secret tape of those events. Dee Wallace Stone's excellent performance in the original is very much missed here. Instead we get an unknown cast which hardly any charisma. Unknown except for Christopher Lee, here seen with some new age sunglasses which has to be seen to believe it. You also can't miss the sexy hot Sybill Danning exposing her gorgeous breasts. During the credits it's repeated 18 (!!) times ! You'll also never forget the very 80's theme song, it plays for about 6 times during the movie. Very catching !! The effects are nothing compared to the original but there is some gore like exploding eyeballs. And how many movies have scenes of a werewolf orgy ?? Seeing is believing !! Howling II is not to be taken seriously at any moment and should certainly not be compared to the original classic. Most people agree that's it's bad but many people find it a campy guilty pleasure. It's fun and certainly not boring. Director Phillip Mora also directed the awful Howling III The Marsupials. The fun ended right there. Just like Amityville only the first two are worth watching. "},{"Title":"Howling IIYour Sister is a Werewolf","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Occult investigator/werewolf hunter Stefan Crosscoe(Christopher Lee)offers his assistance to Ben(Reb Brown)when he informs him that his sister is inflicted with lycanthropy. We understand that there are several werewolves amok in Los Angeles when a group of punks get destroyed in an abandoned warehouse. Jenny(Annie McEnroe), a journalist(..and friend to Ben's sister, Karen)will assist Stephan in his efforts seeing a juicy story in the future and does seek revenge for the loss of her friend.Mariana(Marsha A Hunt), a vicious werewolf plans to remove Karen's body from consecrated ground. Karen's soul is not at peace because the silver bullets used to kill her were removed during autopsy. Mariana is a dangerous kind of werewolf for silver bullets can not harm her..but titanium will(yes, I know.) But, Mariana is only a member of the werewolf race..it's Stirba(Sybil Danning, sporting a nice rack)whose 10th Millennium birth is approaching and transformations reverse meaning all werewolves who hide under their human masks will show their true side. Through a werewolf he sets free from his curse, Stephan finds out where Sirba is in hiding..Transylvania.So Stephan will set a course for Transylvania..accompanying him with revenge on their minds, Ben and Jenny. What they find is a village overrun by werewolves under human skin hiding until the moment they can strike those who wish to interrupt their usual methods. Eventually, Jenny will find herself kidnapped, and Stefan & Ben will make their plans to attack Stirba's fortress once and for all with only vanquishing her evil on their minds.Don't let the respectable rating of 5/10 fool you, this is not a very good film. It earns the stigma of so bad it's good. It's pure trash that finds itself amusing even if few others do. Christopher Lee is so stern and serious you'd think he was performing on Masterpiece Theater, yet this perhaps adds a peculiar quality to the film is doesn't deserve. It's noted for the notorious werewolf sex and Sybil Danning baring her terrific breasts. She also shows her naked body covered in fur. There's an orgy prior to Stefan and Ben(along with some others merely put with them to service as werewolf lunch)'s arrival, Stirba practices black magic(she has the ability to make a dwarf's eyes pop out by loudly expressing incantations;she also shoots out bolts from her fingertips). There's plenty of gory violence toward werewolves, very in-your-face presented by director Mora. You also get the punk group Babel singing before a crowd of degenerates enjoying themselves in a club spliced throughout the film for some reason. This flick got brownie points for showing Lee dressed in punk garb! The bland sexual chemistry between Brown and McEnroe makes their sex scene come off very awkward. "},{"Title":"In the pale, pale light....Pale, pale light of the moon....","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Perhaps, the best werewolf movie there is. Not saying much, but I still mean it. When do you ever see a decent horror movie with an interesting story and kick ass attitude? Scream? I know what you blah, blah, blah? Urban Legend? Underworld? Eight Legged Freaks? All terrible movies, but Howling II is pretty special. Not exactly The Godfather or Pulp Fiction, but come on....a cheesy 80's horror flick?I loved the characters, scenery, and the eerie filming style. Unlike other werewolf movies, the bad guys in Howling II were of supernatural like origin, which I think is a pretty nice touch. They are big, nasty, hairy, viscous creatures and their howls are just amazing. In my opinion, this is the only werewolf movie that actually got the howling part right. Was the series was name, Howling, inspired by the creation of that howl or other way around? Hmmm....Guess who my favorite werewolf of all time is....yep, Sybil Danning. I just have to say that whoever cast her as Stirba deserves a nobel prize. She is one of the hottest damn women I have ever seen. Coming from me, that means a world of compliment.Most of you will probably curse Howling II's existence as some of the review authors already have, but seriously, this is a damn good movie (please read paragraph one again). Original, exciting, and interesting. I love the sudden-flashback-cut sequences, Sybil Danning, the surprises, Sybil Danning, the kick ass action, Sybil Danning, Sybil Danning, and Sybil Danning.So in summary, Howling II is a very enjoyable movie with original and redeeming values. Ignore the bad press from this website and enjoy it for what it is. "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Two reporters head out to Transyvania to investigate the death of the main character from part one and discover that she is now a werewolf and part of a group of werewolves headed by Sybil Danning. Christopher Lee helps the reporters out and is the older brother of Sybil. Fast paced,  sequel features style over substance, but with poor special effects and a ridiculous script sinking it.Rated R; Sexual Situations, Graphic Violence, Nudity, and Profanity. "}{"Title":"Very bloody...incredibly awful","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ugly shot, poorly scripted and amateurishly paced sequel to Joe Dante's 1981 classic. The Howling is one of the two or three ONLY good werewolf-films ever made and yet it got 'rewarded' by a series of obnoxious and unendurable sequels like this one. If it's any consolation, Stirba is a sequel in name only and there's absolutely no connection with the characters or events that were introduced in Dante's film. The plot here revolves on a bloodthirsty cult of Transsylvanian werewolves &#150; primarily female ones &#150; led by Stirba. Stirba is played by Sybil Danning who transforms from a curvy old lady into a blond super-babe (with impressive bosom) in the blink of an eye and becomes all hairy when sexually aroused. Her arch-enemy is played by a seemly fatigue Christopher Lee. His character &#150; Stefan Crosscoe &#150; is an occult investigator who travels to Stirba's kingdom, accompanied by an American couple who lost their friend to the werewolf cult. In case you're exclusively looking for filthy gore and gratuitous nudity...this is your film. Even the smallest killing is shown in great detail and we're even treated to exploding eyeballs and the vile image of a dwarf who gets pierced on a pointy fence. However, if you want a little substance or depth, you'll be sorely disappointed. The dialogues are embarrassing and there's absolutely no tension to detect anywhere. The scriptwriters constantly seem to confuse werewolves with vampires (the Transsylvanian setting, garlic, wooden stakes...) and Danning's gorgeous balcony is shamelessly exploited as the film's only gimmick. During the end-credits, a shot in which she rips off her top, is re-edited repeatedly (according to my fellow reviewer Dr. Gore, no less than seventeen times!) which is pretty pathetic and pointless. The music is okay and some of the scenery is rather beautiful. I'm talking about the fierce-looking statues during the opening credits and the dark dungeons of Stirba's castle. The directing by Philippe Mora is a giant mess and &#150; as far as I'm concerned &#150; his only worthwhile film remains The Beast Within, released three years earlier. "},{"Title":"Despite The Attempt To Make It A Camp Classic It Remains A Rather Weak Horror Film","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a classic example of a studio realising they've produced a very bad film and in order to cover their backs they've decided to re-shoot the movie with scenes of high camp . It's not too common because most studios know they've invested massive sums of money in to their product and it's a bad idea to make things up as you're going along or even worse when you've actually shot the film . We all know studios might change , re-shoot or re-edit an ending if it doesn't go down well with an test audience but they don't usually re-shoot a whole movie to the extent that it effectively changes genre . This is probably down to the fact that most audiences wouldn't be fooled The confused plot kicks off with the brother of the female protagonist meeting the mysterious Stefan Crosscoe at a funeral . This opening scene is the only part of the movie that feels it belongs in some sort of chronological order . In other words if you inserted scenes in any order of any part of the movie then they wouldn't look out of place . In fact the editing is so bad when the end titles come up - which are composed of a montage of scenes from the film - you'll be confused seeing a female character that you thought had died only to realise seconds later that the film has ended It's also telling that the opening funeral sequence is played in an absolute dead pan style despite some dialoguistic blunders  Your sister was a werewolf  which indicates that THE HOWLING 2 originally started off as a serious attempt at horror . But then we get scenes of appalling acting such as the biker gang being lured to a derelict factory , over the top gore such as exploding eyeballs and a very poor attempt at post modernist humour at the end where the protagonists are trick or treated by a real werewolf . These scenes of camp are often surrounded with serious talkative scenes which not only give the film a painful disjointed feel but draw your attention to the fact the film is trying to be serious whilst sending itself up and succeeding in neither "},{"Title":"Decent Trash","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Howling 2 (1985) ** (out of 4) The full title of this; Howling 2 Your Sister is a Werewolf is one of the catchiest titles of the horror era but that's about it. The brother of a victim from the first film teams up with a cult expert (Christopher Lee) to track down werewolves and blow them apart. At one time I called this one of the worst horror films ever made but my 15+ year break between viewings must have really helped because I didn't find this too bad this time. The best thing going for this sequel is the non-stop violence, gore and nudity, which keeps things moving. Lee also gives a pretty good performance but the highlight remains the incredibly bizarre werewolf threesome. This was my first time viewing the uncut, X-rated version, which contains a lot more of the red stuff.Be sure you watch the uncut, X-rated version as it contains a lot more nudity and gore. "}]