[{"Title":"One of my favorites of all time.","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"92 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am not a person who takes the word favorite lightly. This is a beautiful movie! It is funny, full of action and Romantic (yes, with a capital 'R'.)I saw this movie the first time when I was eleven, back in '86. It then took about four years before I saw it again, but I never forgot the feeling it left me with This is heart-wrenching romance. I only recently bought the video. For some reason I have been unable to track it down sooner. Anyway, I pulled the video tape out of the box and, with mixed feelings, I slid it into the video. Would it be the same? Would it still move me? (Would the music still suck? *grin*) YES!!! It WAS the same! It DID move me! And NO! The music felt strangely right.Yes,  I would like to see this movie with a classical score, just to find out... But the awfulness of the score (btw, it's not bad all the way) only furthered the porcelain beauty of the visuals (watch the scene with the hawk flying over a still lake -- it's wings dipping into the water -- I get goosebumps), and the pure genius of the characters and dialogue.Now, the main actors/actressRutger Hauer This, along with Blade Runner, is your finest work ever! Mr. Hauer delivers a top-notch performance as the brooding, cursed one-man army called Navarre.Matthew Broderick This WAS your finest hour. Yes, Mr. Broderick has given us suspense and laughter after Ladyhawke, but nowhere near his performance as Phillipe.Michelle Pfeiffer Correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't this the most beautiful woman in the world? I do not mean perfect, because that would be predictable. No, Mrs. Pfeiffer (Kelley?)is simply beautiful in an ancient sense. She is sprung out of a myriad of romance stories. There couldn't have been a better choice for this part. That innocence, that beauty. Isabeau comes to life in the incredible acting. Too little screen time makes you appreciate it even MORE when she enters the plot.The rest of the cast is too good to be true. John Wood's Bishop, who only comes to life after he realises what is about to happen in the end. Before that he is only a shell of a man. And a big BRAVO! and a huge round of applause for the wonderful performance of Leo McKern as the massive, drunkard priest Imperius. Also watch for Alfred Molina in an, even for him, nasty role as the hunter Cezàr which he pulls off with his usual finesse. Bravo Mr. Molina.Finishing up, I would like to mention, in brief, the equestrianship. It is wonderful. I know only a little about horses, but I know that those used in the movie are not your average show jumping ponies. *grin* The riders are incredible. I have not yet seen riding of that kind. They make it look effortless. They are one with the horse.The comment to tip the scale (which is already tipped almost over to What-are-you-nuts?-Haven't-you-already-seen-this? ALL of it is made without computers!!!Happy viewing! "},{"Title":"As Entertainment, Damn Near the Perfect Movie","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"57 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a former video store employee, I am proud to say of all the films I ever recommended, LADYHAWKE came back with all favorable reviews, and not once did anyone I rented it to take me up on my money-back guarantee.No surprises there. Despite the production's troubled history between two studios (Fox and Warner's) and endless rewrites by an army of scribes, it still finds everyone involved at the top of their game, and early into most of their careers!Rutger Hauer's bad guys were always more interesting and charismatic than his good ones, but his role as Captain Etienne Navarre was the noteable exception. In the best shape of his career both physically and artistically (with the exception of BLADE RUNNER'S Roy Batty), he painted the perfect portrait of noble hubris, tinged with the ache of unfulfilled love for his fair maiden, and the sorrow of an eternal curse that could never  be lifted. Even Errol Flynn would've been envious.Michelle Pfeiffer has been many things in her career earthy, sensual, campy, courageous, but she would never achieve the combination of radiant strength and vulnerability that she did as Isabeau D'Anjou. There have been other actresses who have looked better and given deeper, more nuanced performances since hers...but it's a REAL short list.When I saw the previews, I was pretty sure that the main thing I would like the least about this movie was Matthew Broderick, whose Philippe The Mouse Gaston was a character I was pretty sure would grate on my nerves. And for the first part of the film, he definitely does. Credit it to Matthew's likeability and talent that before the film's end, though, you're rooting for him as much as for the two leads.And let's not forget an extremely impressive supporting cast John Wood (WAR GAMES and JUMPING JACK FLASH), Leo McKern (the OMEN films and PBS' Rumpole of the Bailey), Alfred Molina (PRICK UP YOUR EARS, RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK and the TV series THE LADIES' MAN) and a wicked turn by Ken Hutchison as Navarre's nemesis. For the couple, the friends or the family who want action AND romance, too, you can't do better, (and can always do worse.) And as far as the music controversy is concerned, I am a longtime fan of Andrew Powell's work back from his early days with Alan Parsons, and later with The Project, and I thought that the juxtaposition of the contemporary music with the medieval setting worked perfectly. This is, after all, a fantasy, not a historical record of true events! Enjoy it for what it is! "},{"Title":"Rutger Hauer .... If only their was a movie of this caliber today.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"55 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rutegar Hauer shines as Captain Etienne Navarre, a medieval knight and his petite l'amour Michelle Pfeiffer as Isabeau his wonderful Lady Hawk.  John Wood plays an utterly nasty Bishop of Aquila. With Mathew Broderick as the little thief and Leo McKern the priest who betrays the two lovers.This movie stands out for music score, knights and fair ladies in distress, and characters that you can fall in love with.  It will have you rooting for the good guys and yelling at the screen for them to vanquish their enemies.This romantic fantasy is an escape for the real world to a place where love, honor, and courage are rewarded.  Where true love is possible, and two people love each other more than life itself.  A love like this is almost impossible today.I adored this film so much that I have three copies of the movie and two of the soundtrack by Alan Parsons Project.  I think the background music goes so well with what is happening on the screen.  Each of the main characters has their own musical composition, and will make you cheer or cry. "},{"Title":"Very good fantasy movie","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"47 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ever since I was a kid, I loved fantasy movies. As a matter of fact, anything with sword fights was great in my book. And since I grew up in the days before Lord of the Rings came along, my favourites were always mid-to-late-eighties fantasy epics like The Princess Bride, Willow, and Ladyhawke.It's all about an outcast knight and his lover, who have been cursed by an evil bishop to become animals during night and day, so they're never together in human form. He becomes a wolf and she becomes a hawk (hence the title). The knight enlists the help of a young thief to break into the cathedral and take his revenge on the bishop. Aside from the basic premise, it's more of a historical movie than a fantasy movie. There's no magic other than the curse, and no trolls or giants or anything, which was partly the reason I enjoyed it so much.I've also always loved this movie for it's great storyline and interesting characters. Philipe's conversations with God still amuse me, as does the drunken monk played by Leo McKern ... It comes from director Richard Donner, who of course brought us Superman I & II, the Lethal Weapon movies and so on. This is essentially a well-directed movie, although a lot of people have issues with the choice of soundtrack. It's kind of a techno-poppy thing, which I blame NeverEnding Story for. A lot of eighties fantasy movies went with the same idea, but it works with Ladyhawke better than it works with most others, although I would of course prefer a more conventional and less intrusive score. On the whole, the sets and the props are pretty convincing, although some of the fight sequences aren't particularly great.Here we have an early Matthew Broderick performance which shows how little his acting skills have developed since. Not that he's a bad actor, just an early bloomer I guess. Cult icon Rutger Hauer, of whom I have always been a huge fan (Blade Runner, The Hitcher, The 10th Kingdom) gives a fantastic performance as the outcast knight, and as we all know it's never a bad idea to have Michelle Pfeiffer in a movie.You should definitely see this movie if you're a fan of the genre, or of any of the actors involved. It's a wonderful fantasy adventure for all ages. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time FAVORITE movies","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"38 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a great story. This has been one of my favorite movies since it first came out. (I saw it with my best friend, who had a crush on Matthew Broderick.) Anyway, it's a very stirring, timeless (except for the music) story of love, heartache, hope and redemption. Wonderful.Rutger Hauer is amazing. Strong, even frightening at times, but still tender and vulnerable. Of course Michelle Pfeiffer is at her absolute most beautiful. She really does seem to possess the face of love as Phillipe says. But Matthew Broderick really makes the movie. He's more than just comic relief (although he is hilarious); he keeps the story grounded. Without the character of Philippe the movie would be too ethereal, untethered. Philippe is the everyman--our connection to the magical beauty of Navarre and Isabeau.I've heard that the story is based on a medieval legend, but I haven't been able to find it. If anyone has a link, please post it as a review on this site; I'd love to read more about it. Thanks!! "},{"Title":"Stunning beauty - Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfieffer,","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfieffer stunned me with their beauty when I first saw Ladyhawke, a poignant vision of medieval love and longing. This visually-beautiful tale's cinematographers had filmed their hands, hair, and skin through dappled sunlight and shadows to emphasize their unearthly beauty. Matthew Broderick and Leo MacKern gave this magical story its humanity. Some reviewers have disparaged its musical score by Vangelis. I've always felt that it fit the mood and setting of the film. Rousing sword fights. One of my favorite movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Different, Appealing Fantasy-Romance","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"28 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found this to be one of more likable medieval (13th century) fantasy movies I've ever seen. It works because of the great mixture of action, beautiful photography, likable lead characters, humor, touching romance, suspense and no offensive language. Yes, here is an adult film that everyone can watch, and that' no cliché.Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer are handsome leads but Matthew Broderick, as Phillipe Gaston, is the star of the show. He provides the humor and is involved in almost every scene. There is a lot of religion in here, both shown positively and negatively. Broderick's character acknowledges God and constantly talks to Him. Hauer refers to Him, too, but Broderick is the talker. However, here is yet another case of a French Catholic clergyman being the evil bad guy. (Is one ever shown in a positive light?) John Wood effectively plays the nasty  Bishop of Aqulia.This is a curse story about two humans who turn into hawk (Pfeiffer) and wolf (Hauer) by day/night never seeming to be human at the same time so they can be lovers and live happily ever after.It's interesting all the way, with my only suggestion that it could have been a 10 had it been chopped about 15-20 minutes in length.Overall, though, a solid film and one that has been enjoyed by everyone I know who has seen it. "},{"Title":"A Great Flick for Guys and Gals!","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think this film is a classic. Based on an old, European legend, this movie is one of the best films ever made. The music was a bit distracting and annoying, but the actors were superb. John Wood once again delivers another wonderful villainous performance, while Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeifer play the 'seperated lovers'. Matthew Broderick gives a convincing performance as the Mouse.It's a great flick that has both romance and action. It's a wonderful movie that both men and women will enjoy. Easy to follow and good special effects (for the '80's).This movie is one to own!Bishop I believe in miracles, Marquet. It's part of my job. "},{"Title":"The Hawk, The Wolf and The Thief","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Richard Donner's 'Ladyhawke' tells a fascinating tale of cursed love that separates two lovers like day and night (quite literally). What I loved about this film is that even though it's a wonderful mixture of action, adventure, romance and comedy, it is a simple film. The execution is solid and it shows that Donner and his cast and crew have put a lot of heart in the making of the film.The score is kind of funny. At times there's a beautiful symphony that expresses the beauty of the settings and then, during the action scenes, there's the typical 80's hip track which brings a smile as it nostalgically reminds me of that wild decade. 'Ladyhawke' is indeed very beautiful to look at. The cinematography is superb as it gives a very spacious view and the composition of the shots are very well arranged.No CGI has been used and that marvelously stands out as it gives the film a purer look and only reminds one of the days before CGI was overused, when cinema looked pure and authentic. 'Ladyhawke' is a fine example of movies that can look great and sometimes even better and more effective without CGI (other examples being the Star Wars trilogy (80's version), Indiana Jones etc).The performances are topnotch. A radiant Michelle Pfeiffer completely owns the title role. Her understated performance and quiet yet strong presence (like a hawk) brilliantly contrasts Rutger Hauer's wolfish character. Hauer too does a fine job. An evil Alfred Molino is barely recognizable and Leo McKern wears the menacing look very well. John Wood provides some great comic relief. However, it is Matthew Broderick who stands out. He performs naturally as the vivacious, energetic, deceitful thief who loses his heart to Ladyhawke and at the same time he is determined to reunite the lovers and rescue them from the wrath of the curse.Overall, 'Ladyhawke' is a beautiful movie that satisfied my filmviewing experience. It gives that nostalgic feel, it amuses, it fascinates and it feels enchanting. No wonder it still feels fresh after more than two decades. "},{"Title":"Do a little dance, make a little love, become a wolf tonight","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"37 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's funny - my two clearest memories of this film were off the mark in completely opposite ways. I remembered Matthew Broderick being deeply annoying; as it turns out he's just mildly irritating. And I remembered the soundtrack being bad; but good God, it's *appalling*. Whoever decided that a tragic, touching supernatural romance would be best accompanied by funky 70s synthesisers (I don't think they're fitting enough to even be classed as 80s) should be forced to eat their own afro. Yes, all of it. I can honestly say I have never heard a less appropriate musical score in my entire life. It's not that it's bad, exactly - it'd probably work pretty well if the lead character was, say, Shaft.Still, when the crazy disco beats aren't violating the atmosphere, there's some good stuff going on. Richard Donner already had serious directing experience under his belt in 1985, and Ladyhawke is beautifully shot and paced with some gorgeous scenery to take in. There's just enough action (they give it some proper welly in those swordfights), John Wood provides a proper boo-hiss malicious villain, the dialogue never quite slips into melodrama despite teetering on the edge occasionally, and it's always a pleasure to watch Rutger Hauer in one of his few good roles before he degenerated into self-parody. (Well, if we're being honest it's a pleasure to watch him in his godawful recent stuff as well, but for different reasons.) Above all the film's got heart, which is more than you can say for 95% of the cack that Hollywood churns out, and it deserves some small credit for that at least. "}{"Title":"~ A Love Story To Last The Ages ~","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorites since childhood. Definitely a unique type of love story.We begin with Phillipe Gaston played by Matthew Broderick, I think one of his better acting jobs, an escapee from the Prison of Aquila, something that has never happened before. However, in his zealous celebration, Phillipe finds himself facing Aquilan guards in the name of the Bishop. He is saved by Captain Etienne Navarre, a former Capt. of the guard for Aquila.His rescue doesn't come without a price though, Phillipe is told that he will get Navarre back into Aquila in order to kill the Bishop in revenge. Phillipe has little choice but to agree to the task. In his traveling with Navarre, Phillipe discovers an entrancing young woman who always shows up after the sun sets and Navarre disappears.Phillipe eventually discovers that her name is Isabeau d'Anjou, Navarre's love, and that because of the curse she is Navarre's hawk companion by day and that Navarre turns into a black wolf by night, a punishment put upon them by the Bishop of Aquila because Isabeau did not return his affections.With the help of Imperius, the monk who betrayed the lovers secret to the Bishop in a fit of drunkenness, Phillipe discovers that a solar eclipse will allow the lovers to confront the Bishop together as man and woman and break the spell forever. They encounter Navarre's stubbornness to the plan and must think of a clever way to help the two lovers.The story is beautiful, Rutger Hauer & Michelle Pfeiffer put in terrific acting jobs. A terrific story of love conquers all with a twist. The bits of humor thrown in make the characters endearing. Would recommend it any day, but perhaps I'm bias by now. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, preposterous, haunting","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The leads are physically beautiful almost beyond film comparison. Their moral-spiritual characters match, which should make the film corny.  The plot is preposterous, but the main characters, Isabeau and Gaston, prosecute their roles with such unfailing intensity you can't help but accept the nonsense. What is Ferris Bueller doing in medieval France, though?  Perhaps the film needs some salty leavening, and at least he makes the plot work a little more efficiently.  Overall, I don't have a rational judgement to make but a purely emotional one I can never forget this film.  It has haunted me since the first time I saw it.  And that is all down to the pure intensity of Hauer and Pfeiffer. "},{"Title":"An all-time favorite","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I never pass up a chance to sit through this 80's adventure fantasy. This was made back in the days before Matthew Broderick became famous as Ferris Bueller and before Michelle Pfeiffer was a well-known and respected actress. I believe this was her third or fourth film role in the early days of her career. She is simply stunning as Isabeau, the title character. Rutger Hauer was at the top of his career and was perfectly cast as Navarre the cursed knight/wolf to Pfeiffer's ladyhawke. Matthew Broderick plays Phillip Gaston a pickpocket who becomes first an unwilling accomplice then a loyal ally to the lovers. Others in the cast include the late Leo Mckern as Father Imperius and John Wood as the Bishop of Aquila. It's a beautifully told story about love triumphing over evil. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful and Unique Movie","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two lovers, betrayed and cursed by a sadistic Bishop travel together through the remote countryside of Europe. They're together, but always apart....she a lady by night and hawk by day, he man by day and wolf at night. This is a beautiful film, wonderfully written, hauntingly filmed, and great performances all around by the cast. I know the score is a popular debate, you either love it or hate it. I loved it, it's a blend unlike any other i've ever heard and stands out rather than blend in like so many others.Rutger Hauer gives a powerful and convincing performance as the handsome, brooding, captain of the guards who is cursed, outlawed and hunted, his only crime falling in love with a beautiful woman.And she is beautiful too, the luminous Michelle Pfeiffer absolutely lights up the screen every scene she appears in. Not only is she beautiful, but also smart, kind and compassionate. Thankfully she's not the typical damsel in distress who stands by and does nothing. I was completely sold as to why Hauer would give his very life to protect her. This was the movie that made me a lifelong fan of Pfeiffer.Matthew Broderick was perfect in the part of Phillipe, it was nice to be able to see him stretch himself in range and play a different kind of role than i'd become accustomed to watching him in. John Wood was excellent as the sadistic Bishop who cursed the couple in his desire for Pfeiffer. I was really convinced of his downright evilness. And last but not least, I really enjoyed Leo McKern, the drunken priest who betrayed the couple to the Bishop. He finds redemption in helping to break the curse and defeat the Bishop. For those who haven't seen it, I don't dare think of giving it away.Also, an evil little cameo by Alfred Molina, years before most people knew who he was. As mystical as this movie is it doesn't rely on a whole lot of special effects overwhelming it. (Of course this was before CGI was around.) But still it wisely decides to rely on the emotions and ability of the actors, director and scenery to convey the story.A really beautiful, soulful, mystical film. "},{"Title":"Just a note on the much-maligned music","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I won't comment on the film -- enough reviews here more than do that job. Instead I'm going to focus on something a few others here might agree with, most will not.The soundtrack by Andrew Powell, whether congruent with one's idea of a 'fantasy score' or not, defines Ladyhawke in such a way that anything else would seem generic. People around the net say 'oh if only this had a full orchestral score', and while I'm a huge fan of Zimmer even at his most bombastic, I am firmly convinced that Ladyhawke would be simply less prominent and memorable were it to sport the usual infusions of Wagnerian overtures and chorus -- worked great for 'Excalibur' (albeit Orff in that case) but nowadays you hear the chorus all over the place. I remember a trailer for 'Spiderman 2' with an ominous chorus and while it was impressive, I realised that orchestra+chorus is as common in recent movie scores as the 'deplorable' synth was in the 80s.I loved the score to Ladyhawke when I first heard it -- 1985, BTW -- and to this day associate certain themes with certain scenes and characters. In fact, I'd say it's my exposure to Ladyhawke's soundtrack in my youth that led me to explore progressive rock and metal and discover a whole genre that *blends* genres. And didn't Ladyhawke's soundtrack do that? You have synth-rock, guitar work, Gregorian chanting, a traditional Italian dance...with a bit more complexity and polish, this soundtrack could easily pass as a stand-alone concept prog-rock album.Consider a film that one could easily parallel with Ladyhawke Flesh+Blood. Rutger Hauer again, medieval again, not quite romantic but certainly lots of fighting and castles and whathaveyou. And the soundtrack? I remember one theme and it was fine, but hardly distinct.Anachronism is a tricky thing to infuse, and most films fail much harder than Ladyhawke when it comes to using it. And it's not as if the entire score is rock-synth, as I've already clarified. I feel the moments that used it were appropriate exciting fights, the main title (somehow you have synth sounding both epic and romantic there!), the tension of Phillipe's escape...One last point the rock-parts of the soundtrack never take themselves that seriously. Anachronism used properly reminds the viewer that it's just a movie and to enjoy it. The fact that Ladyhawke can do this and -still- move the viewer is to me testament that the soundtrack did *not* kill the movie. No need to cite box office statistics here there are enough flops that did spectacularly well on video and then DVD to invalidate a claim that box office flop=bad movie.So there's my defence of Powell, if you will. Extricating the soundtrack from Ladyhawke would be like trying to remove someone's heart without leaving scars. "},{"Title":"A forgotten flawed classic","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I give this film a 7 out of 10.'Ladyhawke' is a well written adventure with spectacular photography and inventive action scenes.  We get to see the prowess of Rutger Hauer in his prime,  the beauty of Michelle Pfeiffer (who hasn't aged since 'Grease 2'),  and an engaging Matthew Broderick.  There is fantasy and intensity in the telling of this fable,  made by the director of &#145;Superman' and &#145;Lethal Weapon',   successfully putting you under it's spell.  Even so without any big time special effects.However, it shares the same fate as Ridley Scott's spectacular 'Legend'.  They were both fairy tale movies released in the United States in 1985,  and both suffered from a non-traditional soundtrack.  In the case of Ladyhawke,  which is a period piece,  pop music is added.  It is a bold but curious decision to take a classic fairy tale and give it music with a modern beat.  Was this the decision of the director and producer Richard Donner,  to perhaps latch into the MTV craze, which was taking over the earth at the time?  Ridley Scott admits when talking about 'Legend',  that trashing an orchestral score for modern synthesisers for the US release was a mistake.  And here the Alan Parsons pop tunes clash horribly with the more traditional music supplied by Andrew Powell.  It also clashes with the swept away feeling of being in another place and time as the frankly dull synthesiser music sounds like somebody switched the radio on while you were watching the movie.   And so this movie as well as 'Legend' flopped in the box office.  Perhaps they could have released the DVD with a alternate audio track that omits the Parsons music.  It is curious in fact the Alan Parsons is not mentioned anywhere on the DVD box.  If you can forgive the flaws,  you will be rewarded with a film that has more character and fun than the new `Star Wars' movies.    "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Lousy Music, Equestrianship Unexcelled","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie, except for the over-orchestration, deserves critical acclaim, as most of the comments have illustrated. However, no one seems to have addressed another element par excellence....the horses and equestrianship. Only one commentator made a cursory observation that Navarre's mount was a farm horse. ... not so! That was a Fresian, one of the oldest breed of horse known and the one which the knights of old used for battle....try to train a farm horse to prance! Other breeds included the Lipizans, and it was the antagonists who rode them.If one were to overlook the fine acting, the excellent storyline, the Romance (literary sense), and the romantic which tugs our heart strings in understatement, the appropriate comedy, the breath-taking camera work utilizing almost no special effects (but surpassing just about everything thrust upon us today), a horse-lover would revel in the production.However, whoever (not the composers) was in charge of allowing the musical score, should have been barbecued at the stake for ruining an almost flawless classic. Never the less, this movie should not be missed...It will leave you in awe and wonder.Marvin Cohn "},{"Title":"Extremely Agreeable Romantic Actioner With Strong Cast And Intriguing Premise","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Navarre and Isabeau are star-crossed lovers who have been cursed by the evil Bishop of Aquila. At dawn, she transforms into a hawk, and at dusk he transforms into a wolf; they can never meet. But when Navarre meets Phillipe Gaston, the only man to ever escape the dungeons of Aquila, perhaps there is a chance to lift this terrible curse &#x85;There's nothing particularly outstanding about this movie, but it scores well because it's strong in every element - good story, first-rate production, great cast, fine score, excellent photography - it's just classy all round. It's also nicely old-fashioned, a bit like an Errol Flynn romantic swashbuckler from the thirties (Captain Blood, say) - the goodies are noble and heroic, and the baddies are evil through and through; there are thrills and spills aplenty, comic interludes, a touching love story, and they all live happily ever after. It may be an old formula but it works rather well, and Edward Khmara's intriguing story sweeps along energetically. There is one potential liability - Broderick - who looks like a Jewish kid from Manhattan transplanted into Europe in the twelfth century. He contrasts sharply with Hauer (who could have stepped right out of the pages of Ivanhoe) but he makes his character work by gaining our sympathy and via all his neat comic asides to his Maker. Hauer is outstanding, and McKern and Hutchison offer strong support, as do the many talented animal actors (there is a particularly tricky scene with a wolf on an ice floe). Equally authentic is the fantastic location photography by the great Vittorio Storaro and production design by Wolf Kroeger (First Blood, Enemy At The Gates). It was all filmed on location in northern Italy - notably at the preserved medieval town of Castell' Arquato in Piacenza province - and looks sensational, with fluid tracking shots of horses thundering across cobblestones and beautifully lit smoky stained-glass interiors. This is one of those enjoyable cosmopolitan movies (American-Italian-British) where the varied backgrounds of the filmmakers contribute to a highly original experience. Last, but not least, there's a pounding symphonic rock score by Andrew Powell which complements the action and sweetens the romance. All in all this a cracking flick, extremely well directed by the talented Donner, and well worth a matinée screening. Trivia - the director and acclaimed producer Lauren Shuler married after making this movie together. "},{"Title":"The soundtrack.","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I read comments on the music for Ladyhawk and also thrown in there somewhere was a comment about the soundtrack for Legend. Personally, I not only LOVED the movies but I also loved the soundtracks for both and bought both. I've seen dressage horses do the kur to the theme song from Ladyhawk and it fits so very well. I've owned Ladyhawk on beta, VHS and now on DVD. I never tire of watching this fabulous love story. Matthew Broderick's little monologues have me smiling all of the way through. This was the first movie that I ever saw Michelle Pfiefer in or Rutger Hauer and I thought that she was one of the most beautiful women that I'd ever seen. Rutger Hauer's rugged good looks definitely complimented Pfiefer's ethereal presence. It was also the first time that I'd ever seen a Friesian horse and thus began my love for this breed. The movie was beautifully filmed and will always be one of my all time favourites. There is not one bad thing that I have to say about this movie or it's soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a wonderful, wonderful movie.Yes, there are bad things. The soundtrack I have never liked--the disco part, I mean; the more conventional part of it, with orchestra and authentic music, is truly beautiful. The villain is cheesy (and--surprise surprise--a Churchman). Mouse might have the potential to annoy other watchers--but not me.As for the story, it's excellent and wholly satisfying. Rutger Hauer turns in a wonderfully nuanced performance as the knight mysterious and menacing, or kind and noble--yet not quite sane obsessing about his lost love, and becoming irrationally jealous of Mouse's friendship with her.Michelle Pfeiffer is breathtakingly beautiful here as the face of love, vivacious and merry and queenly, just as she should be--neither anachronistically feminist nor totally lacking in gumption, but a very authentic-feeling heroine in the vein of Galadriel or Luthien from Tolkien's tales.Matthew Broderick is likewise excellent in his role as the story's grubby, cheerful protagonist--again, a very authentic-feeling character, the kind of guy you just know could be found scrounging his way through life in the Middle Ages somewhere. His incessant chatter weighs the other characters' taciturnity well, and he grounds the film in a way no other character could.The special effects are perfect--a more recent film might try to show off what cool things it can do with pixels, but in this film they are glossed over, and used to great effect only when they are really needed. Action scenes are likewise shot with economy and and grace, and the whole production--dialogue, costumes, sets, fights, and effects--is very low-key, exposing a very simple, very effective, and very touching story.It is, in fact, a pretty much perfect movie. "}{"Title":"Goliath is the star!","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ladyhawke is one of my favorite movies. I watch it on DVD a couple of times each year and thoroughly enjoy the story every time. The scenery is stunning and I can live with the music even if it is rather overpowering at times. Rutger Hauer is great, Michele Pfeiffer is gorgeous, John Wood is truly evil, Leo McKern, Matthew Broderick and all the villains are good. The grey horse in the cathedral scene is also magnificent - BUT - I just love that wonderful black Fresian horse. All that presence, power, dignity, grace -and the strength, training and courage to carry a fully armored knight into battle. Just what Richard the Lionheart needed when he said 'my kingdom for a horse' ... "},{"Title":"I'm a romantic. I should love LadyHawk!","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Totally loved the movie! I have seen this particular movie several times and would most definitely recommend it. The music was a little odd for the time period, but actually ended up commenting the actions of the characters. The techniques used (primarily the special effects with the animals) were good, but not quite as good as they could have been.The animals were amazing, I wouldn't have believed that the trainers could get them to behave as well as they did. After seeing the movie, and then reading about them using real wolves, I was even more impressed. Dogs are one thing, but real honest to goodness wolves?After further conversation with friends and family, I would have to say that the story line itself is what really made this movie worth watching. My mom and I agree, the fighting was awful, but the story itself was wonderful. (What can I say, we're romantics.) "},{"Title":"favorite fantasy movie","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater in 1985 when I was 13 and fell in love with it. I can't believe that was twenty years ago! I own the DVD now. It's not a perfect movie and I think the ending is a bit rough after all the magic that takes place before. But it's a beautiful story with stunning cinematography and good acting. I love Matthew Broderick's turn as Phillipe, he's cute and hilarious. Leo McKern breaks our heart when he tells us Navarre and Isabeau's story of doomed love, as does the pain etched into every line of Rutger Hauer's face. The thing I really like about this movie is despite Phillipe's conversations with God, it's really grounded; unlike other 80's fantasy movies there's an element of reality to it, it really feels like it's medieval setting, shot on location in Italy, with the dirty peasants and even the rich and corrupt Bishop's trappings of wealth are still medieval. The cathedral, the ruined abbey, the peasant's cottage, the dungeons, all feel real, not like movie sets. And the emotion between Isabeau and Navarre, and the sad old drunk, the desperate, lovesick young pickpocket make us feel, is human and real.The funny thing about the music is that it never bothered me when I watched the movie when I was younger, now it's so cheesy it's almost unbearable. I guess that's the way fads are, they work at the time, but then later on you're like What were we thinking? It's very much music of the time which unfortunately dates this otherwise timeless period piece. "},{"Title":"It has has everything you could want in a romance!","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There might be a spoiler in here, but it has been 19 years since this movie came outThis is a great film! It has everything you could want in a historical romance -- the heart-breaking frustrating love story; the danger; the comedic actions of Matthew; the swashbuckling and eventual triumph of love over lust, good over evil. It even shows the filth of the prison and you get an idea of the plight of the peasants. The fact that Rutger Hauer is the leading man is what drew me to the movie. The superb acting by the rest of the cast has drawn me back to view it over and over again.This movie introduced me to Rutger, Michelle and Alfred Molina and I have enjoyed seeing them in other movies since then. But if I had not seen John Woods in a movie before this one,I'm not sure I would have wanted to see him in any future movies, so well was his portrayal of evil.The movie may be long, but there is no way I would stop watching until I saw the finale, even after all this time.  "},{"Title":"Lavish and glamorous medieval fantasy  in which Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer are  cursed for eternity","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This wonderful flick deals with marvelous adventures about star-crossed lovers caught in an nasty spell . The movie is set in the south of France and, based on certain astronomical events that occur, can be dated to 1239 . Philipe Gastone (Matthew Broderick , though he seem better suited to a teen film) , a wisecracking thief , nicknamed the ¨Mouse¨ escapes from the dungeon at Aquila, sparking a manhunt led by officer Marquet (Ken Hutchison) . As a crafty young pickpocket stole his way out of a tyrant's dungeon and plunged into an adventure beyond even his own wildest imaginings . He is nearly captured when Captain Navarre (Rutger Hauer , though Richard Donner originally wanted to cast Kurt Russell , when Russell dropped out a few days before began, the part was handed to Hauer) riding his horse named Goliath saves him . Stalwart Navarre is condemned by an evil curse in which he and a gorgeous maid (Michelle Pfeiffer is perfectly cast as a pretty heroine) are lovers but separated by night and day . No power on Earth can save them , no force in Heaven will release them . The young along with a priest (Leo McKern) help the protagonists in their quest to break the spell by destroying its creator , a villain bishop (John Wood) . As both of whom become their unlike allied . Imaginative as well as lush fantasy about a weird curse in which our heroes take on several adventures and dangers . This is an imaginative , glamorous , strange fantasy based on the wonderful adventures by a group of heroes against an evil bishop . Fantastic film contains sense of adventure , thrills , and lots of imagination . From start to finish fantasy , action , duels and delightful adventures are interminable . Exciting and interesting screenplay by Michael Thomas , Tom Mankiewicz and David Webb based on a story by Edward Khmara . Edward Khmara took the issue to the Writers Guild Association and was awarded a cash settlement from Warners, but the medieval legend claim wasn't dropped ; and Warner Brothers falsely marketed the movie as being based on a true medieval legend . As this is a mysterious as well as intriguing seven-hundred-year-old legend of horror and love . Starring a considerable cast of top-names performers such as Rutger Hauer , Michelle Pfeiffer and Matthew Broderick . Support cast is frankly enjoyable such as Leo McKern as Father Imperius the Monk , John Wood as Bishop of Aquila , Ken Hutchison as Marquet , and Alfred Molina as Cezar . Marvelous special effects are visually stunning , though a little dated , and magnificently realized with no computer generator . Several different hawks were used , one to sit on Rutger Hauer's arm and another for the flying scenes. Impressive production design by Wolf Kroeger , including luxurious scenarios , filmed on location in Italy , such as Campo Imperatore, L'Aquila, Abruzzo, Castell'Arquato, Piacenza, Emilia-Romagna, Rocca di Calascio, Calascio, L'Aquila , Soncino, Cremona, Lombardia,Torrechiara, Langhirano, Parma, Emilia-Romagna, Catatombe , Rome and three of the castles used for the film were owned by Italian film director Luchino Visconti . Colorful and glimmer cinematography shot in Technovision by Vittorio Storaro , Bernardo Bertolucci's usual cameraman . Anti-climatic though generally entertaining musical score composed by Andrew Powell by means of modern synthesizer ; however sometimes resulting to be effective and agreeable . This big-budgeted , overlong , appreciated film achieved hit at box office and today is very well considered and it will please the young and the young at heart . The movie was compelling and imaginatively directed by Richard Donner . The picture was nominated for two Academy Awards, for Best Sound Editing and Best Sound Mixing, but failed to win either Oscar . ¨Ladyhawke¨ might be described as an extraordinary fantasy full of imagination and color . It's a tale for teens and adults in which entertainment and amusement are guaranteed . Rating  Good , better than average . Worthwhile watching . "},{"Title":"Mytho-poetic film-making at its best.","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you like your films fast-paced and your stories immediately comprehensible, LADYHAWKE may feel like less of an exhilarating horse-ride&#x85;and more of a stumble through a dense wood at night. But if you have the staying power to participate in this emotional tale of two cursed lovers, watch and await, a film experience that is truly quite unique! The film is beautifully shot, and every time the frame fills with imagery of mountains and forests your heart yearns to walk the country shown on screen. When you think that this film was made in '85, and that today's genre films aren't considered complete without their epic cinematography, I'd say LADYHAWKE was something of a predecessor to films like LOTR. The score however is something you'll either love or hate. I personally would have preferred it if the film had a slightly different score, not so electronic, but a bit more staid. Then again, the buoyant score does a good job of saving the film from seeming too devastatingly solemn. Though LADYHAWKE was marketed as a fantasy (IMDB, Amazon and the like seem to link it with films like WILLOW), I prefer to look upon it as mytho-poetic. After all, the story is set in the real world, in 12th century Italy. This vast, gorgeous landscape of high mountains, misty forests and rolling meadows is overseen by the serpentine Bishop of Aquila (John Wood). In the dungeons of Aquila, a young and talented peasant crook named Philipe (Matthew Broderick) escapes. The Bishop, fearing that his unassailable power might be damaged by the audacity of the fugitive, dispatches a squadron to find and capture him. As Philipes antics continue, events finally unite him with the mysterious figure of Navarre (Rutger Hauer), and his loyal hawk. The two strike up an alliance, and Philipe gradually becomes embroiled in a very tragic and tangled reality Navarre is doomed to transform into a wolf every sunset. His hawk is no hawk at all. In her true form she is Navarre's love, Ysabeau (Michelle Pfeiffer). The lovers have lived this way for many years, under a curse, put upon them by none other than the Bishop himself...who lusted after Ysabeau, and summoned the curse as a means to end his own perpetual wretchedness. Navarre, Philipe, Ysabeau and a sympathetic monk, Imperius, embark on a mission to end the curse and exact revenge on the corrupt Bishop.The events of the story unfold rather objectively, which is a shame. There are moments in the film when you relate perfectly and easily to the tortured passion that lies at the core of the story. However, there are also moments when the characters come across as a little too unflustered by the situations they find themselves in. Brooding blonde Rutger Hauer in particular seems to express very little anguish at his characters predicament, and spends most of his screen time in a state of cool, calm, gallant pride. I took his casual manner to signify how embittered and hopeless his character has become, but nevertheless, there were times when I wished he would do something other than mutter. Also, as the fight scenes in the film are noticeably very strange and at times gawky, I began to feel that Hauer was not being given the liberally proportioned epic moments his character deserves. The scene in which Navarre confronts the Bishop has a very laboured feel to it, but maybe this was deliberate? Michelle Pfeiffer is, as ever, stunning; she has too little screen time to draw us deeply into her character, but when she does appear on screen, she is formidable, majestic and brave. Matthew Broderick is charming as the cunning but likable Philipe, and his performance acts as the resin of the film that holds everything together. Over all, I give the film 8/10; it certainly isn't perfect, but the film exudes a poignant, haunted and mythic mood that every romantic will contentedly lose themselves in. "},{"Title":"This fantasy film is not really spectacular, but still good.","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of Rutger Hauer's best starring roles as a hero. This film is a bit of a fantasy film, just not the type you would expect. It is a bit different, not really a Conan film or Lord of the Rings, but still having some supernatural qualities to keep the film really interesting. The story is about a romantic couple who are cursed. By day the man is a night, but at night he is a wolf. The female by day is a hawk and by night she is human and boy she was attractive as she was played by a young and sexy Michelle Phifer. She never looked better only getting somewhat close in the film Batman Returns as the very sultry Catwoman. The story is a bit more romance than action, but there is action in it so it is all good. It could have been better, but then there are so many movies that could have been better. Matthew Broderick is kind of the glue in this film as his character is the only one who can interact with both characters as he does his best to aid them, even trying to find a way to cure them of the horrible curse. Unfortunately, Hauer's character is hell bent on revenge and refuses to listen to anything that may cure them instead wishing to kill the man responsible to the curse. The movie has a very nice finale to it and the only thing I feel really compelled to complain about is that of Broderick's character not really finding anyone special for himself. A minor complaint, but I could not help but feel bad for him during the finale. "},{"Title":"A Completely Undeserving Flop and a Forgotten Fantasy Treasure","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ladyhawke is one of Richard Donner's greatest triumphs-- the director who has Superman, The Omen, and Lethal Weapon under his belt. It is a well-handled, stylized, spectacular romance about a beautiful lady (Michelle Pfeiffer) and a courageous knight (Rutger Hauer) who, for reasons you may already know or will discover for certain when you see the movie, are cursed. It's also a relatively quickly-paced action film about how a diminutive pickpocket (Matthew Broderick) helps the unlucky couple out when he has his own scores to settle, particularly with a deceitful bishop (John Wood) and a ruthless soldier (Ken Hutchinson). The only reason why this film loses points is because of the music, which is, in my opinion, more terrible than if Giorgio Moroder had teamed up with Andy Warhol. But Vittorio Storaro's cinematography is astounding, and the performances are terrific, as are the nowhere-near-overdone special effects. I don't understand why this film is so obscure-- if it were up to me, this would definitely be at least somewhere in the Top 250. "},{"Title":"Super Movie; Fantasy,  Love Story, and more.","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What can a person say when a movie has such a great cast in it as the, The Ladyhawk!I have seen the movie many times and I highly recommend it to anyone when ask the question? Seen any good movies.. Yessssssssss, have you ever seen Ladyhawk? To me that was a loaded question and my cue to tell them to rent it. I really need to buy it and I will probably do it today. I guess you can tell that it is one of my favorites. Why, I do not know. It just is. By the way it has not been on cable or regular t.v. in a long, long time. How come? Deanna ) "},{"Title":"Magic, mystery and betrayal... my favourite film of all time.","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Michelle Pfeiffer - at her most ethereally beautiful... Rutger Hauer - at his most handsome.... throw in a superb performance by Matthew Broderick and a wonderfully tragicomic performance by the incomparable Leo McKern and you KNOW you are in for a treat!Phillipe Gaston, a thief (aka the mouse) is the first person to ever escape from the prison at Aquila. Soon cornered by the evil Bishop's men he is rescued and subsequently befriended by Etienne Navarre; former captain of the Bishop's guard; who now travels only by day - accompanied by his horse & a hawk.When the hawk is wounded in a fight; the previously controlled Navarre seems to go to pieces...Phillipe soon discovers the secret of their special bond and gains an insight into the depths of the Bishop's depravity... Will he help Navarre exact his terrible revenge? Or will the words of the priest help temper Navarre's impatience?...all this and swordfights too... does it GET any better?Not in my opinion! "}{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an all time favorite for my husband and I. We have not watched in years until recently. Unlike many other older movies we have watched, this is not cheesy. It is a great story with awesome acting and cinematography. Great acting by Rutger Hauwer (excuse my spelling), Michelle Pfiffer and Matthew Broderick. A drama, love story, action and bits of humor when needed. This was the movie that gave us the name for our first born Isabeau. As an 11 year old she loves the idea of where her name came from and the fact she has never found anyone with the same name (and she loves the movie as well). If you have passed this by don't, you won't be disappointed. A Classic!!! "},{"Title":"Definitely a movie for horse lovers.","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw LadyHawke when I was much younger and fell in love with Friesian horses because of Goliath, Navarre's mount in the movie. I did not know at the time what breed of horse he was. But after seeing pictures of other horses of the same look I soon figured it out. I love the story and own a copy. The story has plenty of action and much pathos between Navarre and Isabeau when they are transforming and have that brief moment when they are both human. One can feel the wrenching of the heart as they again turn into human and animal. The Mouse provides comic relief with his escapades. The riding scenes are spectacular and I can only speculate what it felt like to ride that wonderful horse at a gallop. I would recommend this movie for all audiences. "},{"Title":"Ladyhawke","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A medieval film with the absolutely extraordinary perfume of magic. Upon the departure, one to the lovers maudits and until the end the suspense sticks or not remains... Arriveront to break the curse which condemns them to be always together but eternally separate? A splendid history, michelle pfeiffer more beautiful than ever, perfect actors. The only point which can slightly aggravate they are certain musics (total anachronism... One likes or not) but fortunately, the principal topic is very pleasant that compensates for the few a little heavy musics. A really superb and magic film which will hold you in breath until the end. Film worship "},{"Title":"Delightful, simple story-telling","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While the leads are all big names, the film has a wonderful small-film feel.The story is an ancient one, and it seems that every nation's folklore has a version of it, so there is little mystery in the transformations; we all know it's coming. They are even handled simply, with no computer graphics, complex fades or transitions - just some pretty camera work, and there they are, the man a wolf, the woman a bird.The plot carries the story, each incident necessary, well-handled and well-told. The Italian scenery is stark and empty, the impoverished villages are rough-hewn, and the camera work adequate, straight-forward, and true to its story. But the interest in the viewing comes from the characters.Michelle Pfeiffer and Rutger Hauer are each beautiful and tragic. Matthew Broderick, though his accent slides around a lot, is as endearing a thief and trickster as he should be, both courageous and puny. John Wood is both cruel and cowardly, but believably, not a cartoon-like movie villain. And Leo McKern cannot help but be wonderful as a weathered old monk, simultaneously loving life, yet eaten up with guilt. Great folks bringing class and interest into material that lesser talents would make sound like a high school play. All and all, well worth watching, and quite engaging for kids and adults.The only real problem is the sound track. It's dreadful. The Alan Parsons score absolutely screams pop, pop music. It doesn't match the period, the mood, the characters, or the imagery. The stuff they play during some action scenes is especially horrid, more reminiscent of the Power Rangers than ancient curses and intelligent wolves. Try to overlook it. "},{"Title":"Very poignant and very atmospheric","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is very poignant, although dated in places. Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer are perfectly matched, Matthew Broderick is the perfect thief and Leo McKern is just made for the part of the priest.Some people would say that this film is 'cheesy' but if they took the trouble to read beneath the 80's production technique they would find a plot full of sensitivity and romance.Phillipe Navarre and Isabeau, his lover, are destined to live lives apart, he a wolf by night and she a hawk by day. This curse was set upon them by an evil Bishop who secretly loved Isabeau and was driven to anger when he discovered that Navarre, Captain of the Guard, loved Isabeau himself.The most heart-wrenching part of the film is when Navarre is trapped in ice by the priest and the thief and he wakes at dawn in human form just in time to set eyes upon his beloved Isabeau, also in human form, for the briefest of moments.He reaches out to her and their hands almost touch when the sun creeps over the horizon and she turns into a hawk. He cries out in frustration with tears in his eyes.The music by Alan Parsons is, even if not medieval, is still very atmospheric and lends itself well to the style of the 80's. In my humble opinion it makes the film very atomospheric and unique.If you are a fan of medieval romanticism then this film is definitely not one to miss. "},{"Title":"A shining example of high fantasy","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story was NOT based on any particular folktale or legend or old story, but it feels as though it might have been.  She's a hawk from sunrise to sunset; he's a wolf from sunset to sunrise ... it feels so primal and classic it's a wonder that nothing was made of the idea until the late twentieth century.  (There are one-sided stories in the same vein with ONE of the two lovers turned into an animal - `Swan Lake', for instance.)The makers of `Ladyhawk' haven't let their superb idea down.  -Okay, maybe they did with the music.  I don't know WHAT they were thinking there.  Still, one day, with any luck, the music will be SO dated as to sound timelessly antiquated - or so I hope.  I really don't think the soundtrack is any MORE jarringly inappropriate than, say, James Horner's music for `Titanic', and it is at any rate more tuneful.  -But APART from the music, everything clicks.  Someone really went to a lot of effort to find the right parts of Europe to film in.  (The settings are gorgeous.)  The cast is all good, and I think it's their finest hour.Best of all are the incidental details of the plot.  They all tend to be the kind of events one would expect to find in old folktales and stories, but so far as I know they aren't stolen from anywhere.  Of course a modern audience will guess immediately what the `night yet day' line refers to, but that's the point WE know, the characters (as you'd expect of ordinary folk of the time) don't know, and the story is ten times as tense and moving as a result.  That's the way it is with riddles in stories like this.`Ladyhawk' is fine work of fantasy that I defy you not to love. "},{"Title":"A Tragic Tale of Romance in a Fantasy setting","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Richard Donner directs a masterpiece with actors Matthew Broderick, Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer.Captain Etienne Navarre (Rutger Hauer) has been cursed to room the nights as a wolf while the woman he loves, Lady Isabeau (Michelle Pfeiffer), is cursed to roam the sky as a Hawk in the day. Each of them being Human when the other is not. Mix in the young thief, Philippe Gaston (Matthew Broderick), and you have a story of love and romance, of curses and revenge, set in medieval times.There are some spectacular visual images and sometimes the musical score just fits. This movie like Princess Bride is destined to be a classic that can be enjoyed by all ages. "},{"Title":"Ladyhawke","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Directed by Richard 'Lethal Weapon' Donner but looking more like an epic Ridley Scott picture. This is a curious tale of love and romance tied in with a typical medieval/dark ages animal based curse. A form of witchcraft cast upon two young lovers by a man of the cloth, a Bishop, simply out of jealousy. A Romeo and Juliet style historical fable.First thing that will hit you with this film are the striking visuals. The story is set in central Italy (I presume) and there is a very real historical grandiose feel to everything you see. All the scenes are set within (or around) real locations, real castles, real towns, real ruins, real old courtyards etc...The visuals are HIGHLY stylised believe me! every shot is incredibly slick and glossy looking, one could coin the term 'historical scenery porn'. Everything looks like a beautiful living water colour painting with stunning sunsets, dawns, dusk's and twilight's set against some jaw-droppingly lush European countryside and rustic ruins villages and fortresses.Admittedly the one draw back about the visuals are they look too clean, almost too good!. I know this is a fairytale of sorts, a fantasy, but there doesn't really appear to be any dirt or mud anywhere hehe. All the buildings are spotless, the countryside is perfect, every character is dressed immaculately in clean attire, the horses have gleaming coats etc...It all has a lovely dream-like quality but I just felt for the period some grubbiness was required.The other main thing that will hit you is the strange choice in musical score. I'm sure most would think an orchestral score would be fitting for such material, but no, Donner goes down the 'Tangerine Dream/Legend' route with an 80's electronic rock based set of tracks. There are of course some more traditional tit bits in there but most action and fantasy moments are accompanied by this odd rock score. The problem is the visuals and general style in this film are so good and authentic the score just doesn't sit right in my opinion, it feels a bit cheesy and ruins the classical approach. I'm guessing the film 'First Knight' may have pinched this idea, thing is that film didn't have the spectacularly lavish locations, good cast, slick camera work, timeless story...OK that film was just crap.I think this film also has some great casting. Both Hauer and Pfeiffer really do look stunning with their big blue eyes, makes one feel quite ordinary and pathetic. Hauer really is the true knight in shining armour here, the real Prince Charming...OK maybe not in shining armour but instead uber cool pitch black...errr armour/Jedi robes kinda thing. Typical heroic attire with a sweeping black cape with posh red lining, this guy looks quite wealthy. With his blonde hair, blue eyes and atop his black steed he really does look very handsome, first time in awhile I can genuinely honestly feel comfortable saying a bloke looked attractive, I was envious.On the other hand Pfeiffer has this ethereal-like beauty with her lovely short blonde locks, pale skin, strong facial structure and yet more big blue eyes. She truly looks angelic, the perfect Princess or damsel in distress for Hauer's brave knight, together they really are a perfect match and I really could believe the fact they turn into a wolf and hawk at their respective times (Ladyhawke...speaks for itself right). Unfortunately the film is let down by the one casting of Broderick who is a stain upon this gorgeous film. He is truly annoying with his constant nervous ramblings in that squeaky voice of his. I just wanted to slap him across the face every time he made those idiotic expressions of shock or surprise...good God!.The plot does take a bit of getting used too, Hauer as a wolf by night and Pfeiffer as a hawk by day, it also takes time to explain this which is a bit confusing. There are no horrific mutations or transformations though, its all done with subtle fades and nice eye close ups which works well. Overall I did get the impression the plot was stretched out a bit because there wasn't much to actually do, the aim of the game for Hauer is kill the Bishop who cursed them. Not much more to it than that so I think there is filler or padding here and there, it can feel dull in places. You could say its all style over substance I guess, but that would be harsh methinks.Overall the film looks exquisite and is very realistic to reality, even if it is too clean to actually be reality. Everything and especially Hauer and Pfeiffer are period perfect, the pair look like characters from a classical fresco or mural come to life. You'd never guess this was a Richard Donner flick.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Dated but atmospheric","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like so many other fantasy films of the 1980s, LADYHAWKE has dated badly since first release. The score is particularly jarring, especially when it includes some soft rock that sits oddly out of place with the pseudo-historical world of the storyline. Nevertheless, it proves to be a fairly engaging little movie that reminded me, oddly enough, of the medieval mystery yarn THE NAME OF THE ROSE mixed with WILLOW, conjuring up a dangerous world dominated by corrupt religious figures and throwing some characters and their bizarre adventures into the mix.The central curse which propels the storyline is cleverly achieved, and the filmmakers employ some talented creatures to bring that story to life. Unable to achieve the effects via limited special effects technology, the reliance instead is on the camera and performing animals to trick the viewer, and it does that pretty well. There's at least one absolutely splendid scene &#x96; where Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer meet, just for an instant, as the sun rises &#x96; which, I would argue, makes the entire film worth sitting through, just for those spellbinding seconds.Elsewhere, the film never slows down with a mix of tragedy, romance and knockabout comedy. As a way of introducing American children and youths into this fantasy world, Matthew Broderick is cast as a brash young thief and we see much of the storyline evolve through his eyes. This isn't great, because I've never liked Broderick and he's on particularly brattish form here, but the casting of Hauer as romantic lead more than makes up for Broderick's foibles. Watch out for a fun cameo from Leo McKern (who seems to be having a ball) and John Wood as the particularly obnoxious villain of the piece. The action is hardly spectacular, but the end result is surprisingly watchable, thanks to that inventive and well-thought-out storyline. "},{"Title":"I love stories about transformation--whether it's physical or spiritual--this movie's about both!","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you love epic fairy tales...this one's about transformation through faith, forgiveness, and love and loyalty!All of the characters experience conflict and we see them struggle in their choices--struggling to make the right decisions and to live with their decisions--good or bad, and sometimes, to try to make things right. it's easy to assume we know who these characters are but they surprise themselves and each other (and the audience)One of my favorite movies! Saw it again the other night. Excellent storytelling in every element--lighting, special effects (esp. considering the time), score, shots, dialogue,comic relief acting!My husband and I never get tired of watching this movie. Loved it as a kid, and my kid fell in love with it when she first saw it a couple of years ago.It's sensual, subtle, vivid...the story flows...Even though it's a fairy tale--it never feels fake or contrived--if you know what I mean.And, it's never preachy.One of my favorite (a) Matthew Broderick movies (b) Michelle Pfeiffer movies (c) Rutger Hauer movies (d) fantasy movies (e) ensemble cast movies (f) redemption tales. "}{"Title":"Excellent entertainment for everyone!","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film reminds me in subtle ways of the Princess Bride. Both are about true love and both were under-rated when they came out in theaters. Both are carried by their story and action.The only thing I didn't like about this film was the music (particularly the intro credits---bear with it because it's worth it. The music feels dated at parts but is well done---particularly at the climax of the film, which is when it really counts. If it was redone with a little more classical music soundtrack I would rate the movie a 10. That said, it doesn't significantly detract from the movie.Aside from some gore scenes this is a movie that is great for people of all ages. There's action and adventure. There's romance that transcends the ages.Rutger Hauer is perfect in his role as was Michelle Pfieffer. The entire cast is solid. Matthew Brodderick adds a comical dimension to the film that helps ease the tension at times. Again, the blend of elements in the story is nearly perfect.There's enough suspense to keep you guessing, enough twists along the way. My entire family loved it, which says something because we have such diverse movie interests. Definitely worth renting (or better yet, buying). "},{"Title":"One of Richard Donner's Best Film's","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" when the Bishop(John Wood) discovered that the woman he desired, Isabeau,(Michelle Pfeiffer) and the Captain of his Guards, Navarre, were in love, he made a pact with the devil to curse them hence forward Navarre(Rutger Hauer) would be a wolf by night and a man by day and Isabeau a hawk by day and a woman by night, so the two would have together as humans only the instants of dawn and sunset.Matthew Broderick is the young thief Phillipe 'The Mouse' Gaston who escapes from the Bishops dungeons of Aquilla, he becomes embroiled with the mysterious goings on and is beckoned by Navarre to assist him in defeating the evil bishop once and for all.Leo McKern is the drunken Monk who also holds the key to breaking the curse as a solar eclipse is due - a night that will also be day, so that both lovers will be human simultaneously. If they can confront the Bishop in human form together the curse will be broken.An epic film of the old-fashioned kind which is superbly photographed, by Vittorio Storaro, it's unfortunate that Richard Donner hasn't collaborated with the talent to release a 'Special Edition' DVD/Blu-Ray of this classic,i for one hope that fox/warner chip in and give us a 'special edition' "},{"Title":"Michelle Peiffer is Smokin' Hot In This Movie!","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was totally cool. I bought it at Blockbuster for like $5 bucks because we are selling a lot of our favourite titles at work because they don't rent out enough in a given year. That's stupid but good for my collection. I bought Krull and Ladyhawke both for like $5 bucks each this week and these old school movies are really hard to find. This movie was way cooler then Stardust which had Michelle Peiffer in it recently. In this 1985 fantasy film she is smokin' hot. I guess Kurt Russel turned down the male lead role. Oh, well... I love Kurt Russel but I somehow think he would have kicked Matthew Broderick's ass if he had to act in the same movie with him. This has got to be one of Matthew Broderick's first roles and I like him in Ferris Buellers Day Off but usually hate him otherwise. In this movie I know see he can act sometimes and I also enjoyed him in Bee Movie this week. If you like fantasy movies check this one out and enjoy when they made good fantasy movies before all the fancy computer effects like in a movie like the new Beowulf which was super cool but does not look the same as the older movies. "},{"Title":"Ladyhawke Fan For Life!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really liked this film. It reminds me of a time when my imagination ruled me and I barely had one foot in reality most of my life. The main reason (for me, anyway) was that the film had minimal special effects, yet overflowed with fantasy and imagination at every turn. The line between fantasy and reality are blurred so well, you seem quite convinced that this could have happened to anyone...Two characters separated by night and day by the curse of a jealous bishop can only be saved by the most unlikely of events a solar eclipse. But how do you convince each of something that science has not yet discovered? With the help of an old, wise (and sometimes drunk)friend, and the rebellious help of a young new one, of course! It's not even the fascinating story that keeps this film going--it's the actors. Each of these roles seem custom-built for them. They acted it very well. A film worth seeing again and again. I never get tired of it. "},{"Title":"An underrated gem in the 80s wasteland of fantasy duds","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Richard Donner is best known as the director of the Lethal Weapon series, Superman, and the Omen. But Ladyhawke is one of his more overlooked films from the 80s. A shame, because with this film, Donner took a decent stab at the fantasy genre, and crafted a fairly original love story with a welcome injection of wit.Phillipe Gaston (winningly played by Matthew Broderick) is a sort of Mediaeval Artful Dodger. A pickpocket thrown into prison, we first see him grumbling his way through an escape attempt (This is not unlike escaping my mother's womb. God what a memory!).He eventually succeeds, being the first person to ever escape the dungeons of Aquila. The High Bishop (a hissable John Wood) sends the guards after him, because he rules over the people with an iron fist, and if word gets out the dungeons are not impregnable, it could inspire rebellion.Gaston gets as far as the countryside before the guards catch up to him. There's a wonderful action scene here where Gaston must outmanoeuvre them at every step while hanging from trellises, donning disguises and even crawling on all fours. It almost resembles vintage Errol Flynn.But Gaston is rescued by Navarre (a slightly hammy Rutger Hauer). Navarre recruits Gaston as his sidekick, because he wants to launch an attack on the castle and kill the Bishop. Since Gaston escaped from there, Navarre figures he might be useful.Navarre is almost never seen without a hawk, a hawk he has tremendous affection for. When its night, Navarre disappears, and a wolf is seen prowling around in his place. As well as a beautiful woman, Isabeau (Michelle Pfeiffer).Gaston is puzzled by Navarre being visible by day, and Isabeau by night. But when the hawk is injured, Navarre sends Gaston to Father Imperius (a great performance from Leo McKern), a disgraced monk for help. Imperius fills in the blanks.The Bishop wanted Isabeau for himself, but she loved Navarre. So if he couldn't have her, no man would. By making a pact with the Devil, he cast a spell on them both to keep them apart. By day, Navarre is human and Isabeau is the hawk. And by night, she is human and he is the wolf.Now a part of this tragic tale, Gaston and Imperius join with Navarre and Isabeau to break the spell, and stop the Bishop. Ladyhawke really is an unappreciated treat. It would be one of Richard Donner's last really good films for a long while. There is something unique to the story, and Donner manages to create equal parts poignancy to the situation, as well as humour and excitement.Rutger Hauer is a bit of an odd choice for the part of a virtuous knight, and if truth be told, he always seems much more comfortable in the part of an eye-rolling psycho. But he's not bad in Ladyhawke. He's up to the action scenes, and does occasionally get some real moments to shine. There's a very funny scene when Navarre gets extremely paranoid about what Gaston and Isabeau might get up to when she's in human form and Navarre isn't.Michelle Pfeiffer is OK. She certainly looks lovely in her first starring role, but as always, she still comes off as a little too emotionless. She doesn't get as many scenes as Hauer, and they hardly share any screen-time, but there is one scene with the two that makes an impression. A beautifully shot scene where for just a fleeting moment between sunrise and sunset, they glimpse each other in human form, a moment that's beautifully illuminated by sunlight. For that one moment, you really sense their love, and their loss.But it's in the supporting performances where Ladyhawke really entertains. In a part perfectly suited to Matthew Broderick, he gets one of his best roles here. In fact its probably his second best performance after Ferris Bueller. Gaston gets all the best lines and gives the film great energy whenever he's around. And special mention should also go to Leo McKern as the monk who betrayed Navarre and Isabeau to the Bishop, and now wants to make amends. Its a similar character to the one Patrick Troughton played in Donner's Omen, which co-starred McKern.The method Donner comes up with to break the spell is clever, and its a genuinely uplifting moment when Navarre and Isabeau stand face to face after so long apart. The only downer on the whole film is the misplaced contemporary rock soundtrack. It only serves as a distraction, and is completely inappropriate to the tone of the film. But other than that, Ladyhawke is a wonderful, magical fable.It might interest people to know that an episode of Charmed ripped off the plot of Ladyhawke wholesale, and even the solution to the lovers dilemma was identical. I'm amazed Donner didn't sue for copyright infringement. Oh well, at least it shows Ladyhawke is held in regard in some places. After all, imitation is the highest form of flattery. "},{"Title":"Super film ,easy to watch , throughly enjoyable","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie more times than i can remember.Both the leads do an excellent job and M Broddrick , well is him self .Fantastic score from Andrew Powell gives this film a new edge .Though there's nothing in the way of surprises , its never the less a very easy film to watch .Leo McKern is a valued part of the film and should have had more scenes.Filmed in Italy , there's a definite depth to the scenery .Every thing works very well , although i think the sound is at times unclear but to be fair its now a clearly an old film . Beautilully filmed , no CGI in sight .Yes thats right no CGI , well at least none thats apparent .Nice move to watch with your Partner .Theres romance , there's sword fights , even a little humour .So curl up with some pop corn and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Utterly Brill...","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" How this was never a box off hit I'll never know. A fantasy formula with plenty of set piece fight sequences to keep the boys happy and a big romantic plot for the girls to blub to, this should have been the lord of the rings of 1985. But it wasn't; and history has determined that the only way people will see it now is either on afternoon TV or a a very poor DVD product (come on Fox lets have a decent DVD with 5.1 and proper widescreen at least) Everything about this film is great, the performances, the location, the script, and the cinematography; some of the use of light at atmosphere are amazing even 20 years on. As for the music- yes it is clunky and 80's in places- but in others it is gorgeous- witness  she was sad at first or the final confrontation... "},{"Title":"Much better than what its critics said.","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fantasy movies usually get trashed by critics and this one was no different. Since most movie critics seem to have lost touch with what the movie going audience likes, I am not surprised that many critics gave this move a grudging 2 stars out of 4.This movie had a strong cast. I really believed Rutger Hauer as the cursed Capt of the Guard, Navarre. His Lady Love (and title character) played by Michelle Pfeifer was stunningly beautiful and did fine with her character considering how little dialog she had. Mathew Broderick was very likable as the clever and resourceful young thief/go-between for the two cursed lovers. The supporting cast of John Wood, Leo McKern, and Alfred Molina (in a small role) were also very good.The soundtrack was also great. It provided the right balance between romantic and adventure. I may be wrong, but I believe Alan Parsons was responsible for the soundtrack What ever the case, if you like romantic action/fantasy you owe yourself a favor--get this movie. "},{"Title":"romance that takes you by the scruff of the neck","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" How can I start praising this wonderful, incredibly romantic film? Many males probably label this a chick movie. But it is for anyone with a weakness for believable, touching movie romance.Hauer and Pfeiffer are nothing less than a match made in heaven. They suit each other like sticks and sushi, Shafer and Letterman, you name it. They both take real, down to earth, understated approaches to their roles and in my opinion, it just comes off as one of the most emotionally charged pairings in motion picture history. And as an added perk, the boys can ogle Michelle and us girls can take a gander at Rutger.The storyline is gripping, dramaturgically even and not too fanciful. The costumes are a matter of taste, but personally I like them. One of the film's tour de forces is also the magnificent, masterful editing.The only things preventing this film from getting the full 10 are the dodgy music (which does work in places) and Brodericks performance, which comes of as offbeat and cute at first but starts to get a little bit under your skin towards the end. "},{"Title":"Highly Entrtaining","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this in the theater when it first came out. My wife (then girlfriend) was with me, and she didn't like it as much as I did, but she liked it, too. I got it on tape, then DVD.The scenery is great; the lovers, scenic. The cinematography is good. If it were rescored with better music, it would be a tad more satisfying.Philipe, the Mouse, was a character possibly not too familiar with modern audiences, but traditional in many Medieval tales -- the innocent who speaks humorous truths. To get such a character in, he was made necessary because he held the key into getting into the castle of Aquila. This is the only reason Etienne du Navarre had any use for him.Possible spoilers follow Apparently, Philipe escaped from his cell in the dungeon. So, logically, that's where his reentry would take him. Ah, well ....Somebody already spoke of a full moon the day before the eclipse. Actually, it was gibbous, but the point was taken.But these are nits. Overall, the picture was charming. "}{"Title":"Unforgettable in a strange sort of way","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember this as one of my favorites from the 80's. Not sure why so many reviewers are down on Broderick's performance because I thought his character was integral and well done.For whatever reason I never viewed this movie as a romance, but more of a fantasy adventure that had romance in it. The theme seems more of a magical adventure than a romance.One disappointment is the DVD transfer of this movie. Unfortunately, it's one of the worst (maybe THE worst) transfer to DVD I've ever seen. The quality is utterly horrible. I have a decent TV and DVD player and played this using progressive output. I can't believe how grainy it is. Very very disappointing they could not clean this up better. The DVD quality barely looks better than standard VHS.However, this is one of those movies that always captured my imagination for whatever reason. No, it's not perfect and maybe you need to be in just the right mood to watch it, but I think it is utterly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A Great Fantasy Movie","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ladyhawke is a wonderful fantasy adventure with an intriguing plot line, a great cast, and interesting characters.Matthew Broderick is hilarious as the fidgety thief, Phillip Gaston, caught up in an adventure he wants nothing to do with. Rutger Hauer plays Captain Etienne Navarre, who literally drags young Phillip along on his all-important quest, and is the perfect serious counterpoint to the thief's smart remarks. Michelle Pfeiffer is great as the strong-willed Isabeau d'Anjou.Adventure, magic, sword fights, and true love; brave knights and ladies, sorcery and dungeons. This is a great movie, although it's surprising how few people have heard of it. The acting is good, and the plot is classic fantasy adventure material. The special effects are a little dated, but not too bad, considering. Be prepared for some questionable music, though. Every once in a while, the score blares out a very dated disco-like theme. But still--Great movie! "},{"Title":"Beautiful fantasy","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love to read fantasy & I have been reading it since The Lord of the Rings back in the late 60's.  However, good sword & sorcery movies did not exit until Ladyhawke.  (If anyone knows of any before '85 I would be happy to hear the titles.)  All the earlier sword & sorcery movies were mostly kid movies or male fantasy (Steve Reeves types with lots of buxom & pouty Italian ladies in short skirts).  Ladyhawke is a movie about adults for adults.  It is far from perfect.  The music is bad & Matthew Broderick's Mouse grates.  But Michelle Pfeiffer is luminous & loyal and Rutger Hauer is handsome & gallant.  The story is from the true literary fantasy tradition.  John Wood as the Bishop of Aquila is excellent.  He is the the evil sorcerer caught in his own web of corruption & lust. Ladyhawke even has the look of a beautiful fantasy with beautiful scenery, sets, costumes and especially, beautiful animals.  Most sword & sorcery fantasies have animals, often magical, as integrel to the plot.   I have seen this movie many times & it is just as beautiful & magical the last time as it was the first.     "},{"Title":"Good story, great characters...","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not to be confused with the many sword and sorcery spectacles of the eighties, this film stands alone as a love story and...for lack of a better term...a fairy tale.  Gorgeous cinematography, clever dialogue, a solidly-plotted story, and characters that leap off the screen make this tale one that still stands tall, as long as the viewer is willing to forgive the disastrous soundtrack.Matthew Broderick may steal the show as a condemned pickpocket who regularly converses with God, but the film is filled with small touches that dazzle; watch how lovingly director Richard Donner parades his medieval warhorses through the nave of a cathedral in the climax! "},{"Title":"WOW... Like looking on the face of love","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great love story.  Set in a time when honor and chivalry were everything.In Aquila where no one escapes from the dungeons Philip Gaston (Mathew Broderick) does, by falling down a hole and following his nose.  While on the run from the soldiers of Aquila, Captain Etienne Navarre saves his life. And then the fantasy begins......I'm sorry for all you MEN out there that DON'T like a true romance.  I have 4 yes four VHS tapes of this movie and a copy of the sound track. Captain Etienne devotion to Isabeau d'Anjou is felt throughout the movie. He has reverence, dedication, and sans peur et sans reproche.It would have been a real shame to not have Rutger Hauer playing the lead roll of Captain Etienne Navarre.  Rutger Hauer stands out as the tall, blonde, blue eyed hero, of the picture. I liked Mathew Broderick and Michelle Pfeiffer in this film but I adore Rutger Hauer.  When I'm feeling a little down or depressed I put this movie in and believe that there is still hope of love in the world.  There are few men today that could carry being handsome leading actor, Mr. Hauer does.  "},{"Title":"Lovely...","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yeah, that the word for the movie. It's a lovely movie. Rutger Hauer is a cool actor, and I always enjoy watching his movies. And this one is one of the best I have seen him in. And he and Michelle Pfeiffer was great together as the doomed lovers.  "},{"Title":"Film of the Century!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ladyhawke is a magnificent movie set in the fictitious city of 12th century Aquila and its surroundings.  Rutger Hauer plays Etienne Navarre, a knight who was once the Captain of the Bishop's guard in Aquila.  Michelle Pfeiffer plays Isabeau d'Anjou, love interest of Navarre.  However, the Bishop also loved Isabeau and became enraged by her constantly ignoring his affections. As a means to damn the two lovers, the Bishop struck up a bargain with the devil through which Isabeau and Navarre would be forever parted.  By day, Isabeau turns into a hawke, and by night, Navarre turns into a wolf.  The major focus of the film in Navarre and Isabeau's attempt to get back into Aquila in order to have the bishop break the curse.  Enter Philippe Gaston (Matthew Broderick).  Philippe is a thief who had the fortune of escaping from the dungeons of Aquila.  Navarre enlists his help to lead them back into the City.  However, the curse can only be broken id Navarre and Isabeau can be seen in human form, at the same time, in the eyes of the Bishop...Ladyhawke is a timeless story acted out by brilliant performances from the entire cast.  Of particular note is John Wood's stellar performance as the evil Bishop.  Put the cast together with beautiful photography, and an amazing soundtrack, which will echo in your mind for days after seeing the film, and you have a true winner.  Rent it tonight! "},{"Title":"Something for everyone!","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For the men, there's Michelle Pfieffer--drop dead gorgeous.  For the women, there's Rutger Hauer--strong, handsome hunk.  Comedic relief--Matthew Broderick--hilarious lines delivered with perfect timing and great expressions.  Bad guys--the bishop and Cezar!  There's magic, swords, horses, castles, prison, beautiful landscapes...  Wonderful movie--why don't they make these anymore??? "},{"Title":"A classic love story for the young and old","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Set in medieval times, this film has Matthew Broderick as a pickpocket who befriends a knight who is on a mysterious quest of revenge against a bishop who cursed him and his love, played by a glowing Michelle PFeiffer, so that while always together they would always be apart. An adventerous movie that will entertain both the young and the old. This is a good movie for the younger ones (around 8 and up) that teaches true love, perseverance, faith, and forgiveness.It is also very entertaining. The music however is a bit outdated. On a scale of one to ten ladyhawke conjures up a rating of 8 "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is, hands down, my absolute favorite. It doesn't have a little of everything, it has a lot! Action, drama, comedy, suspense, even romance! The characters are wonderful and fully realized all the way down to the bit-parts. The story is a fantastic concept that truly shows off the writers' imaginations. If you haven't seen it yet, rent it now! Also out on DVD! "}{"Title":"Sadly under-rated classic","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This for me is a real rough diamond.  A beautiful film with a magnificent cast and a good storyline.  Rutger, Matthew and Michelle work wonderfully together to create a magical romantic drama.It saddens me that the only time this film is shown on terrestial television channels is in the wee small hours.  It should have been treated better.I have to say the only disappointment in this film is the awful electro-pop soundtrack but, with this film that can be endured. "},{"Title":"A great fairy tale","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I feel Ladyhawke has been terribly underrated.  I found this charming medieval fantasy with an original story and likeable characters very appealing, along the lines of The Princeless Bride.  Furthermore, the cast members really get into their roles--especially Matthew Broderick, who definitely does justice to the central part of the nimble-fingered thief who regularly engages in candid conversations with God.  The only drawback may be of Ruther Hauer, who looks--but doesn't always sound--the part of the brooding knight seeking retribution. "},{"Title":"Three cheers for the movie, Boos for the music.","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a major fan of all things fantasy and Michelle Pfeiffer, and this '85 flick was one I missed. Went to the video store and remedied that &#133;&#133; I believe this movie to be one of the most fun fairy tales set to screen. Michelle Pfeiffer is radiant in her Isabeau role, despite the relatively small amount of screen time she has. Matthew Brodrick is perfectly cast in his impish little thief character of Phillipe. Praise is also due to the stoic Leo McKern in his crucial role as the monk who explains the curse that is the central story. My only character gripes are with Rutger Hauer's wooden portrayal of the hero Navarre, and John Wood's equally mannequin rendering of the evil bishop. But without a doubt, the worst blemish on this well conceived, not-as-well-executed fantasy flick was the dreadful music, which practically screams Early to mid 80's!  If any good came from the music it was that the sonic disaster which is the Ladyhawk soundtrack probably destroyed the movie careers of John Dowland and Andrew Powell. Look them up on the database and you'll see that neither of these guys worked that much after this movie. I'm convinced that it's not a coincidence. My recommendation would be to rent this movie, put on the closed captions on your TV , then mute it so you can spare your senses the confusion of trying to associate the image of knights in shining armor galloping to techno-pop music.  "},{"Title":"A must for romantics","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you are looking for a feel good movie, go no farther. It has a real plot, minimal special effects and wonderful acting by Michelle Pfeiffer and the yummy Rutger Hauer. Based on this movie, I expected him to be propelled into the stardom enjoyed by Mel Gibson. His eyes / her eyes ... a real winner. "},{"Title":"All great","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie does it all for me  great music (from Alan Parsons, the man from Eye in the sky en Don't answer me), great actors (Rutger Hauer in his good days, Broderick in his best role, and introducing Michelle Pfeiffer) , great cinema (especially the hawk scenes) and a great story, which I'm not going to tell here cause it would spoil it all. Go and rent this movie today, you will not regret it. "},{"Title":"Nice story, irritating music.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When the background music in a film is really good, we don't pay that much attention to it. But when it is missing, or like in Ladyhawke, just plain wrong, it really sticks out. And that's a shame because Ladyhawke is such a nice story. Lovers (Pfeiffer and Hauer) are cursed by an evil clergyman and they are destined to stay together but always apart, he turns into a black wolf at night, while she turns into a hawk during the day, each transformation at sunrise and sunset. Matthew Broderick, 23 here, plays Ferris Bueller a couple of years before that movie came out. But here they call him Phillipe the Mouse, because he is a petty thief, and he is able to squeeze through small places, opening the film with his escape from prison via the sewers. He eventually must become trustworthy, and the catalyst for helping break the curse.The several battle scenes throughout are not very convincing. In fact, the whole films begs the audience not to take it too seriously. But Michelle Pfeiffer, 27 here, was just beautiful and does a nice job as the hawk. Broderick is fun to watch in his comedic role.The DVD is marginal at best. While the sound is fine, and Dobly 5.1 sound is used rather effectively to surround you, the transfer from film is not very good, and many film defects jump out at you. Also, the widescreen side of the DVD is not anamorphic so I watched the standard side and stretched the image to almost fill my 169 TV screen. There are no extras, no chapter secection, although it is organized in chapters so you can go to a particular place in the film.Overall I enjoyed it, for I like this type of fantasy story for good entertainment.  An example of a similar fantasy film that was done much better is Dragonheart with Sean Connery and Dennis Quaid. "},{"Title":"Interesting blend of magic and mysticism","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Richard Donner's Ladyhawke succeeds where most sword-and-sorcery movies fail- it manages to create a grim atmosphere that accurately represents the Medieval era while telling a convincing story of wizards, evil spells, and blue-eyed, long-blond-haired men who casually walk around with big swords.The characters are interesting to watch. Matthew Broderick- probably the last actor anyone would choose for this material- provides a surprisingly engaging lead as a mischievous lad who becomes caught up with a mysterious warrior, played by Rutger Hauer. Hauer is an actor who has, alas, become better known for his straight-to-video junk than the strong roles he had with movies like this, Soldier of Orange, and The Legend of the Holy Drinker. The warrior, it turns out, had a curse placed on him and his lover, played by Michelle Pfeiffer, whereas she is a hawk by day and he is a wolf by night. Pfeiffer, I am afraid to say, has a rather empty role, and isn't given much to do in most of her scenes. The warrior enlists the aid of the boy to kill the evil Bishop who cast the spell...Although several parts of the story are predictable, Donner keeps the viewer's interest going by grounding the adventure and fantasy elements into the realistic setting. Vittorio Storaio's bleak photography is also a nice touch. Ladyhawke is a simplistic tale, but a rewarding one. "},{"Title":"A wonderful, romantic fantasy in a classic good vs evil story.","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ladyhawke was a surprising, romantic, adventurous fantasy with Navarre and Isabeau caught in a unique trance which prevented them from seeing one another.  With the addition of Phillip into their lives, they were able to establish limited communications. This is a classic good vs evil story and the beautiful steed of Navarre's (Goliath) is so impressive. "},{"Title":"fun high adventure","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Philipe 'The Mouse' Gastone (Matthew Broderick) is a thief. He escapes the dungeons of Aquila through the sewer. The Bishop (John Wood) refuses to accept any escape and sends out Captain Marquet with his guards. When Marquet catches up to Gastone, Etienne Navarre (Rutger Hauer) comes to the rescue with his hawk. Former captain Navarre and Isabeau d'Anjou (Michelle Pfeiffer) are lovers cursed by the jealous Bishop. He turns into a wolf during the night and she turns into a hawk during the daylight. Navarre plans to kill the Bishop with help from Gastone to sneak into the castle. Monk Imperius gives him a different plan to break the curse. Meanwhile, the Bishop sends Cezar (Alfred Molina) to hunt for the wolf. Broderick is fun. Hauer is fearsome. Pfeiffer is loverly. I love their interactions. Broderick's time with each side is great. The story is compelling and solid fun high adventure. I saw it in the theater and had fun with the adventure movie. There seems to be some complaints about the synth score in more recent reviews. It does date the movie back to the 80s. Of course, it doesn't fit the medieval time period. It didn't throw me off the story back then. Rather, it amped up the intensity and the joy in the action. It's just fun. "},{"Title":"Could have been great but the soundtrack, accents, and terrible cinematography destroys it","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's a medieval fantasy with a great story. A curse is placed upon noble knight Navarre and his lady love, Isabeau. Navarre is a wolf at night and Isabeau is a hawk in the day. They essentially never see one another. It's always just out of reach for these star crossed lovers. Navarre enlist the help of the thief, Gaston played by Mathew Broderick.Sounds great right? But the sound track stinks. This movie is 1985 and the music sounds 1985. What I mean by that, is that it sounds like the same type you would hear in any Molly Ringwald movie from the 80s. I mean this is a medieval fantasy. Totally unsuitable music. It ruins the mood. Very distracting. Could have used some Joe LoDuca or the late great James Horner.Then we have the cinematography. Nothing special. In fact it looks like the director phoned it in. Super-bright sunny scenes. No shadowing, or filters to set the tone. Nothing. Finally the accents. Broderick, sounds English at first, but then drops completely into American. Michelle Pfeiffer didn't even bother, it was American all the way. Rutger Hauer, I'm not sure what the hell he was doing. He's from the Netherlands, but was doing some American thing that wasn't quite working. It's medieval France. These accents are distracting and sounded stupid. Broderick's character bordered on funny to downright annoying. It was the babbling. Very awful. Michell Pfeiffer was beautiful and serene, but really nothing special. Rutger was the most handsome I'd ever seen and he was dashing and likable.The story was there, but it seems everything else failed. I'd like to see it remade someday. Even an animated version might be great. If they had just fixed these things, it could really have been something. Not a recommended fantasy movie. "}{"Title":"Fantasy at its finest","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Richard Donner's Ladyhawke is atmospheric high fantasy as only the 80's could produce. It's got a lighthearted medieval sense of wonder and romance that is irresistible. It concerns wandering knight Navarre (Rutger Hauer), and his true love Isabeau (Michelle Pfeiffer) who have been cursed by an evil bishop, and are kept eternally close, yet apart. By day, she is transformed into a hawk, and by night, he a wolf, and never able to be together in human form. Hauer, originally cast as the villain, was promoted to leading man status here (Kurt Russell was in place to play him but Donner wisely handed the reigns to Hauer, who infuses his performance with intense charisma and longing). Pfeiffer is a shining jewel as the princess, giving warmth to her scenes. They are joined on the quest by an unlikely ally Fast talking, troublemaking pickpocket Mouse, played by of all people, Matthew Broderick. Ferris Bueller in the Middle Ages works better than you might think, as Broderick, not the best actor, ramps up his energy and actually has quite a bit of fun with the role. Because Hauer and Pfeiffer don't share any scenes in human form, well almost, there needed to be a third person with them to interact, or it would have been a strange, wordless film. Mouse makes a chatty travelling companion and peppy little sidekick for the both of them. The film has a timeless feel, and an authenticity to its central romance, feeding the main characters quest with heartfelt urgency and emotion. Musically and visually it's a moviegoers dream, all hazy, gorgeous frames and drawn out, paced sequences that are rare in films today. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie SO much!","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Of course, it's been a while since I've seen it. I loved all of the characters, the plot, the scenery, the costumes, and what few special effects there were.The only jarring thing was Matthew Broderick's constantly shifting accent. They should have sat him down with an accent coach from the beginning, and pinned down how they wanted him to sound.John Wood was excellent as the evil Bishop. He was supposed to be the guardian of the city he was posted in, but he was rejected by Rome herself! He had a mistress on the side, lusted after Isabeau, and placed a curse on her and her honey because she didn't want him! Leo McKern was great as the flawed, grizzled looking monk; all unshaven and his hair flapping everywhere.Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer were fantastic of course. He as the driven warrior desperate to regain his honor as well as his love, and she as the not so helpless woman that has been cursed to live as a hawk during the day.Matthew? Um.....Philippe was an excellent character, if a bit muggy at times. Desperate not to be caught up in the events, but right at the center anyway. Skilled at picking locks, pockets, and probably at stealing hearts as well. BUT, the accent was a major stumbling block, and kept me from really enjoying the performance. "},{"Title":"A Delicate Fairy Tale for Adults","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wonder how many people sought out the film Ladyhawke after reading the sci-fi bestseller Ready Player One.In that book, two characters debate the merits of this largely forgotten 1985 fantasy film, one character claiming that it's terrible while the other defends it. I had heard of it but didn't know much about it other than that Michelle Pfeiffer and Matthew Broderick were in it and that it was nominated for a couple of technical Oscars (Sound and Sound Effects Editing). I was extremely and pleasantly surprised with this movie. It's a beautiful fantasy with a lovely story and just the right amount of self-awareness to know not to take itself too seriously.Pfeiffer plays one half of a cursed couple who are never allowed to interact with each other as humans; she turns into a hawk at daylight while her lover, played by Rutger Hauer, turns into a wolf during the night. In order to break the curse, they need the help of a hapless crook played by Broderick with a half-assed British accent. (Why the filmmakers decided Broderick needed an accent I don't know, since Hauer and Pfeiffer make no effort to sound anything other than American.) The story has the delicate grace of a fairy tale, and the movie is beautiful to look at, which is not surprising given that acclaimed cinematographer Vittorio Storaro is behind the camera. My wife and I have been having fun with a little movie project lately, watching a bunch of 1980s films that one or the other (or many times both) of us missed originally. Some have been duds (Labyrinth) but some have been surprisingly good, and Ladyhawke is among those.Grade A- "},{"Title":"A Nice Fantasy Film","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a pretty good medieval fantasy film concerning humans that are cursed to be shape-shifters - One a hawk by day, the other a wolf by night. It's an interesting tale.I have to agree with one thing some of the other reviewers of Ladyhawke had to say Rescore the film. Honestly the film is good (although not perfect) but it is some of the film's soundtrack that is bad for the film. Some of the music sounds like a cheap 80's comedy kids flick or some weird science fiction film. In my opinion, if the entire soundtrack was medieval sounding then it would suit the film. A film's score is highly important to bringing about a feel or ambiance to the scene.Outside of some of the film's soundtrack - the great costuming and sets will definitely have you feeling like you are watching something play out in front of you that is from the 12th century.If you like this movie, you might like other similar films Willow, Labyrinth, Legend or The Neverending Story.8/10 "},{"Title":"The best fantasy film of the 80's","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" You know, growing up in the 80's with a real thirst for fantasy adventure was pretty tough. There were plenty of books to scratch the itch for sure, but TV? Feature films? Hmm, not so much. Having watched more than enough sub-standard sword and sandals fare (Ator the fighting eagle, anyone? Prisoners of the Lost Universe?) I can honestly say Ladyhawke is the only film I saw from that period that has remained a firm favourite ever since. And yes, that includes Highlander!! The reasons are pretty obvious. The film is directed by someone who at least knows how to set up the camera - I can't pretend that Richard Donner is one of my favourite directors but he does a top job telling this story. The cast is where this film really excels, though. I'm still convinced that Rutger Hauer is one of the great lost leading men in Hollywood history and in this he's awesome. Michelle Pfeiffer is ridiculously beautiful and handles herself very well and Matthew Broderick is excellent as the glue that holds the film together, ace at the comedy and really selling the drama. Also, John Wood is a brilliantly unsettling villain and Leo Mckern, Alfred Molina and Ken Hutchison do great character actor work. The overwhelming feeling is of a film properly made, with a decent budget, quality cast and great locations. The story itself is nicely streamlined, with no unnecessary longueurs and fine pacing. And Finally Hauer might just be riding the greatest horse in cinema history! That's not a spoiler, right? The only real problem with the film is the score, which I admit is...terrible. Why Donner went with a horrible synth and drum machine score for a medieval fantasy love story is beyond me. And probably him, now. That aside, this film is properly brilliant. Really. "},{"Title":"good old 80s fantasy cheese","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watched this lighthearted fantasy adventure earlier today and I really enjoyed it. It's one of those films I caught about ten minutes of back when I was a kid that stuck with me. So now I've seen it all, and I enjoyed it immensely. I really liked Matthew Broderick as Gaston, a likable thief who stumbles forward and accidentally gets away with things and out of situations, whether being saved by the ex guard captain Navarre (Rutger Hauer being awesome), or knocking his love to be off a cliff just as she's about to turn back into a Hawk. He played a similar character a year later, except that character was less likable. The story is a silly tale of cursed love, the villain, a jealous bishop with magic powers or something cursing the captain of his guards and the woman they both love but who loves Navarre to never be able to see each other as humans, Isabeaux turning into a hawk during the day and Navarre into a wolf at night. It's a silly but imaginative story that makes or a nice dynamic as Gaston has to protect Isabeaux when she's a human and Navarre when he's a wolf. There's also some mumbo jumbo about them having be seen by the bishop both as human to break the curse on a special occasion when day has no night, and night has no day. So essentially, an eclipse or something. One thing I found cool about the film was it's setting, it's very confused and loose; Navarre speaks of his father fighting in the crusades and yet there's magic and sorcery and an evil bishop who apparently rules a kingdom. It's all very silly, lighthearted fun. There are also some great lines from the god-fearing Gaston like like escaping from mother's womb...God what a memory. I enjoyed it a lot. "},{"Title":"Nice Fantasy Romantic Story With Major Flaws","Date":"4 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" From the director of Lethal Weapon, Richard Donner gives us movie that truly spells Ridley Scott. Ladyhawke is a layered movie that relies on more than one genre. It's a film filled with love and romance backed up with a fantasy story with medieval setting with witchcraft and animals where evil curses are prominent thanks mainly to jealousy brought on my a man of the cloth trying to keep young lovers apart from each other. In other words it feels like Romeo and Juliet romantic story with a fairytale theme behind it.Right from the beginning, the first thing that will stun you is the tantalizing visuals. The Italian landscapes are real visionary treat and the historical settings are what makes this movie more historical in details. Everything looks real in terms of locations, the castles, the towns, the ruins and the courtyards all look and feel authentic. The visuals all groovy looking as every shot has a postcard image that will make your eyes water. The dawns and dusk of the Italian countryside will likely take your breath away.Of course the beautiful setting has a weakness and that is the setting looks too immaculate. Granted this is a fairytale and nothing has to be real, however being that this is a medieval period piece film, I expected some rough roads, bumpy trails and maybe a little bit of mud. Everything looks too pristine, the buildings look way too maintained and for a rural area, the countryside looks way too clean, even the costumes look prim and prop. I am a neat freak in real life, but for a medieval picture I was expecting a bit of filth to match the period.Another big turn-off is the musical score selection that Donner provides is quite odd. I would of expected like a symphony orchestra background that would go well with the setting of the movie. Instead, Donner gives us a 1980's sounding score complete with synthesizers and electric guitars almost like what Ridley Scott did with the movie Legend. It just doesn't sit well compared to the authentic backdrop of the settings and loses the effect of the story marginally.The casting choices are virtually spot on, especially the casting of Rutger Hauer and a young Michelle Pfeiffer. Hauer was best performer in the movie. He looked really awesome in that Jedi like robe along with a traditional heroic costume and a red lining and a black steed to ride on making this man look and appear like he's well off. Hauer was quite handsome in his costume.Pfeiffer is quite convincing for the time period with her milky white skin complexion, her gorgeous blonde hair, and the most gorgeous blue eyes to ever hit the screen. She has the physicality of an angel that fits right with Hauer's knightly appearance. They make the perfect couple and they seem very believable that they could transform into a wolf and a hawk (Ladyhawke...need I say more?) The biggest miscast in this movie is the casting choice of Matthew Broderick. He was the major Achilles heel in this movie. His demeanour is annoying along with that mousy squeaky voice and constant nervous ramblings is more appalling than nails on a chalkboard. I just wanted to wanted to ring his neck for every time he made those stupid facial expressions.The plot needs time to adjust. I mean Navarre (Hauer) is a wolf at night and Isadeau (Pfeiffer) is a hawk by day, leaves little for explanation. There are no strange transformations and the characters just fade into their animal forms which is quite captivating in its low-key perspective. I thought the plot was overdo because the story is very thin, it's really about Navarre getting revenge on the Bishop (John Wood) for putting an evil curse on him. That being said I think that in this two hour film, there's a substantial amount of padding when there really didn't need that much and it can be mundane at times making it feel all style and no substance at times. Which isn't bad but some editing could've been needed in some areas.Overall it is a gorgeous movie with a picturesque setting and all the Italian landscapes are very sublime. It might be too clean at times but that's just me nitpicking. The performances were pretty good especially from Hauer and Pfeiffer and look and act like the fit the time period of this movie. Nobody would expect this to be a Richard Donner film. "},{"Title":"I talk to God all the time and, no offense, but He never mentioned you.","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A thief (Matthew Broderick) joins a knight (Rutger Hauer) on a quest to break a curse that separates him from his true love (Michelle Pfeiffer). Wonderful romantic fantasy film from Richard Donner. One of his best films. The cast is great. Rutger Hauer has arguably his finest starring role here. Matthew Broderick's accent may be terrible (when he remembers to use it) but he's likable enough you can look past it. Michelle Pfeiffer is jaw-droppingly gorgeous. It's a beautiful movie with romance, drama, action, and comedy. I loved the story and thought Donner hit a home run with this one. If you're a fan of '80s fantasy movies or the director and stars involved and you haven't seen this yet, you're in for a treat. "},{"Title":"Not Like Grimms' Fairy Tales","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am afraid there isn't very much to say on this particular movie in terms of critical acclaim. Ladyhawke (1985) fills a gap in my memory as possession (VHS cassette) that I highly valued because this was beautiful movie even for the criteria of long gone 1980s. Yes, the cast was marvelous - Rutger Hauer, Michelle Pfeiffer and Matthew Broderick performed at the prime of their artistic potential. Their films from the 80s remain classic in the History of Hollywood Cinema (every which one of them, I wouldn't enumerate them). Yes, Richard Lethalweapon Donner remains iconic figure in Hollywood film making. Yes, music score from Alan Parsons was excellent electronic achievement. In that way of thinking it is not strange that there is little philosophy here to add and send it on a mail list.But something that was bugging me lately (that is, not only for this Movie but numerous others) comprise the lack of validity for the screenplay. Scenario doesn't come just as a story devoid of time and place. Unfortunately, this is how many of contemporary movies are being shot - you have got yourself a fantastic script; director of photography gets filming locations that fulfill the criteria of the budget and visionary from the side of producers; finally the film director stitches all that notches in coherent tale. Is that all really or there is something else. What about the Turkish reading of the whole responsible staff? I doubt whether even a dozen people concerning about working title should ever worry about this. After all they work with ready recipes and don't re-tell Grimms' Fairy Tales. This is where I want to put my emphasis.Now everybody knows who Grimm Brothers are or at least have heard about their stories for children c. 1812. Everything else in order, Ladyhawke (1985) comes as a fairy tale exactly from this imaginary domain (but not exclusively mentioned in the screenplay). For instance, another similar (Gothic) movie produced at about the same time and place furnishes much more details on the underlying historical period - cf., The Name of the Rose (1986) based on Umberto Eco's novel. All that said, it remains the much more simplified task to try to decode the whereabouts of Ladyhawke.I did some Turkish (uninitiated) reading on Europe's Medieval History. Particularly interesting key-point with regard to the tract of land in Northern Italy where our story is supposed to evolve proved to be Lotharingia - firstly a Kingdom in Charlemagne's Empire, then abolished by Neurasia (today France) and Austrasia (today Germany) to an extent that it remained only as a Duchy of Lotharingia in Otto the Great Empire (First Reich). Today this territory corresponds to an extended Netherlands (plus Cologne municipality with Aachen where originally Charlemagne resided and was crowned by the Pope). Those are history facts that any European should know if we consider some common future on this continent. Then we should arrive at the direct consequences of two World Wars in 20th century which are banal enough to reiterate here.I want to finish my commentary with some scattered notes that I collected during my Turkish reading. These European territories which lie in North-West corner (sic!) of the continental plate were once upon a time covered with thick forests. Not joking neither telling Grimms' Fairy Tales. There were only Kings, Bishops, Knights, Ladies and Sorcerers. Nothing essentially from Church or Economy systems that we perceive now-a-days existed straightforward. Everything from material and cultural heritage is many times restored to hide the traces of obliteration. See the Romanesque Cathedral at end of Ladyhawke where final combat with the Evil Bishop partakes. Judge Yourself! "},{"Title":"Yep one of my favorites!","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great storyline and Great acting! One of the best Fairytales on screen! Matthew Brodrik was wonderful even at this age, but the story line is amazing! Every good fairytale usually has the theme of three's which are the main characters of the movie and not only does it have a good and bad guy, but it is mostly the lady that is the one who turns the story around, and yep this movie has it all! Why can't movies be more like this one nowadays?  "}{"Title":"Cool Movie!!","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought that this movie was really great.  The actors were wonderful, especially Matthew Broderick as Phillipe the Mouse, besides the fact that he has several different accents throughout the movie.  The music, however, was so out of place it made me laugh out loud.  During the fighting scenes, there was this happy, gay music that definitely did not fit the scene.  All in all, though, I thought that the plot was great and the actors were wonderful.  If you want a good fantasy movie, this one's for you!!! "},{"Title":"A potentially great movie","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ladyhawke could have been a good movie if the music had not been as awful as it was. The cheerful(!) music that poured out of the speakers every time someone rode a horse or when people fought, especially in the early parts of the movie, were so distracting that any emotional effect that the scenes might otherwise have had on me was wasted. The music made it hard not to take the whole movie as a bad comedy, instead of the tragedy it was supposed to be. Perhaps the story might have benefited if the producers/director had chosen better music for it and the director had been a little more experienced in his trade. Still, as hard as it was, I was able to tune the music out and enjoy the movie for its plot. It was definitely one of the best fantasy movies that I have seen and the characters seemed to really feel for each other.But, not counting the music, I gave the movie 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great story, too bad  about the ending","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  * * * SPOILER WARNING! * * *It's a great movie based on (as far as I know) a pretty original idea, but as the heading suggests I don't really like the ending. Sure, after everything our new friends have been through they deserve a happy ending. I just don't buy the idea that during an eclipse it's day and night at the same time. Okay, it is but for different reasons! It is day because the sun is high in the sky, and night because it is obscured. (Makes one wonder what would happen if our heroes went into a cave, doesn't it?) The only way the ending can work is if we assume  that Etienne's transformations are controlled by the position of the sun, and Isabeu's by its light (or something else only the moon is big enough to block) - and why anyone would make a curse that complicated is pretty well beyond my comprehension.Oh well. Apart from that I liked the movie, but it was perhaps a bit anticlimactic to have something as important as the breaking of the curse simply indicated by a character looking heavenwards and muttering It is broken...  "},{"Title":"All-time favorite  lovestory movie","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember back in 1985 when this movie first came out and my husband and I went to see it, (one of the very few that we have gone together) and I absolutely became enthralled with it!. I have followed the careers of the main characters in the movie, esp. Mr. Hauer, and have been a fan of his ever since, some movies I liked better than others, some I watched on t.v. I have often wondered what the fate was of the beautiful black horse that was Navarres' in the film. Would anyone happen to know. I have since purchased the movie and when I'm in the mood for a romantic love story, it gets popped into the VCR. I highly recommend this to lovers everywhere. And I LIKED the music.  "},{"Title":"Still laughing, crying, sighing after all these years","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have been a champion of this visually stunning and incredibly moving story since the beginning.  At a time when I thought chivalry was dead I was greatly heartened to find such a beautifully made, well cast and well acted tribute to love, honor and self-sacrifice.  I was delighted by the originality of the story and despite the opinion of some that the score may be too 'original' I could not now see it any other way.Many times over the years I have slipped the video (now DVD) into the player against the protests of skeptics in the audience-to-be who were sure they would not enjoy such a film.  Not long into the presentation all eyes usually are riveted to the screen and, by the end, there have been more than a few sniffles...regardless of the age or gender of the viewers.  Those most unlikely to have chosen this movie for themselves are quite often those offering the most praise.  I can think of no better recommendation than that. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie and music","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Another great 80's movie! I remember waiting for this to appear in the cinema with baited breath, as I was a huge Alan Parsons Project fan. And yes, another great Ian Bairnson guitar solo on the Main Theme! Photography and story are excellent, and the characters are all likeable (well, those that are supposed to be!)  "},{"Title":"Just plain wonderful.","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie perhaps twice in my life, only because the video can be hard to find. When I last saw it, I fell in love with it. The music is kinda sappy, but it's forgivable given the acting and the storyline. Perfect for romantics. "},{"Title":"Glorious movie.  Ignore the soundtrack.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's a better romance than Princess Bride by a long shot.  It's a marvelous high fantasy, and it has a premise as tragic as Camelot.  You can take the romantic leads seriously as characters, not love interests.  You can take your girlfriend to it; she'll probably cry.The protagonist is a sneak thief, a noble little lying scoundrel, which takes the edge off the heavy plot without trivializing it.  There are hard-edged battles, and Rutger Hauer with a crossbow.  You can take your boyfriend to it; he'll think it's a great adventure.Michelle Pfeiffer's naked shoulders are shown, but that's all; there's no gratuitous innuendo.  You can watch it with your kids, or with your parents. (There's one nasty bit with a bear trap; preview for violence if you're worried about that sort of thing.)I give it a 10.  My only objection, and the only reason that I still rank Princess Bride above it as my favorite movie is *sigh* the soundtrack. They could put it out under the title The Worst of 80s Synthesyzer and sell it on Time Life.  If they ever release a DVD with the John Williams Soundtrack Option, it will become my all-time favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Not your average sorcerer movie...","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is actually a lot better than expected.  Unlike every other sword and sorcery movie I've ever seen, this one actually has a respectable plot (consider the deplorable Beastmaster comes from this era), good actors, and wonderful scenery.  A very young Matthew Broderick, and a very young and unknown Michelle Pfieffer teamed with Rutger Hauer do acting as good as anything I've seen in an A movie.  There are enough plot twists in this movie to keep you guessing all the way to the end.  Go rent it and sit down for a pretty enjoyable evening. "},{"Title":"Love it, love it, love it","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not much left to say about this one.  A jewel, a gem, a truly romantic, heartfelt paean to the spirit of selfless love.  The most luminescent performance ever delivered by the flawless Michelle Pfeiffer, and equally genuine work from Matthew Broderick, Leo McKern, Alfred Molina, John Wood and especially Rutger Hauer.  Not for those without a romantic heart, but lots of bloody swordplay to keep the most toughened unromantics interested. One of my all-time favorites, moving me to tears nearly every time I watch it. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Love Story","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is in my top five. It makes me cry and laugh, and is filled with a really nice plot line. Mathew Brodrick is very well cast in his part keeping the young eye on this movie. If you haven't yet SEE THIS MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"A simple but fun adventure","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There isn't much to add to all the good comments about the movie. The scenery is beautiful, the mood is just right, and the acting is fine. Having read the other comments though, I have to ask, what's wrong with the music? Why does everyone insist that it have some kind of classical soundtrack? Every fantasy movie already has one, it gets boring after a while! This is something different for a change, and the soundtrack is really good if you just give it a chance! Just enjoy the movie for what it is, a fun well crafted adventure. "},{"Title":"an haunting love story","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a girl which like very much love stories and also very much movies which takes place in medieval time . So , I have to say that I loved this film the first time I saw it and I continue to think about it with pleasure. Despite of a music a little inappropriated ( I don't think they have synthezisors in the Middle -Edge...) , the scenery and the cast were very good. I was really moved by the love story between the two protagonists ( well , i don't know if you understand me , I am french and my english is perhaps not very good ... ) "},{"Title":"Delightful, romantic tale","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Grand landscapes, ironic patter, haunting romance, and swash-buckling adventure combine to make LadyHawke a highly entertaining film.  This film is also cinematically artful and with a memorable (if dated) musical score. "},{"Title":"I grew up with this guy!!","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The only movie-star I ever fell in love with Rutger Hauer. Well, I was in my teens then of course... But Floris was my absolute favorite! I still love fantasy, even though my friends pity on me. Lady Hawk is all a girl could want, romance, sorcery, adventure.. and a hero, who leaves no stone unturned to rescue his beloved (and himself in this case). Michelle Pfeiffer to console my husband in the terror of having to watch these movies with me. For those who are interested watch Turks Fruit, a Paul Verhoeven movie, starring Rutger.. more contemporary but great also! "},{"Title":"I was disappointed","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After watching DragonHeart which was totally awsome! I wanted to watch another movie like it or at least on the same lines. So I borrowed this from a friend and I barely made it through the movie. First of all the music did not fit. It would have been great in another movie, I mean Trevor Rabin's main title to Armageddon would have fit more. And Rutger Hauer was kinda lame He just wasn't Knightly of course Michelle Pfeiffer was awsome but isn't she always! The BEST person was Matthew Broderick I just loved his part he did great, so if you are a Matthew Broderick fan you may wanna give this one a try. "},{"Title":"My favorite..","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  By one of my favorite directors, Richard Donner, Ladyhawke is my unparalelled favorite movie.An excellent score by the Alan Parsons Project, with a terrific cast and wonderful scenery. Extremely romantic with action/adventure and fantasy all rolled up. I don't understand why this movie wasn't a bigger hit.You are guaranteed to like this one. "},{"Title":"A fantasy adventure story at its best!","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ladyhawke is a medieval fantasy adventure movie told from the point of view of  Philippe Gaston (Matthew Broderick), a young thief who has escaped from the dungeons under the cathedral in Aquila. When guards attempt to hunt Philippe down, he is rescued by Etienne Navarre (Rutger Hauer), the former Captain of the Guards, who was banished to live the rest of his days with a curse placed on himself and the Lady Isabeau Asurre (Michelle Pfeiffer) by the lustful Bishop who made a deal with the devil to make the curse, when Isabeau refused his attentions.The curse turns Navarre into a wolf by night and Isabeau into a hawk by day, making it impossible for them to be lovers, or to even to touch or remember each other. After saving Philippe's life, Navarre encourages him to help Navarre find a way back into Aquila so he can kill the Bishop and break the curse.This movie is fantasy at its very best. An excellent movie should move you so that you become part of the story, everything else fades away while you are in it. This movie does that by combining good actors, a good story line and great music. I would recommend this story to everyone! "},{"Title":"Everything was great except the music","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie recently because a friend owns it, otherwise I had never heard of it. But I'm glad I did see it! It had a good plot, though the night without day, day without night line was no riddle to everyone who I saw the movie with. The landscape was beautiful and I loved the filming for when Isabeau turned into a hawke and the wolf turned back into Etienne. But the best part was Matthew Broderick as Phillipe The Mouse! His little talks to God were cute and his character was just really sweet. The only complaint I had was the 80's pop music. It clashed so much with landscape and the story. What it needs is more classical-type music, or at least a less-techno sound. Maybe James Horner could redo the music.  "},{"Title":"I must be the only person in the world who actually knows this film word for word","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film when it came out on video. Since then I've been hooked. Since then I've rented it out numerous times and I also taped it a few years ago when it was on television. Needless to say that my copy of it is now absolutely wrecked. The last time I tried watching it, the picture was so fuzzy it looked like a yetti with bad dandruff, and then it got stuck in the video machine. I still didn't throw it out. I'm still living in hope that someday someone will invent a video machine that will play totally destroyed videos... I love this film so much, but no one I know has even heard of it, let alone seen it. Basically, I guess what I'm trying to say is that this film is one of my favourites and is, in my opinion, one of the best things to come out of the 80's.  "}{"Title":"very enjoyable fantasy","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yea, the music is sometimes annoying, but ignore it.  The photography in this movie is no less than stunning.  Stotarrio's use of color filtration and gorgeous Italian wilderness will knock your socks off, but don't watch this movie unless you have it on DVD.  The acting is adequate, and the plot is a little thin, but the costumes are good, and the overall premise of the story is fun.  Broderick has some funny moments, and the direction is very solid.  Check it out (on DVD!) "},{"Title":"Could have been a classic.","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A truly fine story and the wonderful pairing of Hauer and Pfeiffer is lost to an annoying score, an equally annoying Matthew Broderick, and some sloppy direction.  The finale and it's fight scenes are slow and badly staged.  "},{"Title":"Tearjerker","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was prompted to see this film after telling a friend how much I enjoyed Dragonheart. Ladyhawke is of a similar ilk but I am compelled to disagree with an earlier reviewer that the thing that ruined this film (if anything) was its musical score! I'm sure the musical interludes sounded great in 1985 but they really date the film when seen in the 90s. Better to have stuck to a more traditional score which suits the subject matter rather than attempt to be modern (since it sounds unfailingly unmodern in 1999). Reminded me of a porn soundtrack!  "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is awesome. It is both extremely sad an hilarious. A younger Michelle Pfeiffer is gorgeous as the lady doomed to live by day as a hawk. The imagery is great, Matthew Broderick (he was a cute kid, wasn't he?) is extremely funny. I especially loved that the bad guy wore white and the good guy wore black! You don't see that in every movie. One question, though - what was the composer thinking with the 80's style music over some of the scenes? Argh! See this movie - it is beautiful.  "},{"Title":"Smooth and etherial","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well crafted, with the timeless relevance of the good/evil fairytale. uniquely portrayed - definitely a keeper! "},{"Title":"a good fantasy film","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched Ladyhawke a few times and every time I enjoyed it more. It's not a brilliant movie... but it's fun to watch. The characters are adorable, the plot is attractive and the action scenes are great. It's a shame great fantasy films as Lady Hawke are so rare.  "},{"Title":"Magnificent lensing.","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've never been a really huge fan of this film, but it is an incredible visual piece with a respectable story behind it. There's not much to add to other reviews other than every scene is rendered as an oil painting in terms of shot setup. Considering Vittorio Storaro nationality and training, that's no surprise, as the lighting here melds superbly with the choice of lenses, giving us a kind of anachronistic feel--as if we've been transported to medieval General-Fantasy-Europe (specifically the Italian Alps) to witness a fairy tale unfold.Vittorio Storaro shows us late evenings. He shows us night time. He shows us morning. And that's just the director of photography at work, following Richard Donner's superb direction. Richard Donner is one of my all time favorite directors, and given a virtuoso like Vittorio Storaro for his project, could you expect anything less?The casting respectable. We have marquis players thesping the rolls, which was done for market draw. Not a problem as they do their job well and then some. More tailored actors for the roll might have helped the film artistically, but would have held back a better commercial success. Rutger Hauer, Michelle Pfeifer play supporting rolls to Broderick's main character. Their story is the focus, but it's told through the eyes of Broderick's medieval lad gone astray, but who finds that his life has now a higher purpose.IF I had one critique with the film, then it's the music. Again, rendered for a 80s late teen to 30s market, we get some pop rock guitar rifts mixed in with some traditional music from the high middle ages. Rescoring this film would be an interesting project.Another artifact is the lack of editing. We see mostly secondary masters with some coverage added. Again, thanks to the excellent cinematography we're treated to visuals that need no rapid fire cuts.The effects shots are done via editing and old fashioned transitions. There are no process shots here, and certainly no CGI (thank goodness). I'm not sure Vittorio Storaro's shots would benefit from modern day CGI. He's still around. I may write him a letter asking.All in all a really fine film. If you can tolerate the music, and get by some of the costuming liberties, then it should prove to be a good night's watch with the loved one of your choice.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"OK, OK, Alright Already....(No spoilers).","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just slogged my way through quite a few reviews here and its quite a mixed bag. Seems you either love it or hate it. But whats to hate?I saw this in '87 around the same time Sweet Liberty and The Princess Bride came out(both great faves of mine and both grossly underrated), and and fell immediately and hopelessly in love with Ms. Pfeiffer. I was enthralled, caught up in the enchantment. That was 27 years ago. I just watched it again for the umpteenth time last night and it hasn't lost its sweet, almost painful, heart-breaking, funny magic. I'm not going to repeat what others have said, but there is ONE THING I differ in with most reviewers!! I LOVE THE SOUNDTRACK! Alan Parsons Project is one of my all time favorites groups and the music just drives the story forward and up, and does it at a relentless pace.Its a perfect match to this movie. Hand in glove. Without it, it wouldn't have worked (not for me anyway.) I put this movie right up alongside The Princess Bride (1987, with Meathead, aka Rob Reiner) as director, Star Wars IV A New Hope, Sweet Liberty, and Superman The Movie. Watch it!!! And laugh, and cry, and be spellbound!I just took some time and read some MORE reviews and I almost laughed out loud at the ones that gave this superb movie 1 star or no stars, relegating to the status of THE WORST MOVIE EVER. I'm not quite sure what planet these people live on but it sure ain't earth. Us true romantics will never be swayed. Long live Philippe Gaston, The Mouse! Long live Etienne of Navarre! Long live Isabeau d'Anjou! Long live Ladyhawke! (OK, I'm done) "},{"Title":"An inspired fairytale","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" *Ladyhawke SPOILERS* France, 1239.A young thief, Philippe (Matthew Broderick, 'Wargames') is saved from sure death by the enigmatic Navarre (Rutger Hauer, 'The Hitcher'), a cavalier who travels with his trusty hawk.But the more time he spends with Navarre, the more Philippe thinks something weird's going on. Every night Navarre disappears and a big black wolf appears, as does a mysterious young woman named Isabeaux (Michelle Pfeiffer), while the hawk also vanishes.Soon Philippe finds out that Navarre and Isabeaux are in love and under a curse cast on them by the Bishop (John Wood) which make Navarre become a wolf by night and Isabeaux a hawk by day.The two will need to face the Bishop as man and woman for the curse to end... but how? Beautifully shot and acted, 'Ladyhawke' is certainly an interesting and creative fairytale, which inspired also a Charmed episode (Magic Hour). Watch it, you won't regret it! Ladyhawke 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Hawk, the Wolf and the Thief","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ladyhawke starts with an exciting prison escape by a thief, played by Matthew Broderick. Soon he finds himself adventuring with a knight and a lady, played by Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer respectively. Hauer and Pfeiffer were appropriate choices for the leads and Matthew Broderick is memorable as the partly amusing and partly courageous thief.The film's premise is interesting, but the script quickly loses steam and after its initial burst the story is average. The villains in this film, particularly the Bishop, could have been better developed. Much criticism has been leveled against the film's soundtrack. It wasn't as appropriate as the symphonic scores of other fantasy films and sometimes was awkward, but overall I didn't mind it and even enjoyed it at times. Overall, though, as far as fantasy films, I'd recommend watching the Lord of the Rings movies, The Princess Bride (1987) or Willow (1988) before this one. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen.","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was only four when this movie came out, and I've watched it regularly since then. Unlike so many of my childhood favorites, this one still captivates me.A lot of people complain about the soundtrack, and I really can't see why. Yes, it's not from the time period. Yes, there are some synthesizers used. But when you look at how it fits into the movie as a whole, it's really quite beautiful. I think period authenticity is a lot less important than how the music is used. There are a couple of places where it's a bit too heavy, but even watching it specifically to listen to how the score fits I still think it's great.As for the special effects of Isabeau and Navarre's transformations, they're really relatively sparing. They focus mainly on the eyes and their change from human to animal. It's more about what they're feeling in these moments than fancy graphics. Because of this, the effects don't appear as dated as some older films.I love the story, it always chokes me up. For anyone who doesn't know Isabeau and Navarre fell in love, but the Bishop of Aquila wanted her for himself. When they fled, he made a pact with the devil to curse them. During the day, Isabeau is a hawk and Navarre a man. At night, he becomes a wolf and she a woman. As Phillipe says always together, eternally apart. The story has gorgeous scenery, realistic action, and almost flawless acting (though there are a couple of places where Michelle Pfeiffer makes me wince).Aside from the story, I think the realistic details of the film are one reason I love it so much. You can hear Navarre's leather outfit creaking, especially toward the end. When one of the bishop's guards falls into a moat, it's dark and full of leaves. The chain-mail clinks, the swords genuinely clash, the horses' hooves clatter on the cobblestones. This film is gritty and realistic while remaining romantic and beautiful as well. "},{"Title":"How am I supposed to learn anything if you keep tricking me? (spoilers)","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fans of 80s fantasy films will likely enjoy this one, a love story wrapped in a fairy tale, topped with moments of comedy.Richard Donner directs this 80s romantic fantasy set to a contemporary instrumental soundtrack. Captain Etienne Navarre (Rutger Hauer) solicits the help of witty, quick-tongued Phillipe Gaston (aka The Mouse) (Matthew Broderick), a young fugitive who knows the way to the castle. Together, they are going to rescue his beloved Isabeau (Michelle Pfieffer) and break the curse of the Bishop (John Wood) that keeps them apart. That is, according to the curse, Navarre transforms into a wolf by night, and Isabeau a hawk by day. They are never simultaneously, as the Bishop wanted after Isabeau refused his requests that she be with him.Aside from an entertaining story, Rutger Hauer is perfect as the often-stubborn Navarre. And, Matthew Broderick's dialog offers appropriately timed moments of comic relief, a nice contrast to Navarre's cold demeanor. The scenery is breathtaking as well. As other viewers have suggested, Donner did make some odd choices (the most mentioned element, perhaps, being the soundtrack), but overall, you should expect something good. "},{"Title":"I really liked the movie and don't remember the music","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I haven't seen this movie since it came out a couple of decades ago. I remember that I really liked it, I remember the premise, I remember who I saw it with.  I don't remember the music.  So how bad could the music have been?Maybe I'll see it again now on DVD, if only to see what all the griping is about.The premise is unique as far as I know, which is what makes this movie special.  Nobody has said that the plot is a ripoff of anything else or vice versa.  "},{"Title":"Praise for the film...","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw Ladyhawke as a small child, and I fell in love with it immediately!! I love the plot line, and the ancient style of it. I have the film on DVD, and the book as well. There are many webpages about this film, and if you are a fan, I suggest you visit them, they are very unique and detailed. I admit, because of this movie, I developed a love for ancient myths(Even though the film wasn't based on one.)and I also had a crush on Matthew Broaderick as well!! It took a long time for me to find this movie on DVD, but it was well worth the wait. I give this movie 4 stars because it is a great romance/mystical flick.Always together,Eternally apart...freakangel35 "},{"Title":"Simply ridiculous","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's too bad that a film of such promise turned out so badly. I watched it expecting a nice mediaeval-fantasy, but I ended up laughing the whole way through.The plot is, to say the least, predictable. Characterizations (with the exception of Matthew Broderick as the Mouse) are extremely poor. The romance between Michelle Pfeiffer and Rutger Hauer's characters is designed to tug at viewers heartstrings (a passionate love, a jealous rival, an evil curse, etc), but we never really care about either of them or their fate together. This is due to the poor characterizations and the fact that we can guess how the film will end within the first twenty minutes.The fight scenes, promised to be action-packed and exciting, are some of the worst I've ever seen. Even villains aren't that stupid.In terms of historical accuracy (even for a fantasy)...well, don't even get me started. To begin with, the entire film is scored to terrible mid-eighties keyboard music. That alone made the film much, much worse than it needed to be. The anachronism of hearing music suited to a 1980s television series while watching pseudo-mediaeval battles...I was in hysterics.I really did start this film expecting to greatly enjoy it, so it's not that I'm prejudiced or anything. And I will admit that I enjoyed watching Matthew Broderick. His performance as the Mouse is the only thing that made me finish the movie. But even he can't save this bomb.No stars for this one...I give it a turkey. Or is that a turkeyhawke? "},{"Title":"Good movie, Bad Score","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"    This could have been a wonderful movie if it wasn't for the ridiculous musical score. The filmmakers did a very good job of creating an exquisite medieval atmosphere. With their beautiful sets and locations, and gorgeous cinematography, they worked hard to carry me into the middle ages. Then the thumping music started up and yanked me out of the past and plunked me down right back into the 20th century. What were they thinking?  That said, it had a very good story and wonderful performances by the three leads. Rutger Hauer's intense presence, which leaves me unsure if I should trust him or fear him, adds just the right amount of tension to his scenes. Matthew Broderick plays his part beautifully, and comes of as charming without looking like he's trying too hard, and Michelle Pfeiffer was exquisite. Her presence and beauty enhance the film's magical story.  It's too bad the action scenes are staged terribly, and the climax is just clumsy. This could have been a much better movie. (I'd love to see a good remake.)  Credit for the very original story should go to the first screenwriter, Edward Khmara. Contrary to the claims of the film's marketing crew, it's not an 800 year old story, or an ancient legend, it's the product of Edward Khmara's imagination, and he should be given proper credit for it.  ** SPOILER WARNING **  What were they thinking showing us a full moon just days before a total eclipse? They should have shown us a crescent moon, shrinking over a few nights to the tiniest sliver of a moon. (Haven't filmmakers ever seen a crescent moon? Somehow, in the movies, the moon is always full. A crescent moon is also beautiful, in a different way.) "},{"Title":"Heroes come in all sorts of packages...","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"       The story for this movie is pretty straight-forward, so I'm not going to spend much time on the plot.     I first watched this movie when I was quite young-probably shortly after it was released (which would put me at 7 or 8 years of age).  I have fond memories of watching this movie, it wasn't too scary or difficult to follow.  My fondness for the film grew over the years (when my girlish crush on a young Matthew Broderick became a teenaged crush on the handsome Rutger Hauer).  One thing that never bothered me was the music.  I never really noticed it during the fight sequences. Then a friend of mine pointed it out a few years ago and now whenever I watch the movie I remember her unkind comments about the choice of music and laugh out loud.  I'm only mentioning this because I checked other people's reviews of this film and a majority of them are about the music.     For those Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer fans out there, a word of warning  this really is Matthew Broderick's film.  And for those who want to see plenty of Michelle, she has even less screen time than Hauer.  That said; Pfeiffer is still luminous, Hauer dashing and Broderick hilarious.  He delivers some real zingers in this movie  Not on the life of my mother-even if I knew who she was!  He proves that you don't have to be big and strong to be a hero.      This movie is equal parts fantasy, adventure, romance and comedy.  Please, please try to overlook the blaring musical sequences-even now I don't find them that awful, but I've always been one to focus on horrible dialogue rather than horrible music.       These characters are supposed to be French and I've heard some harsh comments about no one speaking French or with a French accent.  Well, that never bothered me either.  Did Kevin Costner speak with an English accent in Prince of Thieves?  What about Jude Law in Enemy at the Gates-he was supposed to be Russian. I think having these actors speak in fake French accents would've been a mistake.  Nope, for me, this film is just perfect as is (okay, I concede  the music could be changed).     If you're looking for a fun (and sometimes funny) ride check out this movie!       "},{"Title":"An OK movie that could have done better","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The concept of this movie is fascinating.  I remember liking it when I saw part of it in the mid 80's as a young teenager.  I just watched it with my husband because I remembered enjoying it and we like movies with good love stories.  Well, this one had a good love story, but not a whole lot else going for it.  Matthew Broderick was funny, and the principal actors did a great job overall.  But my husband had a hard time believing this wasn't a mild parody (à la Princess Bride) because some of the lines and scenery were so over-the-top. Keeping in mind the time in which it was made, that wasn't so bad for me; what I found amusing in its own way, however, was the fact that my husband and I were distracted for about 15 minutes in the second half of the movie and didn't rewind it, and we found that we hadn't missed anything crucial to the story.  In other words, the second half drags a bit.  And AUGH, the score!  OK, so Alan Parsons was Mr. 80's, but puh-leeze!  I kept picturing 12-year-olds in jodhpurs and helmets clearing jumps in a hunter class in a show ring.  It was totally inappropriate for the film in my opinion, and really took away from my enjoyment of it. I'd be interested to see a remake of this.  The story seems so great. It's too bad it was so poorly handled. "},{"Title":"About the music...","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't agree more about the inappropriateness of the music in this film and I do like Alan Parson's music.  Just a really bad choice with the time period of the film.  It's nice to see Rutger Hauer not playing the psycho too.  Great pairing of Pfeiffer and Hauer. "},{"Title":"Almost a great movie","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is so very close to being a great movie.  It is well acted, well scripted and well directed.  Unfortunately, it comes with one of the least fitting soundtracks of all times.  The grating, 80's pop music clashes horribly with the wonderful medieval fantasy on the screen.  If a fitting soundtrack (something in the vein of Braveheart or Rob Roy) were paired with the material already here, this would truly be a classic. "}{"Title":"Soundtrack great!!!","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Am I the only one who likes the soundtrack of this movie? Like It... I LOVE IT!!!! Andrew Powell's music is great in this movie (produced by Alan Parsons). The music gets battered on every site on the net... Please tell me I'm not the only one with this in my CD player.....As for the movie, I saw it when I was a kid and then it's hard not to be impressed with this movie, as an adult it's less impressive... But don't let that stop you -)Rutger Hauer is the hero (The silent type, you know what I'm talking about), Mathew Brodderick is the annoying kid and Michelle is just looking sexy as always. "},{"Title":"Goofy Movie and Terribly Dated","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the goofiest movie I have ever seen. The music is 80's disco-- quitejarring, especially when playing in the background of the medieval actionscenes! Rutger Hauer is wooden and unconvincing; Matthew Broderick wasgreat in Ferris Bueller, but seems rather silly with his fake English accent.  Michelle Pfeiffer is not my favorite actress, and while she is pretty, she is  unconvincing as princess cum magical being. The plot, overall, is rather silly,  and drags-on into infinity... not good. My suggestion Avoid this movie at all  costs! A better knight fantasy would be Dragonheart or of course, the newly  released Lord of the Rings trilogy. Even in 1985, this movie was a stinker... and  it STILL is!!!  "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Score EVER!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  LadyHawke is a wonderful story with a great cast, but the horrid Alan Parson's soundtrack makes the film virtually unwatchable.  The fact that the film's charms are able to struggle through despite the dreadful music is a testament to the writing and directing of the film.  But with each passing year the film gets harder to watch simply because of the music - even back in the early 80's when I first saw the film the soundtrack felt wholly inappropriate.  Pity.  If the studio would rescore the film I'm sure it could live again. "},{"Title":"It's the music that ruined it...","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To start off I would give this film an overall 5.  Its not that its a bad film, its just that I couldn't stand the music.This movie is an fantasy enchantment period piece taking place in something of a king arthur-esque world.  So would somebody please explain to me why it is accompanied so terribly with 80s Hair Metal synth & guitar rock?!?!? IMHO this almost completley ruins the film which was all in all very entertaining.Off of the topic of the TERRIBLE music.  The acting was on par. It wasn't oscar worthy or anything. But it wasnt terrible. Rutger Hauer plays the hero of sorts, hes a lovesick grump, who is only human during the day, at night he becomes a wolf. His love (Played by Michelle Pfeiffer) is a hawk by day (Hence the title).  So while they are always together they are forever apart.What really made this film bearable is the normally unbearable Matthew Broderick. While I admit he has had some good roles. I particularily enjoyed him in election.  The film portrays him as a young street smart thief who has a heart of gold and becomes entangled between the two hopeless lovers.The scenery is fairly good for a fantasy film.  I particularily enjoyed the story over all else. It is a very original idea. It's too bad about the music. With the proper score this could have been up their with Willow. "},{"Title":"Oh, brother!","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is, like Dragon Slayer, an 80's fantasy movie that I'd wanted to see as a preteen but never got around to it.  I just caught it this morning.I don't know WHAT I was expecting, but I didn't think it'd be this cheesy.Now, I know there are people who love this movie, and all well and good for them.  I liked seeing Matthew Broderick in an early, early role, but his character was the only interesting part of it for me. "},{"Title":"Arggh! The music...","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out. Even then I thought that the music was terrible. It left me wondering if I could have enjoyed this movie, if someone else had done the score. It almost drove me out of the theatre.I recently watched it again on tv. After about half an hour, I hit the mute button and watched it with just the captioning. I actually began to like the movie. All the actors did a passable to good job and I'm always a sucker for this kind of story. The scenery was nice and all in all it was a pleasant viewing experience.No offence intended to Alan Parsons fans, but, I enjoyed this movie, once I had removed the annoying synthesizer drivel.   "},{"Title":"Very Good film with one major flaw","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very good film with good acting,love,magic,fighting scenes and Michelle Pfeiffer. The Major flaw is the annoying music. Remake the film with classical music and it should earn one or two points.  "},{"Title":"Neat fantasy love story but has one BIG problem...","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ladyhawke is a very nice fantasy love story with pretty cool stars.  BUT....THIS MOVIE HAS THE !WORST! AND I MEAN MOST HORRIBLE soundtrack EVER.  I have seen plenty of movies with bad soundtracks, but NONE can compete with how lame the Ladyhawke soundtrack is.  If a movie's score could ever ruin a good film, here is a prime example of where this happened......but all in all, Ladyhawke is one you should see for yourself, because the film itself is quite good.... "},{"Title":"Crying out to be remade","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is precisely the sort of film I would like to see remade one with a decent idea at its core, but marred so badly by overall execution that its legs are chopped out from under it.What's right the cinematography is terrific (see the widescreen version), and the lead performances are, on the whole, good.  Matthew Broderick is charming much of the time in a role which requires charm -- often a recipe for disaster.  Here, by and large, it works.  Pfieffer and Hauer are servicable.  Some of the minor performers are grating, however.What's wrong oh, Lord, where to start?  The music, since it provides the first truly teeth-grinding moment.  The inventive opening credits are rolling along, nice and evocative, and the music is dim and unobtrusive.  Suddenly, this horrid contemporary studio pop kicks in, and my first thought was, This is going to be a long movie.  Then I saw the Alan Parsons credit and I groaned.  I used to like Parsons' better stuff, but his worst is pretty unlistenable.  Chalk up the score to Ladyhawke among his worst.  He creates a theme for the movie and hammers it again and again -- for the first third of the film, with very little variation.  And it's so far forward in the mix, I had to wonder -- Richard Donner was proud of this?  Or the studio?  Who, exactly, thought this worked?Onward.  The script isn't very well fleshed out, and the surprises -- few and far between -- aren't particularly thrilling.  Some moments are incomprehensible -- a guard searching for Broderick's character sees him about to raise the grate and enter a cathedral, where he can easily be captured; the guard steps on Broderick's fingers, however, allowing him to fall back into the labyrinth where he can now afford escape.  Um, huh?Steven Soderbergh is currently taking a old dud and reimagining it as a new piece, which is really the thing to do.  Leave alone our Psychos, our Rashomans, our Shops Around The Corners.  Fix up promising but failed dreck like this.   "},{"Title":"Good fantasy film.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ladyhawke is a very good fantasy film with a good cast and some great cinematography. The weakest point of the film is the score. The music to this one almost makes me sick. Still a pretty good movie though. "}{"Title":"Medieval crud gone wrong","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The goodThis has a great premise of two lovers (Hauer & Pfeiffer) doomed to never meet each other, placed upon the both of them by the Bishop of Aquila's curse.  He turns into a wolf by night, she turns into a hawk by day.  It also has great Italian scenery with beautiful castles and good cinematography.  Donner did an excellent job as far as the location work goes.The badMatthew Broderick.  Blah, what an idiotic character.  His smirky comments were annoying and un-funny to say the least.  I guess he was put in there to appeal to the then 1985 PG-13 teen crowd, but all it does is help ruin the film just to put in some corny laughs.  If he kept his mouth shut more often, it might have worked.The music by Alan Parsons, sucks.  An early-80s disco synth beat that's totally out of place for a film of this period.  Once again, I guess it was to modernize the story for the teen-beat crowd.  I certainly wouldn't go out of my way to buy the soundtrack.  Terrible.  If you want to hear how music should sound in a medieval film, then check out Paul Verhoven's FLESH + BLOOD (1985), the film Rutger Hauer did right after this one.  It has an excellent Basil Poledouris score.The ending fight scene.This has to be one of the worst sword fights I've ever scene in a medieval period piece.  They look like they could barely hold their swords up in the air.  Lame.I did like the horses charging one another in the church, but the rest of the bad guys just stand there looking dumbfounded and clueless.  Why didn't they fight?  Why didn't the flee?It's sad that a film with a great premise like this would be so poorly executed.  Below average.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"ough !","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I expected a nice little movie, something like princess bride. Ladyhawke is not of that kind at all. First bad point, the soundtracks is the worst thing I've ever heard, it is a typical 80's TV-Theme suitable for a news show. Awful. The image is not interesting at all too. The sets are poor, the clothing is not sure to choose between historical clothing and something more like heroic fantasy... Michelle Pfeiffer has the same haircut as in maried to the mob - something very eighties style then. At the end of the movie Rutger Hauer says to her - and it is funny  you changed your haircut. Everything seems like if there was no money at all to make the movie and if each boss (set director, wardrobe director...) did his own thing apart. The storyline could be a good idea but the script is bad, long, unbelievable. What then ? A good thing  the cast is good. Rutger Hauer, Michelle Pfeiffee, Matthew Broderick and John Wood (who stared besides Broderick in wargames) are all very good even if they sometimes seem to start laughing. The whole thing is not worth watching except if you're a fan of one of the actors. I gave it a mercyful 2/10 "},{"Title":"Great story","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If the musical soundtrack had been more fitting then I may have given this a score of 10. Well paced, acted, directed and written, the story is engrossing and very romantic. Michelle Pfeiffer is so very beautiful in this (in fact in anything) and has the acting chops too. Rutger Hauer is charismatic and believable as her romantic interest. Matthew Broderick is his usual reliable self as a young thief who gets caught up in their story. A shame his American accent jars a little when he really should have an English one. It is a magical fantasy, of course, and it works well even though the musical score does not really fit the mood of the piece. I think this film is underrated and should be down as a classic romance. "},{"Title":"If music be the food of love...(turn off the soundtrack)","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" To begin with the (justly) most notorious aspect of this film, the music. What were they thinking adding a lot of bad 80s synth music with drum machines to a medieval love story? Wanting to get away from the big orchestral sound (equally inappropriate in a way) that one associates with Hollywood mythological films was no doubt a laudable idea, and Vangelis had proved, in Chariots of Fire, that one could use modern sounds to create an epic feel, but the music here is mostly so unremittingly bad, and jarringly used that one has to scratch one's head about it.Otherwise the film is very hit and miss. The concept of two lovers who can only touch momentarily at dusk is truly great, Shakespearean in scope and the two lovers are well played by Hauer and Pfeiffer. Matthew Broderick is sadly not up to the task allotted to him however. And apart from the doomed lovers, the plot is full of familiar medieval clichés, a good thief, hissible villains and the like.Worth watching but best to turn the sound down during the musical interludes. "},{"Title":"OK, but a bit vague in direction, there's better...","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all, for a bit of perspective, I'm currently going through some old movies of the Fantasy, Sci-Fi and Martial-arts genres I never saw from the 70's onwards. LadyHawke was in my shortlist based on a reasonable IMDb score and the cast.Ladyhawke is a fantasy romance set in medieval France. It has a decent plot basis that I won't reveal.The cast sounds good enough but it's a bad movie overall due to flimsy direction of character and story. Often a good score can disguise a bad movie but it's the worst it could be, of a very typical 80's trend and not at all complementing of the medieval era.For the fault of direction it's perhaps unfair to be critical of the cast...But if I may; though Hauer looks the part of a dark hero, this is essentially a romantic tale and his rugged air of cynicism is a poor match for the role.Broderick, and his medieval clippered haircut is, as expected, mousy, gormless-cute and effecting a confused accent.Pfeiffer is beautiful as always and plays what she's given well enough, but how she got a blow-dryed conditioned hairstyle in that era is beyond me. She shows her stuff better in Stardust! And the other minor parts John Wood is interesting as the bishop though the script for him trails off disappointingly. And Leo McQuern as Father Imperious is the most well-rounded of the lot.The star of this film is the animal handling and the animals themselves, and the production value location filming.The score is abysmal, but check the other reviews for more info. The 80s synth-pop doesn't fit - I could only get through by laughing it off! If I hadn't seen better quality of a similar ilk maybe I could see Ladyhawke more favourably. But Princess Bride this isn't, and Beastmaster is better. Ladyhawke just doesn't tie together well.So Ladyhawke hasn't made my list of films to see again, but for your info neither has Starman (Sci-Fi), Perhaps it's as re-watchable as Hawk the Slayer. For me, that's not saying much. Take my review as lightly as you like. "},{"Title":"OK mediaeval fantasy romance","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer are ill-fated lovers in this mediaeval fantasy - they are under an enchantment where she is transformed into a bird of prey at dawn, while he becomes a wolf at sunset always together and forever apart. After falling in with Matthew Broderick as a comedy sidekick, steps finally start to be taken towards lifting the enchantment.There's quite a lot to like here - Hauer and Pfeiffer are both very good (and Pfeiffer has seldom been more beautiful, which is saying something). Broderick never looks as if he feels comfortable, however (although Leo McKern is his usual wonderful self), and John Wood doesn't seem able to convey villainy - he always looks as if he has a misplaced smirk on his face.The period feel is good and the scenery is lovely (as is the photography of the hawk). The idea is a good one, albeit the execution never really excites as it should.But there are two things which mar this movie. One is the fact that it really needed the transformations to be rather more convincing than they are. One accepts that CGI/morphing wasn't available in 1985, but the transformations are nevertheless rather undercooked.And the other is the music - every now and then an upbeat electric guitars/drums arrangement kicks in and it simply doesn't fit, to the extent that it takes you out of the film. "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned but charming and entertaining","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film tells the story of a young thief who gets involved in the story of an ancient curse an ancient military hero got cursed by a jealous and egoistic priest to live as a wolf by night and his beautiful girlfriend as a hawk by day so that they could never meet as humans as long as the sun rises and goes down.Well, the story is nothing really original or surprising and of course, there is a dramatic ending with happy end. But the whole movie is quite charming and entertaining and tells a beautiful fantasy story filled with clichés. The young and charismatic Matthew plays a nice role as a naive and annoying thief, Rutger Hauer incorporates the tough guy waiting for his vengeance and Michelle Pfeiffer the charming young lady. The key message of the film that one has never to give up and wait for a good twist or idea to solve one's problems instead of using violence is a typical, but nice idea. The ancient traitor who wants to correct his errors in an innersight experience is a nice gadget of this film, too. The films has a quite large type of genres, beginning with fantasy elements (the curse of the hawk and wolf), romantic elements (theor faithful love), dramatic elements (as the hawk is heavily injured and as the wolf seems to commit a huge mistake), action elements (as the young thief escapes from prison and military) and philosophical elements (love, religion, faith) with some interesting twists (the change of mood of the monk, the eclipse).The only negative elements are that the movie deals with a lot of clichés, that the end is quite predictable. Another bad point is that the film has been turned in 1985, but that the graphics are rather old fashioned and that there is a lack of special effects or interesting director's ideas. This lack of ideas makes the film quite ordinary which is quite sad as the actors are doing a good job and as the whole thing could have been better as many interesting basis elements are there but not no profound or surprising aspects based on it. It all rests quite superficial, very diversified, but with no special concentration on one of the different genre elements. A bit less diversity, but a more profound analysis could have made the film a lot better.All in all, the movie is quite entertaining and is especially interesting for its young main actors who have all become well known actors in their later careers. If you're seeking for a really innovating blockbuster, you may be disappointed, as it is a very traditional and old fashioned fantasy movie. I would recommend you to watch this and to have a nice two hours with it but not buy it. "},{"Title":"authentic medieval elements, and animal magic","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just saw Ladyhawke for the first time and it is magical. I love the hobbit's eye view of the story that we get, looking up to the enchanted couple along with Phillipe the Mouse. I love the animals, the transitions, the authentic medieval details of architecture and preoccupations.In reality I'm writing this review just to say that I added the FAQ question and answer about medieval legends -- I'm sure someone else can do better but this will get the conversation started. As I looked back on the texts, I was delighted to see how the film meets the literary sources in so many ways. In particular, what if we identify Phillipe with the lover-in-waiting in the story of Bisclavret? There is the hint of rivalry, and he certainly steals enough clothes! There are a few moments of Ladyhawke that grate. A couple of lines fall leadenly, and why exactly is the Church represented as Medici evil plus Friar Tuck?? Well.. this along with other aspects of the movie make a refreshing change from convention. Ladyhawke might show up in my Netflix top ten list... "},{"Title":"Wonderful film, with adventure and romance.","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ladyhawke is an excellent film, with plenty of humor, adventure, and romance. Richard Donner seems a strange choice to direct a fantasy film, but he made one of the best.The story is more in the style of a medieval romance, rather than a Tolieknesque quest tale, or a R.E. Howard barbarian tale. It is the tale of cursed lovers, doomed to spend their lives together, but their human forms kept separated. It takes the help of a young thief, and a disgraced monk to finally reunite them and free them from their ordeal.The story is first rate, with excellent characters and memorable scenes. The casting is flawless. Matthew Broderick is both funny and charming as the thief, while Rutger Hauer is suitably noble as the hero. Michelle Pfeiffer was at the height of her beauty (still looks pretty good today) and is a vision that would capture the heart of an knight, thief, bishop, or monk. leo McKern is equally good as the disgraced monk who betrayed the lovers to his master.The costumes are excellent, with a unique design for the weapons and armor. It gives the film a timelessness, like it could be the middle ages or some lost era.If their is one flaw, it is the music. The use of more contemporary synth music is very jarring at times. A more symphonic piece would have been more in keeping with the grandeur.Ladyhawke is the rare film that appeals to fans of heroic adventure and romance. Both elements work side by side, with healthy doses of humor to lighten the mood. From a story standpoint, it is the best fantasy film of it's era, and one of the best ever. "},{"Title":"Passable '80s fantasy","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ladyhawke was one of the many fantasy films released in the '80s that didn't catch on in theaters but would later become beloved cult classics, much in the vein of Labyrinthe, The Dark Crystal, and the cream of the crop, The Princess Bride. Ladyhawke is a pleasant enough distraction, in spite of its flaws. The story centers on brooding knight Navarre (Rutger Hauer) and beautiful Isabeau (Michelle Pfeiffer), whose love for each other incurred the wrath of the Bishop of Aquila (John Wood), who wanted Isabeau for himself. Driven by hellish rage and jealousy, he places them under a cruel curse. Doomed to be always together, eternally apart, Isabeau transforms into a hawk during the day, while Navarre takes the form of a wolf at night. Their only hope is to achieve the impossible goal of confronting the Bishop while both in their human form. Navarre recruits the help of motor-mouthed pickpocket Phillippe (Matthew Broderick) to lead the way to Aquila, where for better or worse, destiny waits. The movie boasts beautiful scenery, astounding action sequences and fine performances. Hauer is in a pleasing change of pace from his usual, Christopher Walken-esquire roles. He's dashing, complicated, and even a bit sexy. Broderick is amusing, though his neurotic and contemporary quips threaten to grate (and what's with that accent?). Pfeiffer never looked more beautiful, but for the leading lady role, her part is surprisingly thankless. Isabeau is much too passive and has too little screen time. One major complaint? The movie forgets to show, not tell. A flashback showing the Navarre and Isabeau before the curse would have been extremely welcome, but instead we are given a rushed explanation by Imperious (Leo McKern), an old friend of the two lovers. And don't get me started on that embarrassing, over synthesized music score that would be more at home on Miami Vice that a Richard Donner fantasy. But other than that, Ladyhawke is good, brisk entertainment, and certainly worth a look. Donner does pull out all the stops to make a truly entertaining fairy tale, so you've got to admire his efforts. And compared to recent, disastrous attempts at fantasy (The Brothers Grimm, anyone?), you could certainly do worse. "}{"Title":"A wonderful story of love and struggle.","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I fist saw this movie when i was little but the story stays with you. When Matthew Bodderick escapes prison he bumps into Captain Etienne Navarre, who as well as his lover Isabeau d'Anjou is cast under a spell never to see each other and at different times of the day are changed into animals, him a wolf and her a hawk. With Matthew Bodericks help they must break the spell. While the film at first may seems to have a very basic plot outline once you watch it you begin to get a feel for the characters and their somewhat strange situation while the predicament is serious it is the light hearted antics of Boderick that keep the film from becoming angst in some parts. "},{"Title":"A great fantasy romance marred only by a TERRIBLE score","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Ladyhawke' is a gorgeously realized fantasy romance movie with great performances, some good swordfights, and endearing characters. There is one minor flaw the god-awful soundtrack. A few 80's fantasies have a strange techno-pop score that just doesn't fit in well with the tone; Ridley Scott's dark and moody epic 'Legend' had a score by Tangerine Dream, 'The Neverending Story' had terrible music, as did 'Labyrinth. Other fantasy films, like 'The Dark Crystal', 'Willow', and 'The Princess Bride', are great and they do NOT have a pop score. Ladyhawke belongs to the former category. It's not perfect, but it almost gets there.The performances in this tale of love are great. Action-adventure is not a genre Matthew Broderick inhabits comfortably (see his awful acting in the 1998 'Godzilla' for proof), but he is very charming and often funny here. Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfieffer make a very good pair of doomed lovers, and Hauer is particularly focused and intense. There is an almost unbearably sad scene where the two lovers almost touch at sunrise, and Hauer's howl of pain at the end of the scene caps it perfectly. The late Leo McKern ('A Man For All Seasons') has a lot of fun as the irascible Father Imperius.'Ladyhawke' is a great 80's fantasy movie, and it falls just short of immortality due to the terrible music. Otherwise, it rocks! "},{"Title":"Flying Under the Radar.","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A promising idea that is not quite executed the way it should have been is apparent in Ladyhawke, an interesting but overall somewhat disappointing flick from Richard Donner. It is the Medieval Times in a land of fairy tales and a young thief (Matthew Broderick) escapes imprisonment. He runs into banished knight Rutger Hauer who has a hawk of all things with him. As the day ends, Michelle Pfeiffer shows up with a wolf. It seems that an evil bishop (John Wood) lusted after Pfeiffer and she would not be his so he put a spell on her and her one true love (Hauer). Thus Hauer is himself during the day, but a wolf at night and Pfeiffer is herself during the night, but a hawk during the day. Get the picture? Now the odd trio must work together to break the curse by dodging the bishop's henchmen and killing him. A really interesting concept is overshadowed by unclear direction and an unsteady tone. Donner does fairly well with the material and the production values are adequate, but in the end I felt the performances and the story were not up to par with the other elements that are here. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Fantasy action flick with a touch of magical mystery","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  LADYHAWKE (1985) **1/2 Rutger Hauer, Michelle Pfeiffer, Matthew Broderick.  Not bad fantasy action flick with Hauer as a knight and Pfeiffer his lady, both under an evil bishop's curse causing him to be a wolf at night and she a hawk during the day.  Broderick provides comic relief as a petty thief who aids them both in their attempt to undo the magic.  Some lovely scenery and production design capturing the 13th century. "},{"Title":"Could be such an awesome movie and is...but...","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree with the other person who commented on this movie in that the music was no less than terribly terribly wrong.  I also feel thatthis movie has a certain allure to it,so that even though it feels low budget when you watch it, you are still entertained.  Although Matthew Broderick's accent here is inconsistent, he is the most entertaining character in the movie.  His habit of talking to himself and Lord... is great.  Michelle Pfeiffer is beautiful & I love the drunken monk.  It may have just been my love for Matthew Broderick, but I kept thinking Okay okay yeah they're sorrowful lovers, whatever, where is Mouse???!  Maybe his character just seemed like the only one besides the monk, with any depth of character that didn't feel extremely forced. Oh well. Could be a better movie, but still amusing.  If anything, it is worth seeing Michelle Pfeiffer and Matthew Broderick in something a little crazy.  Yay '80's!! "},{"Title":"Great date movie!!","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the best movie I've ever seen.  Blends together medieval action and a wonderful love story of love lost, and then found. Michelle Pfeiffer is super hot in this movie, and Matthew Broderick is hilarious, as the Mouse that brings the two lovers back together. "},{"Title":"Always Together, Eternally Apart.","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the best fantasy movies ever made!  I have liked LADYHAWKE since I was a child.  It has a great story and great performances.  Matthew Broderick gives what is, in my opinion, the best performance of his career (ie one that I can actually tolerate him in!).  Rutger Hauer is brilliant as ever as Navarre, the late Leo McKern is great as the fallen priest who is given a chance at redemption and John Wood is a truly hateful villain as the corrupt Bishop.  A young Michelle Pfeiffer has very little to do in the film, but still manages to shine. POSSIBLE SPOILERS!Hauer and Pfeiffer are lovers who have been cursed by the evil Bishop.  By day, Pfeiffer turns into a hawk and by night, Hauer becomes a wolf.  This is because the Bishop loves Pfieffer and swore that no man would have her if he could not. Broderick is a young pickpocket who has managed to escape from the hellish dungeons of the French city of Aquila (apparently an impossible thing to do.).  Hauer therefore believes that Broderick can help him get into the city so he may kill the Bishop and break the curse.  But McKern knows the real way in which to break the curse and enlists Broderick's help in trying to convince the hard-headed Navarre to listen. As well as being a thief, Broderick is a compulsive liar, but as the film goes on, he lies to both Hauer and Pfeiffer about how they have said how much they love each other.  To be fair, he does this to bring them both hope that they may be reunited.  So, it is he who is able to help both of them.The picture is filmed in beautiful countryside in Italy and there are subtly-done effects for the transformations which are fantastic.  I am one of the few people on IMDB who liked the score by The Alan Parsons Project.  I guess people thought it was inappropriate considering the Medieval setting of the film, but I think that the music compliments the action perfectly, and the 'Love Theme' which is played throughout the film and during the credits is a lovely piece of music.This is a great film and should not be missed! "},{"Title":"Kudos!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best of it's genre.  Matthew Broderick and Rutger Hauer were perfect choices for their roles.  Broderick's performance, especially, made this movie immensely entertaining.  Do not listen to anyone who claims Broderick over-acted in this movie.  His role as Phillipe Gaston, The Mouse was funnier and more likeable than Ferris Bueller.  Michelle Pfeiffer is stunningly beautiful, but a bit stiff through much of the movie. Rutger Hauer is 100% rougish, tragic hero. The one glaring weakness for this movie - The wispy, droning of the Alan Parsons Project soundtrack.  I just wish The director, Richard Donner had used the group 'Survivor' and given a more upbeat sound to the movie.  "},{"Title":"wonderful love conquers all tale for the young at heart","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had wanted to see this movie as soon as I saw a description for it in a movie review book. The story is apparently based on legend some 800 hundred years old (or so I read). With beautiful scenery, enchanting characters and an intriguing soundtrack it is a movie that must be experienced at least once. Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer play the cursed lovers and Matthew Broderick is their unlikely helper acting as a go between. Their are some truly beautiful lines of dialogue. This one I can't pass up when I come across it on cable.  "},{"Title":"Forget the music","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found Ladyhawke to be an entertaining movie with an interesting storyline, however its thoroughly inappropriate movie score spoilt it for me.  It was far too contemporary for the period. Great acting, costumes and set design though. "}{"Title":"...burns out about 3/4 of the way through...","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  1st watched 12/27/2001 - 5 out of 10(Dir-Richard Donner) Despite beautiful scenery and an interesting fairy-tale like story, this fantasy romance burns out about 3/4 of the way through.  There is a point in the movie where you know what the ending will be and we're waiting for the inevitable but it takes forever to get there.  This is a shame because this movie has many things going for it.  Very talented actors, a great cinematographer, a rousing musical score, a good director but the story doesn't have the depth to make it interesting from beginning to end.  Too bad for this promising idea of a movie. "},{"Title":"Close to perfection","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of a very few films that I have seen enough times to memorize nearly the entire script.  When it was still playing in theaters I would go every few days to see it again.  The manager of one theater kept it running for weeks after it was removed from the rest of the chain locally, just because he loved it, too.My favorite character is Navarre, the brave and noble son of the Pyrenees (the kingdom of Navarra was independent until the early 16th century.  It is one of the Basque lands.  My theory is that Etienne was an exiled nobleman it's a long story, but Goliath is too expensive to belong to anyone less than a nobleman.)There has been a lot of criticism of the soundtrack, but I think it was wonderful.  The rhythms were very medieval in flavor, but having it scored for modern instruments was a risky choice.  I like the way it worked.  The use of continuo was very effective.  And inserting an actual medieval dance tune was a nice touch.The scenery was well-chosen, the trappings were authentic, and the costumes were beautifully done.  I can close my eyes and see Navarre's cape flowing as he moved -- I'd like to have a face-off capework duel between Rutger Hauer and Dave Prowse....Oh yes, the casting.  Richard Donner and company did a great job.  The rumor was the studio wanted Sean Connery as Navarre and Dustin Hoffman as Mouse; no word on who they wanted as Isabeau.  I shudder to think... I love Sean Connery, but not in that part.  Hauer was marvelous, Matthew Broderick was marvelous, Michelle Pfeiffer was marvelous, and the rest of the cast.....There was a spate of fantasy adventures that appeared about the same time as Ladyhawke.  I don't remember any of them.  And, significantly, this is the only DVD I own, even though I don't have a DVD player yet. "},{"Title":"Naive romance at its best! Worst/best soundtrack ever","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must be a nutter, since I could see this one each and every night, and every single time I watch it, I have to cry at the passage where they almost touch and at the end. Tss. Doctors would diagnose me as a naive romantic, and, indeed, this is exactly the film for me and any other courtly love adoring pathological melancholic (note I also like Zeffirelli's 1968 Romeo and Juliet and even Hugh Hudson's 1984 Greystoke Tarzan film(!) - I even, pardon me Lord, sat through Titanic and actually liked it, though Di Caprio was way too young).But it's hard to get to the crying point, especially since, as it has been abundantly pointed out by others, the soundtrack is mindbogglingly bad. Especially the up-beat pop tune with which the film opens (I mean, Christ, what was the point of making a mysterious opening if it was going to be spoiled by such a score?) Then it becomes clear we're in the middle of the eighties here, you know, that era where more aerobic videos got sold/hired than regular films. They obviously wanted to make this more of a film for a teenage audience that had gotten used to The Breakfast Club, St Elmo's Fire and other stronzo. And it returns again and again! Especially the action scenes (during the first half) get utterly ruined by it, though their fairy-tale aspect gets strengthened. These are the ruined scenes Philippe's escape from the moment he falls in the water, his & Navarre's first fight with the Bishop's soldiers at the inn, the fight at the village where Ladyhawke gets wounded, and some scenes in between.What made me cry, then? First, the beautiful images! Astonishingly, for a story in which day and night ar so essential, you are very often left wondering when it is exactly dark or when it is light. You might see this as a flaw, but no. It's caused by the very efficient use of colour lenses, blue during several 'night' scenes, though I think they were filmed during daytime, and orange/sepia/red during the most of the day scenes. It makes the trees look aflame, and puts a magical atmosphere over the whole film. See it in widescreen and a pristine copy, or else you'll lose a lot of the visual quality.The second tear-provoking element was... well... the soundtrack. The main theme, though successfully destroyed in the opening track, is simply beautiful, and summarizes the hope pouring out of this film (here goes the romantic...). At several crucial points in the film, this wonderfully melancholic tune comes in, springing from a more dark, brooding theme.The third reason were the actors. Though the acting might not have been perfect (good fantasy does not necessarily require that - see Conan), the casting was! Hauer is a wonderfully heroic Etienne de Navarre, and Michelle Pfeiffer, with her unworldly overwhelming beauty was the ideal Isabeau d'Anjou. She was 27 at the time, and combined with her relatively short-cut hair (also see Into The Night from the same year, fans!) she is just THE princess for whom we all want to get on our horse and fight the bad guy. The real charm of the film comes from the duo Broderick/McKern, who add exactly the playful quality which makes the drama stand out and not slide off into cheap, implausible, heavy melancholy. Apparently they still didn't think that was enough, hence the soundtrack... John Wood gives us a lovely caricature of the evil Bishop - the man breathes evil.The fourth reason was the happy ending. I'm a sucker for happy endings. A good film seems pointless to me if there isn't a happy ending to it. Don't misunderstand me Romeo and Juliet also has a happy ending (they both die, so no one's left to mourn the other). I don't mean the traditional Hollywood happy ending is really my cup of tea. It's just that, hey, after a long road of suffering, the guy has to walk away with the broad in the end, no? At least, it's obligatory in any naive romantic fantasy. It's what its all about - the essence of Courtly Love.Superb. "},{"Title":"If you liked Princess Bride, here's one for you!!!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a lovely movie.  A true classic.  Having watched it in full for the first time on DVD (and anywhere for that matter), I truely loved this movie.  Soundtrack is a little dated, but it's still fun.  Thought this movie was Rutger Haure's better movies.  Actually three films come to mind other than this one as some of his best.  (Blade Runner of course, Blind Fury and Mr. Stitch)  Out of the four, perhaps Ladyhawke is now my favourite of his.  Michelle Pheiffer is beautiful and quite the youngster (she's what 28 in this movie).  She looks the best in this movie I think.  Matthew seems to be just a child in this movie.  Think he's younger than me in this movie, what 22 he or so.  Rutger is ageless, I see no change.  The Bishop you'll recognize as the good guy in Wargames.   Easy on the plot, everyone knows it so I'm not going into it.  (I never explain a plot anyway anywhere.  Waste of time in my opinion since, everyone else probably explains it better.  I just say how much I enjoy what and who.) But the concept Always together, eternally apart  Says it all.Whatever you do though, don't buy the VHS copy.  Last I tried, it has some of the worst tracking imaginable.  The dvd is just fine with both pan and scan / and widescreen versions of the film.9/10 "},{"Title":"wonderful film AND soundtrack","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i don't get it... i honestly don't get it! why do you hate the soundtrack so much?? on this all agree the movie is very, very beautiful, the scenery, , the photography of vittorio storaro, the plot is extremely romantic and make you immediately want to be a medieval knight although we know that is just fantasy with a highly romanticised view of the middle ages, not to mention the actors. i don't think there could be any other actors to perform Navarre and Philippe so well like rutger hauer and mathew broderick, even michelle pfeiffer although not making a very impressive interpretation is so beautiful in here that all is forgiven!!but WHY do you hate the soundtrack so much?? in the words of andrew powell himself We both felt (him and richard donner) that this was going to be controversial with a medieval film, and some of the critics did indeed object, although a conventional Korngold style score would be some 700 years out of period instead of our 750 - not a huge difference!the music is perfect for the film, it lends itself brilliantly to the romanticism and magic of the story, remember that the movie is NOT supposed to be realistic about the period much less the plot and the music! yes it has some typical 80's synth music like some Alan Parsons Project's material with whom andrew powell worked much, but... WHO CARES?! it works for the film! that's all that matters! i don't care if it sounds outdated to me as long as it WORKS! and it does. very much so. try to watch the film and the soundtrack without prejudice regarding the music. you'll see that maybe you were wrong "},{"Title":"Pfeiffer and Broderick get the bird. Otherwise You'll LIKE it!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Don't get me wrong.  I LOVE LADYHAWKE&#133;I truly do.  However, producer-director Richard Donner made some maddening choices with this movie.  Such as the excreable music&#133;  And Mathew Broderick's overacting&#133;and Michelle Pfeiffer's nonacting (her worst role EVER!).  Pfeiffer does give us a glimpse of the great acting to come in the climactic scene, her contemptuous glare at the Bishop.  Up to then however, her performance is NOTHING!Now, let's talk about the good, no great stuff.  Like Rutger Hauer's is the perfect Knight.  Leo McKern is a delight as the  fallen monk.  The villianry is delicious.  LADYHAWKE also boasts atmospheric costumes, sets and photography; outstanding editing, clever scripting, and that HORSE!  WOW!Enjoy the movie and try to overlook the flaws.  Just don't try to convince your friends this is a great movie.  "},{"Title":"good, and yet...","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie rather good.  Solid plot, amusing characters... the only hole is the music.  The entire sound track is on synthesizers (with the exception of some rather cheezy saxophone parts), and the melodies uninspired, it just didn't do justice to the rest of the film's quality. Would Star Wars be the same with elevator music?  "},{"Title":"Could have been a classic!","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don´t believe all you hear! The music (horrid eighties disco-pop) ruins what could have been one of the greatest historical/fantasy movies ever made. The movie itself is fairly grim and with a suitable soundtrack this would have come through to the audience. Instead you get a glossy cartoon adventure. If I happened to become the next Bill Gates, I would spend what money it would take to re-release this film with a decent soundtrack. "},{"Title":"A wonderful fantasy which knows how to laugh","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful story of good and evil. With many loveable characters and humorous one-liners. You grow to love the characters and feel their plight. You will leave this movie feeling incredibly good. "},{"Title":"Music may suprise you, but really good nonetheless","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At first the music may seem a liitle too modern for some viewers, (it's kind of an 80's rock opera style) but the movie is awesome still.  It's a great love story, but before you judge it just as a love story, it's a love story much like Excalibur is.  Plenty of action, evil magic plots, as well as Matthew Brodericks hilarious comments like in Ferris Buellers Day Off. A must see! "}{"Title":"Simply superb","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best films ever made.Rutger Hauer, as always, is brilliant. Michelle Pfeiffer, of course, can do no wrong. The supporting cast (notably John Wood as the bishop) is first rate. The marvelously funky music is *inspired*.  Congratulations to Andrew Powell for his bold choice - and not stitching us with some bland James Horner-ish rubbish, or worse, a 16th century style harpsichord score.People who say the direction needs polishing clearly haven't seen the film often enough.  A film which improves which each viewing, as Ladyhawke does, is a rare and wonderful treat. "},{"Title":"Truly great","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is truly a great movie. It has everything; romance, action, a good plot and great actors! And the music is splendid. "},{"Title":"Transporting Romantic Adventure","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  	Love, jealousy and magic-- a potent combination in anybody's book; and when you weave these elements together into a story of two medieval lovers (the likes of which Shakespeare could not have penned better), destined to be forever together yet ever apart, cursed by a jealous and powerful man, the result is a romance/adventure that evokes a sense of chivalry and passion, delivered here in the transporting drama `Ladyhawke,' directed by Richard Donner.  Rutger Hauer and Michelle Pfeiffer star as the lovers, Etienne Navarre and Isabeau Dante, victims of the wanton desires of a Bishop (John Wood), who covets Isabeau for himself.  And if he cannot have her, the Bishop decrees that no man shall, and casts a spell upon them which transforms them at every sunrise and sunset, Navarre destined to be a man by day, but a wolf by night; Isabeau, by night a woman, but during the daylight taking the form of a hawk.  Unable to break the curse, they are able to glimpse one another as they really are only during the fleeting moments of their transition, and so they live-- traveling the countryside always together yet apart, searching for a way to lift the spell and become whole again.  	Hopeless as it all seems, they go on; and one day a young man enters their lives, a petty thief named Phillipe Gaston (Matthew Broderick), also known as `The Mouse,' who through a twist of fate just may become their salvation.  Joining them on their journey, Phillipe is able to bring Navarre and Isabeau, if not comfort, at least hope.  Hope for a better tomorrow, when at last they may truly be together.	Romantic to the max and in every sense of the word, Donner presents this fanciful tale beautifully, and in a way that makes it engaging and timeless.  This story is a vision realized, one that will surely touch the romantic in even the most jaded of individuals, because everyone has known this kind of love and longing, if not in reality, then at least in the realm of the imagination.  And those who have ever suffered loss or have known sorrow will be especially moved by it.  Drawing upon his own artistic wherewithal, Donner has crafted a film with universal appeal, tempering the romance with just enough humor to offset the drama, while blending it with a dash of action, mystery and suspense that keeps a thread of tension alive from beginning to end.  It helps, of course, that beyond Donner's consummate skill as a storyteller he had a terrific cast with which to work, and with whom he was able to conjure and cast a spell of his own.	There is but one word to describe Michelle Pfeiffer in the role of Isabeau, and that is `Exquisite.'  Of beauty, grace, poise and charm; all of the above.  She embodies all of these qualities and more in Isabeau, giving a sensuous and alluring performance that should have earned her resounding acclaim.  Why it did not is anyone's guess.  One possibility is that it had to do with the decade in which this film was made (it was released in 1985), born as it was in the middle of an era dominated by action movies and teen angst.  Given the sensibilities of today's audiences, however, who seem to be embracing the more imaginative offerings like `Harry Potter,' `Lord of the Rings' and the off-beat fairy tale, `Shrek,' and in light of the unprecedented success of `Titanic,' I feel an argument could be made that this film was some fifteen years or so ahead of it's time.  If released today, chances are it would enjoy a significantly greater success.  Indeed, it may yet find new life on video/DVD, conducive as it is to the tastes of viewers today.	This is certainly one of Rutger Hauer's most memorable roles, and he is perfectly cast as the dashing soldier, Navarre.  Heroic and romantic, this is a character not unlike others he's done (he did a variation of Navarre this same year in `Flesh and Blood'), but this is the definitive portrayal.  It's refreshing to see him in a role like this, as he tends to gravitate toward characters with a darker side, villains like John in `The Hitcher,' or the anti-hero, Roy, in `Blade Runner.'  Here, astride his horse and wielding a sword apparently wrought from the same steel as Excalibur, he cuts quite a bold figure, enhanced by the depth of his eyes and a determined attitude, especially in the final scene in which he at last confronts his nemesis.  And there's a definite chemistry between Hauer and Pfeiffer that makes this story all the more enticing.	As Phillipe, Matthew Broderick gives an agreeable performance, creating a character who is not only ingratiating, but who serves as a sort of conduit, moving the story along while offering some fresh perspectives on the situation at hand along the way.  Broderick lends something of a contemporary sensibility to The Mouse, who is reminiscent of C-3PO in `Star Wars,' as he adopts a rather wry and amusingly stoic attitude that makes his bemused soliloquies especially engaging.  It's a solid performance, but one for which Broderick-- like Pfeiffer and Hauer-- has never received proper acknowledgement.  	The supporting cast includes Leo McKern (Imperius), Ken Hutchison (Marquet), Alfred Molina (Cezar) and Giancarlo Prete (Fornac).  Encompassing a number of genres, from romance to fantasy/drama to action/adventure, `Ladyhawke' is an ambitious, entertaining film that has yet to find it's audience-- or perhaps it's the other way around; because it's available and just waiting to be spirited away into living rooms and video/DVD players everywhere.  Which is exactly what it will do to those lucky enough to connect with it, because this is one that will sweep you away to another time and another place, beyond the threshold of the here and now and into that land of enchantment, wherever it may be.  It's the magic of the movies.  I rate this 9/10.   	   "},{"Title":"A very entertaining and wonderfully-made fantasy","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ladyhawke is one of the better fantasy movies that have ever been made.  Now this could be considered surprising, considering the majority of the cast.  Michelle Pfeiffer's acting skills are normally strained by the simplest of roles, but she does an admirable job here (though please note that she is a hawk for most of the movie).  This has to be the best work I've ever seen Rutger Hauer do, edging out his performance as Roy Batty in Blade Runner just on the amount of screen time he got here.  And this is about the only movie I can say that I enjoyed having Matthew Broderick in, since I found Ferris Bueller disappointing and Godzilla vastly overrated. Two of the true highlights of this movie (beyond the enchanting script, cinematography, and story) are Leo McKern and the music of Alan Parsons.  I've never seen McKern give anything close to a bad performance, and anyone ever remotely familiar with the Alan Parsons Project will recognize the songwriter's work on the score, which helps an excellent movie flow even better.Ladyhawke is a fantasy that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"A priceless opportunity squandered - it's desperately upsetting.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It should have been one of the great romantic tragedies; instead it's a tragically wasted opportunity, given the premise and the cast.  What scuppers the movie most obviously is the soundtrack, one of the most dreadful and dreadfully inappropriate ever created, its soft-centered, happy-clumpy optimism quite out of kilter with what the director seems at least to be attempting in the evocation of a quite dark atmosphere, part medieval history, part fairy tale, part heroic-romantic legend.Sadly, nothing else about it quite comes off either.  Christian Slater is terrible in a bland part which should have been a support role at best; the fact that it's been made the lead shows everyone's lack of confidence in the whole project.  Rutger Hauer is pretty useful - his natural intensity of gaze is used to good purpose - though he frankly seems a touch chubby for a part that calls for a certain angularity of figure; if he lost a few pounds he'd be great.  Michelle Pfeiffer is only called on to look melancholy and to look pretty, both of which she manages perfectly well, but somebody should have taken her hairdresser out to a nice lunch somewhere and explained very carefully and very kindly that this is thirteenth-century France and not 1980's Manhattan.  As with the music, lots of thoughtless false notes in the visual presentation counteract everyone's best efforts. John Wood is superb as ever, in an underwritten part; like Hauer he acts mostly with his eyes, quite often simply by not moving them; he recognizes that in the movies, a certain stillness of gaze is often the best way to create tension.  The director, on the other hand, doesn't.What makes this movie so frustrating is that it has so much more to work with than your average fantasy film.  The basic premise - that a pair of lovers have been separated by a curse which makes her a hawk by day, him a wolf by night, so that it's only at dawn (and presumably sunset) that they can see each other in human form, and even then they can never quite touch before the transformations are complete - has a Tristan-like simplicity and tragic purpose; personally I'd have made them immortal, so that they could have been in this state for rather longer than the two years allowed by the script, and have no hope even of the release of death, to enhance the mythic feel... but I can see there might be disadvantages to that, as it would probably mean making the Faustian bishop deathless too, and eventually one presumes somebody would notice.  Perhaps ten years would do as a compromise. After all, Rutger Hauer looks middle-aged here, and Michelle Pfeiffer is probably better looking now than then, so an actress of her age would have a certain extra stature in the role.  However, I guess it's too late now. "},{"Title":"This could have been good","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  But the soundtrack kills the movie experience for me. Not a bad word about Alan Parsons, but annoying early 1980s music for a classic medieval style movie? Hello? Something is wrong here. It has a cute story, quite a few funny moments, some good acting, and the horrible soundtrack makes it all a waste of time and money.Matthew Broderick is a guy that never gets any compliments for his acting, but I think he's darn good! He's is believable in every movie he's in, and I think that must be the main thing with being an actor.All in all; if you're a great fan of Richard Donner AND you think everything Alan Parsons ever did is typical for the medieval period, you will love this movie. If you disagree with that, I think you'll be a bit annoyed. Just listen to the music at the end of the movie. It's so incredibly wrong. Oh well, OK movie after all. I'd give it 5 out of ten. "},{"Title":"i totally agree with dreamer 75","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i read everyones comments with interest. i have been a huge fan of the film for many years. i love the musical score and quite frankly i would be more concerned as to what type of discos some of you guys went to and what you class as disco music! the score has an upbeat tempo to add excitement and it is repeated throughout the film as a accompliment to the characters themselves. they have also used the same music but added different flavours for each scene. the music still sends shivers down my spine and the film always makes me cry. i went for an operation once and told my husband if anything ever happened to me i would like the classical score played at my funeral!! i am also a huge fan of xanadu and as a young teen would dream of being the olivia newton john character kira!. lighten up everyone ladyhawke is a fantastic film for the young at heart and romantics. it is the ultimate movie for anyone who believes in a little magic and that all little girls will be swept off their feet by a knight in shining amour!  "},{"Title":"80's Pap.","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was on TV last night, and for some reason I was drawn into watching it. It may have been the 4 stars the Radio Times gave it, or maybe the 'cool' write up it received.Although the story was ok, the music does not suit the film whatsoever. I felt I should have been watching it whilst wearing some denim and mullet wig. In any horse riding or action scene or scene-interlude a high electric guitar would spark up almost willing the viewer to start air guitarring. The music reminded me a little of Dune, although it shows how well received Andrew Powell was with a such a small CV to his name.-*PLOT. SPOILER WITHIN*-Basically, Philippe 'the mouse' Gaston (Broderick) escapes from prison, and for no reason, Ex-Captain Navarre (Hauer) befriends him. Hauer wears allot of black and has a hawk and a ridiculous sword. The main element of the story is that the evil bishop (McKern) in a jealous rage curses two lovers (Hauer and Pfeiffer). By day Hauer is human and Pfeiffer is a hawk, and by night it's the other way around, except Hauer is a Wolf. So you see, the two can never be together. They eventually both get to be human again in an eclipse, kill the bishop and everyone is happy with the curse broken.-*PLOT OVER*-I'm lost as to why Broderick is even in the film, as his only role seems to be to open a door for Hauer at the end. I am also lost as to why the film is so highly rated?? If you look at other 80s fantasy films, there is some much much better stuff out there (Krull, Labyrinth, Dune, Clash of the Titans and Willow for example) with higher production values and more character involvement. The main special effect (for the transformation scenes) is a kind of half fade to the sunset and some blurred images. This seems a little poor for the Director that gave us Superman and The Omen beforehand.Donner seemed to pass through the Ladyhawke phase anyway, and went on to give us The Goonies, Lethal Weapon and Conspiracy Theory. Don't get me started on Timeline...Oh, and it's called Ladyhawke a)Cos there's a lady who turns into a Hawk and b)Hawk with an 'E' makes it more European or period see. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but touching","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Everyone complains about the music (usually first and foremost).  As much as I hate to join the bandwagon, I have to say it  Watching Robin Hood Prince of Theives, it occurs to me that many of the instruments used in Michael Kamen's fantastic score is very anachronistic with the early years of the new millennium, but somehow I don't care.  Assuming Middle Earth's evolution is similar to our world's, the LotRs score is anachronistic (then again, who knows in the fantasy world), but still, I don't care.  That score works. Watching Young Guns with its electric guitars, yes it does bother me, but somehow LadyHawke's score one-ups it.  As I wrote for Young Guns, somewhere between complete timeline-accuracy and 20th century is a happy medium.  LadyHawke does not hit it.      The premise has the potential for a classic fantasy fairy tale &#150; a love that can never be &#150; something that tugs at the heart strings; unfortunately, like the music, most of LadyHawke never quite hits its mark, which is rather surprising coming from Richard Donner who already gave us the Omen, Superman, The Toy, and he would go on to make more great films like the Lethal Weapon series, Goonies, Maverick, and Scrooged.The action scenes are subpar, especially by Donner's own standards, but the strength of this film lay in the quieter, subtler moments.  And threw all of its faults, Donner does show the he hasn't forgotten the craft of filmmaking as the film truly explores the curse of the two lovers . . . especially when they can catch only fleeting glimpses of each other.  The dramatic scenes have a masterful composition and pace, it's just a shame that the movie suffers from so many trips and stumbles and simply can't meet up with the poetic standard the dramatic end creates.        Still, even my least favorite Donner film contains some great sequences, and I feel is worth a viewing or two.  LadyHawke is far from my favorite film; however, if asked for a top ten list of emotional moments in cinematic history I'm sure LadyHawke has a scene that would be heavily considered. "},{"Title":"Who needs special effects ?!! All it takes is imagination !","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the most acomplished Fantasy movie ever ! An underestimated and unfortunately forgotten masterpiece !The story is excellent, and it gains its inspiration directly from the european classical Legends originated from the períod of the Arabic invasions in southern europe a long time ago. Although the movie takes place a few years ahead, it is able to retain that enchanted atmosphere of those early legends. Portugal and Spain are filled of similar tales like the one in LADY HAKE altought this story takes place in France.So, just for the story this movie is worth seeing. And RICHARD DONNER made a fantastic job directing it. Great atmosphere, excelent action scenes and beautifully filmed romantic moments in the best classical way possible. The photography is out of this world and it turns every ordinary landscape into a unique fantasy world. Sometimes we don´t even remember this story is set on France, because it seems like we are watching a true TOLKIEN fantasy world.All this is done without a single flashy Hollyoood type special effect. Only by the use of the camera and a fantastic job from the director RICHARD DONNER. LADY HAWKE , is the proof that Fantasy movies don´t need to be attached to lots of special effects to create a Fantasy world. All it takes are some simple, but very good ideas, an excellent art direction, a good casting and a director with a feeling for it.The casting couldn´t be better. All of them make a fantastic and believable work. Michelle Pfeifer couldn´t be more perfect and Rutger Hauer is the best knight i ever saw in a fantasy movie, and an excellent actor as usual.And this movie has some small, but excelent details that maybe will go unnoticed by everybody, who don´t have interest in history. They could have taken them out for that matter, but it´s obvious they made an effort to make this world as accurate as possible. For example Rutger Hauer´s character, the knight NAVARRE, rides a farm horse, not the usual heros pure breed horse that we see in Hollywood adventures. And besides being the hero, he treats everyone wich is inferior to his condition like dirt. He´s very arrogant to the peasants for example. Altough we can see he´s not a bad guy, he´s just a man of its time.  All this is historicaly very acurate, which for a change is something nice to see in a knights movie or in an american movie as a matter of fact. Not that i care much about it, but i think those details only add more quality to LADY HAWKE.Many complain about the soundtrack, but i don´t think it´s that bad. The music adds a diferent atmosphere to the movie, and there are some beautiful moments in it, where the music makes it all even more atmospheric. Maybe it´s the weakest thing in this movie, but it sure doesn´t do any damage.So everybody go get LADY HAWKE ! IT´S THE BEST FANTASY MOVIE EVER ! A true MASTERPIECE ! It´s time this movie gets the praise it deserves !  "}{"Title":"Save Yourself! Don't see this crap.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has some good elements, but it is almost impossible to sit through. From the opening scene, the low-end MTV-style production and the terrible synth music will leave you reeling in pain. Synth music? For a movie set in the middle ages? What?!?Don't get me started on the accents. Some of them had English accents. Some had Spanish. Matthew Broderick switched back and forth between American and something he seems to have made up. Meanwhile, the movie is set in France.It just goes on, and on, and on.I would have given it a '1', except for a few tolerable things Rutger Hauer is fine, and Michelle Pfieffer has one good scene at the end, when she confronts the Bishop.On balance don't even rent it; it's not worth the two hours. "},{"Title":"Unrealised Potential","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think this is a great story with excellent locations, sets and props, but ruined by Richard Donner's horrible direction.There are a few excellent performances by actors who can stand on their own. Rutger Haur is quite good most of the time. Michelle Pfeiffer has some stunning moments, Leo McKern is perfect and John Wood offers as all that is possible to a symbolic villain. Much of the film, however, is rendered painful by a completely unprepared and poorly directed Matthew Broderick who, along with the director, is clearly out of his element in this story. Even the better overall performances are at times pulled out of character leaving the viewer to wonder if that could possibly have been the best take available, or why there wasn't another, or in some cases, why that shot was even necessary.There was a lot of animal wrangling involved here, if I'm to give the director an excuse for why too little time was spent on the human characters, but basically my disappointment comes down to Donner's cheap sensibilities and distance from the material.The choice of music is entirely incongruous to the the story and setting, consistently pulling the viewer out of the experience and reminding them that they are watching a film from the mid-80s that someone had hoped would be a big hit with the then new MTV generation.I'm just left feeling Ladyhawke could have been so much better and I wish it were. I really want to like this film, but find myself squirming and muttering, this is so bad. "},{"Title":"Story and Portrayal...10....Music....1","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every role is delightfully played by well-cast actors. Great story with something for everyone--romance, mystery, good vs. evil, fight sequences. Rutger Hauer should play more heroic roles like this one--strong yet sensitive. Michelle Pfieffer's Isabeau is wonderfully portrayed in understated elegance and beauty. And the character actors shine! Matthew Broderick is particularly superb.Unfortunately, the sound track detracts from the overall project. It is anachronistically incongruent with the film. This is an 80's version of Knight's Tale...except the great rock music is replaced with cheesy electronic keyboards. The idea behind the music is good but the instrumentation lacks fullness and depth. Watch the movie...put up with the sound track. "},{"Title":"My Ash Wednesday staple.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has my all time favorite line of any movie, book, or practically anything else ever written. I have to hear Leo McKern say, What...Oh my God, is it Lent again, already? every Ash Wednesday before I go to worship. Apart from that, I love Matthew Broderick's ongoing conversation with God throughout the movie. To my lay mind this was his best work up to Glory. It was honest, funny, and great sermon material. Evil clerics are not my favorite villains in the world, but this movie does a good job of making the Bishop of Aquila villainous without making all of Christianity his partner in crime. "},{"Title":"Ladyhawke","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" From director Richard Donner (The Omen, Superman, Lethal Weapon) goes into The Princess Bride territory with this medieval set film that I sort of recognised the title of. Basically thief Phillipe Gaston, aka The Mouse (Matthew Broderick) escapes the dungeons of Aquila, and he quickly groups with Captain Etienne Navarre (Rutger Hauer). The Captain has been hunted by the men of the Bishop of Aquila (John Wood) for two years, since he escaped with the lust of the Bishop, Lady Isabeau d'Anjou (Michelle Pfeiffer). Gaston finds out that both Navarre and Iasbeau are cursed, Navarre becoming a wolf by night, and Isabeau becoming a hawk by day, meaning they can never be with each other at the same time. Navarre is told by wise Father Imperius the Monk (The Omen's Leo McKern) that some day soon there will be day without night, and night without day, and he wonders what this mean. Eventually, Phillipe helps Navarre get back to the castle of Aquila for his battle with the Bishop, and the day/night thing is realised as an eclipse, and he and Isabeau have their curses lifted. Also starring Ken Hutchison as Marquet, Alfred Molina as Cezar, Giancarlo Prete as Fornac, Loris Loddi as Jehan and Alessandro Serra as Mr. Pitou. The performances are all good and fine, the special effects could have admittedly been a little better, but they don't spoil the adventure and romance elements at all, so a very worthwhile fantasy film. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Sound Effects Editing and Best Sound. Very good! "},{"Title":"Loved it Then, Love it Still...","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fabulous fantasy film that struck all the right notes. I was an adult when I first saw it and it still holds up. The music works extremely well, beautiful cinematography, and the performances were all wonderful -- especially the dotty old monk and Michelle Pfeiffer. (Remember that first look at Michele Pfeiffer's face, in the dark? Talk about a face you could die for!) I had to sit through this movie more than 20 times over the years, with my son, who used to dress up as Navarre when he was a child and watch it over and over again. If you didn't like this film, you're simply not a romantic or you're too inexperienced. Not all movies are supposed to be Citizen Kane. Some just tell a lovely story. As for the comments about the Disco Music. Puhleese... I remember Disco. The musical score was nothing like it.  "},{"Title":"Bad music ruined an otherwise good movie","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This would have been a good movie if it wasn't for the bad music.  It kind of kills the mood of the movie to hear a disco fever song in the middle of a medieval movie that's trying to be serious.  Matthew Broderick did a good job with his character, though. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but worth seeing.","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Leonard Maltin once asked why Hollywood insists on remaking great films when what is needed are remakes of films that just missed greatness.Here's my vote for film most in need of a remake.  The story is wonderful and the acting is good, but the directing needs a little polish, the soundtrack is inappropriate and the overall sound quality was very low. (Oh, and the resolution of the prophecy was rather predictable to everyone but the characters.)Still, a great movie, and well worth watching.  If nothing else, the scene at the end where our Ladyhawke confronts the priest is worth the price of admission.  "},{"Title":"Nice Try","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film when it came out in '85 and I thought it was pretty good, but it definitely has not held up over the last 20 years. The disco score was just horrible then and it still is; it really dates the film. I kept expecting Matthew Broderick to burst into song, probably something from How to Succeed in Business . . . The plot is basically good, it's a good story, but the movie moves so slowly and I'm still not quite sure why the soldiers are spending so much effort trying to catch a petty thief. Costumes are nice, the lighting is terrible, so you can't really see the sets well enough to make a judgment. I really wish this had been better; maybe it's time for a remake. "},{"Title":"Broderick gets a YEAH! The rest, a BLAH!","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ladyhawke is one of those water cooler conversation movies. It is always brought up as the film everyone has heard of, but rarely has been seen &#x96; and those that have seen it, worship the ground it steps on. Recently, Ladyhawke came across my player, and the opportunity to view this romantic fantasy was presented. Being an enormous fan of both The Princess Bride, Willow, and any of the reincarnations of Robin Hood, I was eager to add another title to the cannon. I wanted to be that guy that stood around the water cooler mentioning Ladyhawke to the utter confusion of my coworkers. Alas, my dreams were not that of Navarre or Isabeau, instead they were shattered as soon as the 2+ hours were completed. One can argue that this is a creative film; one could argue that the attraction between Hauer and Pfiffer was pure uncut chemistry, and one could argue that this is one of those forgotten classics that needs to be remembered. Disappointingly, that is not my reaction to this Richard Donner helmed behemoth. From a disastrous score (yep, jumping on that bandwagon) to cardboard acting to a underdeveloped plot, Ladyhawke failed to be anything more than just your average fantasy film.As the anticipation of angry faces on this review is realized, let me stress my points. Ladyhawke had quite a bit of potential. The idea was in place, the actors may have been able to handle their respective roles (at least Broderick could), and the director was the director of Superman. How could this project fail? At the beginning, there are no problems. Our introduction to Phillipe aka the Mouse felt genuine and unique. His escape from prison gave us a deeper insight to his character, his abilities, and his child-like motives. The opening scene felt like it was going to set the tone for the remainder of the film, and for the brief 15-minutes of Phillipe's escape, the level of enjoyment was up. Then, we are full-throttled into the world of Navarre, and our dynamic changes. This becomes less of a film about Phillipe, whom I was rooting for, but instead a substandard story about two star-crossed lovers that by magic cannot be together. Not only does our dynamic change (less Phillipe more quiet stares and gruff Hauer), but our story devolves into whatever Donner feels like throwing in on that day of shooting. Never are we introduced to magic within the world, but suddenly we are to believe that this mutation is plausible. There is realization that we are focusing on these two particular individuals, but we have no control group to experience the day-to-day of this world. Then, more intermediate characters are brought forward to build excitement, when honestly, the just build confusion. Question arise like was Cezar (Alfred Molina!) necessary, was John Wood as evil as predicted as the Bishop (need more!), and where does Imperius fit within everything. Ladyhawke felt like Donner wanted sweeping landscapes, star-crossed lovers, and an epic church battle, but cared nothing for what fell in between.With a lacking structure, we are forced to plop ourselves down and watch Hauer and Pfiffer carry this film &#x96; which is the bigger tragedy of this film because neither understand their roles not provide us with any definition. Isabeau, the less developed of the two, begins with mere stares, being more mysterious then passionate, and then, as we get closer to the finale, Donner makes us question her love for Hauer &#x96; which undermines this entire film. It makes us think that this is not eternal love, but merely a difficult circumstance. Hauer, more muscle than mind, fights his way through every battle using a sword the size of Phillipe. He is the most grounded of our group, and seems to be fighting more for their love than Pfiffer, but one needs to question when this epic battle didn't happen earlier. Why was Phillipe needed to spark this journey? If the love was that powerful, wouldn't Hauer have tried to meet with Imperius prior, fought the Bishop himself, and perhaps won his love himself? This piece just didn't fit &#x96; their characters wanted it, but why couldn't they do it? Finally, the music is horrible. Yes, the 80s were a time of synthesizers and imagination, but it just didn't fit with this genre of film. No matter how you put it, the music ruins the scenes in which we feel like the guards are going to break out in dance or have huge sunglasses. Donner failed in the world of sound for this film, and merely for that &#x96; I can see why Ladyhawke hasn't taken off further.Overall, not impressed. I began this film with hopes to discover a new fantasy to introduce to friends and be that guy around the water cooler. Ladyhawke is not that film. I believe it has been unjustly pushed into a cult category due to the popularity of its actors and possibly director. The acting is below par, the soundtrack is hilarious, and the story is as ramshackled as this disc. It is not a film to talk about, not a film to watch, nor a film to enjoy. This was a disappointment &#x96; I can applaud Matthew Broderick for not forcing me to throw the disc out after the first hour, but other than that it failed. Ladyhawke should be left in the darkened backlist of the local video store for years to come, only to be seen by some unsuspecting person hoping for the same quest I envisioned, but being disgusted again and again and again.Grade ** out of ***** "}{"Title":"Hawk shot down by meager concept and insufferable soundtrack","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" With some judicious editing (maybe 30 minutes worth), a decent soundtrack and better acting by Matthew Broderick, Ladyhawke could have ended up as a nice little fairy tale worthy of a 5 or 6 rating. Alas it was never meant to be.As others have pointed out here, the soundtrack to this film was completely hopeless as the cheesy 80s synth sound did not mesh with a tale set in medieval times. The overall story of a romance interrupted by the spell of an evil bishop is a slight one--and the machinations of the protagonists moving toward the goal of lifting the curse becomes repetitive and tiresome after about an hour and a half. The entire scene where Matthew Broderick must save the wolf after he's fallen through the ice seems like unnecessary padding and slows the story down considerably. I wasn't impressed at all by the Hollywood leads in this movie. Matthew Broderick spends a lot of time talking to himself and his acting can best be described as 'goofy'. Similarly Michelle Pfeiffer has no charisma as the girl who's doomed to turn into a bird at the break of dawn. Not everything is her fault since the screenwriter has given her so little to do. The male principals in the film actually do a good job with the thin material they have to work with (John Wood, a noted Shakesperean actor, is particularly good as the nasty Bishop). Ladyhawke was filmed using real castles and church interiors and had the music been good, the atmosphere could have been much more affecting. Overall, Ladyhawke was a big disappointment and for those who have the DVD, I suggest swapping it for better fare on the internet swap sites such as titletrader.com and swapadvd.com. "},{"Title":"Poorly directed (and scored) fantasy","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" We recently rented this film after not having seen it for about twenty years. It has not held up well.I won't spend a lot of time commenting on the horrific soundtrack as so many other reviewers have already done yeoman-like work in that regard. Suffice to say that Ladyhawke perfectly demonstrates how a score can really cripple a movie. Although, I do have to say that thankfully it is not a relentlessly constant presence, as some terrible scores have been in other films.However, there are other significant flaws with this movie that in my mind are actually worse than the soundtrack. For one, Rutger Hauer is miscast as the hero Navarre and is not nearly appealing enough. The main villain, by contrast, is not UNappealing enough, and as a result you don't have a good guy you root hard enough for nor a bad guy you root hard enough against.The action sequences are likewise tepid. In fact, I would have to say the most intense scene is not what is suppose to be the climactic fight scene at the end, but an earlier scene where Matthew Broderick's character is trying to save the wolf which has broken through the ice. That is actually the most intense and convincing scene in the entire movie.For me, the most poorly realized aspect of the film is the finale. There is a rather dull sword fight in a church between Navarre and the Bishop's captain of the guard. They appear to be doing nothing but trying to make a lot of noise with their swords. Meanwhile, all the extras in the church, as well as the evil bishop, Matthew Broderick's character, and his friend the monk, just stand around like a bunch of stiffs who weren't given any direction and don't know what to do with themselves. That unnatural behavior becomes even more discomfiting as Navarre has his confrontation with the bishop. Nobody comes forward and tries to restrain him, nobody makes cries of distress or outrage or anything. It's cringeingly awful!Then, when Rutger Hauer and Michele Pfeiffer's characters are finally reunited, it almost feels like director Donner just told them,Tell you what, just ad lib some emotion for about ten minutes, I'm going to go out and get a coffee! The crowd of bystanders awkwardly gathers around like a pack of zombies while the pair give a very unconvincing and self-conscious performance. The scene has no dramatic pay-off and instead seems to drag on forever.Best aspect of the film is the cinematography featuring beautiful location shooting with real castles, ruins and mountainous settings. "},{"Title":"This movie was good?","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't believe it! This movie was awful! You don't have to have all your special effects down like the year 2000, but you can at least choose music that doesn't place it square in its decade. There were NO SYNTHESIZERS and NO DRUM MACHINES in Medieval/Renaissance Britain. Did Mathew Broderick have to have that 80s hairdo? As for the plot, nothing could have been more predictable. All enemies (including a neverending supply of generic guards) are vanquished. The quest is completed. Everyone goes home, watches Jeopardy! while eating a TV dinner, goes to bed, wakes up in the morning and goes on with their predicable boring lives.The final scene in the Church was deplorable. For starters, omigosh is he going to kill the Police Chief guy? Can the Police Chief guy even fight? All we've seen him do is sit around while others fight. He's looking good, now he's not looking good, oh now it's in slow motion so you better pay attention. He killed him, what a surprise. Then the curse is lifted. Is he going to kill the Bishop? No, he's not. He's just going to leave with his wife. OH NO, more slow motion while he kills the Bishop. Didn't see that coming. And one more thing, the audience in the church just watches, doesn't react. They're not excited that they're watching a swordfight, nor are they scared that they might become collateral damage. They're just watching as if it were a normal Sunday morning sermon. And at the end, lovers reunited, no cheering just kind of staring blankly without a director telling them they should leave the stage.There is no excuse for making this bad of a movie. It would have made a better book. "},{"Title":"Ladyhawke a new meaning for the word awful","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was moved to write my first review after watching this movie. This was one of the most ridiculous, most poorly executed, worst written movies to come out of the 80's.From the first you are accosted by a god-awful soundtrack that could've come from a jazzercize video (whose idea was it to score a medieval movie with an orchestra made up completely by synthesizers?), and then right away you are treated to a hideous English accent by Matthew Broderick (which is accomplished simply by over-enunciating each word). Why he had to try so pitifully to fake such a bad accent while Michelle Pfeiffer didn't even bother is beyond imagining. His clumsy, flat delivery reminded me of a kid at a renaissance fair who thinks if he says m'lady it makes him English. The best acting in the whole film came from the wolf.The writing was flat and awkward, the lines completely wooden and forced, and the story so abrupt and poorly thought out that is was as if a high schooler wrote it as an excuse to see Pfeiffer turn into a bird. None of it made any sense, and not in the way that fantasy doesn't make sense in the real world...but in the way that there was barely any plot to hold what was supposed to be a story together. The fight scenes looked like rehearsals- those maddening scenes where all the other bad guys wait patiently to take turns fighting/chasing the hero, so that they each get a chance, one at a time. The whole thing was laughable from start to finish, but not in a good way. None of the funny lines were at all funny, but uncomfortably recognizable as an attempt at humor- kind of like when a ten-year-old tells you a knock-knock joke that you heard when you were ten, and it wasn't funny then, either. This movie could have been directed by a broken record that repeated over and over the same commandsBroderick, say m'lady.Hauer, scream at the sky.Pfeiffer, look startled.Bad guy, look menacing.shot of a wolf here, shot of a hawk here.Repeat.This is one of those movies where you find yourself shouting at the screen because of the unbelievably stupid lines, plot developments, and acting. Do yourself a favor and avoid this movie if you have even an ounce of appreciation for good movies. "}]