[{"Title":"Death Wish 3 Unintentionally the Funniest Movie Ever?","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"83 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think it definitely is. The writing is of such a quality that beginner students of the English language should model their conversations after its dialogue. For example, the exchange between Paul Kersey(Bronson) and Ms. Kathryn Davis(Deborah Raffin) (more about this character later) is extremely clear and to the point Ms. Davis says, I hope you like chicken. It's the only thing I know how to make, to which Kersey deftly responds, Chicken's good. I like chicken. If that's not English Grammar 101, I don't know what is.Another thing about this Ms. Davis character Kersey sleeps with her on the second date after she practically throws herself at him and tells him she wants to see him one last time(this being only the fourth time they've ever met) before she moves to her sister's house in Binghamton,NY to get away from the creeps; then he really doesn't even bat an eye while her corpse is burning in the street only minutes later. Kersey never even says her first name through the entirety of the film. Not once. Never a Get over here, Katy, or a That's a nice dress you wearing, Kathryn or a Be careful, Katie, or the creeps'll get ya!And while this 'love' is developing between the two, Fraker(Gavan O'Herlihy) keeps his ever-watchful eyes on them. It's almost as if Kersey is using her as bait to get to Fraker, much as he uses the camera or the car. Sure enough, when Fraker bites, Kersey bites back hard...in the most incredible sequence of events ever caught on film! The final fifteen or so minutes are possibly rivaled only by the final thirty minutes of Delta Force in their brilliance. And that's giving Delta Force a lot of credit. In what other film can you see Ed Lauter take out Alex Winter in order to get Charles Bronson's back, a troubled gang leader seemingly calling a hotline to summon neo-nazi bikers to come to his aid, and nimble Broadway dancers wearing mesh halter-tops posing as street punks, all laid down to a soundtrack written by none other than Jimmy Page. If that's not the highest of high comedy, then nothing is funny.Truthfully speaking, there are a thousand ways to state the unintentional comedy of Death Wish 3, but the only way to truly understand it is to watch it and judge for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Truly a movie for the ages","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"60 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are few movies out there that can honestly be called classics, Deathwish 3 is one. I must have watched this movie dozens of times, yet each time it is just as ridiculously funny. From the outset the movie explodes with laughs. Kersey's trip to jail, where he is threatened by some thug, who apparently high on goof balls, decides to attack the most giant guy in the jail for no reason and is bloodily beaten down. At this point he turns back to Kersey and curses him like it is his fault! Make no sense? Don't let that stop you, there is more where that came from. Next the police inspector beating Kersey up, then abruptly out of nowhere saying, `you see, I'm a big fan of yours'! . There are so many other hilarious plot inconsistencies. Mr.Kaprov saying `Mr.Kersey, it's 90 degrees outside!' as he is wearing a full shirt and thick sweater! Or Kersey's friend Charlie, who somehow managed to smuggle back two massive machine guns from Korea. Did he take that in his carryon luggage on the trip back? Add to all this lame romance that Kersey and the public defender have and you have the making of a masterpiece. For whatever reason, the desperate woman wants a date with Kersey. The romance that ensues is epic, until unfortunately, like all women that Kersey dates, she is horribly killed.  The final piece of the puzzle is some of the best one liners in any movie. Some include, `it's your wife, she is sick or... something' Fraker, `bulletproof just like yours asshole' Fraker, `they call him the giggler, he laughs when he runs' Bennet, I'll kill a little old lady for you. Catch it on the 6 o'clock news! Fraker. I could go on and on. You owe it to yourself to rent this extraordinary film. Truly one of the greatest ever made! "},{"Title":"Comedy gold (spoilers throughout)","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"49 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is how subtle Death Wish 3 is there's a bit where the stupid chief stamps on a cockroach. That kind of says it all really. Why bother with laws, why bother with a constitution and why bother with a police force &#150; they only get in the way. What you really need to keep the streets safe is a big gun&#133;and lots of bullets&#133;and maybe a machine gun&#133; and perhaps a rocket launcher too. Because, hey, if those liberal pinkos have their way there will only be anarchy.Paul Kersey's day starts off really badly. Not only do synthesisers, weeping saxophones, twangy guitars and a smarmy piano accompany his trip to New York, but by the time he gets there his best mate has been killed. How unlucky can you get? Well, to make matters worse, one of the people that kills his best mate is Bill S. Preston, Esq. Oh, and when he gets there, just as his friend is dying in his arms, he gets arrested for his murder. Damn. But then, after getting beaten up by the police, ramming a fat porker's bulbous head through prison bars and enraging the head of a local gang, he gets unofficial approval from the stupid chief to go on a one man killing rampage&#133;which is nice.Death Wish 3 is a guilty pleasure. After all, it's dumb, it's fascistic and it's badly filmed, but a number of people greater than the population of San Marino get brutally killed, so it rules. I mean, how can you not dig a film where people are set on fire, thrown off buildings and shot at point blank range with a rocket launcher? Anyone with a penis should enjoy this. So if you don't like it, you're probably either a woman or Dale Winton.Where do I start when it comes to the best death in Death Wish 3? The rocket launcher killing is a classic, but the firebombing is probably even better &#150; the punks firebomb the flat of an elderly couple and they come running out, in flames, and then get mowed down with Uzis. But then there's death by broom and all the machine gun slayings. However, I also dig the bit when a bunch of bikers, in leather daddy gear, get blasted to pieces by a bunch of disgruntled neighbourhood residents. An armed society is a polite society.But this praise for other characters takes away from the Bronsoninator's contribution. Never before has one man killed so many people. He mows down punks with his mate's Browning and then he blows them away with his unfeasibly huge Magnum &#150; normally I'd suggest that Bronson was making up for certain shortcomings, but there's no way the man wasn't hung. And it's his Magnum technique that impresses most. He can dodge a hail of bullets simply by slowly crouching down on one knee. Genius! And then there are the people he kills. One man, who's trying to rape a black woman, is the spitting image of Freddie Mercury. Another, who he throws off a roof, is Frost out of Aliens. And he even kills The Giggler! They killed The Giggler, man! They killed The Giggler! But perhaps the best Bronson killing is the one where he coolly kills a couple of punks who are trying to nick his car. At the time he's having dinner with a Jewish couple, but he politely excuses himself, shoots the punks and finishes his grub. What a gentleman.But it's not all fun and games. Bronson's lady gets killed. But the woman should have known better. Any woman that gets close to the Bronsoninator is immediately doomed. It's the James Bond rule. I mean, we can't have our bloodthirsty heroes suddenly become happy and content, can we? So she has to die. And at least she goes out in style. She gets a headbutt for her troubles and then succumbs in a car crash. Of course, just in case she might survive, the car spontaneously blows up. You've got to make sure.Not that any of this seems to bother Bronson. He merely goes along with his bloodthirsty rampage, squinting at the targets he's going to blow into bloody pieces. And what of his targets? Well, the gang he takes on is isn't especially formidable. In fact, they're rather camp. They wear bandanas, headbands, string vests, fingerless gloves, sleeveless shirts, leather jackets, chain belts, lots of studs and one even wears a cute little cut off vest so that he can show off his rock hard abs. Actually, now that I think about it, they dress and prance like a bunch of failed Fame auditionees. Perhaps that's why they're so mad. They just want to be in a chorus line but they can't get a gig. Maybe that's why they kidnap, rape and kill the Mexican lady. They want to get their own back on any tang they can get their hands on. The way they emerge from their hiding place &#150; the bushes, of course &#150; certainly suggests this. They leap out like coked-up ballerinas. But they all get brutally killed, so their Broadway ambitions go unfulfilled.But hey, who cares about the punks? Not I. Indeed, Death Wish 3 has made me see the light. All we need to keep the streets safe are viscous vigilantes, dispensing their wonderful brand of arbitrary justice. Only then will we be free from the tyranny of punks, hoods and lowlifes. I never knew that a Jewish food critic could be so delightfully fascist. "},{"Title":"Soul Grinding Fun!!!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"42 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Oh my word!! I have never seen a film so lacking in any kind of moral judgement or consideration for anything other than the death of the scum! Michael Winner here makes a valid observation of human desires in displaying a gung-ho troth world of deep and damaged execution. Not only does he spoon feed us with utter hell on earth seen through the face of the moustached Bronson, but he also shows us the spoon he's feeding us with and says look at what your watching now look at your self and ask the question Are you enjoying this? And even though you'll tell yourself NO IT CAN'T BE!!!! You'll know that deep down inside you'll know...it's a masterpiece "},{"Title":"Bronson At His Best","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Most critics seem to have dismissed this film, like so many other Charles Bronson vehicles, as just another patchwork of mindless violence. And while there is a fair amount of mayhem, DEATH WISH 3 is not that awful of an effort, particularly for fans of the series and its star.This time out, aging Charlie's Paul Kersey is let loose by a police chief desperate to clean up a rough part of New York City. The trigger-happy vigilante moves into the heart of gang territory, where he once again becomes a one-man army in an urban war of good versus evil. Bronson, at least the older version, is truly at his best.I'm not saying DEATH WISH 3 is a classic. Indeed to the discriminating eye it has a plethora of imperfections. The characters are generally made of cardboard. The violence is over the top. A man well into his 60s outruns and outspooks dozens of young punks. But in the tradition of the original DEATH WISH and later films such as FALLING DOWN with Michael Douglas, it has a definite crowd-pleasing charm. Who doesn't want to see gangbangers get their due? There are also some great cheesy moments and one-liners so common in 1980s films. When a tenant of his apartment building sees Kersey setting up a booby trap, for instance, the vigilante lightheartedly says he's thinning the herd. A line only Bronson can truly make work.So you see, the key to enjoying DEATH WISH 3 is to accept it for what it is. It ain't Spielberg and it ain't art. So throw the popcorn in the microwave and have fun with it. "},{"Title":"it's my car","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"31 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is truly a classic 80s movie! A must have in any '80s' movie collection! Guns, Bad Guys, CREEPS, Gangs, CHARLES BRONSON and more CREEPS!!!! In my opinion, this is the best Death Wish movie. Tons of non-stop action! And keeping with the classic 80's bad guy vs good guy movie - this movie is about anything but the norm and all about guns and CREEPS! We see Bronson mowing down thugs and CREEPS with a 30 caliber Korean War heavy machine gun! A HEAVY MACHINE GUN FOR CRYING OUT LOUD! When Charlie runs out of ammo for the Heavy Machine gun, he runs back to his crib and takes up arms with his long range high caliber pistol! This pistol can stop a freakin ELEPHANT and Charlie is putting holes the size of hub caps into bad guys with it! And if that is not enough, Charlie is also packing an anti tank grenade launcher, which by the way, is only good if he can get the CREEPS clumped together.The acting in this movie is ha ha great and a lot of off the wall actors (mainly playing CREEPS) appear throughout the movie! The film is loaded with memorable one liners and scenes! Heck, my favorite scene/line is where the CREEP leader confronts Broson in Jail and calmly explains to him Tell you what I am going to do ...I'm gonna kill a little old lady ...just for you! ...catch it on the six o'clock news.Is this film violent? Heck yes! But, you'll laugh and cringe all the way through!!!! "},{"Title":"The Greatest Film Ever Made","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"42 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow! What a movie! I can't get over how much I enjoy it! I watch this movie time and time again and enjoy it more and more. This is by far and way the best of the Death Wish series.The directing is superb, (particularly the scene with Charles and Ed Lauter patrolling the streets shooting punks to a funky 70's soundtrack.)Winner builds up just the right amount of tension, action, humour and emotion at exactly the right moments. There is a high standard of acting on display here. Apart from Charles's flawless performance, there is a career best from Ed Lauter here as the vigilante cop. The plot is superbly written, the only drawback is, it was too short! (I hope they bring out a DVD version with extra scenes soon) Best Bit- Hard to choose, there are so many classic scenes. Lookin for trouble ma'an? (You'll know what I mean when you see the film) Best Line- Tell you what I'm gonna do. I'll kill a little old lady, just for you. Catch it on the 6 o'clock news!  "},{"Title":"Order your rocket launcher today!","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm having a lot of trouble trying to figure out how to rate this movie. As an actual film, it can't honestly score more than one star out of five. As pure cheese however, you'd have to give this movie a straight up five out of five.This is probably one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The catch is, it's so bad that it's actually good. Make sense? The movie is infinitely rewatchable and you can always find something new to laugh at every time you pop this sucker in the player. There is very little to tell you about this movie other than if you haven't seen it, you need to. It's unbelievably violent and Ol' Chuck mows down at least a hundred gang members throughout the film's ninety minutes.I can write an entire dissertation on this film but I've already seen it done on the Web on quite a few sites so I'm not going to bother. Just to remind you, the movie is so bad and unintentionally funny (watching the film again, it'd make sense if the filmmakers were going for laughs) that if you haven't seen it, you need to.I'll leave you to ponder this one scene and decide for yourselves whether or not this movie is for you or not Gang bikers come down the street. Angry civilians wait with a chain stretched across the road. Bikers come and are clotheslined off of their bikes when the chain is yanked upwards. While the bikers are on the floor, the civilians come out and shoot all of them, point blank while they lay writhing on the floor. Men, women and oh yes, children come out and join in the festivities, dancing around the dead bodies of the bikers.Sigh. Instant classic.RATING * out of *****. SHLOCK-O-CHEESE RATING ***** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Top notch. A true undervalued masterpiece","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"42 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the most magnificent movies ever made. The acting of Charles Buchinski (later known as Bronson) is simply outstanding. This is the crown on the career of director Winner, who himself was often quoted saying this was his masterpiece. The plot has been copied many times, but it's never been topped. Wildey J. Moore, the gun manufacturer, many times claimed his brand's growth since the mid 80s can be fully credited to DW3, and rightly so. This is not just a movie, this is art that many generations will admire and appreciate. Although this movie has never been fully appreciated in the USA, it has found a huge following in Europe and Asia, where the movie is regularly shown at film schools and it is still a popular hit in student cinemas all across Europe. All in all, a true classic. "},{"Title":"The Best Of The Series","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"44 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charles Bronson is back in his most famous role.  In my opinion, this is by far the best film of the series and my favorite movie ever.  This movie doesn't take itself seriously, because the filmmakers knew that all the social commentary that was necessary was put across in the first film. Golan and Globus made this film for Bronson fans, not for the critics, and it works.  DW3 has been unfairly criticized as trash and a weary entry in a worn out series.  These statements would be true if the film was made to be taken seriously or to spread a statement, but it wasn't.  If you take it as what it is, DW3 is just a fun, action packed romp, with Charlie doing to street punks what we all wish we could do.  The action is non stop, the atmosphere is great, and the movie is just out and out the best Bronson flick ever made.  You can tell that the penny pinching Cannon group spent a lot of money on this one.  It is believed that Bronson thought this film was too violent, and that was the reason why Winner didn't direct any of the following entries.  I can understand his concern, but as is always the case of sequels, you have to push the envelope even further to pass a previous entry.  In any case, this movie was no more violent than any other movie made during this time.  What makes DW3 the best of the series and my favorite film ever (not the best, just my favorite), is the action, Charlie's presence, memorable villains, and it's ability to get the viewers to jump on the bandwagon.  The first film may be the most technically well made, but this one is the most fun.  For once, Charlie actually has some clever lines (although he doesn't say much)and a halfway interesting story, photography, action, and direction to back him up.  Charlie has never been more intense or super cool than in this one.  Yes, it's exploitive, maybe it does promote stereotypes, and maybe it is the same story as before, but Bronson's films always have and always will stand for defending the common man and giving his audience what they want to see.  Many argue that the DW series manipulates its' audience, my reply is that the movies don't manipulate us, the fans are the ones in charge.  We demand that Bronson blow away deserving scum, and in turn Winner and Co. deliver the goods.  And for those of you who still want to put it down, remember a few things.  DW3 was the #1 movie in America when it came out and was among the viewing favorites of millions of people on video and television because they realize that not all films have to be epics, they just have to be fun. **********/10 You can't get any better. John Batchelor  "}{"Title":"Ridiculously enjoyable urban romp","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a romp this is. The great Kersey (Charles Bronson), ignoring advice to lay low for a while (like ten years!), relocates his trigger finger and bad attitude to New York City.A long sequence where Kersey runs the streets shooting at everything in sight redefines this as a crazy modern Western. All sense goes out the window and the angry vigilante's original reasons for revenge fade slowly into the bullet-ridden background.You get exploded thugs, burning cars, bodies through glass, dozens of bullet-riddled corpses and a lurid directing style that is perfect for the material.Not as fine as DEATH WISH 2, but fine, nevertheless.    "},{"Title":"Stuffed cabbage............Smells WONDERFUL........!","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This classic has so many great one-liners and unintentionally hilarious scenes that I don't even know where to start. If you want advice on dating, its here. Just totally ignore the person you want, and then spout out classic lines like Chicken's good...I like Chicken, and before you know it you will be having a one-nighter in a basement (it's a NICE basement) with a woman who is 35 years younger than you. Bronson does it all in this film. He buys a car for no good reason just so he can murder two gang members...paying with CASH......chunnng.... He buys an ice cream, simply because this is America, isn't it, and ends up wasting someone named the giggler - he laughs when he runs just because he stole his camera. By the way, this giggler is so fast that Bronson's regular pistol can't even catch up to him, he needs to order a special one just to get this elusive creep. He gets cleaned up just so he can eat a REALLY smelly meal (stuffed cabbage) in a rat trap with a couple of old people who like to wear heavy clothing in 90 degree weather. He goes into the dentistry business. He always seems to find a crow bar when he needs one (and its the same one!). And last, but not least, he always seems to have a rocket launcher at his disposal just in case he needs to blow away Richie Cunningham's older brother Chuck who is now strung out and in dire need of a makeover. Anyway, this will all make sense once you have seen this classic...all I can say is enjoy! I owed you that one DUDE "},{"Title":"Urban War Zone","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The third film of the Death Wish series is probably the worst of them, but it's a guilty pleasure of mine. I do so love the violence when the East New York neighborhood awakes and throws off the rule of punks.After roaming the streets of New York in the first film and going back to Los Angeles in the second, Charles Bronson as the legendary urban vigilante Paul Kersey returns to New York to visit an old friend who is found murdered. He's questioned, but let go, but the police captain of the beleaguered 75th precinct which in real life does include the East New York area of Brooklyn, Ed Lauter, let's him go with a promise to unofficially do his vigilante thing in that neighborhood. It's getting so that the punks are seriously challenging the citizens in population growth.Back in the day the East New York area was this middle class neighborhood of homes and churches that so typified Brooklyn. It became a prime example of urban decay. I well recall a local Assemblyman Vito P. Battista who also ran for Mayor of New York several times, declaring that it looked like London after the Blitz. Vito wasn't far wrong. And that is the real East New York you are seeing, lots of blocks of abandoned buildings and empty lots.As in all Death Wish 3 films Bronson gets himself a woman and it's her death that galvanizes him into action. In this case it's Deborah Raffin who the punks set up in a fiery car crash. That last half hour of Death Wish 3 is an urban fantasy when the whole neighborhood becomes a battleground as Bronson leads an aroused populace to clean up the neighborhood. Can't describe it, you've got to see it to believe it. More urban slime gets eradicated here than in all the other Death Wish films put together.You have to see Death Wish 3, it's trashy, it's one of the most politically incorrect films ever made and great fun. "},{"Title":"Could it be possible that his wish is their command?","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey(Charles Bronson) turns into a one man army when Fraker terrorizes the old people who can't afford to move out, seems these punks need a lesson in manners and Bronson is there to deliver it. Whether it's by using a board to smash anyone who opens the window, putting a bed of nails by the window to prevent someone from setting foot in his house or using big game pistol gunfire to keep giggling thieves at bay, Bronson is determined to give these punks a lesson in etiquette. Back in the 80's no film was half as cool as a movie with an action star and a giant body count. Death Wish 3 was no exception and while I loved the movie as a teenager, it's only fitting that I bought the DVD and love it even more today. Cannon films were awesome back in the day, they made terrible movies, sure, but more often then not it was campy bad movie fun, not unlike this one. Indeed where as you can only watch a good movie once, you can watch this one ten times and never grow tired of it. I could watch this over and over again and I may just pick up another DVD just in case I ware it out. I think that speaks for itself.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "},{"Title":"Move over Death, here's Paul Kersey.","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey has returned to New York to visit an old war buddy, but finds his mate lying dead in his rundown apartment. Who did a gang of thugs who rule the area beat to death. Kersey gets accused of the murder when the police arrive and he sits in the cell for a while. Although the chief of police realises who he is and decides to let Kersey bring justice to this untamed part of town that they can't seem to control. So Kersey takes up residence in his late friend's apartment, befriends those living there, starts seeing the public defence attorney and goes to work to finally rid this neighbour of their out-of-control mugs.Talk about over-the-top! The first two films were searing thrillers that realistically exploited its leering material with scathing pot shots or gritty intensity. Instead this addition (which would be director Michael Winner's final outing in the series) goes for an all-out action romp that's excessively cheesy and outrageously delirious. With that on mind. Most of the fun is to be had with this particular item of the franchise. The seriously dour nature of the earlier films don't really evolve within this one, because Winner favoured more of a tongue-in-cheek style of mayhem that basically parodies (don't know if it was intentional, though) what he done before. Suspenseful thrills are replaced by bigot action looking for nothing more than a large body count. This really does let loose in the film's cracking climax, where no one is safe from the colourfully cartoonish onslaught. What can one say? It's an urban jungle out there for some&#133; but Kersey sees it as a shooting parlour. And his well equipped (carrying a Wilbur Mangum and holding onto a rocket launcher) this time to take out the trash! Sadly though, Charles Bronson is looking terribly downtrodden in the role. He might be sleepwalking it, but what he brings to the table a resourceful character that you can't help but cheer on. Even though the feeble script doesn't emotionally pull you into his compassionate plight like the previous two. The contrived story is pretty much bare bones and very stereotypically (like the multi-race living in the apartment building who finally stand up for their rights as citizens) plotted. The police really do get a touch up in their incompetence of how they do things and their lack of actions. It really does leave a sour taste in your mouth, which I'm sure that's what it was aiming to do.While, the obligatory romance sub-plot is beyond forced and only there to give Kersey more motivation when needed. An adorable Deborah Raffin plays Bronson's love interested, but with her talent she's wasted in a throwaway part. Ed Lauter trumps in with a quality performance of the cutting, hard-nosed NY detective. Gavan O'Herlihy perfectly cooks up a storm in his nasty role as Fraker the gang leader. With features like his striking hairdo and cold-stare, he managed to reek of brute fear and be sufficient in leading the chaos. Making an appearance as one of the wild punks is a young Alex Winter (who'll be best known for Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure). The rest of the supporting cast are reasonable. Winner's direction is durably crafted and tautly laid out in its no-bars framework to shove it in your face. Again for such a lesser sequel, Winner makes it look reasonably up to par despite it being a flawed technical production. Although it is being set in NY, it was basically shot in London. Its stays on a few locations and at times they come across as purely sets. An impressive array of camera-work is on the ball by John Stainer. Attached to the music score was Jimmy Page again. Instead of the sickening riffs presented in number 2. It's oozing with a more sweepingly funky and overpoweringly scorching rhythm. Not as effective this time, but well suited.A different breed that might be considerably toned down in its rough exploitative nature, but the gung-ho violence does run freely and you got Bronson walking the walk&#133; of death. For a quick fix, you can't go wrong with ultra-chaotic and downright brainless Death Wish 3. "},{"Title":"Just plain awesome","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Now, here's the thing, the Death Wish series started out with a pretty good crime drama, that didn't really have too much action, and took itself pretty seriously. Charles Bronson was excellent, and it was altogether a pretty decent movie. Then the 80s happened. This movie is nothing like that movie was, for it has simply become a brainless 80s one-man army action B-Movie. But that is just why I love this film so much. It's just plain awesome. Ridiculous and cheesy? Hell yeah. Completely over the top? Definitely. But a blast to watch? Oh yeah! It starts out with good ol' Paul Kersey visiting a friend in New York City, only to arrive and find him dead, with the police arriving and arresting him as a suspect. He is allowed to go free, in exchange for one thing, he must return to his old vigilante ways and clean out a neighborhood gang before they tear the city apart. After that, the plot doesn't matter much, it's the same as the rest of the Death Wish movies. But none of that matters. He moves into the neighborhood, makes some allies, gets some guns and from then on it's just senseless, ridiculous violence. The film has a crazy high body count, mercilessly killing easily over a hundred people, (He even kills the Giggler! He killed the Giggler!) and the film just keeps getting steadily more violent until the ridiculously over-the-top ending, with the practically invincible Pail shredding his way through any and every member of the gang with weapons he bought by mail (Where exactly do you order a military-class rocket launcher from anyway?). This movie is completely ridiculous and over-the-to, but I would recommend it to any action movie fan. Even if you can't enjoy it like I did, you can always find ways to laugh at it's overall ridiculousness. "},{"Title":"Thinning the Herd...","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson, the bleeding heart liberal from Death Wishes ago, has tried to hang up his handguns but he always seems to find himself in what you call 'not-so-good' predicaments. Mr. Kersey (Bronson) this time is heading back to Brooklyn (Sutter and Belmont to be exact) to visit an old war friend named Charlie, well Mr. Kersey gets a little more than he asked for once he arrives a dead friend, a false murder rap, thrown in jail (no bail), but all of the sudden the Chief really needs a 'Mr. Vigilante' to clean up the streets over the six block radius of Sutter and Belmont that has just exploded into chaos. So, guess who the chief turns to? Mr. Kersey sees this proposition as an opportunity to get out of the slammer and he surely takes it. From here, the action never lets up, this film is a lot more action-packed than the two previous outings, the machine gun rampage at the end is enjoyable and laughable at the same time. Oddly enough, the soundtrack is the same as the one used in Death wish 2, which was done by Jimmy Page of Led Zeppelin fame. These thugs are ugly, mean, nasty and give Mr. Kersey every reason in the world to blow 'em all away. Watch out for Kersey's best friend Wildey, he makes a nice guest appearance. A very watchable and laughable film, I enjoy every viewing the same. "},{"Title":"This Movie is a good definition of over the top","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" By the time the third Death Wish movie came out in 1985, a basic formula was in place which varied little from the second Death Wish movie onward. First, Charles Bronson's character, Paul Kersey, would have a relative or close friend murdered by street scum. Further mayhem would befall ancillary characters so as to goad Kersey into a righteous killing frenzy. One significant variation that this formula allowed is that in each succeeding movie the weaponry Kersey will use to blow away assorted miscreants will get more and more elaborate. From the hand pistol Kersey used in the first Death Wish movie, we now get enormous elephantine hand guns that could actually kill a real elephant as well WWII Browning machine guns as well as grenade launchers by the third film. Also, the criminals Kersey is up against aren't just assorted street punks as in the first Death Wish film but now a criminal army with enough firepower to take on the Iraqi insurgents in Baghdad.What is truly striking in the last 30 minutes of the movie is that with the mayhem going on, the government didn't force the issue and send in the US Army to restore order as the Union Army did do in New York during the Draft Riots of 1863 while the Civil War was going on. Another priceless moment in the film is the ease with which Kersey is able to receive serious ordinance through the US mail. If it really was as easy as shown in the film, Al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations really missed an opportunity in arming themselves in the US.Like I said, the film defines improbable to extremely unlikely. It's a revenge fantasy of truly baroque extremes and frankly enjoyable on that level. In the Death Wish world, there is no moral ambiguity. There are good decent people and then there are street scum. Here, the street scum harass, maim and kill the decent and the police are oddly helpless. Even though the criminals are dressed so garishly and distinctively from the characters who are good and decent, no one seems able to obtain any evidence against them. So, the only solution is just to shoot them dead. It's nice that the criminals in these films are all unredeemable psychopaths who dress quite distinctively so even a child could kill them with a clear conscience(as a few do in one of the many disturbing scenes at the end during the big shoot-out). In sum, not total trash, not really good, fascistic in a really simple-minded way (for a more complex pro-fascistic perspective, I recommend viewing the Depression political fantasy film, Gabriel over the White House, from 1933) that doesn't go beyond offering shooting street scum like turkeys as a way to solve crime but undeniably exciting. "},{"Title":"Oddly compelling Cannon fodder","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Thus continues Paul Kersey's journey through lands densely populated with criminals...In this installment, yet another of Paul's friends dies at the hands of thugs. But Paul's not going to stand for it-- he'll take the law into his own hands! Again! Naturally, the dark spectre of crime follows him like a bad penny. In a single afternoon he witnesses more felonies than most of us will see in a lifetime.Paul's new neighborhood is a checkerboard of cinder-blocked windows, bodegas, flophouses and piles of rubble. His slum is populated by various law-abiding ethnic types being tormented by a motley gang of knuckleheads who aren't willing to let Paul take control of their turf. Some of the ne'er do wells have a funny logo painted on their foreheads. By day and night they rape, pillage, murder and invade the homes of innocents.Yet -- paradoxically -- the area remains bustling with civilized activity. In the face of danger, its citizens brazenly (or ignorantly) go about their lives. But there is a stiff penalty to pay for such defiance and only the swift arm of Paul Kersey can put it right, all the while inventing new ways to extract teeth from would-be burglars.Classic formulaic film-making from Cannon films! 6/10 "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is so over the top that it's brilliant! It's hard to believe that Bronson is supposed to be the same character that he played 10 years earlier in the original classic, Death Wish. In that movie he realistically became physically sick after murder, while here he casually kills everyone with a heavy machine gun from the Korean war, and a rocket launcher that he receives through the US mail! The total absurdity of the plot is absolutely incredible and the dialog is so bad that its hilarious, 'Chicken's good. I like chicken.' But in what other movie could a man in his sixties successfully fight a war against a huge gang of Fame rejects and Nazi bikers, without suffering any injury whatsoever? A woman half his age also desperately throws herself at him for some unknown reason, and is promptly killed by spontaneously exploding cars. The movie also features Richie Cunningham's older brother as the evil nemesis, a naked Lt. Troi from Star Trek, and Bill taking some time away from his excellent adventure. All of this and a finale that's so outrageous that it has to be seen. A truly memorable masterpiece of a movie! "}{"Title":"Reasons why this movie rules","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This simply wondrous work of pure celluloid art deserves much better than the usual synopsis and critique format. So instead I'm just going to list reasons why this picture rules. 1) Charles Bronson as the ever-unflappable Paul Kersey is the very epitome of stoic, laconic and unflappable vigilante cool; this guy not only kills countless low-life criminal scum with a winning mix of style and ingenuity, but also sports one hell of a snazzy mustache to boot. 2) The street gang featured in this flick is a pretty mean and colorful bunch Gavan O'Herlithy as vicious leader Fraker (you just have to love his gnarly reverse Mohawk haircut), a pre-Bill and Ted Alex Winter as the sleazy Hermosa, Ricco Ross as speed-snorting psycho Cuban, and, best of all, the incredible Kirk Taylor as swift, maniacal, chortling klepto the Giggler. Moreover, the gang is multi-racial, which enables the filmmakers to treat us to the touching and inspiring sight of various whites, blacks and Hispanics gleefully engaging in rape, murder, robbery, extortion, destruction of private property, and other such no-count nasty antics. 3) The dialogue is sheer cut-to-the-bone terse and eloquent poetry. Martin Balsam as tough World War II veteran Bennett Cross bellows the following heart-shattering lines as he watches his beloved place of business go down in flames My shop! My shop! That's my shop! 4) Deborah Raffin as feisty public defender Kathryn Davis supplies some mighty fetching eye candy. Alas, after Raffin becomes romantically involved with Bronson the poor gal gets bumped off by the bad guys. Boy, now isn't that a shocking and unexpected plot development? 5) This no-holds-barred fierce and unflinching flick declares open season on everyone pretty young women are raped (including foxy future Star Trek The Next Generation TV series regular Marina Sirtis), little old ladies are brutally butchered, countless evil street slime are blown away, folks are set on fire, and Fraker even gets blasted into the next dimension with a rocket launcher. If raw, savage and over-the-top violence is your thing, then this movie is your crack, baby! 6) The acting is truly Oscar-worthy. Special kudos here to Joseph Gonzalez as Rodriguez; the scene with Gonzalez punching a table with tremendous angst and fury after he's told that his wife has just died is positively gut-wrenching in its stark poignancy. 7) Bronson packs plenty of heavy artillery. Besides the aforementioned rocket launcher, Charlie also uses a Wildey automatic and a vintage Browning machine gun to waste the villains left and right. 8) Legendary rock musician Jimmy Page whips up an exceptionally funky-jammin' jazz-rock fusion score. 8) Director Michael Winner treats the laughably ludicrous material with deliriously misguided seriousness, thereby ensuring that the cartoonish carnage rates as often sidesplitting and always entertaining high camp at its all-time most gloriously absurd and wildly implausible. The last third with the already cruddy urban cesspool neighborhood degenerating into an all-out war zone is the hilarious stuff total kitsch is made of. A true 80's action masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A classic in it's own way....","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" LOL.The mere fact that I start off my review with 'lol' says it all. I used to watch this movie all the time as a kid; and even then I sensed the silliness of it all. The low budget, horrible acting and lame script was ever apparent back then. I watched it again yesterday and just couldn't stop laughing. It's so bad it's actually good lol. Like another reviewer said, it doesn't take itself seriously. There's no way one could look at this movie and say that the makers did so. The soundtrack is so funny, I laugh every time I hear it. The 'climax' is just a laugh riot. It's an all out war zone in New York, full of explosions and total chaos...so ridiculous you can't help but chuckle at the sight of it. Other hilarious moments - The scene with Kersey and the cop running side by side like 2 cowboys against the whole Wild West was so cheesy it was funny.-It killed me how the bad guys could be shooting at Kersey and he could even drop down on one knee taking ever-so-careful (and slow) aim and not get hit LMAO. Of course, with him it was one shot-one kill with his elephant handgun LOL.- Another hilarious scene was the end when he finally killed the leader of the gang....with a ROCKET LAUNCHER lol...destroying the whole side of the apartment building with it.- It's apparent that Kersey is all but used to losing loved ones...when his new girlfriend is quickly disposed of after only a few dates. The acting is so bad that you can't blame anyone that could only think that Kersey is mad at the destruction of the car lol....he runs down, looks at the carnage and just walks away.Again, so bad, it's good.*** out of **** stars. "},{"Title":"I sent them a message","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Classic Bronson, one of the best of the Death Wish films. In the original Death Wish, Bronson used a snub-nosed pea shooter to take out the trash. But in this one, he used a variety of military grade weapons, including the .475 Wildey Magnum, surely one of the most iconic handguns ever, which he made famous with this movie (to this day, he is featured very prominently on Wildey's website). He also used a belt-fed Korean War era heavy machine gun and mail order rocket launcher, among others!! Pure '80s take-back-the-streets fantasy, but it's oh so fun. New York was a virtual war zone in the '80s, so the desire to simply blast the creeps and clean up the neighborhood was very attractive to many. Since you can't really do that, just let Paul Kersey do it!! By all conventional means, a terrible film, but I love it! Between the comically stereotyped characters such as the cartoon gangsters, the elderly Jewish couple, etc and numerous cheesy lines, there is no way to justify liking this other than pure BRONSON. Bronson's unflinching delivery is so simple and direct, and he has no moral objection whatsoever for example to baiting two punks that were trying to steal his car into a deadly showdown, which he wins of course.Highly recommended for Bronson fans! "},{"Title":"The Hamlet of bad action films","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Unbelievably bad action film with awful direction, terrible dialogue, choppy editing and atrocious acting. So many scenes just make you go 'huh?' Not much makes sense.There are no developed scenes just constant cuts between such things as gruesome murders, gratuitous rapes, pointless violence or shots of Kersey (Bronson) building up his gigantic arsenal.These key weapon-accumulation scenes are Death Wish 3's equivalent of Rocky building up his muscles and one almost expects to hear getting strong now being sung in the background. Apart from two massive machine guns which a neighbour has stashed in a wardrobe (as you do), he gets most of his weaponry via mail order. Quite who is selling him this stuff is never revealed, but one suspects that it is the Acme company who supplies Wile. E. Coyote with his over the top gear. From this source, Kersey acquires a Wildey magnum used for blasting elephants (it makes a hell of a mess he says) and later a LAW rocket launcher.In addition, Kersey creates a lot of giant mousetrap-like contraptions to inflict pain on potential burglars. These consist of spring loaded floorboards designed to smash the faces of anyone entering a window or door. Later models have knives hammered in. Nice to see Kersey's old profession of architecture being used to good effect.Things only appear when needed by the plot and then disappear never to be mentioned again. Some lines of dialogue are poetic gems of badness, worthy of William McGongagil. Too many examples of both to be mentioned here, but you can find many in other reviews.The absurd cast consists of A bald and bitter cop, the main villain Manny Fraker who sports a weird and ridiculous haircut, a thief called the Giggler, and various gang members who look like extras from fame.Add to that awful 80s music, a laughable and unconvincing romance and a ludicrous final urban massacre with a stupendous body count and you have one the great unintentionally funny films ever made and is worth watching in that light.The violent 15 minute climax, in particular, with Kersey strafing the streets with his huge machine gun while his vengeful Latino sidekick feeds in the bullets in, is a joy to behold. As is the final team up between Kersey and the bitter cop walking the street side by side shooting down everyone.There really is too much delight in this film to explore in a short review. It really deserves a scene by scene examination.Watch for yourself.As a serious film, 0/10 but as a comedy 7/10. "},{"Title":"In turns bland, unintentionally funny and outrageous.","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Approach Death Wish 3 like it is a serious crime drama and it will lose you in the first ten minutes. The script is forwarded by a series of non-sequiturs and jumps in logic, the plot is generic and by the numbers and the direction is get-the-job-done. Fast and tight but largely unimaginative. DW3 however stands and falls with the iconic character of Paul Kersey and the badassitude he's capable of inflicting on no-good punks. Charlie Bronson for the most part sleepwalks his way through it but give him a magnum hand-cannon and he's as good a badass as there ever was, then and now.One might find the first hour bland but stick with it, for the final thirty minutes are a literal blast. The movie becomes so far removed from reality and so fully embraces the comic-book sensibilies at its heart that everything that transpired up to that point is forgiven and even makes sense as a means of easing the viewer in. See Charlie Bronson coldcocking a colourful assortment of badly dressed thugs by the dozens in broad daylight using a WWII machine-gun and I dare you not to revel in the white-hot, blistering chaos of it all. Squarejohn residents, fed up by the local gang, take up arms along with Bronson and all hell breaks loose.Hoodlums throw grenades through windows, old men are set on fire, ordinary women fire double-barreled shotguns at punks, cops run through the streets shooting at thugs perched on windows and rooftops who fire back using semi-automatics, this is the universe DW3 takes place in. Eighties cheese (complete with eye-of-the-tiger-ish synth score) meets Bosnia Herzegovina. And it's supposed to take place somewhere in East NYC. You know it is an outrageous all-out-war action extravaganza you're watching, when Bronson fires an anti-tank, anti-personnel, armor-piercing rocket launcher inside a living room. Everything leading up to the climax is forgettable but action nuts will get a major kick out of the final thirty minutes. In turns bland, unintentionally funny and outrageous, make of it what you will. "},{"Title":"No, not too smart.","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is hands down one of the best unintentional comedies of all time, beginning with the horrific score by Jimmy Page!(Oh Jimmy say it ain't so) At the top of my list is the wonderful multicultural gang that precedes to dismantle the neighborhood. Whites, blacks, hispanics all working together to tear down all of the hard work of the old people. And who can forget the tragic Giggler character. He laughs when he runs until he is cut down by Wildey. Then Fraker's comments afterword. Fraker They had no business doin' that, none. No, not too smart. I think that last line should have been the tag line for the movie. There are so many comments I want to make but I simply don't have the time. Grats to Charles Bronson, Michael Winner, Golan/Globus productions and the entire cast and crew of Death Wish 3. If you have not seen this movie treat yourself. "},{"Title":"Cidade de Kersey, or the Problem with Being Pally with Paul","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For Death Wish 3, director Michael Winner knew he couldn't just follow the same template he had on the first two films. It had worked for those, especially as the first was a bit rough, feeling a bit like trying to find one's way in the darkness, and the second almost perfected the formula, even if that meant stumbling into a contradictorily attractive sewer. Of course, Death Wish 3 still basically a revenge flick featuring Charles Bronson as Paul Kersey, an oddly charismatic architect turned vigilante taking out hordes of theatrical punks, but Winner expands on the previous films here, bringing in allusions to other genres and films, and giving Death Wish 3 added thematic and emotional dimensions.One of the new dimensions may have been somewhat unintentional, but it's one of my favorite modes, so it worked extremely well for me--an absurdist humor that stems from the context of all three Death Wish films as a continual story. By this point in the series, Kersey has such incredibly bad luck--it seems that to be or become chummy with him in any way is virtually a death sentence--that it is hilarious. This aspect is amplified by the fact that Bronson deadpans his way through the film. So when he expresses hesitation for a romantic relationship because of past events, and both reassurance and disaster quickly follow, it's as funny as tragic in context of the three films. Winner also incorporates a lot of intentional humor and irony as the film progresses.Winner doesn't caricature his crime-ridden city as much as he did previously, but his gangs, or at least some gang members, still have a bit of Broadway to them. However, it's much easier to take the setting's anarchic state seriously, especially since Death Wish 3 is set in Brooklyn (the East New York section) during the tail end of its worst crime period. There is a bit of the feel and probably an influence from The Warriors (1979) here.The major way that Winner breaks his previous plot template is that this time most of Kersey's Brooklyn neighbors join in the fray. The idea is a lot of fun. It not only gives us a couple handfuls of attractive, new characters to root for, but it gives Death Wish 3 the opportunity to mix its usual mood with elements from both war films and westerns. The Mad Max films (1979 and 1981) also seem to have been an influence, and Aliens (1986) was to expand its plot in a similar way the following year.To make the war-like scope of Death Wish 3 believable, Winner also makes the smart move of putting the head of police, Richard S. Shriker (Ed Lauter), on Kersey's side, after a pleasantly gritty and surprising opening that first has them at loggerheads.Winner was also smart to retain most of Jimmy Page's score for Death Wish 2. That it's the same score isn't at all a minus, as Page primarily composed a series of leitmotifs for characters and moods, so they serve to give Death Wish 3 a more solid continuity from the previous film. The additional music here, which wasn't by Page, isn't nearly as good, which is making me a bit anxious about Death Wish 4, because Page's music was dropped there.For me, this is an odd series to this point because of the continual rise in the series' quality. I still have never watched Death Wish 4 or 5, so it will be interesting to see if the series can continue the trend. There isn't much further up to go. "},{"Title":"BAD, but laughable","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of the all-time great BAD movies.Put it on the tube when you have a party. Actually, wait till you're all half-looped, then you'll get the full benefit of this deeply disturbing, ever poignant reflection on inner-city life. You'll laugh your ass off. Did I say this is good for college parties? I especially liked the multi-racial gang that goes around town with Indian war paint on their faces. Check out the Giggler, he's the coolest of the bad guys. The rest of his gang is very concerned and upset when he gets offed by C.B. They love him, and naturally want to seek revenge.I can't believe Hollywood ever made this. It's one thing if it was made tongue-in-cheek, but IT WASN'T. LOL. I didn't give it a 1, because of the laughs I got out of it.This movie is right up there with Gymkata and Commando. "},{"Title":"Death Wish 3 - An Exercise in Laughter, Yet Decent Enough to View.....Once or Twice....","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay, first thing is I am a Charles Bronson fan, as well as a fan of the 1980's action flicks. Some of the best action films of today owe a lot to these movies, especially as the world has demanded reality in place of fictional actions, such as a six-shot revolver shooting 20 or more times. And yes, this movie has that and more, everything you loved about the 80's action shlock....its here. The movie revolves around Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) and his return to New York City after ten years away from both it and his daunting past. He was a self-styled vigilante who, after the murder of his wife and rape of his daughter, took the law into his own hands. In the previous installment, see Death Wish 2, he had moved to LA to resume a new life with his daughter, however once more he's faced with punks raping and killing his housekeeper, and kidnapping and causing the death of his daughter. This movie takes us back to where it all began, New York. Unfortunately bad dialogue, poor music scoring (by Jimmy Page of Led Zepplin!), and even worse are the unrealistic deaths portrayed (a dummy falling off the roof and even though it hits a car the guy continues to scream!), this movie scores well below the previous two. However, it does manage to entertain, at least if you watch it only once or twice. This movie finds Kersey thrust into a position to help out a detective, Ed Lauter, in cleaning up a neighborhood where gangs run rampant and crime is escalating. Sadly this is also where one of Kersey's best friends from the Korean War was recently killed. So, grudgingly, he accepts the job. What follows is about 80 minutes of some of the funniest action on film. If you're an action aficionado like me, or just a plain movie buff, like me, then you'll love to spend an afternoon watching this movie. Sure, it sucks by today's standard, but then again don't most movies made in that day and age do. But as I said, it deserves a 5, because to me its in between. Funny, bad story, yet it makes a very good movie to watch at a party. Trust me on that one. "},{"Title":"Mandatory viewing for the interested","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The music (by Jimmy Page) is great. New York is beautiful. Bronson is older and his hair has turned white, which is understandable if you think what he has been through in the first two parts. His acting work is really good and enjoyable here. Again the whole world seems to be against the poor guy, polices included. And it's going to get only worse... The script is quite interesting and imaginative. It's also a bit lighter than in the previous parts. There is something dream-like in the story this time, I think it feels like a nightmare more than reality. Again some disgustingly sadistic things go down, and you know who we gonna call. I don't mean the Ghostbusters this time, I tell you boy. Human garbage is populating the streets, black leather jacketed criminals are beating up ladies everywhere, especially in the grocery stores... The good old world around us is turning into a rottening hell... Sometimes a man's gotta do what he's gotta do. I'm sure the street gang in this movie isn't called the Einstein's; Their gang sign is painted on their forehead. I wonder how often they have to paint it, and things like that. The bad guys wear black so they couldn't be mistaken for humans. But let's get serious. For some reason I really think that these movies, at least the first three, are contemporary movie classics, and have well deserved their status as such. And I think they should be remembered as important works in art and movie history. Of course you can watch them with a little humor, but it is a fact that they picture some of the very real feelings of many human beings in contemporary societies. "}{"Title":"Bronson Goes RAMBO in this one, and thats why Its Awesome!","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 3, what can i say? its the fan favorite of the series and its not hard to see why, The First 2 Death Wish films were serious in Tone with some minor hints of black humor, But Death Wish 3 on the other hand takes the series into another Direction, they really camp it up and Turn the Action up to 11 an make it a more traditional Action Film in the style of films like RAMBO and COMMANDO, and it wasn't really surprising that the film went in this direction, as it was made in 1985 and during that time, films like COMMANDO and RAMBO were very popular, and me also being a fan of those kinds films, i found Death Wish 3 to be an Extremely Fun movie.The Plot involves Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) Returning to his original home city of New York to Visit an old Army Buddy, when he arrives at his Buddys Apartment he finds him beaten to death, The Police burst into the Apartment and arrest Kersey suspecting him as the murderer, however the police Chief (Ed Lauter) recognizes Kersey as the one man army from years before, and grants him freedom under the condition that he helps him eradicate all the gangs who terrorize the Neighbourhood where Kersey's Friend was killed.Now, the Plot of the film is very Far-fetched and the Dialogue is Cheesy and Sadly Charles Bronson Doesn't really give the best acting performance in this Installment. However the film is entertaining thanks to Incredible Action scenes in the last half hour and a lot of funny moments, and some of the Supporting Cast is likable the Chief( Ed Lauter) and another Friend of Kersey's (Martin Balsam) give decent performances, and the Villain played by (Gavin O' Herlihy) Is truly evil in that 80s street punk leader kind of way. However what truly impresses me is Charles Bronson's Physical Work, At 64 years old during the making of this film ,He really seems to have no problems Running Around with a giant machine gun as well as Jumping off and Climbing up Fire escapes, and another good thing is there's not as many rape scenes in this film as in the 2nd film, that doesn't mean there isn't any but they are not as Gratuitous as they were in the 2nd film, And Finnally the Score By Jimmy Page is as Cool as ever.Obviously you cannot take Death Wish 3 Seriously, its popcorn entertainment at its finest, So Sit back and Switch off your brain and you'll have a hoot with this film.OVERALL 7/10 "},{"Title":"Is it meant to be a parody or not?","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The second sequel to Death Wish sees Paul Kersey return once again to New York to visit his friend, who is killed shortly before Kersey arrives. Once Kersey gets there and sees what happens he swings into action once again.Is this meant to be a parody of what had gone before, or did Michael Winner just get carried away? There are so many OTT things here, including Kersey's ability to beat everyone he meets in a fight, no matter what their size. Another is the face paint the baddies wear, as if to say ,Yep, in case you didn't realise, I'm a criminal. You also have Fraker looking weirder than a Martian, his ability to summon gangsters from anywhere and of course his eventual demise with a rocket launcher.Despite, or perhaps because of this, it is hugely enjoyable, very entertaining and zips by very quickly. For once, Kersey is not on his own, and I particularly enjoyed when it showed the locals getting tooled up ready to fight back.Recommended. "},{"Title":"Mrs Rodriguez has expired!","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I feel I cannot provide a worthy enough synopsis for the third entry into this legendary series, but here goes.....Michael Winner has created the 'swiss watch' of the Death Wish movies with this 1985 classic. Vigilante Paul Kersey (Bronson) is back on the streets once again, dispensing his own form of justice to a whole plethora of punks, robbers, rapists and murderers.WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD This time round, Kersey is blackmailed by local constitutional rights violator Richard S Shriker (Ed 'monkey' Lauter in a career best performance) into administering some after hours justice, outside of the federal court system.The action centres on a run down neighbourhood, where gang leader Manny Fraker, recently released from jail, steps up his crime-wave on the long suffering residents. Even one of Kerseys old pals, Charley, is swiftly disposed of during 'collection time', presumably for not paying his bills.Kersey, in his finest vigilante attire, rallies the locals and takes the fight to Fraker, picking off his lieutenants by increasingly creative means. Frakers resulting retaliation, has several residents impersonating cannon fodder, thus aiding the build up of tension towards a monumental conclusion of biblical proportions.The climatic set piece is surely Winners finest achievement as a director or bon viveur. The Kersey/Shriker combination invokes memories of many classic double acts; Starsky & Hutch, Riggs & Murtaugh, Cannon & Ball. Calm down dear, it's only a movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is hilarious!","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" BE IT KNOWN, there may be comments considered SPOILERS in this comment. I laughed so much watching this movie! I remember when I was much younger, I thought it was a kick-ass action flick. Not today! It has some of the cheesiest dialog of any action movie. The lines by the criminals are what make this film great. When confronted with stealing Paul Kersey's car, the thug says, Time to die... In preparing for his next robbery another says, I'm a little short on cash, I'm going to have to make a house call and after the poor Jewish man's gun is taken away, the big muscled thug is stealing the TV and claims, Now we can come in here anytime we want..ANYTIME WE WANT! Thankfully these comic no-gooders actions will soon come to an end. Paul Kersey, now a full time vigilante, is there to help. Instead of putting up some bars over the window or giving the folks a new gun, he rigs up some board-spring contraption to hit intruders in the face as they enter. My question would have been, What if two of them break in? The other guy might use this board to beat me! Another thought, If the robber loses his two front teeth, will he abandon the robbery or just come in and kick my ass for putting up the springy-board thing in the first place? This movie is so fun to rip apart because it is so easy! In the final war zone scenes of the movie, a group of motorcycle riders meet their end when residents raise a chain up across the road. What if these were good guys on their way home after getting word that somebody was running around with a heavy caliber machine gun shooting up the neighborhood? Ah, I could go on and on, but I won't. I love this movie for how bad it is! "},{"Title":"One of the best in this series.","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" PAUL KERSEY returns to New York 10 years after his original killing spree there, where he sadly learns that since he left, things haven't gotten any better. Crime has picked up again & is even worse than it was before. Once again he is forced to pick up his gun & aid himself with some heavy artillery when he finds his best friend, an old war veteran, dead in his apartment upon his visit to see him. With the help of a few of the tenants living in the apartment who decide to fight back, Paul sets out to annihilate several gang members who enjoy, rape, robbery & murder & who's sadistic leader has plans for Kersey. DEATH WISH 3 is a pretty entertaining action picture, who's story was really just created in order to do another sequel to the pretty good, but pretty violent DEATH WISH series, which like this film, was directed by the same man MICHAEL WINNER, who still knows his stuff when it comes to handling action pictures. You see unlike the first two, Kersey doesn't go after the punks because they murdered his family (both his wife & daughter bit the big one quiet violently in the first two) now it's his friend & a few of the tenants that were badly raped, beaten or killed that he seeks revenge for, which I guess is an okay reason to make another unnecessary sequel. There's plenty of action to quench the thirst of action buffs & some pretty decent acting by all the actors, especially by the guy who played the leader of the group, what a talented actor he turned out to be & really made his character believable. But like I said above in my review for this movie, the story & characters is nothing new to those who seen the first two, once again we get a none to helpful & none to bright police force. Bad guy villains who are basically the same characters with the same traits, attitudes & likenesses to the villains in the first two, loads of violence & plenty of dead bodies which yes, does include a woman whom Kersey falls in love with (Poor Kersey can't he ever find a lover that won't get shot at & killed by sleazy punks & villains?) but it's reasonably well done for it's type & one fans of the series, fans of action, or fans of Bronson should love. In other words, this movie worked for me. Followed by DEATH WISH 4 THE CRACKDOWN ***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"The Greatest Movie Ever Made!","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 3 is exactly what a bad movie should be. Terrible acting! Implausible scenerios! Ridiculous death scenes! Creepy, evil-for-no-reason villains! The last 30 minutes of this movie just might be the best 30 minutes ever put on film, especially in the scene where the decent, hardworking citizens string chains across the street, knocking down the evil bikers and then shoot them, only to be joined by the neighborhood children (!!!) in celebration. And how can I forget the elderly woman with the broom? She's sweeping out the scum! And if that's not enough, let's not forget how quickly the punks give up after Fraker is killed. I'm laughing just thinking about it.I also love the death scene of Kersey's girlfriend. He just *walks away* after seeing her get blown up. It's little things like this that make Death Wish 3 such a bad movie. And I'm not even mentioning the bizarre soundtrack.I watched this movie because of Martin Balsam, who I seriously think is one of the finest character actors ever (and who's own getting beaten up by the scum scene is hilarious) and I walked away with a new favorite movie. Thank you, Death Wish 3 for making me laugh so hard.Some other things I forgot to mention 1. The weird sound effect after Kersey says Cash! when buying his used car. Ha! It's so evil sounding. 2. MANDY Fraker. Mandy! Did the writers run out of tough guy names? 3. The fact that the gangs apparently have a lend and lease thug exchange program I need some more guys. And that Mandy has a working phone line in an abandoned building. 4. At the end of the movie, after Kersey blows up Fraker is it just me, or does it look like the street gang is about to break into choreography as they're giving up? Just watch how in sync they are after the female punk gives the stop signal. I love this movie. Nothing cheers me up like Death Wish 3! "},{"Title":"A Perfect Zero !!!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Another reviewer nailed it - this is the worst mainstream movie ever made. It makes Commando look deep and Cobra look like an candidate for Best Picture. It takes the concept of mindless violence to the perfect limit of stupidity. The characters aren't one dimensional, they're zero dimensional. We care about them (good and bad alike) about as much as the aliens on the old Space Invaders video game. The Good Guys/innocent victims serve mainly to be picked on by a gang of total scumbags, that is, until Bronson shows up. Then the aforementioned scumbags get to serve as targets as Charlie (helped out by some of the victims) mows them down with machine guns, automatic .44 Magnums, rocket launchers, booby traps, and anything else that happens to be handy. The scumbags have no motive or purpose at all, they just go around killing, raping, mugging and looting for the fun of it, and as Charlie exterminates them by the dozens, like roaches, new scumbags just keep popping up to be hosed down in turn. There's no plot, no acting, no moral of ANY kind (unlike the 1st one), Bronson's not avenging a wife or daughter or anyone else, he's just on a one man extermination mission against a bunch of utter and complete human waste products. There's no romantic involvement (a la DW2), no complexity, no distractions of any kind. It's just an hour and a half of pure and utter senseless death and mayhem. In short, this movie scores a perfect bullseye in the stupidity dept.  "},{"Title":"Bronson goes berserk","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson reached new heights of fame in 'Death Wish,' the story of a Manhattan architect who hunts down felons after his wife is murdered and daughter is raped. While very much a potboiler of its time, the film tosses around serious issues, including vigilantism and options of the average man in a society filled with crime.The image of Paul Kersey aiming an imaginary gun in Death Wish's epilogue prepared us for a line of sequels that defined Bronson through the 1980s. 'Death Wish II,' co-starring his wife Jill Ireland, hit the screens in 1982 and grossed $5 million its opening week. Then came 1985, when Bronson and director Michael Winner had another go-around in 'Death Wish 3,' a film whose content stands light years apart from the other episodes.By 1985, the public had already been treated to new styles of action film-making. 'Rambo II,' 'Commando,' and 'Invasion U.S.A.' typified this period when a lone warrior stormed through contrived, over-the-top situations. Character development and logic had almost no bearing in these films, with emphasis placed on a hero wiping out as many bad guys as possible. 'Death Wish 3' uses this model, but in a deliciously sarcastic way. Cannon Films regular Don Jacoby, who wrote screenplays for Tobe Hooper's 'Lifeforce' and 'Invaders from Mars,' created a vigilante send-up that draws from numerous movies of the past.'Death Wish 3' opens with Kersey visiting his army friend Charley (Francis Drake) in the East New York section of Brooklyn. Kersey finds Charley on the brink of death in his apartment, just after he was beaten by forehead-painted goons demanding 'protection' money. The lowlifes are members of a gang run by Fraker (Gavan O'Herlihy), who holds the neighborhood's decent citizens prisoner (including Bennett Cross, played by Martin Balsam). The police arrive at nearly the same time as Kersey and arrest him on suspicion of murder. While in holding, Kersey draws the attention of Lieutenant Shriker (Ed Lauter), who was an officer in Manhattan at the time of Kersey's original crusade. The police seem hopeless in dealing with this band of morons, so Shriker offers Kersey a deal to mop the streets clean in exchange for his release.If you're looking for any signs of Death Wish 3's predecessors, you can forget it. Except for loose references here and there, 'Death Wish 3' makes a complete break with the reality of Winner's first film and the semi-reality of his second. Writer Don Jacoby, replaced in the opening credits by a pseudonym ('Michael Edmonds'), drums up a nutty pastiche of apocalyptic films, biker films, police dramas, and actioners that were en vogue for the mid-1980s. Obviously, the writing doesn't compare with Shakespeare - dialogue is kept to a first grader's level ('Chicken's good. I like chicken.') and 'plot' is only used in figurative terms. 'Death Wish 3' is the human embodiment of a video game, with action film-making reduced to its lowest common denominator roll out the scum and let's finish them off.'Death Wish 3' reaches heights of bad taste in its final twenty minutes, when Kersey launches open warfare against Fraker's men and bikers called in as reinforcements (?). The sequence uncorks with Kersey firing a Browning machine gun from Bennett's fire escape while his Latino friend Rodriguez (Joseph Gonzalez) supplies ammo. All hell breaks loose and for some reason, the National Guard isn't asked to quell the violence. The carnage must be seen to be believed, as buildings explode, cars are set on fire, punks fall from rooftops, and many are buffeted by Kersey's .475-caliber magnum.Filmed in East New York and on abandoned hospital grounds in London, 'Death Wish 3' was the last episode directed by Michael Winner, who probably sensed that the franchise was reaching its breaking point and decided to throw in the kitchen sink. This is the worst Death Wish sequel in terms of acting, direction, and continuity, but the film may actually rank as one of history's great satires, incredible as it may sound. The film defines brainlessness and insanity with capital letters, which helps to make 'Death Wish 3' the laugh-triggering romp that it is.Charles Bronson tore the film apart in later interviews and broke off his relationship with Winner; that should provide a good sense of the enjoyment Bronson had while shooting 'Death Wish 3.' Bronson was unhappy with the script from when production began, was suffering from a cold while in London, and was far more concerned about the health of Jill Ireland, who was diagnosed with cancer at the time. Still, Bronson's rugged demeanor keeps the film in gear and you couldn't imagine anyone else filling the role of Paul Kersey. The supporting roles of Lauter, O'Herlihy, Balsam, and Deborah Raffin (as Kersey's ill-fated lover) offer nothing to work with, but their actors are recognizable names who supply the film with grounding.Although 'Death Wish 3' is comical, Winner keeps to the photography that gave his first two episodes a somber look; cinematographer John Stanier ('Oxford Blues,' 'Rambo III') supplies plenty of the zooms and odd angles that typify Winner's quirky style. The effective soundtrack is a rehash of Jimmy Page's themes in 'Death Wish II,' with composer Mike Moran arranging his cues for synthesizers and a string orchestra. Efforts were made to design London sets after East New York, but I can easily say that the London architecture and organization of its streets are too obvious.'Death Wish 3' is nowhere close to being a good movie, but the seeds are sown for its cult following. Anyone with a poor stomach or who winces at the idea of Rambo is advised to steer clear. If you are a fan of Bronson or exploitation cinema, this is a film you shouldn't miss.-Turkey- (0 stars out of 4)&#133;LOL "},{"Title":"What about the cops! do they do anything? Yeah their enforcing the parking laws!","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS** Paul Kersey, Charles Bronson, travels to the East New York section of Brooklyn NY to see an old army buddy of his Charly, Francis Drake, only to find him dying from a beating he got from a gang of thugs for not paying them their weekly protection money. Paul is arrested by the police for Charly's murder because he had a handgun on him, even though Charly was beaten not shot to death, and thrown into a lock-up at the local police 74th precinct. Paul is later attacked by both the prisoners, for standing up to them, and the Police Chief Richard Shriker,Ed Lauter, for giving him lip. Released because of the hard work done for Paul by civil rights attorney Kathryan Davis, Deborah Raffin, with Chief Shriker then planing to use him, clandestinely, against the local neighborhood thugs. Paul then goes back to East New York to see what he can do to help those friends of Charly still living and having to put up with the record crime rate there. By the time that the movie is over there won't one one street gang member left standing and making trouble for the people of that ravaged locality. In the most ferocious and explosive Death Wish movie of them all Paul Kersey, who for some reason calls himself Paul Kimble in this film, takes on an entire army of New York street gangs in the burnt-out and devastated battleground of East New York with an arsenal that has just about everything, short of nuclear weapons. The action in Death Wish 3 is reminiscent of the battle of Stalingrad during the fall and winter of 1942/43 with street-to-street house-to-house and hand-to-hand fighting that left the borough of Brooklyn looking in 1985 like the city of Berlin did in 1945. With hundreds of street gang member civilians and cops dead and wounded in it's smoldering ruins. The local police who were not up to the job to stop the ravaging street gangs on the loose in the streets of Brooklyn gave Paul the green light, through Chief Shriker, to take on the gang members by himself; That's as long as they, the police, get the credit for Paul's successful combat operations against them. Taking out a number of vicious street gang members notably The Giggler, Kirk Taylor,things turn bad when Paul's lady friend and civil lawyer Kathryan gets killed by gang leader Fraker, Gavan O'Herlihy, and a fellow thug. The two thugs knock Kathryan out and then shove her car into a busy intersection where she was killed in a head-on collision. Paul escapes after he was put into protective custody by Chief Shriker from the re-enforced street gangs after Fraker got hundreds of fellow gansters from all over NYC to join him in his war against the good people of East New York. Back in the Hood Paul inspires, through his heroic actions, the entire neighborhood to rise up and take on the gangs and even, for once, the totally useless police joined in the fight. Increidable final sequence that rivals anything that you'll see in any major war movie made in or out of Hollywood as full-scale war rages on the battered and bloodied streets of Brooklyn. Paul and his friends and neighbors, as well as the cops, take on the massive hoards of New York street gangs with everything from nail-boards to sticks and stones to heavy machine guns and anti-tank and armor piercing rocket launchers.The final confrontation in the movie has head gang leader Fraker at first surviving a barrage of bullets from Paul's .38 police special, by wearing a bullet-proof vest, getting pulverized into smatterings by a blast from Paul's bazooka. The rocket launching bazooka that Paul used to pulverize the startled Faker was a WMD, weapon of mass destruction, powerful enough to take down a giant B52 bomber!Charles Bronson as the big city vigilante Paul Kersey showed again, like he did in his two previous Death Wish films, that when you mess with him and those dear and near to him you've opened the very gates of Hell on yourself. "},{"Title":"I have absolutely no idea...","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm very tempted to give this movie a 10. In some ways it might have been genius, but that would be giving the film makers far too much credit. It's absolutely godawful, but it's incredibly hardcore. Every few minutes there's another unbelievably brutal moment where Chucky B. whips out a giant weapon, utterly brutally beats the life out of someone, or sets up a contraption of massive pain. But trust me, aside from it's Chuck B. style insanity, it's amazingly bad. It's filled with bad humor, horrible lighting, and by far the worst dialogue you'll ever find.But I suppose I'd recommend it. If you have to see one really bad movie, make it Death Wish 3. "}{"Title":"Silly fun Deathwish you'll love, void of goodness","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This Deathwish outing is a lot of fun. Bronson is back, the vigilante, behind the trigger. This one sees him return to New York, where all the mayhem began in the original. He's come at the request of a friend. But it appears, he's all too late, after he gets beaten to death by these gang members, the leader, a real ugly scumbag Bronson first clashes with in a jail cell, when he's arrested and charged with his friend's murder. Bronson wins the first match with this guy, propelling him towards these cell bars, where he's head gets stuck between two bars. Is that even possible? After watching this and the violence of his murdered friend, earlier, which was a little sick, I was beginning to see why this flick was initially banned, but I'm glad it wasn't. There is a way out for Bronson here. And this you'll love. The interrogating Lieutenant gives Bronson a ultimatum, as well as a gun and puts him back on the street, a free man, provided he blows all this scum away. Bronson declines the offer, but it only takes him a couple minutes for him to play ball. How crazy is this? It would great to believe in that world where us good citizens could get the go ahead to do this. But back to Bronson who takes up residence in his dead friend's place, which is the gangs turf, where robbery and rape is a daily occurrence. Anyone with half a brain would vacate this place. No one deserves to live in fear. That's what I couldn't understand about this movie. Is pride really worth dying for in some cases? Death wish 3 is unintentionally funny as in Bronson's remarks after he exterminates thugs who try to steal his car, and other instances, some involving a little sick violence that occurs here and there. Scenes of gore are not constant throughout. If you really want sick, check out DeathWish 5, the real stinker of the lot. Unfortunately it reaches desperation stakes in it's resolution climax that has Bronson and some team residents taking down as many of this scum as possible, whether by pistols, rocket blasters, and other fancy hardware, courtesy of his dead vet mate. The surviving ones just resign and call it a day. As if. We also meet Bronson's friend, Mr Wilby who comes in handy to stop those muggers who can really outrun you. And how our main gang leader gets it, is another shocker. Not counting the fifth installment, this is the silliest out of them all, but is a lot of fun and is the funniest Deathwish too. It's actually my favorite, but I wouldn't feel correct saying this is a good movie. It's just a great way to wile away or kill 90 minutes. Sorry about the pun, Charlie. "},{"Title":"the cursed 3","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 3 is set in New York where part time architect, part time vigilante Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) has just arrived in order to visit his Korean war buddy Charley (Francis Drake) but is shocked to find Charley lying dead in his apartment, the police arrive & arrest Kersey for Charley's murder. While locked up Inspector Richard Shriker (Ed Lauter) informs Kersey that they have a problem with thugs who the law can't touch & that he know's of Kersey's vigilante past & gives Kersey his blessing to clean up the streets anyway he want with the police turning a blind eye. Kersey agrees & sets out to clean up Charley's neighbourhood & dish out some death wish style justice to his killers...Directed by Michael Winner this was third entry in the Death Wish series which up to Death Wish 3 had all been directed by Winner but he left the series after this one, made by the infamous Cannon Group this has it's admirers but I didn't think it was as much fun as it could have or indeed should have been. Here in the UK a TV channel is running a Death Wish season (how desperate is that?) although for some reason it is starting at Death Wish 3 & going through to Death Wish V The Face of Death (1994) so I won't be able to say how they compare to the original two. Anyway, as a vigilante film most of the clichs are here, a seemingly powerless police force, the helpless victims bullied & brutalised, your typical bad guy's & a no nonsense hero who dishes out some justice. Not that much happens here, Bronson & the main bad guy play off against each other for the majority of the film with me sitting there just thinking why don't one just shoot the other dead? Then there's a silly climax in which a war breaks loose on the New York streets between the bad guy's, the cops & Kersey. There's a very abrupt & unconvincing romance between Kersey & his lawyer & not that much is made of the relationship between Shirker & Kersey. Despite it's faults, or maybe because of them Death Wish 3 is never nothing but entertaining & is fun in a bad sort of way, it's just so bad & funny you can't take your eyes off it. Not a masterpiece but it's good fun if your in the right mood.Unfortunately Winner can't direct action scenes & all the set-pieces are badly shot in a really dull & lethargic way. The violence is quite tame with little in the way of blood or much pay-off for the villains although Bronson gets to play around with some seriously big guns. There's a rape scene although not as graphic as those seen in the previous two. The opening theme music is absolutely terrible, the photography is flat & there's not that much style either. Writer Don Jakoby had his name removed from the credits for some reason although it is still seen on the original promotional trailer.Although set entirely in New York at least of Death Wish 3 was shot in London for some reason. The acting isn't great & Bronson really is very wooden which comes across especially when he's got a romantic bit to act out.Death Wish 3 is entertaining but for all the wrong reasons, it's a laugh if your in the right mood but I really couldn't describe it as a good film. Followed by two more sequels Death Wish 4 The Crackdown (1987) & Death Wish V The Face of Death. "},{"Title":"an undeniable riot!","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson returns for the third time as Architect/vigilante Paul Kersey, Bronson is back in New York(in actuality some of the exterior shots were done in England!)Whilst back in New York visiting an old war buddy who as soon as Bronson gets to his apartment is attacked by yes you've guessed it hoodlums! after Bronson is briefly imprisoned but eventually released he is forcibly recruited by a crooked police detective (Ed Lauter) to pick off the remaining gang terrorizing the neighborhoods. Genre favorite Dan O'Herhily plays the supremely evil leader. Martin Balsam has a role as a go getting resident. The reason why i give this film ten stars is purely for the fact that Death Wish 3 is nothing short of unintentionally funny! witness the climax where it is a non-stop cavalcade of mayhem! bodies shot left right and center! i could not stop roaring laughing at the on screen action. "},{"Title":"teeth....","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey, the vigilante, returns to New York to visit a friend. But when he arrives he finds his friend dead, and the police enter and find him standing over the body holding a gun. At the station a police lieutenant recognises him as the vigilante, and releases to go after the gang that killed his friend, who are led by the deadly Manny Fraker. So Kersey moves into his friend's apartment and along with his friend's friend, Bennett, they try to get the gang and help the neighbours who are being plagued by Fraker and his gang...Kersey has to be the most unluckiest man in the world. Whenever he meets a woman, they buy it. he's so unlucky that he's now used to it, and forgets about the whole thing in the next scene.Which is what most characters do in the film. Whenever something bad happens to them, within minutes they are back to their normal selfs and not giving a hoot.Which is why i love this film. I t has no meaning whatsoever, apart from the fact for Winner to make another movie where we see Bronson running around like a man half his age killing hoodlums.But the people in this town are actually enjoying the fact that since Kersey has appeared, violence has gone up. In fact, during the long action packed finale, you can see townsfolk smiling at the carnage and whooping Kersey on.But like I said, any film where it shows you a man load a gun with three bullets and then fire five, is okay by me.This film knows it's not serious, and by a company such a Cannon. You know what to expect.Dead people who still scream when falling. Bronson missing the first shot almost every time. the funniest stunt wig in the movie.And you know that the rocket launcher bought from the shop will be saved for the chief bad guy.Exceptional eighties cheese. "},{"Title":"Bronson feeds my blood lust !","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've wanted to kill a man ever since I was a kid and watched those Death Wish marathons on local TV. You know, the kind where they would only edit out the sex and bad words, leaving in all the beautifully mindless violence for my young eyes to soak up, turning me into a kind of right wing vampire that can only be sated by watching Bronson and his silver screen brethren, (Norris, Stallone, Schwartzenegger, Dirty Harry, Travis Bickle, etcetera) search and destroy degeneracy in all it's despicable forms!Death Wish 3 is the greatest of them all! Those punks have to die! They demand to be killed! I want to see them suffer! I want them to die!So watch out punks! I keep my doors and windows unlocked all night and my guns loaded and I'm ready to kill if you're ready to die! "},{"Title":"The lighter side of vigilantism...","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" While the first two Death Wish films were pretty gritty affairs, this 80s offering is pretty campy. Bronson returns to NYC to visit a buddy who lives in what might be the worst ghetto in the world. Gang crime is rampant, and it's up to Bronson to save the day. Look for the original Chuck Cunningham from Happy Days(Gavan O'Herlihy) as the ugly gang leader with a reverse mohawk. Trekkies will also recognize a then-unknown Marina Sirtis as the wife of one of Bronson's neighbors. This is a crazy movie, but I love it. It's completely unbelievable! Bronson orders all kinds of military gear in the mail. From machine guns to rocket launchers, he can get all kinds of stuff to combat the baddies. It's pretty odd that the postal service never noticed that dangerous weaponry was being sent through the mail. Suspend all sense of belief before watching this! The synth soundtrack is courtesy of Zeppelin's Jimmy Page (a neighbor of director Michael Winner) and reflects the era in which this film was released. Not an Academy Award winner, but never boring. "},{"Title":"Paul Kersey Is Cleansing The Streets Again","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish was a violent urban masterpiece, and, simply put, THE most important vigilante film ever brought to screen. The first sequel was way more exploitative and sure no masterpiece, but definitely still a highly entertaining film that was not to be missed by any fan of Charles Bronson. After the ultra-violent Death Wish II, the series becomes irrevocably absurd in Death Wish 3. This second sequel, which does not at all bother about realism any more, introduces an arsenal of new, bigger weapons and has the death toll rise to enormous numbers. Even though this third Death Wish film is extremely dumb and not nearly worthy of its predecessors, however, it still promises a very amusing time for my fellow fans of the great late Charles Bronson. This is the last Death Wish film directed by Michael Winner, and he sure is missed in the last two entries to the series.Paul Kersey (Bronson) returns to New York City to meet an old army buddy, who is subsequently murdered by a gang of thugs (It had to be a friend this time, of course - It is not like Kersey still has any surviving family members). This, of course, makes good old Paul get out his guns again, in order to follow his old habit of cleansing bad neighborhoods of thugs, this time of a huge gang of thugs. The film doesn't focus on logic too much. Kersey, who is, by the way, still the nicest guy in the world as long as he is not messed with, doesn't even bother about cleansing the streets in secrecy any more - he just goes out and shoots evildoers in bright daylight (while the neighbors cheerfully watch). The guns grow to the extreme (Kersey even gets a Rocket Launcher via mail-order), and the body count subsequently rises enormously. Also, nobody seems to bother about Paul's vigilante activities any more - on the contrary, a police captain even requests him to take the law in his own hands... Death Wish 3 is an incredibly stupid film, of course. All this film offers is extreme violence and Charles Bronson as Paul Kersey. But for me personally, that's enough for a film to be highly entertaining. The only group of people I would recommend the film to are true Charles Bronson fans (like myself). The two films to follow are simply bad, but this is still bad in a highly entertaining manner. Death Wish 3 is about as dumb as it gets, but hardcore fans of trash and/or Charles Bronson should still have a good time. "},{"Title":"(SPOILER) One of the greatest movies ever, packed with unnecessary violence","Date":"26 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THis movie was great. It took a little while to get going but after it took of it was action packed.Charles Bronson gets p***ed because some gangsters kill his friend. He gets pinned for it at first but the chief of police lets him go if he helps him out There were ridiculous amounts of explosions and everyone likes explosions.Cars would blow up for almost no reason at all.He had a 30 caliber machine gun that he would just walk around and murder people with. And he used a bazooka from about 10 feet away to kill the main bad guy. If you like out of control explosions and violence then this movie is for you.  "},{"Title":"Comedy gold! You'll laugh! You'll cry!","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'll lay my cards on the table -- I'm a Charles Bronson fan. He's not a very good actor and his films aren't very good. But he was the most popular actor in the world for at least a decade around the 1970s.Death Wish 3 is possibly his finest hour. He plays Paul Kersey, lilly-livered liberal turned urban vigilante and distributer of the harshest brand of street justice. Kersey gets back to New York just in time to find his buddy beaten to a pulp. Someone is going to pay for this. Luckily there's a gang, some baddies, a policeman that gives Kersey carte blanche to kill anyone he wants, some old people who eat cabbage soup (Cabbage soup?... my favourite!), a female-close-to-Kersey who dies (essential component in all Death Wish films) and a 15 minute kill-anyone-that-moves-riot finale.There aren't any continuity errors in this film, but you simply cannot watch it would being able to suspend disbelief. It's a ridiculous film -- and it's notable that Death Wish 4 and 5 tried to move away from the comic book violence. But get your friends around, have a few drinks and put this on. You'll laugh. You'll cry. You'll remember Bronson the way he would have wanted you to -- tough, killing the baddies and not saying much. "},{"Title":"about as entertaining as running up a flight of stairs and then being greeted with a 9 inch nail through the head (pardon the pun).","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  poor old paul kersey! everywhere the poor old sod goes he always seems to attract urban psychopaths, mindless thugs, sadistic spraycan freaks and other charming lowlifes with a bad wardrobe problem though at least it makes good box office. this time round, 'graniteface' (bless him) and fellow accomplice micheal winner reunite for a third and final colloborattion in the series (and forever) in what was a considerably toned down rehash of 'death wish' as oppossed to the graphicly grattuitously violent 'death wish 2'. after losing his daughter and housekeeper, murdering the five assailants responsible (along with a few of their unfortuneate mates who happenned to be around at the time) and moving back to london (suppossed to be new york); our man dutifully and loyally decides to defend a group of pensioners led by martin balsam who are constantly terroised by the aforementioned. as in 'death wish 2', the best thing about this masterpiece is the ace soundtrack by led zeppellin maestro jimmy page!  "}{"Title":"Charles Bronson Kills Them All","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I haven't seen this film in almost twenty years, but it stands out in my mind as one of the best I saw when it was released.  The story is simple.  Street gangs mess with Charles Bronson and Charles Bronson kills them all.  This is a movie where you can really root for the good guy.  The acting, directing and musical score are all excellent.  If you are a fan of Charles Bronson and the Death Wish series then I would reccomend seeing this movie.      "},{"Title":"Charley's back in action!","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish 3 (1985) Paul Kersey is back in New York City (filmed in England) to visit an old army buddy who happens to live in one of the most toughest parts of the city. When Paul pays him a visit he finds him beaten upon his apartment floor. He expires as soon as the police enter the apartment. Paul is arrested for his murder due to a misunderstanding. After that's all cleared up, a brief meeting with the chief of police and a nasty jail cell fight Paul is back in his friend's apartment taking care of business. Logic has been tossed out the window in this movie (Michael Winner doesn't even try) it's an action film with Charley killing as many people as he can. Has very little in common with the first two films (ironically directed by the same person) Pure escapist fun.Highly recommended for camp value.B "},{"Title":"Dismal Death Wish sequel, partially redeemed by a sickening and remarkable climax.","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Charles Bronson and director Michael Winner pair for the sixth and final time (the third time purely in this particular series of films, as it happens). As always, the film is high on violence but low on quality. Bronson resumes his role as vigilante Paul Kersey. Having lost his wife in the first film and his retarded daughter in the second, Kersey returns to a tough New York neighbourhood to visit his old buddy. However, upon his arrival Kersey finds his buddy dead, having been beaten senseless by a gang of local thugs. In fact, it isn't long before Kersey realises that the whole neighbourhood is controlled by crooks, thugs and murderers, with the few remaining decent folk too scared to stand up against them. Repulsed by what he sees, Kersey takes arms yet again and proceeds to wipe out the army of scum-bags ruining the neighbourhood. For well over an hour, this film is awful. It's boring, vicious and unjustifiable. However, the final 25 minutes or so is worth tuning in for simply because it contains the most extraordinary street battle you'll ever see. The sequence isn't very good in the traditional sense - it's too implausible, tasteless and reckless for that - but it is remarkable for the level of graphic mayhem it manages to cram into such a short space of time. People are shot, nails are rammed through foreheads, buildings are smashed to pieces, vehicles are wrecked, baseball bats are put to violent use, and one nasty villain is even bazooka-ed into a wall! It's an incredible action sequence for all the wrong reasons, but it does at least make Death Wish III stick in your memory. "},{"Title":"Citizen Kane, The Godfather, Star Wars...Death Wish 3","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bronson + Alex Winter + WW2 armaments = Death Wish 3. Sometimes, you wonder with films don't you. You wonder how they get made, this film is one of the worst I have ever seen. Some golden moments for me ... (SPOILER ALERT...as if anyone will care) 1. One of the shots of the gang all running clearly shows a member to be brandishing a plunger, yes thats right, the big tough man choose a toilet unblocker as his weapon of choice. 2. Over 200 people are killed and there is no remorse felt by either side, Bronson is just murdering people indiscriminantly and is as bad as the gangs in a way...The locals cheering the deaths is something to behold. 3. There are tonnes of continuity errors, my particular fav. being the Jewish couple telling Bronson they live on the ground floor then half hour later the Jewish bloke looking out his window which is at least 5 floors up. 4. They killed the Giggler Oh how I laughed... 5. Parts of the plot seem to go nowhere. For example the Jewish couple lose their gun but then nothing more is said or done about it. 6. The location, come on ? What the hell was going on there ? Part is like my town looked like after the Blitz  yet its still full of people, young and old going about their business despite the gangs running around. 7. Bronsons car- it comes and goes. I guess Winner used it to fetch his 'snacks' in between takes. 8. Bronson and the girl... need I go on. All in all a shockingly bad film, yet I thoroughly enjoyed it and found at times I could barely breather for all my laughing. In real film stakes 1/10 in comedy film stakes 10/10.  "},{"Title":"It smelt grim.","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSCharles Bronson is a Jonah. No sooner has the magnificent actor - who could have played Lear at Stratford judging by his performance here - got off the NY coach, than his friend is beaten to death. Instead of killing crooks, he should top himself - everywhere he goes there's a murder.However, he has another mission, and so, as a 1991 video release promised, one which only destruction, death and violence can achieve. What is it with Michael Winner's direction anyway? His camera angles are reasonably well thought-out, but there's always something so rigid, so staid, so blocked-in about the whole thing. Maybe it's the rapid editing by Arnold Crust this time, which makes the unusual angles resemble a badly dubbed 70s porn movie. Or is that the music?Contrivances run thick and fast to build up the story. Arrested overnight, Kersey is placed in a cell with a gang leader who takes the time and trouble to tell him where he lives. Later, an old friend of a friend calls out to him and gives him a Browning machine gun. Mind you, as this is a Kersey that can outrun a Uzi then screen realism isn't exactly the order of the day.The stakes are higher this time around, as Kersey takes on an entire gang rather than one or two individual criminals. As this gang is made up of Bill from Bill and Ted and the rapping ringmaster from Doctor Who then it's not that scary a mob. Particularly as their leader happens to be the campest man in the history of creation. Quite why all fifty of 'em don't rush Kersey at once is beyond me, but instead he's allowed to bump them off practically one by one.The gang is a group of racial stereotypes, but as their victims include full on Jew Eli, and Deanna Troi as Latino Maria, then they're evenly matched. For the only time Kersey drops his cover, becoming quite a social animal with his fellow tower block residents. Each night they seem to regale in his tales of wine, laughter and premeditated murder. The idea of Bronson organising a townsfolk to defend themselves against marauders could be a crafty nod to The Magnificent Seven, but then the phrase intertextual, self-reflexive discourse is not the sort of thing you normally associate with Michael Winner.One thing that is similar is yet another wooden love interest for Kersey. Probably the least successful dynamic in these films, the character's much more suited to the loner mould. And how does he always pull so many women? His charisma? You don't have to be a genius to realise she's only there to get wiped.The budget is relatively high for this one, with huge explosions (and a psychic fire service who arrive the second a fire starts), yet this big is more mentality makes it seem so far-fetched. When Bronson kills not to distorted, eerie music, but to a full-blown action chord, you know this is the movie where Paul Kersey changes from distorted avenger to cartoon superhero.Dramatically, this is probably the best of the series, with some genuinely tense scenes as the odds are against Kersey. But what little ambiguity the series had (and it's little) is now totally non-existent. I did enjoy this one in a trashy sort of way, though, and Winner's misogyny isn't quite as overt as usual. That said, the equation is simple rape victim = there to make a point against men and the mistreatment of women. Topless women there for gratuitous titillation. Combine these two and you have a highly dubious kind of entertainment.One last thing - look out for the Benny Hill-style dummy that drops when Kersey throws Ricco Ross to his death. But despite all this, it's a rare kind of film series that actually gets WORSE when Michael Winner leaves it. Yet that was the case with Death Wish, which plunged yet further into the mire from hereon in... "},{"Title":"This is a real take on a really fake, cheezy movie!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning-- THIS MAY CONTAIN A SPOILER AS TO THE ENDING AND OTHER SCENES-- READ AT YOUR OWN RISK.(But don't all Death Wishes, and all Bronson Movies for that matter end the same way anyways?) Death Wish III was on TV the other night. It is BY FAR the best of the death wish movies. It's so low budget. Everyone in the movie except Bronson dies. And when he starts blowing people away, he just doesn't stop. He must kill over a hundred people in that. Everything about that movie is so horrible it's great. Check out the leader of the bad guys gang. He's your average oversized surfer type guy named Chad or Brad, but with some sort of painted lines on his face (like that's supposed to be scary). And, the gang itself is very politically correct. Black and white guys together in the same gang (like that happens). Then in the end, when the leader calls in for back-ups-- this huge entourage of bikers (black & white) comes cruising through New York wreaking havoc. Lighting fires, blowing things up, breaking windows, and such and where's the police? Are we to believe that the cops are totally helpless against this scary group of hooligans?Also, remember Bronson's first victim (he shoots this Latin-looking guy on the street after he steals his camera while eating ice cream) The bad guy's gang gets all p***ed off cause Bronson killed The Giggler. What the hell is that!? The Giggler-- are you kidding me!? This is supposed to be some tough street gang and one of the members is called The Giggler.Also check out the the background music. It's really bad. Cheesy love type music when he meets that chick (who of course has to die) then 70's sort of Starsky & Hutch type of music when there's danger looming. Go rent this and pay very close attention to the background music. I've seen better produced porno movies!I love watching this movie. When I see it coming up in the TV guide I look forward to it all week. I must have seen it 10 times. No kidding.Now the most important question-- I've heard rumors that somewhere in the world there does exist a Death Wish IV. I know I've never seen it, but it does exist, I must see it. "},{"Title":"The Viglante is back and this time its...er , personal","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charles Bronson stars again as the one man Hunt,Maim,Destroy,Smash to pieces killing machine that is Paul Kersey.The other Death Wish films show him justifiably killing plenty of punks but this one goes way, way too far.(spoiler alert)The amount of people that he kills in this film must top the 200 mark, the last 20 or so minutes are just our 65 year old friend Charles walking the streets with a heavy (ww2)machine gun killing the scum and they come at him wave after wave so as you can imagine there are loads of bodies that somebody has to pick up. Some punks even come from other cities just to be mown down by  Charles and did I mention that the residents dance over the bodies of the scum in delight. It's the same old story line , one of Charles friends gets killed by some young punks , Charles just pops round his old friends house to pick up some things and then we see him setting up traps and waging war on the scum. Charles is no longer a viglante in this film, he is just a killer, plain and simple.I think that many of the people who watch this film will be worried by the fact that Charles our &#145;HERO' kills so many people in cold blood. There is the scene when his favourite gun(Wildey) arrives by mail( he also gets a rocket launcher by mail as well !!!) and he goes out  `just to get some ice cream' when he is really just testing his gun out on the local mugger, what do you think should happen to a mugger? Our friend Charles thinks that if you steal a camera then you should have your guts blown out by a high powered pistol, mind you though it was an exspensive camera.(spoiler end)Despite all of this though, it is a fairly entertaining film which has plenty of action and is at most times very amusing(even if it doesn't mean to be) , I think you will be crying with laughter when you see the ending.7/10 (Compared to the other Death Wish films)  "},{"Title":"United We Stand ... Divided the evil falls.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"       In some ways, this is the best of the Death Wish movies.  Here, other people get into the act of fighting back against violence.     The bad guys are really bad.  The story centers around a neighborhood of mostly old, defenseless people.  Mugging and intimidation are rampant.  Life is hardly worth living through.     In steps an outsider.  He stands up to the tormenting teenage gang members.  Then he teaches the suffering seniors to stand up and protect themselves.  They all gather together to stand up against the gang.     I found myself cheering the residents on.  It definitely is exciting... to watch people band together, and have their perception of life improve.     I heartily recommend this movie.  It is a roller-coaster.  Just hold on and scream on the big hills! "},{"Title":"A 90 minute advertisement for the N.R.A.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charles Bronson as vigilante extraodinare Paul Kersey makes Rambo look like a wimp in this ultimate tough guy epic. In what amounts to a 90 minute N.R.A advertisement Kersey uses every weapon short of the Atomic Bomb to rid a New York City neighborhood of an army of sadistic punks. The premise of this film is simple. If it is under 25 years old and looks scruffy, kill it. Wearing a frozen smile large enough to hide abdominal surgery, Kersey does just that. But he is not alone. The neighborhood residents follow his lead and begin nailing the punks with everything from butcher knives to zipguns. Eventually the punks call in reinforcements and it's war baby!!!!!!It is all Farfetched, fascist fun. Just the tonic when nonsense violence is what you crave.  "},{"Title":"Bronson shoots and smiles  in Winner's masterpiece )","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is awesome.If you haven't seen this movie there are spoilers ahead, but read them anyway because you won't believe any of them until you see the film. You must SEE this film, with your EYES. It's the best way.Look at Charles Bronson walk quickly from heavy gunfire. He doesn't run, he walks quickly! And they still miss him. What a radge! Look at Charlie smile when he picks off people with a handgun at long range. He looks like he's reading a funny birthday card instead of shooting people in self defence. That's called acting. He looks like my cousin.Women kill hoodlums by screaming and pushing them out of windows with brooms. Take THAT hoodlums. Excited yet?Bikers are SHOT off their speeding bikes WITH GUNS and then shot again on the ground and then children dance around their presumably, deflating, defecating, death rattling bodies. THEY WERE CRIMINALS. THIS IS POETIC JUSTICE.MAJOR SPOILER!!!! MUST READ&*%$At the end the baddie, who is evil because he has an arrow painted on his brew, head, goes into Charlie's home and says he will shoot him or his pal. Then he says Bulletproof asshole. He has a bulletproof vest you see. But here comes the wry twist Bronson fires a bazooka at him. Is this symbolic? I don't know and I own a computer. What a clever alluring film this is.Now you see why you must watch this film. Me and my dad reckon that you could probably learn a lot from this film if you watched it all the way through in one go.XXX "}{"Title":"Straightedge and Extreme of Violence","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had never seen the original Death Wish in the book either Death Wish I (film). However, Death Wish 3 was the very interested film. The well-known vigilante, Paul Kersey tried to visit his friend, Charlie but he only visited him for a couple of minutes before he died, because of Charlie didn't pay the protection to the huge and infamous underground gang leaded by Manny Franker. After some altercation during his time in jail, Kersey learned that Franker, who he fought with in jail had his own agenda to make the New York City in the hellfire (and also his influence) by sending his henchmen to set the crime every time, everywhere and everyday. Due to the chance given by Insp. Richard Shriker who know his profile well and like him very much. Kersey decided to set the war with Franker and his gang.I accepted that Death Wish III was one of the most straightedge and extreme violence action film which I had seen from the past. This movie used the very straightedge way to tell the story. No ponderous story-telling and less unnecessary scenes which was the one merit of the movie. On the next issue, Violence was used pervasively in the film. I believed that many of viewers could like the action scene of Death Wish III because it showed the crude, extreme and blast of action for every minutes of the movie, especially the climax scene of the movie and the death of Manny Franker which I thought that it was the maximum action scene.For about the cast, I think everyone was good and get through their role. Charles Bronson made everybody believe that he still be great as Paul Kersey. He didn't look like the big old cat, but the great vigilante. Gavan O'Herlihy also did his job very good. His main villain role in the movie made him look nasty and look like the big bad guy. However, the role of Kathryn Davis in this movie was pathetic. She didn't look like the main character. I thought that she was appeared only two or three scene before she was killed by Franker and his follower to make a heat on Paul Kersey. She could have more role to appear.For my comment, the straightedge style and extreme violence made this movie great for extreme action film fans. Fast-paced with back and Forth style made this movie very interested to watch. Nevertheless, this movie had some silly scene and some plot hole. First, the scene when Insp.Shriker faced Paul Kersey for the first time. It was very corny because you attacked your favor guy before you want him to help, it similar to how you punch some guy before you try to borrow him some money. Haha! that's like a joke! Although, I liked the plot twist when Insp.Shriker was shown later that he helped Kersey because at first, Shriker looked like the villain very much due to his act to Kersey, but when the movie went to the climax, everything was cleared that he had no hidden agenda with Kersey.In another case, the ending scene of the movie set back me. It stumble on everyone's feeling because it ended too easy. Franker's gang members looked unbelievable after they found that Franker was dead, before his girlfriend and other followers decided to escape. Finally, Insp.Shriker allowed Paul Kersey to fly out from his town before the police caught him. I thought that this style of ending scene could be found in many Cannon Film's movie, but I dislike it.For the summary, I am OK with Death Wish 3 due to my explanation I typed first. The cast, and the action was very good and so extreme, even it had some scene I don't like. Straightedge and Extreme of Violence could be the best short description of this movie. "},{"Title":"Bronson is back to kill a bunch of muggers and thugs! Yay!","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the third Death Wish movie. Death Wish 2 sucked hard. But Death Wish 3 is better. It's just non-stop action. The plot is simple. Paul Kersey goes to this really crappy town and one of his friends is killed by muggers, and Paul has to go to jail for something he didn't do.But, Paul is given a job Terminate all the muggers and street thugs!!! And that's just what he does. In this one, Paul has more than just a little Revolver. He has a Bazooka! He also has this one gun and I don't know what it is. But it's cool.So, Paul Kersey kills a bunch of muggers and he saves the day! I recommend it. 9/10 Must-see for any fan of Charles Bronson.MAJOR SPOILER BELOWThe best 30 minutes in Death Wish history is right at the end of this movie. The whole town gangs up on the muggers! Kids are killing criminals! One cool part is when this guy opens a door, and a board with a nail on it triggers and hits the guy in the forehead. The guy falls off the side of the railing and dies. Also, the final scene of the movie is great. Fraker, the main villain, is wearing bulletproof clothing. When he gets shot, he gets back up. But Paul grabs a bazooka and blasts him away. That was the death of Fraker. "},{"Title":"funniest film of 1985","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first Death Wish seems like cinema verite compared to this, with its overwhelming sense of, uh, exaggerated events. As a friend of mine stated upon viewing it on video, the film reminded him of the non-sex scenes in a porno film. To me, it is a Western set in modern-day New York. The tenement is like a fort on the frontier. The neighborhood ruffians are the Indians. To see Charlie Bronson machine gunning dozens of miscreants is the height of camp. This goes beyond Olivia Newton-John rollerskating her way through Xanadu. Finally, Michael Winner has returned to the glory days of The Mechanic. This would be the greatest Cannon camp classic of the 80's, were it not for the bumptious intrusion of Kinjite and Over The Top. "},{"Title":"Death Wish 3!","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Death Wish films are some great movies. Charles Bronson is very good in them all especially the first and the third of the franchise. The first three are in My opinion the best in Death Wish series. In My opinion the films are not for young children. Its the trilogy directed by Michael Winner. The movies are packed with very realistic graphic violence, great music, good by acting the actors, and good directing. The third entry is arguably the best of the best of them all. Charles Bronson is great in the film! His emotions are very believable! is in the film. Ed Lauter and Gavan O'Herlihy are very good in this film. This Death Wish has more of the great music and themes by Jimmy Page! If you like Charles Bronson and want to see him bust up some punks and like to see great revenge films with great action then watch Death Wish!  "},{"Title":"Even worse than the first time i saw it..","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this again and i couldnt help but write another review for it. THIS FILM IS TERRIBLE, but entertaining.I'd like to list some of the problems that i have with this film.~Charlie kills 75+ people, about 2 people he killed actually deserved to die.The rest were bad but that doesnt mean that he had to kill them!~Charlies friend carrying a pipe that fired shotgun shells!?~British people doing really bad American accents~The part after Charlie kills The Giggler There were lines like They killed the Giggler man He had no buissness doing that, none at all~Charlie kills the Bad guy by blowing him up with a rocket launcher. The problem i have with this is that 1, Charlie was about 5 feet away from him and 2 Charlies friend the cop was about 2 feet away.Both survived without a scratch.~The Part when Charlie runs straight at some punks and the punks shoot him about 10 times but hes wearing a bullet proof vest, so he survives and kills them.He then runs at some other punks and bends down putting his hands and arms infront of his vest thus making his bullet proof vest useless,but again they shoot him and he survives.~People sitting about doing nothing, just staring even when people are getting killed all around them~People dancing over the dead bodies and saying things like Praise the lord!!~Charlie wobbling about because he cant run~Charlie ordering a Magnum and a rocket launcher through the mail "},{"Title":"What The?","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK, I just flipped channels and caught DW3. I watched it knowing it would be trash..BUT..as a person who has seen tons of films, this one stands up there as one of the most purely bad films I have ever seen...I'm not kidding. It is so bad you have to watch it, like a bad accident you can't turn away from. Sometimes these kinds of films work, IE, Troma movies...but watching Martin Balsam and Charles Bronson slum it up like this is painful....What's even funnier is I pulled up IMDb to see what other people said and it actually scores a 4.1/10??? I can't believe it made it past 1.5! Equally as funny is this is not even the pinnacle of this series...somehow this garbage warranted part 4 and 5? And to top it all off, some dude's comments on here referenced this as the best of the series and his favorite film of all time??? Statements like that scare me about this world! "},{"Title":"ridiculous","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" From a cult classic to a rather good follow up to this part which is ridiculous. I have nothing against a franchise but this one here we do all know that it goes terrible wrong from part 3It's like Nightmare On Elm Street were Freddy was creepy but became funny throughout the franchise. Paul Kersey (Bronson) is back but this time his revenge becomes over the top with all ammunition you can think he do uses it. And the police asking him for help to kill the gang isn't believable at all. But part 3 did remind me of Harry Brown (2009). It's exactly the same story but believable.Gore 0/5 Nudity 1/5 Effects 1/5 Story 2/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Still Lots Of Fun, Enjoyable If You're A Fan Of The Series.","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 3 has Paul Kersey returning to New York to visit an old friend of his, but he arrives to find him dying, as he was just beaten up by a group of thugs. Just as the man dies, the police arrive, and they arrest Paul, believing that he did it. So Paul is then put in jail. However, the head cop makes him a proposition. He can kill as many bad guys in the area as he wants, provided that he report any activity in the area to the police.The third installment of the Death Wish franchise has more action then before. It's more exciting, more tense, and more thrilling than before. However, I don't think that it is better than the first two movies, as this film does have some flaws with it, particularly the writing in a couple of instances. And also, the movie has a much higher body count than the previous movies, with Paul killing about 50 or so, which is definitely higher than the number that he killed in the first two movies. But nevertheless, while not as good as the first two, this third movie has several things going for it, and it's always great to see Bronson take down bad guys.Like I mentioned in this movie, the film has a couple of problems with the script. There's one scene in particular. In this scene, Bronson and his girlfriend are going to have some dinner. She says I hope you like chicken, it's the only thing I know how to make. And then he replies Chicken's good, I like chicken. I don't know about you, but to me, that kind of sounds like the first lesson of Grammar 101. Think about it, Chicken is good, I like chicken. When I saw that scene, I couldn't help but laugh, because it was so lame, yet at the same time, it was funny.And as I said earlier, this movie features more action than the first two films. In this film, Paul brings out big guns and it all leads to a climactic battle in which he singlehandedly kills over 50 people. But you know something, surprisingly, he made it work. Bronson was getting along in years by this point in his career, and I don't exactly know how he did it, but he performed everything in this movie like a master, the way he handled the action sequences, he truly was something. It takes a lot to do something like that, but it takes even more to do it at somebody his age. Very well done Mr. Bronson, very well done.Like the two previous films, the supporting cast manages to do good in their roles. Ed Lauter was good in his role as Richard Shriker, the cop who Kersey finds himself involuntarily recruited under to take down bad guys. Gavan O'Herlihy, who played the main antagonist, Manny Fraker, was quite surprising. There where many instances where he could rather intimidating. There are a few instances where he will nonchalantly shoot and kill people, all while laughing like a hyena. O'Herlihy and Lauter were good in their supporting roles, but as you might have guessed, Bronson once again comes out on top of everybody else.This film was again directed by Michael Winner. It was Winner's last film in The Death Wish series, and it was also the last film that he an Bronson worked on as a team. While not the epic finale to a long collaboration, they manage to go out on a good note. Winner again doesn't give this film the edge that he gave the first film, but at least he still managed to do a good job, and that's all that matters. While I did enjoy this one, out of all of the collaborations that Winner and Bronson did together, I would have to say that the original Death Wish was probably the best one.Is this movie one of the best movies I've seen? Not really, it's far from that distinction, but it's good nevertheless, and it delivers what it promises. Death Wish 3 may not achieve the same level of success as the original, or even the second film for that matter, but it still is an exciting film that will definitely please you if you are a fan of the series, and if you want to see Charles Bronson do what he's best at, then you'll enjoy this.8/10 "},{"Title":"Simply a WHOLE lot of fun!","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Provided the viewer goes into this movie knowing it is a bonanza of cheesy acting, corny dialogue, handguns that fire 46 rounds without the need to reload, and bad-guys who can't shoot worth a damn, Death Wish 3 is an enjoyable journey through a mid-1980s environment of urban blight, multi-racial criminal gangs, incompetent police, and helpless civilians who couldn't protect themselves from a larger-than-average bumblebee. Please understand that this is not a hit-piece against Charles Bronson or any of the other actors or makers of this film. The truly dedicated performances turned in by the actors should not be diminished by the utter silliness and hilarity of the movie which resulted. "},{"Title":"So bad yet so fun...but irrelevant","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 3...boy, I almost forgot I watched this movie just recently. A weird experience for me since I'm a big fan of the previous films and I found myself scratching my head thinking why someone thought that humor could be used in serious topics such as brutal attacks against elderly and women in abandoned neighborhoods. Or worst since when Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson), the vigilante who lost his family in the previous films of the franchise could have some humor inside him. Kersey worked better as his most bittered and bloody-thirst while doing justice with his own hands.Golan-Globus surely ruined the franchise (the second Death Wish is way over-the-top but still in the dark mood it becomes something good to watch). This instance has a poor neighborhood composed of Jewish elderly, Latin and blacks terrorized by marginal types who enter their homes, use of violence and sexual assaults to get money which they call paying for protection. One of the groups' victims is Paul's friend from their Korea War days and the moment he gets there, Kersey is arrested accused of the crime. Lame but understandable. Let's move ahead. While on detention, the former architect turned vigilant is offered a nice proposition by the police chief (Ed Lauter, simply awesome) who knows about Kersey's past killing muggers and rapists Kersey is given the chance to clean the streets and remove the bad guys from view. Obviously this chief is being pressured by the mayor and others about the high levels of criminality, but Kersey can be of help. Unorthodox but acceptable in terms of films. The problem comes when the movie decides to present a bad guy. Kersey always fought groups of thugs, never masterminds or nemesis of some sort. Here, the bad guy is Fraker (Gavan O'Herlihy) who practically controls the city and even share a jail cell with Kersey and they talk as if they were old buddies from other movie (not really). But of course, it's not only Paul versus Fraker; it's Paul against Fraker's gang members who literally outnumber the old folks who live there and who also will try to help Paul. Here comes another stupidity all the old residents possessed guns but somehow they never used against used them against the invaders (only Paul's friend tried to but end up killed), and an old couple almost got arrested because they owned a gun. The police took their gun - even with the man having a permit - but they cannot see all the robberies, the rapes and the deaths around the building. That's just ridiculous. Death Wish 3 is manageable even with all those problems I mentioned, and besides when Kersey goes in action that movies gets where it needs, proving to be exciting, tense and creating nice scenarios, even though the humor seems completely out of place - except when our hero shoots a mugger and the whole crowd begins to cheer. It's all fine until the movie provides a female companion to Kersey, a prosecutor who wants him to press charges against the police for his outrageous detention. Their affair escalates very quickly and for no good reason. She sees him and she likes him immediately. If only life was like that. I could accept that. But when her character gets killed by the group I could connect with the film anymore. Kept watching but wasn't in it anymore. The amount of absurdity, goofiness and unexplained things was too troubling for me to handle. It's fun to watch but it doesn't have any iota of what is trying to be, or trying to do. And have in mind, this was the first Death Wish to be released after the Bernhard Goetz incident on the subway in 1984, and you have Charles Bronson advising people to not imitate the film, don't become a vigilante BUT the whole movie goes the other way, killing bad guys is fun, get your neighbors, grab your guns and start to kill. Some may wonder but wasn't the original Death Wish about the same thing I just pointed out but without the laughs? No, not at all. Michael Winner's earlier film was a loud cry of the society against criminality and police inefficiency, deeply surrounded by lousy politics not doing their job, and as was current with the 1970's cinema movement many characters simply went mad as hell and couldn't take it anymore. Time to set standards and do justice. And Kersey was very conflicted before turning into a justice warrior instead of the guy filled with Schwarzenegger's like punchlines whenever the writer thinks he ought to do those (After killing two guys robbers stealing his car, he's asked asked what happened and he says he was just giving those guys a message). Disappointing and very low, Death Wish 3 can only be enjoyed for its brainless moments if you are looking exactly for that. Those who seek to find more of the same from the previous films will be dead on the water. We all need laughs but it only works without falling into ridicule if the topics brought on are meant to be funny. Or simply label it as a comedy cause no thriller was found in here. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Death wish 3 Better than the 2nd movie","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 3 (1985) 92 minutes 18 - for graphic violence and a sexual scene Plot - Architect/vigilante Paul Kersey arrives back in New York City and is forcibly recruited by a crooked police detective to fight street crime caused by a large gang terrorizing the neighbourhood's. I think I can almost stop right there when discussing this film whichis a definitive improvement over the previous film death wish 2 which exploitative garbage at its worst this isn't a great movie either but there's a lot more depth to the story and generally serviceable performances buy the cast especially Charles Bronson who is suitably adequate as the title character Paul kersey and Ed lauther as a grumpy no-nonsense police officer who assists kersey in battling the street gang who lead by suitably terrifying maniac played by Gavan O'Herlihy as manny Faker and preposterous but fun choreographed action scenes especially the heart wrenching finale which left me on the very edge of my seat until the very end . so overall if you were put off by the rancid sequel that was death wish 2 give it a chance its a no brainier picture to be sure but its a fun and entertaining way to spend 90 minutes . "},{"Title":"Yep - so bad it is good","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw at the movies with my friends when it came out...and I remember us thinking how ridiculous it is. It appears to have been written by a 12 year old, using some sort of formula, perhaps a 16 year old gave them.From the most ridiculous gangsters ever, to Charles Bronson inexplicably ordering rocket launchers through the mail, to the infamous gangster armed only with a plunger (??)...the movie appear to have been made with the assumption that there are enough people lobotomised, or otherwise impaired that would see this steaming pile of crap that it would make its money back, even though it is rubbish. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever Made; a Cinematic Masterpiece!","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In art class we were once required to talk one by one about our favorite movie. Classmates mentioned movies like Citizen Kane, Fellini's 8 1/2, Sunset Boulevard etc etc; I mentioned Death Wish 3. My classmates looked shyly at their feet. No for real I said,has anyone seen it??. Off course no one had, no one with a acquired taste for the cinematic arts will ever want to watch Death Wish 3. But i am standing by my statement. Death Wish 3 is the best movie ever made; it is better than citizen Kane; it is better than 10 citizen Kane's together. A movie with a quality like Death Wish 3 will unlikely ever be made again. This was cinema's finest hour. A one and a half hour wild cinematic pleasure ride filled with cartoon like mayhem; a wild ride into the ultimate bizarre, a completely overwhelming dreamlike adventure of violence, rape, revenge, a one and a half hour delve into the depths of a world where we find out that a clockwork orange was not the best film about violence. Death Wish 3 gives us a world where we get mugged or killed the moment we leave the house, a world where we get our throats sliced when we have dinner, a world where all women get constantly raped and a world where only one men single handed kills 574 punks with a wild range of weapons. The end where Bronson stands on a rooftop a machine guns down a leftover punks from the streets is so bizarre and so over the top is has to be seen to be believed. Do not take this movie serious; it is funny, overacted, violent but in a cartoon like way. This is an unreal bizarre world, this is a movie with a statement more clear than any other movie ever made. This movie is the movie that tops all other movies ever made. This movie is the ultimate cinematic master piece. Although Bronson himself hated this movie; I doubt if he was still alive he might have actually come to appreciate this one as his finest movie. I challenge everyone to see this movie ...............it is simply the best one ever to have graced the screens. "},{"Title":"Why all the hate?","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first Death Wish was an instant hit - showing mild-mannered liberal, Paul Kersey, dishing out his own brand of justice to muggers all over New York. Part 2 capitalised on the success and is seen as a good film too (although how often are sequels ever revered as being better than the first?). Then came part 3 and everyone suddenly hated it.I suppose Death Wish 3 is to parts 1 and 2 like Aliens is to Alien. DW1 and 2 were slow and creepy, building up tension before each of the (surprisingly few) kills. Part 3 just has Kersey mowing down muggers with a machine gun.Okay, so it's kind of lost its social commentary aspect, but it's still a great action film. So what if some of the creeps are kind of stereotypical and a bit dumb. Since when was a street hood a criminal mastermind? Death Wish 3 is probably the most far-fetched of the series (so far - I won't get on to parts 4 and 5), but if you're tired of soft justice for criminals, then you'll be nodding your head to the sound of Kersey's 'Wilby' Magnum going off. "},{"Title":"Crime-Thriller Turns To Action","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson is back as Paul Kersey and this time he's planning on cleaning up all of New York City's gangs of thugs.For me, this is where the film series spins in a different direction completely. Instead of Paul Kersey (Bronson) just seeking revenge for the death of his wife (Death Wish) and the death of his daughter (Death Wish II) - now he's more of an action hero who is cleaning up all of New York City's gangs that have grown more violent since the first two films. The creators of the film franchise have added all kinds of weapons -including bombs - to the film for ACTION.The original two movies were crime-thrillers and acts of personal revenge. Starting with Death Wish III, the films saga turns into just crime-action - with the main focus on ACTION.6/10 "},{"Title":"The funn(i)est of the series","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson/Paul Kersey is back, and this time he's taken up the gun once more to avenge his one-dimensional girlfriend who was murdered by the hands of a vicious street gang.Now that the plot's out of the way, the good Bronson returns; the action scenes are arguably the best of the series; the villains are nasty; rape is minimal-to-non-existent; the acting is bad, but on a fun level and not a cringeworthy level; it doesn't pretend to be what it isn't. What this movie DOES manage to be is entertaining, fun, and violent--at the same time. The last thirty minutes alone is worth sitting through the filler dialogue and laughable villains who get their kicks from stealing purses and running away (and getting shot in the back), and managing to destroy entire buildings with just a handful of grenades.The bad Lieutenant Richard Shriker (played by Ed Lauter) is a douche; dialogue is clearly filler to give some sort of plot; the main villain's rage-inducing smug face isn't punched enough times.This movie is stupid. It's garbage. And it's sleazy. But that's all part of its nasty, perverse charm. It's a laugh riot with enough hilarious unintentional stupidity, comic gold, and over-the-top violence to keep you entered for a good hour and a half. It's arguably the best of the Death Wish series just because of how silly and fun it can be. It's to be seen to be believed.It's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Paul Kersey goes Rambo!","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 3 is mostly known as the one where things take a turn for the insane. The first two Death Wish movies kept the body count relatively low, mainly because having an aging Charles Bronson fight and kill an entire army of street punks would just be stupid. But then the third one came around and they figured screw it, let's do that anyway. From this part on they're just going for the so-dumb-it's-entertaining feel, and I've got to say they're succeeding. Infinitely more violent and infinitely less shocking than it's predecessors, Death Wish 3 is basically one cartoonish action set piece after the other. The logics of this movie universe also never cease to amaze me. How would a bulletproof vest protect you from a stabbing? How on Earth can you order a missile launcher through mail order (I know it's America, but still)? Why doesn't he bother to use said missile launcher until there's barely anyone left standing, wasn't the entire point of buying it to kill a lot of thugs at once? Do you really need to bring an unarmed guy with you to a battle with hundreds of street punks just so he could carry along your ammo? Why does everyone who gets shot fall in the wrong direction? Do street gangs really have a hotline to order more guys if a battle is going down? I really didn't know they stuck together so well. Death Wish is a ridiculous B-movie, but it's a mighty fine ridiculous B-movie. It's a unique experience, just don't expect anything that made the first two into classics. "},{"Title":"The series descends into a gory, gratuitous and excessively violent mess...but guilty pleasure?  Yep.","Date":"27 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 1 and 2 are truly 70's/80's classics in the truest sense. They were violent, gritty and exploitative. But the message behind them was political and very clear. It opened a can of worms when discussing vigilantism and crime rates. Death Wish 3 casts off any sign of political undertone and goes right for the blood splattering exploitation of a drive inn classic. Quentin Tarantino probably loves Death Wish 3. It is light on the story this time around and it is really just 90% Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) blowing away bad guys one after another. The fortunate thing for Death Wish 3 is that somehow it endears itself to you in the most guilty way. As a red blooded male at least you find yourself wide eyed and your blood pumping watching our favourite vigilante take out ridiculously violent revenge against the most insane and over the top group of thugs yet. The first two films managed to avoid being campy or cheesy but Death Wish 3 definitely crosses that line. The neighbourhood that Kersey finds himself in is the definition of living hell and the thugs that dominate it are ridiculous but it makes it more fun to watch them being blown away.Charles Bronson is the pinnacle bad-ass. He endeared himself to us from the very beginning in his plight for justice and self-peace. He hasn't found either and now he's cornered into cleaning up the worst neighbourhood on the planet. Bronson rumoredly didn't like the script for Death Wish 3 and I think maybe it shows in his very unemotional, stone cold performance. Fortunately, it works because he is often like that. He just doesn't seem himself this time around but he still kills like no ones business and looks cool doing it. Ed Lauter, a great character actor, plays a cop who is tired of doing things the legal way and corners Bronson into doing his dirty work. He isn't a villain per se and he is the one last remnant of the whole political/moral debacle that Death Wish has dealt with. Lauter is good but underused until near the end. Deborah Raffin is an unfortunate addition to the cast, nothing against her. She does a fine job in a very empty and pointless character. They try to force a ridiculous romance into the story that seems out of place and pointless. Its like a story thread that doesn't go anywhere and gets left behind in a hail of bullets. Martin Balsam, Gavan O'Herlihy, Kirk Taylor, and Alex Winter are some of the more noticeable performances either for being campy or for at least driving the story. The addition of a single villain a big-bad if you will is completely different for the series. It shows that film makers trying to turn Death Wish into a mainstream action flick. It isn't a bad move and the villain is decent but sort of underdeveloped. His final death scene though is truly 80's action awesome.Michael Winner returns for his third and last time at the helm of the Death Wish franchise. Honestly, this doesn't even feel like his style and I wonder if someone else took over as it sounds like there was a lot of animosity on the set so much so that Winner and Bronson never worked together again. Sometimes when a film goes through behind the scenes chaos like that it shows in the final product and I think Death Wish 3 is an example of that. However, they are fortunate enough that Bronson and Death Wish are both iconic in their own way and I think Death Wish 3 came out at a good time to be considered an exploitative classic. I certainly didn't hate watching it, but rather I felt disappointment for the direction of a shockingly intelligent series thus far. It had always been exploitative and violent but the purpose, moral ambiguity, and political side has been cast off for sheer balls to the wall violence. Fun and guilty pleasure? Yes for sure. Quality...well its dropped significantly. On to Death Wish IV!! 7/10 "},{"Title":"AARP violence","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I abandoned the series after the awful part 2 years ago thinking there was no place left for these movies to go but down. Boy was I wrong. Not a moment of this film isn't entertaining. The plot, if you could all it that, kicks off after a credit sequence that has some of the worst shots of Manhattan captured on film. The 2nd unit must have been drunk getting those. We begin as our aging hero's friend is brutally murdered by a crazed gang just as Bronson is on his way to NY to meet him. Naturally the cops think he killed his friend and off to jail he goes. Once there the captain gives him immunity to go out and kill as many scumbags as possible. And with that simple premise quickly set up, the film delivers one creep after another with a slug blown through them. We also get a half baked love interest that has two close ups of Bronson kissing her, in which his mouth appears to be completely shut and it's just a mustache touching a woman's lip. The guy from the store said this wine is very good. That's his only line beyond a 'yes or no' answers during his date - which appears to last about 2 minutes. Women here are simply plot devices to be killed or raped, not developed characters - which really keep these films from rising above the gutter. But entertaining trash they are. Death Wish 3 is beyond mindless, but doesn't have an ounce of pretension. It's a breeze to sit through. "},{"Title":"Death Wish 3 a Laugh Fest","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to agree with with many other commentators on this site that this is one one those so bad that it's good movies. Wooden acting, unbelievable dialog, unbelievable amounts of violence, two pairs of bare titties (by my account), all presented by Golan and Globus, the B-movie schlockmeisters behind the Cannon Films Group of the 1980s.The tone for this film is set just a few minutes in, when NYC cop Ed Lauter punches a seated and handcuffed Bronson in the the face because Bronson asked a question about his Constitutional rights. I'm the law! That means I get to violate your Constitutional rights! Lauter exclaims. From his position on the floor, Bronson kicks Lauter in the nuts.This doesn't suit Lauter well, so he tosses Bronson into a cell, without formally arresting or changing him with a crime. In the cell, Bronson is challenged by a small, break dancing black prisoner, who asks if he is looking for trouble? Bronson passes him by, so the small black man punches a much larger, muscular black man in the stomach for no apparent reason. The larger black man punches back, decking the smaller guy. As the smaller guy lays screaming on the floor, he shouts you f*cker! at Bronson. You might want to pause the film at this point for a laugh break. I know I did.Another few personal favorites &#x95; the buff gay black guy in the cut-off tank top who got killed once or twice, but still kept coming back &#x95; first exposition of the Wildey handgun, basically the most powerful handgun on Earth. NRA porn. Even I wanted one, and I don't like guns. &#x95; the uniform cops who, in a neighborhood exploding with gang violence, bully an elderly Jewish couple into surrendering their handgun &#x95; the pretty pro bono attorney Bronson f*cks and then apparently has no emotional attachment to when she dies in a fiery vehicle crash (are there any other kind in Hollywood movies) minutes later &#x95; Riot police or National Guard not appearing as an urban neighborhood descends into chaos &#x95; Ed Lauter joining Bronson towards the end in a final all-laws-are-suspended fight at the OK corral kind of confrontation with the bad guys "}{"Title":"Great movie ...","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This amazing Charles Bronson movie evidently shows how great 1980's cinema used to be ... it's like a mixture of Rambo,Terminator and Dirty Harry only with 10 times more violence ... It reminds me of another great 1980s movie;Kill Point ... why don't they make movies like these anymore? Such a shame ... also the soundtrack is great;Jimmy Page of Led Zeppelin really contributes to the sinister ambiance of this movie ... A definite must see for Charles Bronson fans;no way around it! Sometimes you wonder where the greatness of 1970s and 1980s cinema has gone ... will it ever return you might wonder? The end of this movie is as unpredictable and surprising as the entire plot ... The Death Wish series are just fantastic! "},{"Title":"More bang for the buck!","Date":"9 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is back in New York. Only this time, he's got a bigger problem. There's a very dangerous gang running around wreaking havoc. They rob, burn buildings, cars, even people. The gang leader is Manny(Gavin O'Herlihy) killed Kersey's friend, Charley. The police arrested him earlier, but they later blame Kersey when he arrives at Charley's place. The police chief Shriker (Ed Lauter) knew Kersey from the past and boy, does he have any respect for him. Until he gives him a deal to bring down the gang. When Kersey goes back to Charley's apartment, he befriends a old war buddy of Charley's, an elderly Jewish couple, and a young Hispanic couple. While he is there, he buys several things A Cadillac Seville for bait, a .475 Wildey Magnum following the rape and death of Maria(Marina Sirtis). Following the death of public defender(Deborah Raffin), Kersey goes on the warpath against the gang. With Rodriguez(Joseph Gonzalez) on his side, they mow down the gang like weeds in the meadow. Striker would later even the odds for Kersey. The new gun packs enough punch to take out the enemy. And the whole neighborhood rise up from their fears to teach these gangs a lesson they'll never forget. Great movie, it's a classic. 2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Full to the brim with entertainment value.","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With this entry in the Death Wish franchise, gone is the grim tone of the first two movies, to be replaced by a much more extravagant, over the top tone; in fact, this cheerfully ridiculous movie borders on parody, what with its glorious excesses and depictions of a stylized, scummy urban Hell. Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) has supposedly left his vigilante days behind, but we all know that ain't gonna last. He returns to NYC to visit an old friend, only to find the friend about to expire. He's erroneously arrested for the friends' murder, only to be recruited by police detective Richard Shriker (the great character actor Ed Lauter, in the last of the four movies that he did with Bronson) to do the vigilante thing anyway as Shriker's police force can't handle the gang violence problem on their own. Kersey displays some real ingenuity in this one, ordering his extremely impressive arsenal through the mail (a man named Wildey really deserves to take a bow here) and also going to the trouble of setting up booby traps. Director Michael Winner returns to the franchise yet again, also editing under his pseudonym Arnold Crust, and keeps thing delightfully cheesy and silly, very well paced, and action packed. The dialogue is full of some absolute gems (They killed The Giggler, man!; Chicken's good. I like chicken.; What am I gonna do with you, dude?; My shop! My shop!). Things blow up REAL good, and here and there are little trashy details like a potential rape victim flashing her breasts for all of us to see. The supporting cast does what they can, although truth be told, the public defender character played by Deborah Raffin (who'd acted for Winner in The Sentinel (1977)) coming off as a rather weak love interest, and Raffin and Bronson don't really get any chemistry going. Lauter makes up for that with his own high level of awesomeness, even working side by side with Bronson during the climactic action. Martin Balsam is pretty good as an angry resident, and in small parts fans can see the likes of Bill S. Preston, Esquire (a.k.a. actor Alex Winter) as a thug, Marina Sirtis (Troi from 'Star Trek The Next Generation) as a victim, and Ricco Ross (Frost in Aliens) as The Cuban. Kirk Taylor is fairly memorable in the role of creepy gang member The Giggler, who laughs while he runs. Death Wish 3 also proves the adage that often movies like this are only as good as their villains, as actor Gavan O'Herlihy (son of Dan O'Herlihy) leaves a big impression as sneering gang leader Fraker, reverse mohawk and all. The music (once again credited to rock legend Jimmy Page) isn't as effective and experimental as the one for Death Wish II. Outlandish but never boring, the movie is escapism supreme, and shows our star in fine form, ridding the world of scum as only he can. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's like killing roaches - you have to kill 'em all, otherwise what's the use?","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the Death Wish cartoon. There is little effort to justify the killing. Kersey is a tool of the police (Ed Lauter) and let loose to rid a neighborhood of a vicious gang that the police can't touch.He brings out the big guns A .475 Wildey magnum is a shorter version of the African big game cartridge, it makes a real mess.He does manage to get the neighborhood to take back their homes and businesses. But the cost is another woman (Deborah Raffin) he loves.With Martin Balsam as the guy who befriends him, and Gavan O'Herlihy as the leader of the punks.Definitely one for fans of the series. "},{"Title":"Great Over the Top Action for Cheap Laughs and Thrills","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie rules because it doesn't take itself seriously. It is almost a war movie with some of the most outrageously funny and movie only dialog ever. If you like the Death Wish concept but want to be spared any sort of moralizing or social messaging, this is it. It has a full scale ghetto street war in the end full of dead cops, residents and criminals. Stuff was blown up all over the place, it was awesome escapist fare. All it missed was the scene when Lawrence Fishburn got blasted in the DW 2 holding his ghetto blaster as a shield and it exploded when hit by Paul's pistol bullet. It had great extras and even a semi-evil manipulative cop played by the ever present cop detective character guy, Ed Lauter. Even Paul's lover gets blown up in a stupid staged car crash. "},{"Title":"That's My Shop!","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ahhh, the immortal words of Martin Balsam's character, Bennett Cross, as he watches his taxi shop destroyed by the gang led by Manny Fraker.Did I just give Death Wish 3 five stars? You better believe it! See, people tend to get it all wrong. Good movies aren't only the ones that are well-scripted with a great director and talented actors attached to the project, but if a movie keeps the viewer entertained, glued to their seats, and satisfied at the end of the movie to the point where they'd watch it again and again, then that to me is not only a good movie but a great movie.And that's exactly what Death Wish 3 is a great movie. If you're a fan of great cheese, then come and get it, because this is some of the best 80s cheese you'll ever see. This classic opens with Paul Kersey, Mr. Vigilante himself, on a bus heading into Brooklyn, looking forward to seeing his old pal Charley. The opening credits are barely over before Charley is murdered by gang members and Paul is arrested as the prime suspect.Death Wish 3 is one of those classics that you can watch with a group of friends and just laugh through the entire movie at all the wonderful moments it has to offer.Below are just a few things you'll learn while watching this superb piece of movie-making 1. If you're a suspected vigilante, cops will give you a license to kill...just as long as you let them make an occasional bust or two so they look good in the news.2. Paul Kersey loves stuffed cabbage.3. He also doesn't mind interrupting his meal to kill a couple of punks, but don't worry, he'll be right back to finish his food after he's done.4. Gang leaders can call a mysterious hotline where they can order more gang members who will show up to help terrorize in no time.5. If you get involved in a romantic relationship with Paul Kersey, chances are you'll soon be dead.I can't say enough about this gem. I could go on for hours. But I'm gotta go and watch Death Wish 3 again! "},{"Title":"One of the best action films I've ever seen!","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is way under ratted by viewers. i haven't seen any of theother death wish films but this film is definitely going to get mestarted on them. This film offers non-stop action and has an awesome ending.If you are an action movie fan then you need to see this. I'm going tobuy this as soon as i can. Its another one of those great 80s action films.And in conclusion this is a must see for any action film fan, it also offers a variety of awesome weapons!The End The eND The END THE enDTHE END!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"He likes chicken","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As we all know, Death Wish 3 is pretty lousy and totally unbelievable in that a man of Kersey's age can take on and defeat a gang of thugs more than half his age. That being said, I still try to catch this whenever it comes on because of it being so bad, that it's good. I'm sure that wasn't the intention of the director/stars, but when Kersey and a bunch of old geezers take on the gangs, how can one not laugh? I'm relieved that Paul likes chicken also. Add Ed Lauter, who basically plays Ed Lauter, and that adds to the charm. Roaches be damned! There are too many funny moments to write here, but it's the only reason I watch it to this day. I have to laugh when Jimmy Page's guitar makes an angry sound when the camera pans to Kersey preparing to do battle with the hoods. Watch for the final battle and Paul and the police chief walk down the street(western shoot 'em up style), and mow down all the thugs, even though their outnumbered by about 50 goons. "},{"Title":"a roller-coaster of relentless violence and brutality","Date":"15 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" caught this movie un-cut on a TV station. i had already seen the first two death wish movies but liked this one out of all of them just because it's great to see someone like charles bronson who was well into his sixties at the time of the film. continuing his role as vigilante paul kersey and attempting to clean up the streets but this time having to deal with murderous thugs terrorizing a neighbourhood. residents of an apartment building are too terrified as they watch helplessly as roving street gangs vandalize, loot and do as they please all hours of the days. once again it is up to kersey along with assistance from a cop hot on his trail as they try make a better standard of living for everyone. while it's the typical shoot 'em up, i was surprised at the excessive level of violence and gore compared to the other death wish movies. a lot of gun-play resulting in people falling from buildings, stairways and rooftops to their deaths. i think they should have stopped at the third instalment but with charles bronson being a box office draw, the studios were still willing to cash in on the franchise and churned out two more death wish flicks. bronson can keep up the pace with his younger counterparts and always gets the best of them by having sneaky manoeuvres and setting deadly traps. awesome to see him still kicking ass even in his sixties. highly enjoyable "},{"Title":"kersey comes up against more 'creeps'","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If anyone hasn't seen this cinematic gem, I urge you to go out and purchase it as soon as you can! If your looking for ironic laughter and unintentional comedy, this is your film! Again the unluckiest guy in the world (bronson) finds himself in a situation where he is surrounded by sub human scum that are dressed up like cameo!!!! The 'creeps' he has to deal with are fond of high fiving each other, wearing leather waistcoats and bandanas and have names such a 'the giggler' (when he steals an item, he giggles as he runs)....genius!!! Bronson takes out the trash one by one with various degrees of brutality! If you want to watch a man shoot a villain stone dead in the street and then see the neighbours sheer and dance while some sort of joyous circus music plays in the background then look no further! the soundtrack is here....a sort of twanging droning noise, the dialogue is second to none 'they killed the giggler man....he had no business doing that....none at all'.....and bronson avoids military level artillery simply by crouching down on one knee!!! watch this movie. its pure entertainment!!! "}{"Title":"Violence begets Violence!","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson returns in his signature role as Kersey, the vigilante, from Death Wish I and II. In this sequel, returns to the neighborhood of East New York in Brooklyn where the gangs of hopeless teenagers take on violence, robbery, and terrorism in a way more frightening than before. The police seem powerless or useless to stop the gang of teenagers and young adults who are all clearly deranged or under the brainwashing control of one. Everybody in the neighborhood has guns because they have already been terrorized by the youth. They remind me of the Children of the Corn. Anyway, Kersey returns to avenge his friend Charlie's death. He befriends his neighbor and friend played by the wonderful Martin Balsam. If you look closely enough, you will Star Trek's Marina Sirtis and Bill & Ted's Alex Winter in small roles. The film is entertaining at times. It's not for the weak hearted. There is a lot of unnecessary violence on both sides. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey returns to New York to visit his friend Charley, who lives in one of the worst parts of New York City. But when Paul arrives at Charley's apartment, he finds Charley dying after a vicious beating by a gang led by Manny Fraker, and the police enter the apartment and find Paul standing over Charley's body. Paul is arrested for the murder, but police chief Richard S. Shriker is like Paul with a badge -- he's a big fan of Paul. Shriker offers a deal Paul can kill all the punks he wants to kill, if he keeps the cops informed about the death count. Shriker releases Paul to go after Fraker. Paul moves into Charley's apartment in a decaying building in the middle of a bombed out gang war zone. The building is populated by a group of elderly tenants who are absolutely terrified by Fraker and his gang. Among the tenants are Charley's friend Bennett, an old watch repairman who keeps a couple of machine guns in his closet. There is also an elderly Jewish couple who live on the first floor. The neighborhood is ruled by Fraker, who wears a reverse Mohawk He keeps his hair on the sides, but shaves down the middle, to make room for a gang symbol in war paint. Paul buys a .475 Wildey Magnum with exploding big-game cartridges, spends an afternoon planting explosive charges in the bullets, and loads up for war against Fraker.This is one of the most coolest, but laughable comedy ever made. Good acting and directing is good though.Rated R for Nudity, Graphic Violence, Profanity and Rape. "},{"Title":"Again  architect Paul Kersey turned vigilante and taking the law into his own hands","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Third entry with excessive violence concerns about Paul Kersey, a middle-age New York architect and become into vigilante. He goes to L.A. to visit a good friend who's killed by furious band led by a punk (O'Herlihy). Meantime he's accused and jailed, but is freed by chief police(Ed Lauter)with whom agrees attack the gangs. Furthermore, Kersey knows a beautiful lawyer(Debora Raffin) and old Vietnam veteran(Martin Balsam). He stalks the slums of L.A. and takes the law into his own hands, searching vengeance on crooks, hoodlums, muggers, making the neighborhood safer.This new outing contains suspense, noisy action-packed, gun-play and lots of violence.Bronson with his usual stoic acting displays amount of weapons arsenal such as a special Magnum, greatest than Harry the Dirty and a machine gun killing nasties.Furthermore, appear as secondary casting, Alex Winter(Adventures of Bill and Ted) as a heinous hoodlum and Marina Sirtis( Star Trek) as a young women submitted to a brutal rape. This is an extremely violent sequel to the successful 1974 movie, that's , of course,the best from the series. The motion picture is middling directed by Michael Winner such as the previous films. It's followed by worst sequels  Death Wish 4  The crackdown(1987) directed by J.Lee Thompson and Death Wish The face of death(1994) directed by Allan Goldstein. "},{"Title":"Death wish 3 = CHEESE","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like Charles Bronson, he was a great actor. But come on! This movie is ultimate cheese, especially the bad guy Fraker. The director of this movie is cheese as well, this movie didn't get me scared or thrilled up, it made me laugh!!! Hard!!! I love the background music or shall I say, sound effects. Talk about HUGE cheesiness!!! Notice the Parts where you see bronson come out of a door and this weird sound effect is used, you will laugh! It is the same sound effect that was used in the 2nd death wish movie, so listen for it. pay close attention to the sound effects in the part where Kersey buys a car as bait, another laugh! also, what is with frakers haircut and his terrible acting!?!?!If you want to laugh at a movie that tries to hard to be a drama, and ends up being totally awful, this flick is for you "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paul Kersey (Bronsan) is at it again and back in NY avenging the death of his old army buddy. Not nearly as dark as the first 2, this film trades the previous nihilistic down-beat depressing tone for a more light-hearted typical action type fare and suffers because of it, but not by that much. The least half hour redeems it, in my eyes at least. The franchise should have stopped after this one, but us Death Wish fans would NOT be so lucky.Where I saw it Encore ActionMy action movie Grade B-in ADDITION to this watch Dirty Harry or the upcoming Punisher "},{"Title":"BANG! BANG! BOOM!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  one of the best action packed movies ever made! if you're a fan of violent video games like Grand Theft Auto 3, this movie is for you!The last 3o minutes is a huge street war in the ghetto! Convenient stores exploding! People getting run over! Vandalism! Bazookas!GREAT American movie! Charles Bronson kicks ass when he mail orders his gun Willy, he even goes as far to test Willy on a thug who steals his ice cream! GREAT MOVIE. 5/5 Stars! You can't go wrong with this one! "},{"Title":"The one's best movie of Charles Bronson","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Excellent acting of Bronson, one of the though guys in the movie world this is the best movie of the sequel of death wish, Paul Kersey is a cool avenger/punisher, a very good GUN ----> Caracther of Bronson if great for this kind of movies, if you like a good action film this is the one, some scenes are very comic, a fan of Bronson, dont bother with the classification, watch it. "},{"Title":"Excellent Action - Not to Be Missed at any cost !","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love all of the Death Wish films because of their good clean violence. I did of course like N 1, but quite frankly, it wasn't violent enough for my tastes! I mean, if you're going to make a film about violence, you must go the whole hog, not just part of the way ! With Death Wish III, I could not ask for more. The gun battles, the violence and the decimation and cleaning out of the scum of society give far more pleasure than I would ever have imagined. Of course, the plot is limited in scope, but it's not the plot that is of the greatest interest here. It's the cleansing of society, the rooting out and destruction of pure evil as personnified by the bad gangs, that gives the spectator the most pleasure. I have seen very few films with the intensity of this one and hope dearly that it will be issued one day on  DVD so that more people may appreciate it. "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish 3 features lots of shootings, explosions, car crashes, mutilations, and Charles Bronson being Charles Bronson! The main reason to watch these movies is for the action and violent content, and this one delivers. Bronson puts a guy's head through the bars of a jail cell, fixes up a trap that knocks another's front teeth out, and in the end leads a war through the streets! "},{"Title":"If you like the series and are a fan of Bronson...","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...then you are guaranteed to enjoy this violent feast of a film. If you are NOT a fan you'll probably turn it off halfway through, because this is entertainment about as silly and mindless as they come. It's nowhere near a classic but it sure is fun seeing Bronson take out the bad guys, and the Death Wish-movies are famous for being loaded with villains we love to hate.It doesn't hurt that it's directed by Michael Winner, who directed some of Bronson's best movies (The Mechanic, the original Death Wish). And the whole sha-bang leads to a finale with Bronson and Ed Lauter that really belongs in an old western-movie. But do I care? No. Like the demented Bronson-fan I am, I love it! "}{"Title":"Enjoyably bad....","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 3 is very entertaining, everything about this movie is mind numbingly terrible, making it the perfect dumb-ass action flick, Bronson is 63 years old and is jumping around like Arnold Schwarzenegger and shooting more bad guys then Clint Eastwood in his prime.Sure it's bad, but where as the Part 4 is strictly so bad it's good, this has some surprisingly decent actionscenes, which goes the Commando route. In which Death Wish 3 spins in a routine yet never the less entertaining fashion.**1/2 (Out Of Four)  "},{"Title":"Black comedy classic","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS HEREIN I don't think this movie was meant to be a black comedy, but that's how it plays.  In fact, if it weren't for the graphic violence, it could even be labeled as a slapstick comedy.  I mean, how can you take a movie seriously when the hero (Charles Bronson's Paul Kersey, back in New York City after a brief stint in LA) buys an expensive camera to use as bait for a street gang, tells his buddies I'm now going to get some ice cream...it's a free country, isn't it?, and then slings the camera over his shoulder.  Let's just say the bait worked and violent action results.  And how can you forget Paul Kersey eating dinner with his friendly Jewish neighbors who, despite having thugs jump through their first story window to steal their TV sets, still have time to fuss over stuffed cabbage rolls?  Last and definitely not least, Jimmy Page's musical score--his guitar sounds like an electric violin, and always at the most dramatic moment (the aforementioned ice cream comment is followed by his intense score).   This was a movie I watched repeatedly in college for the laughs.  I am not quite sure whether Charles Bronson was in on the joke (and possibly not, as he made two other Death Wish movies after this, neither as memorable as this one).  In all seriousness, the first Death Wish was basically a western set in New York City, and was a relatively intelligent and thought-provoking crime film.  Death Wish 3, just by having the words Death Wish in its title, is an insult to the integrity of the first movie.  But besides this point, the movie is a howlingly good time. "},{"Title":"Who's this dude","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Words can't describe the genius of this movie. More punches, explosions, and gun shots then you can shake a stick at. Paul Kersey is back and better then ever, ready to clean the streets from the scum of the universe. With an alstar cast of characters such as Ed Lauter as Shriker and Gavan O'Hurley as Fraker, hiow could one go wrong. The only true crime that was ever commited is that this piece of cinematic art was never honoured with the Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Lead Actor, Best Supporting Actor and Best Sound. Until next time ladies and gentlemen, Watch my stuff till I...get...back.....ugh. "},{"Title":"Absolutely deranged! (SPOILERS)","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish was a solid little thriller, Death Wish II was mean-spirited garbage, and Death Wish 3 is one of the most demented and utterly wacko films ever released. The whole thing is so mind-bogglingly stupid, all you can do is sit there in stunned disbelief. Paul Kersey, the put-upon protagonist, demonstrates once again what a jinx he is. Having seen his immediate family (and his maid) wiped out in the first two films, he returns to New York City - or, at least, a little-seen area of London mocked up as a hellish inner-city district of the Big Apple - and not only does his old army buddy (fresh from a beating by Bill from BILL AND TED'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE) die in his arms, he's also arrested by the local cops on suspicion of killing him. This is a run of bad luck that would even test the patience of Tex Avery's Droopy. Kersey is taken down to the station where he gets roughed up and locked in a communal cell with some hardcore thugs, none of whom are a match for the 65-year-old vigilante. After a quick bit of chatter about the rising crime rates, the Chief decides to spring Kersey (I'm a real fan, he explains helpfully) to do his dirty work for him. And all this happens in the first fifteen minutes! This is a film that doesn't so much stretch credibility as forget about it completely. Kersey returns to the besieged apartment block and finds out first-hand what a hellhole it is. The residents live in fear of thieves, vandals, muggers, robbers and all kinds of human scum under the loose command of a Willem Dafoe lookalike with a kind of reverse mohican, so our erstwhile hero gets to work, setting boobytraps, punching out speed-addled goons and blowing the creeps away. This plods on for about an hour, but Kersey is doing his job too well, stealing the police force's thunder, so he gets locked up again. This lasts about as long as it takes to have a shave, and the scene is set for a pulverising twenty minutes of cartoon carnage with a sky-high body count and some genuinely hilarious deaths, none moreso than the demise of the gang leader. And, this being a Winner film, there is one (unseen) rape and one attempted rape, but thankfully the focus is on pyrotechnic violence, of which there is plenty. It's all entertaining, in a cheesy, no-brainer kind of way, the production values are cheap and cheerful, the script is atrocious and there are more laughs here than in several comedies I could mention. If this film wasn't made under the influence of a blizzard of cocaine, then I fear Winner and company have the shakiest grip on reality this side of Howard Hughes. Do yourself a favour and seek this one out, it really is so bad it's good! "},{"Title":"Wow, 64 Years old and look at him...","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bronson you really know how to put a smile on my face. Well that isn't hard since all your films do. Ever since i've been a baby i've been playing charlie on the garden on stuff. Same as Clint, Arnold, and Sly. Death Wish 3 is a great, fantasic just for people who like action films. But i don't understand people who don't wanna watch this will watch Harry Potter. Oh yeah, why?. I mean Arnie's Collateral Damage is like a Bronson film, Vigilante, now i know most men who like Bronson would have loved that film. I mean why is harry potter making money and this action star wannabe Vin Diecel. They are crap. Vin doesn't have hair, bronson does now, and all, every little bit of it. Every film Bronson does, clint, arnie and sly I LOVE. Movies today can't get any better then Death Wish 3, no way apart from the arnold film. I mean is this Bronson takes on a gang of punks that cause trouble out side he's friends house, they kill he's friend so he's not gonna let them live eh?. I think people don't like stuff because they are afraid they'll wanna do it them selfs,or just too chicken to stand up for them self. You should be cheering for films like this so we can so people we are not afraid, like terrorist. Well anyway i will say to anyone, Go ahead see this movie, you love it.10/10 "},{"Title":"Catch it on the evening news.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I should really really hate this film. After I ragged on Alien Warrior on this site a few days ago, I really shouldn't stick up for Death Wish 3, but I will... simply because it was one in a series of 18 rated films that I watched before I was 18. The thrill of watching videos borrowed off mates, the thrill of being a 'grown up'. Little did I know that Winner must have aimed this film at exactly my audience - people not old enough to see that the films were, in reality, trash. This 'effort' (if it be referred to as such) has more holes than Bronson's bulletproof at the end of the film. I can't understand how if the old Jewish fella has been killed, how his wife is still hanging about and being cheerful. And doesn't he turn up in the final fight sequence? But, it has a very cheesy charm. More to the point, there is a strong comedy element (unintentional, I'm sure) to this film that makes it highly enjoyable.  Comedy moments come thick and fast in this film.  * The bit where Bronson (wearing his cheesy old man leather jacket like a demented old uncle at a party) turns to the young boy who shouts Yeah! at him and raises his fist, in a touching gesture of solidarity.* Martin Balsa (sorry, BALSAM, I was thinking of the wood) loading the bullets backwards and being beaten to within an inch of his characters' hideous, pointless life.  * The whole 'walking off and being defeated by a bunch of OAPs and pre-pubescents' at the end.  * The teeth. Dear Lord, the TEETH! * The pipe with missile.I could go on but I'm going to have to go home and watch it now, laughing until the tears run down my cheeks and my long suffering girlfriend has to help me use my inhaler.  "},{"Title":"Better than the 2nd, but not even close to the original","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoiler Death Wish one and two's stories were almost identical, and with three they altered the story.  This time Bronson is working for the cops, and a full scale riot erupts.  I give this movie a five or six depending on my mood. The seriousness of the original is dropped.  This is an action film.  I can not believe they filmed it in London and made it look like New York.  The budget was much higher than the first two films.  I was glad when the Creeper got what he deserved.  6/10 "},{"Title":"The Bronson is grumpy!","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When you thought the world finally had gone politically correct...BOOOOM, Michael Winner and his crew is making a devilish massacre in which drop-out-youths isn't people, but gunprotected monsters without remorse...Charles Bronson is starring in this revenge-based rollercoaster. With powerful weapons, crooks and a bad tempered hero like Charles, it just can't go wrong...or could it? First of all, the movie lacks credibility. Everyone is either very good or very bad, and in this type of setting we just cant get familiar with the characters...They remain unknown to us...and then they get shot. There are some very funny scenes in this movie, though. Bronson and his action-crippled face are really firing away some lead at those darn youths, and at times it can seem like a black comedy in the line of Simpsons. Zeppelin-guitarist Jimmy Page worked out the music, which I must say is a rather bizarre score. It has taken most of its elements from those goofy 70's detective-films, and it changes at times into a purely effect-based soundimage, which might result in a smile to the viewer.I give it a 3 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Politically incorrect but enjoyable","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you like the Deathwish movies (and I do), then you'll probably like it. An ultraviolent fantasy.  It has factual errors you can't buy handguns or rocket launchers by mail.  However, it has a strong good vs. evil theme, and plenty of action.  The bad guys get it, and get it in a major way.If you enjoy exploring the rationale of criminals, fascinating intellectual discourse, or the adventures of introverts, pass this one by.  "},{"Title":"Awesome A Bronson Classic","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time, I must have watched it at least 5 times. I think this is the best movie Bronson ever made. The filming and music are revolutionary and unique. The movie is action packed, and hilarious, with memorable and funny one liners. I'm surprised it hasn't gotten higher ratings. However, I am sure that it will become a cult classic with die hard Bronson fans. I don't think there will ever be a movie to match this one. Leo "}{"Title":"2nd best in the series","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was a flat out riot.  Unintentionally yes, but still a good time. This sequel takes Mr. Kersey back to New York where he no longer uses being an architect as a front, he's become a full-time vigilante!  If there's one good performance in the film, it belongs to Fraker (played brilliantly by Gavan O'Herlihy) as the sadistic gang leader.  The first one was serious, this one and part two were only good for laughs, and the fourth one is good for nothing. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite movie ever. The best part is the last half hour, in which there is all-out war over an entire town, with Charles Bronson, armed with a machine gun, killing the gang members by the dozens. The gang members, meanwhile, are going around throwing grenades at things and attacking anyone they see. It is non-stop violence and action. The plot couldn't be much better, and the photography is amazingly good. Charles Bronson does a great acting job. This movie is not only the best in the series, but the best move I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"2nd best of series","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  watching this movie you would never know that it was filmed in England,instead of New York where it is set. the film does have some great scenes of charlie blasting the creeps. lets face it though these guys could have taken out Kersey at any time, still well worth a look if you like action movies. "},{"Title":"Bronson at his best","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great. It had everything a true action fan could want. Plenty of people getting shot and/or maimed, minimal romance involving sex, a hero that can be identified with, violence at many intervals instead of pointless plot storing up just one scene at the end, and villains that are just asking for it. Bronson appears to be at his lowest level of tolerancy in this film and it shows. Ed Lauter makes a great cop and was seamlessly worked into Bronson's plot without stealing his spotlight. The movie doesn't involve a plot so boring or over-consuming that you watch this film once and never again. Rather, you want to see Kersey in action and the storyline just juices it up. This is great stuff. "},{"Title":"Goofy Golan-Globus - great!","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The third entry in the series is hilariously sleazy and violent. It can't be taken seriously for a minute. From seeing Troi from Star Trek The Next Generation getting her top ripped off, or Bronson waiting for Wildey to come along, the film never has a dull moment. The writing has classic lines like, I'm going to kill a little old lady just for you! and when Bronson gets a gun, Think I'll go down the street and get myself some ice cream. And as it goes along, the movie gets more and more wacko until there is a gigantic climax that must be seen to be believed. A lot of fun - but also sobering, when you realize that movies like this killed Bronson's theatrical career.  "},{"Title":"Charles Bronson is back in town","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best sequels around and a very good movie too even there were some mistakes but still I enjoyed it. This time, Charles is not just fighting one or two muggers but a whole army of them. Death Wish 3 has a lot great action scenes and I enjoyed it every single second of it. Director Michael Winner knows how to direct a good action movie like this and Jimmy Page providing the music, with producers Golan and Globus still doing there thing and Charles Bronson is still acting good for Paul Kersey. This movie also made it look like that Michael try to end the Death Wish series and I can't blame him and I love the Gun that Charles uses. Death Wish 3 is one of the great movies of 1985 and can't get any better than this.I gives this 9/10 "},{"Title":"Truly a classic","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" While I agree that this movie lacks any real substance and should not be taken seriously, its primarily directed to fans of the series who are looking for a quick fix. Bronson (Paul Kersey)once again takes to the streets (given a license to kill by the chief police no less) and moves into his friends apartment (who you guessed it) was killed by a street gang that has taken control of the neighborhood (which looks like Beruit). It's funny that people who associate with Bronson have a habit of getting killed. Bronson systematically kills them off one by one as the people in the neighborhood are used against him. There are some dynamics between Bronson and Fraker who leads the street gang, you can tell they both enjoy their work. At one point in the movie after they scuffle in the city jail, Fraker say's, I'm going to kill a little old lady just for you, catch it on the 600 news. The Giggler, a purse thief who laughs as he's committing his crimes is also enjoyable to watch. The movie was made in 1985 and most people probably could identify with the stereotypical urban gangs that are cast in the movie. It's enjoyable watching Bronson (Paul Kersey) rid the streets of these thugs. Watch for the appearance of the Wildey Magnum, a serious piece of hardware that Bronson wields. I also really liked the soundtrack to this movie. "},{"Title":"I'm Going Out For Some Ice Cream","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an incredibly fun action/exploitation 80s rocker.  Charles Bronson rules as Paul  Kirsey.  The villains are hilariously bad.  The soundtrack, by Jimmy Page is laughably  bad.  Alex Winter (Bill of Bill & Ted) is great as one of the street punks who gets wasted  by Bronson and crew.  Crew?  Oh, those are the downtrodden townsfolk who team up  with Bronson to win back the streets.  The whole movie is enjoyable, with the last half  hour or so exploding into non-stop action and mayhem.  9/10  "},{"Title":"Least objectionable film in the series","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's still got plenty of the ol' ultraviolence, but Death Wish 3 is more of a comic book than the other Death Wish films, and is therefore easier to watch. The street gang is utterly unbelievable and seem to have stepped out of Breakin' 2 Electric Boogaloo, but sadly they don't indulge in any break dancing. The only true nastiness are the rape scenes, which revel in some extremely gratuitous topless female nudity. And if Death Wish 3 can actually make a claim to fame, it's this how many other films feature actual product placement for a gun? 'Weapons technical adviser' Wildey Moore provided a custom made handgun which star Charles Bronson uses to great effect.  "},{"Title":"Death Wish III","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In every DEATH WISH movie, Paul Kersey is denied his girl. If a woman of any sort associates herself with Kersey, she winds up dead. DEATH WISH III isn't any different. Michael Winner and his star Charles Bronson really serve up some repulsive punks and creeps in this movie! Hoodlums are running loose and free seemingly unabated by the police(if anything, it appears the police assist them in their methods to terrorize and torment innocent people living in apartments in the location of a veritable hellhole, a street which represents a decrepit, filthy armpit in our country, full to the brim with the worst type of scum and slime). Gavan O'Herlihy's head punk, Fraker, has to register as one of the most repellent, disgustingly loathsome gangleaders ever. He slits an old lady's throat, calls up her husband to relate the news to him and his reason..the guy kicked one of Fraker's guys out of his store! The city streets in this film resemble Beirut for crying out loud and the scene where Kersey walks down blocks firing off rounds from a Browning machine gun like some sort of geriatric Rambo has to be seen to be believed. It's positively surreal. Oh and to see Ed Lauter's police chief, Shrinker, side by side shooting human garbage with Kersey is rather amusing as well. There seems to be a limitless army Fraker had recruited, they just keep coming and coming, dying and dying. Buildings and cars bombed with Molotov cocktails and grenades. Kersey covering a wide area of East New York as he unloads bullets from his Wildey Magnum, quite the crack shot, evading, miraculously, gunfire aimed right at him from the opposition. It's a wild ride and if you are an undemanding action fan who can allow himself to completely align with the absurd plot that unfolds before you, then DEATH WISH III is the ticket. Just a word of warning. This is a Michael Winner film, so the innocent and evil equally suffer. The gorgeous Deborah Raffin is a lawyer who falls for Kersey, a major no-no in DEATH WISH films. Martin Balsam brings some class to this utterly classless film as a neighborhood mechanic for taxi cab parts. I guess the finale covers about 30 minutes of carnage..the city blocks in this film mirror a war zone one might associate with a torn apart Iraq or something. Buildings crumble, women with sack groceries are interrupted rudely and violently, innocent bystanders beaten with chains..it's all eye-popping and bizarre. Most people will consider a film like this an insult to taste and intelligence. For the rest of us, it's jawdroppingly awesome. "}{"Title":"Truly Horrible","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Naked Deanna Troi! Richie's brother Chuck (from Happy Days) with a reverse mohawk!Death Wish 3 has all this and more, including one clever scene where Chuck Bronson's character sets up a mousetrap like device that brains a punk when he opens the window.Chuck also places a board with a bunch of nails on the floor near another window and smiles when he returns and sees bloody footprints leading away.All I can say about Death Wish 3 is that it is one of most incomprehensible serious movies that I have ever seen--loaded to the hilt with mayhem, and nearly zero police response, despite the use of military weapons to mow punks down by the score.As I understand it, Bronson disowned this film, but happily cashed the check from Golan Globus.If you enjoy quality movies, avoid this one, but if you're in for a cheap Jackass kind of thrill, check it out. "},{"Title":"Kersey's vigilante style shows greatly in the flick, although not always perfect","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is probably the second best of the Death Wish movies. Death Wish 5 is the best one.Death Wish 3 reminds me of West Side Story with a new twist. Not even the recent flick Gangs of New York can measure up with one New York neighborhood in Death Wish 3 which is plagued not by two rival gangs---but one big gang. A gang that is willing to do things like cutting a person to death with an ax if he trespasses on its set.Deborah Raffin, who plays a public defender, plays gently in this action-packed movie that is filled with a lot of shoot-em-up violence. So, like Geri Nichols in Death Wish II, Death Wish III scores with its gentle, romantic moments as well as its violent moments. Only the James Bond love-interest scenes would do much better.And, in addition to his .38, Kersee plays with this new gun called the Wildey .475 Magnum. It reminded me of the Dirty Harry movies when Callahan used his .44 Magnum in Magnum Force, Sudden Impact and Dirty Harry. The Wildey gun packs a big punch and when Kersey kills with it, he doesn't care if the gun has a big kick in it.And that antitank missile that killed off the main gang leader? Well, that is something. Kersey would not use an antitank missile as his regular vigilante weapon....that is way too military for him. "},{"Title":"Death Wish 3","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie is incredible, it has a sound track which sets the tone for the movie. THe lines in the movie are great, such as Nothings to good for out friends and Its collection time Charlie collection time. I can watch this movie over and over again and still laugh because the lines and action are one of a kind. I feel that when i watch this movie I want to go out and shoot down bad guys, If there is a movie that you don't want to miss its this one. They killed the Giggler man, they killed the Giggler They had no right in doing that, hes on our turf ill take care of it. The lines just keep on coming in the movie. Deff. go out and not rent but buy this movie its worth the money trust me. "},{"Title":"Exterminate all the brutes","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" We got hell here, old man Marty says to Bronson, returning home the prodigal son to New York City and he ain't kidding these ravaged streets look like the badlands of Deadwood, the bombed-out edifices of war-torn Iraq, or Nostrand Ave. Rampant violence out in open daylight and cops of Keystone variety just drive by. Multiracial gangs dressed like Little Rascals, led by Nosferatu with a backward Mohawk &#150; barber misunderstanding the guy and I'm sure he was killed shortly thereafter. Extortion at will, an elderly thug picking at plaque with the barrel of a .357 and everyone listens to Jimmy Page. This the milieu and here we go &#150; our hero, once Conscientious Objector, now a bold Black Angel of Death arriving just in time. Bronson What about the cops, they do anything? Rodriguez, nice Rican neighbor Yeah, they enforce the parking laws. Nefarious miscreants bust into respectable senior citizens' homes through the fire escape at any given time of day &#150; ex-architect Bronson fortifies apartments in much the same way young Kevin will the family house in Home Alone Marty What're you doing? Bronson Thinning the herd. Culminating in a full-scale uprising bearing startling resemblance to the L.A. riots &#150; brutal beating of a Caucasian male passerby, stoning of police vehicles, looting, pillaging, buildings on fire, flames eight-stories high. One of the best American films of the '70's, the original belongs with Taxi Driver, The Exterminator, and Bad Lieutenant as mad (insane), sad, urban fever-dreams, sharing a same sensibility, one both distinctly New York (paranoia, sense of irony, knowledge of neighborhoods, subway lines, history and general way of city life) and male. Anti-hero myths, Movie movies masquerading as social commentary (unlike, say Norma Rae or Serpico). It can further be categorized, along with Electra Glide in Blue and Easy Rider, as time capsule for The Way We Live Now and Why. Acting (Bronson &#150; less an actor than a presence &#150; attempted a performance, his character subtle and nuanced; something like Clint in Unforgiven, coming at it with all that tough guy, man-of-action baggage and flipping it, making it mortal), score (Herbie Hancock), direction (Brit Michael Winner would pimp the next two sequels, but here his work was sound; unflinching, satiric &#150; a handsome shot of a clean, sunny New York and the camera zooms out to reveal it's a postcard, the picture-perfect tourist facade portrait sitting there in the midst of the cesspool that is the real one), script and locations conjoined to form a solid, satisfying slab of concrete. Plus that killer parting shot, rivaling another '70's New York classic, The Taking of Pelham 1-2-3. By Death Wish 3, we've an invincible automaton, downright psychopathic, dispatching vengeance in a clinical manner with nary a quip &#150; not Bronson's style, baby. Exterminate with extreme dispassion. No conflict or complexities here, the message simple early on, a shot of a cockroach scurrying across the floor, the corrupt police lieutenant on whose side we're supposed to be stomping it with his shoe and saying, Cockroaches &#150; I hate em. Later, he'll smash one against the wall with bare fingers and ask Bronson to cool it for a few &#150; too much heat coming down, y'see &#150; which Bronson will refuse, saying, It's like killing roaches &#150; you have to kill em all, otherwise, what's the point? Bronson now a vigilante by profession, blackmail-hired by aforementioned police lieutenant to take out the trash his men cannot. Tools of trade including a Wildey Magnum (bullets the size of your middle finger) and a couple heavy-duty vintage machine guns need two strong arms to hold. Plus a missile launcher. One long commercial for the NRA, by the film's climax, all formerly terrorized residents will have procured guns &#150; some pried from the clutching hands of dying thugs they themselves have killed &#150; and used them without trepidation, running rampant through rioting streets, shooting indiscriminately at minority youths, ostensibly taking back the night. Page's nervy, wall-to-wall score (lifted from part two) lending the only edge to a cynical venture. Yet, there is also something to be said for cold simplicity. Produced today, you can be sure them three seconds it takes Bronson to load would be drummed into its own action sequence &#150; two-thousand cuts deep, shot from every angle and with a glossy sheen so beautiful you'd want to eat or screw it. Each punk shot receiving his own thunderous movement, jacked up camera in constant motion, low-angle tracking shots, triple-extreme hand-held close-ups cascading into a climax with said punk's towering body and Bronson's ejected cartridge inter cut as they descend to the ground, bouncing twice before lying still, crashing music score quelled to silence, followed quickly by a throwaway quip, bring us all back from melodrama. Bruckheimer bombast, sound and fury signifying Peckinpah spitting out his cigar and rolling in his grave. All the carnage occurs here, it's the women who suffer most; Rodriguez' wife, for example, despite having zero lines, will be kidnapped, beaten, gang-raped and murdered, making it personal for our once cheery, now devastated token Rican (who weeps in his sombreros-ridden apartment &#150; no joke). Females are victims only, occasionally used as pawn &#150; you're a hoodlum and an old guy threatens your rep, your very manhood, you rape his lady, maybe punch her in the face, blow up his car while she's passed out in it. Thus the message of Death Wish 3 (Screw complicated Roman numerals, said marketing) is simpler, even more Republican-American than an eye for an eye/ stomp all minorities and liberals. Said message I am here to make money, and exploiting your basest fears and fantasies is how I'll do it. At one point, Bronson chidingly asks fellow Korean war vet Marty, This is America, isn't it? while concealing the massive Magnum behind his back. Marty's look is troubled, but in case there be cast doubt, the American flag hung (droopily) in the corner of Bronson's bunker confirms it. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" On a surface level, it has all the markings of a horrible movie - the dialog is often bad, the plot ridiculous, the music jumps wildly from one cheesy genre to another, and the editing is often poor. But this thing has a watch-ability to it that many other bad movies don't, even beyond the kitch factor, and the kitch factor is pretty close to perfect here. The movie does have a structure, and ramps up it's over-the-top quality to an unbelievable level by the end. More than decent time killer for a lazy afternoon, and this movie could be a good choice for the right group of friends to watch together and riff on. Hilarious. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I couldn't' agree more than with the comment left by coldshitaction and how this film is a masterpiece. I have never seen a film that had my adrenalin flowing that this film did, and that mostly happened when Bronson comes running out a fire escape with like an M-60 and plows down like 20 dude from a gang, it's genius. Quite possibly the best action movie ever made (no exaggeration either), it really could be the best action movie ever made. From the start, one should know that you;re in for something sweet when the police let Bronson go and tell him, tell him, to clean up the slums. Once again, genius. And once again Bronson is a bad ass. Paul Kersey is just as cool, maybe even cooler than John McClain or the Terminator, he's just simply a bad ass. And what else is great is the fact that he's a nice guy and buys a kid some ice cream and helps out an old couple all before he kills some scum bag. genius. Highly recommended, if you hate this movie you're crazy. "},{"Title":"He killed the Giggler!","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Good Lord, what kind of awful dreck is this? This entry in the long-running Death Wish series easily brings up the tail end, and commits the unforgivable action-movie sin of being a complete and total BORE. Michael Winner (who directed the previous two entries) and Charles Bronson (again reprising his role as architect Paul Kersey) are the names that technically defined this type of movie, but this time out there's an ominously present apathy and indifference that bleeds through the screen and into your brain. Death Wish 3 plays like 5 crumpled, coffee-stained pages of script ideas somehow inflated to a feature-length film, and it shows from the underdeveloped, unnecessary, and absurdly contrived romantic subplot to the faint supporting cast to the final reel, in which Bronson mows down a seemingly endless parade of scum (bodies are propelled backward by gunfire; stuntmen fall off roofs), it's as if everyone sighed and said I give up! before the cameras even started rolling. In any case, this comes across quite disturbingly in Bronson, who can manage expression behind his steely trademark look, but here seems weary of the whole venture, draining the joy out of his rampage (this also isn't helped by his unconvincing motivation for it); the idea of Kersey mobilizing the harassed residents of a crumbling tenement doesn't help lift the gloom, and comes across as idiotically as a man in a green half-shirt. Additionally, the film contains gaping lapses in logic that are present only to accommodate the plodding pace--if, for example, friendly neighborhood clock repairman Martin Balsam has functional WWII artillery in his apartment, why the hell does he wait until Kersey comes along to use it? This question, like many others in Death Wish 3, will elicit a resounding WHO CARES? from those who make it that far... "},{"Title":"Wild Action Film That Delivers the Goods","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 3 (1985) *** (out of 4)Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) is on a bus heading to visit a friend in New York City but once he gets there he finds the friend dead. It turns out that the neighborhood has been taken over by a gang of ruthless murdering thugs so to protect the building his friend lived in Kersey straps the guns back on and prepares for battle.DEATH WISH 3 has become one of the biggest cult action films of the decade and it's very easy to see why because you're not going to find a more over-the-top or insane picture. The final twenty or so minutes of this picture contains some of the wackiest and most outrageous action scenes that you'll ever witness so it's easy to watch them while drinking a beer and cheering along.What's always been so shocking to me about this series is how drastically different the films are from one another. The first film was a very dark and disturbing picture that asked political and social questions about killing. The second picture was a downright cheap exploitation movie. This third film seems like an out of control video game where Bronson is just given a wide range of weapons and we see him use them against some of the craziest group of villains that you'll ever see.DEATH WISH 3 is certainly a very weird movie but it's also a very entertaining one. Again, the main reason to watch this film is just to see Bronson back in action. I know he said in several interviews that he hated this picture but it really does look as if he's having fun. He's given some creative ways to kill people and there's even some humor thrown in from various traps that he sets up. Again, the real highlight comes in the final action sequence where an entire town gets blown up. This final sequence ranks as one of the wildest in cinema history.As I said, I think Bronson is in fine form here but we also get nice supporting performances from Martin Balsam, Ed Lauter, Deborah Raffin and Gavan O'Herlihy. Michael Winner does a good job at not taking anything too serious and he certainly manages to deliver a fast and loose picture. Again, it's rather shocking to see how different this film is compared to the previous two but DEATH WISH 3 deserves credit for trying something different. "},{"Title":"Way Too Silly!","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson & director Michael Winner return again for this third entry, which finds Paul Kersey returning to New York to visit an old army friend, only to find that the friend was murdered by a vicious street gang terrorizing the neighborhood. With the blessing of the local police department, Kersey resumes his vigilante ways, and vows to help the residents out, and avenge his friend.Routine sequel grows increasingly ludicrous as it goes along, with a cartoon-like final siege, where Bronson must fight off dozens of gang members at once, mowing them down with his special handgun, then a WWII army machine gun! Clearly, either director Michael Winner let the film get away from him, or he decided to turn it into a self-parody; either way, preposterous action loses all sense of reality, torpedoing this franchise into utter silliness. "},{"Title":"Death wish or Police academy ?","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is some really good and professional music by Jimmy Page (from Led Zeppelin)in here. It's probably the best thing in the whole movie. Death wish 2 was bad , but this is a disaster.Look , I can enjoy a stupid and cheesy action movie from time to time . Tango and Cash , Commando  , Cobra and few others . The have some kind of charm . The whole stupidity and cheese in those movies looks natural and doesn't annoy me. Hell , I think I love them for that . Unfortunately , Death wish 3 is a sequel to great and serious action movie. This movie feels like Police Academy  trying to be a serious movie ! The problem with punks terrorizing calm and good people is a rather serious one. I doubt that anyone who saw this movie really took it seriously. I mean come on. The bad guys look like they came from Police academy ! Compare them to the punks from first two movies and tell me you don't see a difference.Bad acting from almost everyone (maybe except Bronson and Ed Lauter &#x96; the inspector). Unbelievable , forced , pointless and purely instrumental love story . Cheap humor. Lame script. Unexciting action scenes. OK , I guess I've enjoyed the final battle with all the punks , but mainly because it was so over the top.Too bad that such sequels make people forget what a great movie first  Death wish  was. I give it 3/10. "}{"Title":"Really, another one of these things?","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Death Wish 3' is slightly less sickening than the first two films but otherwise it's business as usual. Charles Bronson is back as Paul Kersey, creaking into action when his friend is murdered. The crime rate has risen in the area thanks to a gang terrorising the neighbourhood, you see, and there's only one solution send in Kersey's loose cannon vigilante to exact bloodthirsty revenge, or, as the makers of this movie would have it, justice; this time Kersey is the personal killing machine of the police chief.Director Michael Winner and writer Don Jakoby bend over backwards to make Kersey a hero whose actions are justified and condoned the useless cops enter the area only to confiscate a weapon from an elderly resident who keeps it for protection, and in one scene Kersey's response to his camera being stolen is to shoot the thief in the back, to applause from onlookers. This is the alternate dimension in which the movie operates. To the film's characters this is the ideal solution, and the intellectually dishonest way they cheer Kersey on and back him up is insulting. The film doesn't want its audience to have opinions about Kersey's actions unless they're positive, it wants to tell us what to think.Oddly, the beleaguered residents don't fear reprisals from the gang or blame Kersey for any of the violence, which is strange as one character is killed precisely because of his involvement. At the end of the film they all take guns from their sock drawers and join in with the massacre, never stopping to think about the consequences or the emotional toll of taking a life, which might have been interesting. I get that it's all a revenge fantasy, but does the damn thing have to be so cheap and nasty and uninterested in believable human reactions and the issues it pretends it isn't raising?Bronson's shallow performance doesn't help, as he has literally one facial expression throughout and can't put inflection on the right words. New heights of idiocy are reached here &#x96; a machine gun? A rocket launcher?? Well, okay. Worse, the movie reaches new lows of misogyny even for this series the plot contrives to desecrate every female character in sight, whether by rape, explosion or a slashed throat, and sets them up in supremely stupid fashion, like one victim who ventures alone into the crime-ridden, gang-controlled neighbourhood at night to ask out a stranger. It's disgusting stuff.This is mindless dreck, pure and simple, slung together with no thought and maximum grot. "},{"Title":"I never saw a film more staged","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Im shocked - on many levels.Im shocked that Michael Winner is so well renowned as a director after just witnessing such an amateur, patchy and staged film.Im shocked that other comments praise this film as a classic - did I watch a different film ?In a nutshell it was extremely STAGED with each and every situation queued in one by one like a cheap school drama.Six billion bullets came Bronson's way and only 2 connected which were nicely lined up on his bullet proof vest. He ran down an alley right into the path of 2 villains that emptied their guns at him from a range of 10 feet and not one bullet connected. Bronson shoots each villain like lame ducks at a rifle range as they all just stay put until he drops them.I watched it to the end because we all like to see scum get wasted but the STAGING of each event was hard to bear.You will know what an amateur and staged film it is by the way the end draws to a lame close. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!!","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is true action at its finest, It doesn't get any better then this. This is one of those movies that you can just kick back and watch some real good non stop shooting and killing plus there are some excellent lines to go along with all of this. My favorite is there is a one bad guy who is breaking into this old couples home and he is stealing a TV or something and he goes right up to them and yells I will come in here anytime i like!!! and right before he jumps out the window he yells Anytime!!! I mean this is just classic stuff all the way around so you got a choice, you can watch that crappy Will Smith try to go an action film or you can watch one of the Masters Charles Bronson!!!! "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charles Bronson returns as Paul Kersey the vigilante who chucks his No more vigilante vow when his best friend is killed in this over the top yet fast moving sequel. Death Wish 3 may not be anyone's first choice for a rental, but this sequel has it's moments. "},{"Title":"Shooting Galore and a flakey Charles Bronson","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was entertaining if you want to laugh at the extremely bad plot. Charles Bronson is truly immortal, dodging so many bullets even though he was in their direct line of fire, bloomin amazing. The police chief had the weirdest moral code ever. It's very disturbing how much the old fogey's in this movie loved all the murdering and blood, I'll remember that the next time I visit my granny.The plot was just plain dumb, and the acting was terrible. The characters didn't have any depth. One good thing was that the movie wasn't so predictable but apart from that there's not much else.Watch this movie if you love Charles Bronson, but otherwise leave it on the shelf, or change the channel. "},{"Title":"What is the point?","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just what is the point of this movie?  I came across it for the first time on cable TV a few days ago and was gobsmacked by how pointless it was. Surely it was not meant to be taken seriously.  The first in the series of Death Wish movies was blatant right wing militant propaganda but by the time that Mr. Winner has got to #3 (10 years later but you would not guess from the style) the whole tacky exercise has long since run out of steam. 0/10. (only because minus is not allowed) "},{"Title":"I should dislike this movie, but... I don't","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The 3rd in the series finds Paul Kersey (Bronson) turning vigilante to get revenge on the thugs that murdered his old buddy. I don't know why this movie shoved me into it, but somehow it did. I found myself rooting for Bronson to wipe the floor with those punks. Every time he blew one of them away I felt good. This movie does not take itself seriously, but what if it did? There is a good build-up to the fireworks finale in which Bronson goes on a rampage. But as far as acting and plot go, it just doesn't measure up. If I lived in that neighborhood, I would get out as fast as I could, but it seems like the people are asking for trouble. I know there is that mentality that we need to save our streets, but there is a limit here folks. I had to give it a 4. Sure there are good blow 'em away scenes but that's about it. At that time, Bronson was 64. I'm sure if those thugs really wanted to they could have their way with Bronson. Bronson takes the place of a Schwarzanegger or Stallone in this movie. This movie gives you a sense of rejoice. The common man can save the neighborhood, save the day. To sum it up, this is far from being the original Death Wish, but it is rather good if you are just looking for an hour and a half of shoot 'em up.   "},{"Title":"Z-z-z-z-z-z","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" You have to figure Michael Winner was awfully tired of making DEATH WISH movies by the third one, and it shows. DW 3 is essentially a comedy, but a tired one with few laughs. Everybody looks tired Charles Bronson acts like he'd rather lie down on the nearest couch. His Paul Kersey arrives back in NYC and is quickly put back into action by a nasty-ass police lieutenant (the usually dependable Ed Lauter, also looking tired). Kersey takes on a literal army of neighborhood thugs, and his firepower keeps escalating to the point of ridiculous, when he employs a modern-day bazooka to take out the gang's kingpin, played by a very young Gavin O'Herlihy. Basically, this is one of those films where everybody stands around in front of the camera to declaim their badly written dialogue. Martin Balsam, God bless him, costars in this folly. At least DW 3 (and two more sequels after that) kept Bronson, by now a senior citizen with no juice left, working. "},{"Title":"this time,its War(where have i heard that before?)","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 3 brings back Charles Bronson as one time vigilante Paul Kersey,now retired.yeah,right.before long Kersey is back to his old ways.but this time,its not just a few muggers at a time,its a gang who have taken over a run down part of the city(New York again,by the way.)this time its war,so Kersy Hauls out the big guns(literally) for this.the body count int his one rivals anything Stallone or Schwarzenegger have come up with.this movie is actually somewhat fun to watch,particularly for a few one liners and of course bad guys die,or get severely injured in creative ways,which is always a good thing.the violence is not as personal in this one,its,obviously on a much grander scale,sort of like bombing your victims from afar,rather than one on one combat.this movie is lighter in tone than the 1st 2,making it easier to watch.there's not much import to this film,its more escapism than anything.its also cheesy at times and pseudo-inspirational,but hose scenes fall flat. they should have left the original Death Wish on its own without sequels,but since they didn't,they should have stopped here. 8 /10 "},{"Title":"The urban equivalent of Commando.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish 3 is the movie equivalent of a shooting gallery. All the characters (apart from Bronson's Paul Kersey, of course) exist merely to be killed, either as provocation (the good guys) or as retribution (the villains). The director simply pours on the mindless violence (people even get burned alive and blown up), turning this into an urban version of Commando (and Charlie, like Arnold, rarely bothers to protect himself from the enemy gunfire). Fans of this short of thing (and, apparently, there are many) will enjoy it, others....beware.   (*1/2)  "}{"Title":"They killed the Giggler, man!","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the Death Wish cartoon. There is little effort to justify the killing. Kersey is a tool of the police (Ed Lauter) and let loose to rid a neighborhood of a vicious gang that the police can't touch.He brings out the big guns Paul Kersey A .475 Wildey magnum is a shorter version of the African big game cartridge, it makes a real mess.He does manage to get the neighborhood to take back their homes and businesses. But the cost is another woman (Deborah Raffin) he loves.With Martin Balsam as the guy who befriends him, and Gavan O'Herlihy as the leader of the punks. "},{"Title":"only a B-movie left","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) returns back to NYC to visit an old friend Charley. He is murdered by a gang of street thugs. Paul arrives just in time to be arrested by the cops. Police inspector Richard Shriker (Ed Lauter) remembers Paul as the vigilante and decides to turn a blind eye to him doing his thing as long as he works for him. In jail, Paul runs afoul of Fraker (Gavan O'Herlihy) and his men. Kathryn Davis (Deborah Raffin) is his public defender. Bennett (Martin Balsam) is Charley's friend.The gang is strictly 80s cheese. These are really silly cartoon characters. It's just thugs in a messed up neighborhood. It's nameless thugs with nameless victims. There is barely a story. There is barely a setup. It's nothing more than an isolated settlers in enemy territory. The franchise is only left with a B-movie. They even bring in a 60s motorcycle gang in the end when they burn down and blow up lots of stuff. At least, the whole place gets shot up in a violent orgy. "},{"Title":"Paul is back at it again.....","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think I get the point by now in these death wish films. Unbelievable bad luck keeps happening to a simple working man who in turn goes out and just kills a lot of street scum. In the first film (Death Wish) Bronson was someone you really felt for and his situation. And you were cheering him on as he takes to the streets and enforces his own sense of justice. But it is getting old now and the point has been made. Plus the fact in the first film he did all his killing in New York then in the second film he is in LA killing a bunch of bad guys, and then it is back to New York again. This man has a grudge he needs to let go of just like Rambo does. As good of an actor Bronson was in his early days in film I can't believe he really enjoyed doing these sequels. Watch if you have nothing better to do but veg out&#x85;. "},{"Title":"Tedious and best avoided if you enjoyed 1 and 2","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Varied views on this one I see and I usually reckon that's a good sign, but not for me this time. Well enough shot this seemed tired at the very beginning and just never really got going. I know there's lots of action, people running about getting shot to pieces but this is like watching a fairground ride, not being on it. The two earlier outings were dirty, sleazy little things that nevertheless had you urging the stone faced vigilante on to even more violence and revenge. Here we just seem to be comparing gun sizes. It's laughable and whilst the dialogue is so bad it's as if someone made it up the morning before the shoot. Poor Mr Bronson can't speak one line with any conviction and that may or may not be the writer's fault. Tedious and best avoided if you enjoyed 1 and 2, probably only for those not adult enough for the earlier films. "},{"Title":"This film wasn't released...it escaped!","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm so outraged that I had to comment on this immediately after seeing it on television. Is it just me? Or have you noticed that on any evening after the nightly news, you can channel surf and the odds would be that you will find a Charles Bronson movie?  It's the same thing all the time with this guy...the wierdo synthesizer music...(what looks like) the same crummy brown jacket...the 20 minute stretches where he doesn't say a word.  Enough already.I got suckered into watching this dog the way people get suckered into slowing down to look at a traffic accident. I got a perverse thrill at seeing how bad it would get. I am not really familiar with the company that produced this, but in reading some of the other comments, I gather that they have to look skyward to see Castle Films. Production value was nil.Take a London neighborhood that looks like it hasn't seen urban renewal since before the blitz, add some out of date vehicles (were there ever Ford Fairmont Police cars?), throw in some gang members that look like they were on a break from Michael Jackson's 'Beat It' video, sprinkle with 'clever' one-liners, Let half-bake for 2 hours and what do you have? A recipe for disaster.To say that the acting was wooden is an insult to toothpicks. I've seen more depth at an 8th grade play. Continuity takes a holiday as street punks are cut down during early evening (do you know of any stores in a neighborhood like that that stay open past 8pm?), only to be 'discovered' in broad daylight! The gunplay was laughable. Martin Balsam had better luck with weapons in Psycho! Yes Marty, the gun will jam if the shells are loaded backwards.I was surprised to see that is went to theaters instead of video. The riots of outraged movie goers probably beat any action in this film. Hey, I know that it's supposed to be fantasy. I just think that they should work a little harder at it. Not recommended, unless you've already seen the WWF wrestling match that's on.  "},{"Title":"The Deathwish Franchise Devolves into the Abusrd.","Date":"3 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first Death Wish movie was a professionally directed, reactionary vigilante flick that managed to strike a chord with a society experiencing an obscene a mount of violent crime. It was an interesting film to watch,somewhat thought provoking, but it wasn't a thrill a minute, nor a piece of high art. In the second film,lightning does strike twice,and the vigilante returns,this time in Los Angeles. This film was even more violent and sexually explicit than the first,but also a little more action oriented. Any seriousness or credibility the first two films might have been garnered can be thrown into the dung heap with the third installment. Bronson battles a racially diverse gang of motorcyclists, street hoods, and road warrior extras and the film darn near transmutes into a comic book. Hollywood's ugliest leading man kills dozens of young punks, shoots people in the street with impunity, seduces some woman who is far better looking than him (again), and even manages to blow someone away with a rocket launcher. With no insult intended to graphic novelist Frank Miller, this movie reminded me of a Frank Miller comic books, minus quality dialogue. I enjoyed this film because I like explosions, fighting, and Bronson, but this is not a quality film, at least not using traditional criteria.Richard MonroeSee my associated content article Analyzing the Appeal of Death Wish Danger or Diversion. "},{"Title":"Charlie's Angels &#133; of Vengeance!","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Since Paul Kersey was running short of actual relatives to avenge, the third installment in the Death Wish saga revolves on him returning to New York to visit an old war buddy. He arrives only to find out that Brooklyn entirely changed into a pauperized gangland and that youthful thugs killed his friend and continuously terrorize all the other tenants of a ramshackle apartment building. Kersey strikes a deal with the local police commissioner, conquers the heart of his blond attorney, blows away numerous villains with an impressive Wildey Magnum gun and gradually trains & inspires the petrified New Yorkers to stand up for themselves. Okay, there's no more point in defending the Death Wish series after seeing part three. The 1974 original was a masterpiece that revolved on the social drama as much as it did on the retribution and, even though it was pure exploitation, part two still had quite a few redeeming qualities and at least the events were a logically linked to those occurring in the first. Number three frequently feels like a totally separate franchise. Apparently, Kersey isn't an architect anymore, he's ten times more social and talkative than he used to be and suddenly nobody, not even the police, is against vigilante actions anymore? All these changes and several other aspects make it more than obvious that Michael Winner and Charles Bronson reduced their Death Wish success to being a purely brainless and exploitative action series, with a death toll that gigantically increases with each episode, armory that becomes more and more explosive and criminals that get nastier, sleazier, meaner and a lot harder to kill. However, the gentlemen didn't seem to realize that the non-stop spitfire of violence actually creates an opposite effect, namely this extremely monotonous and much more boring than the previous two. I once read a brilliant review that referred to Death Wish 3 as the pure definition of cinematic masturbation. This description couldn't be more spot-on, as the script tiredly moves itself from one repugnant execution sequence to the next. Particularly the final twenty minutes are a complete orgy of gunfire, explosions and executions realized through improvised homemade measures. Yi-Haaa! This entry in the series has quite an interesting supportive cast, including Martin Balsam (Psycho, 12 Angry Men) as the fatigue neighbor who keeps machine guns in his closet, Ed Lauter (Family Plot, The Longest Yard) as the slightly unorthodox copper and even Alex Winter (from Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure!) in his debut role as one of the thugs. "},{"Title":"No Good. Awful","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are movies that literally can't be anything but bad. There just isn't enough money put into them to make them actually GOOD when compared to Hollywood movies. The legendary Plan 9 From Outer Space is an example. It has cult status but that doesn't mean it is good. Anyway, the money put into Death Wish 3 was sufficient to make a decent film. Unfortunately, Death Wish 3 isn't. I have seen it once. The first half I witnessed during one sitting, the second half a month or so later. I was unable to handle the entire epic at once.As I sat back and witnessed the mess, I wondered what Charles Bronson must have thought of the finished project. It wasn't his only bad film during his long career. Maybe he had gotten used to making such pictures to the point where they no longer embarrassed him. Ironically, I actual recommend the original Death Wish. No classic, but it was okay. But if you want to see a good film from the last half of Bronson's career, dig-up Hard Times, co-starring James Coburn. Bronson at his best in a legitimately good movie. "},{"Title":"One of those great violent 80's flicks thats got a decent message","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great movie ha ha, everything about it, the hilariously over the top punks that there seems to be an endless supply of harassing the poor elderly people, the giggler hahaha, the old guy with a HUGE machine gun in his cabinet, the love interest that seems to fit no purpose cept to look pretty for 10 minutes and then die, the last 20 minutes that is nothing but Bronson and co. shooting the hell out of street thugs, and the dialogue. just.....so amazing, its so bad yet so good ha ha. and just like in every death wish movie they gotta have a rape scene with nude breasts flying everywhere. man you just don't see movies like this anymore lol. however lets get one thing straight, despite the film being unintentionally funny, i am all for Paul kersey and his vigilante-ism. from the first film i can see that there really is no other way of dealing with these a holes and scumbags. of course we only wish we had the guts that Paul kersey has to chop down these evil spawn of the devil, but most of us are probably too scared. the scene where the dumb-ass police take away the gun from the old Jewish couple is disturbing when there is blood and crime going on just feet away from there apartment (even inside of it). these movies are disturbing yes, because they show that there is almost nothing we can do to defend ourselves in a culture of hate and evil because the system wont let us. then Paul kersey comes in, showing that the people can fight back and not take no crap from these unrepentant scum. yes these movies show the punks as completely evil and not good in any way, but lets not fool ourselves into thinking its just a movie. its not. there are really people like this out in the world and even though its not good to kill for no reason, if punks like this are harassing you and have nerve enough to kill you, there is no reason why you shouldn't be able to defend yourselves. these movies definitely take these situations out of proportions, but things like this happen, and this particular death wish film shows that we should NOT lay down our lives for these scumbags, but to make sure we are prepared to defend ourselves. the film is funny though, and certainly pretty hilarious at times, but this stuff isn't just in the movies and we should always have the rights to defend ourselves, despite what the wimpy liberals want you to think. "},{"Title":"The movie lacked credibility for two reasons.","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie lacked credibility for two reasons. One, no mayor of a major city, and New York is certainly as major as it gets. Would allow a borough in his city to degenerate into such a violent place to live; especially for voters who could have much to say about his or her future job security. All of the victims in the movie were mostly elderly, Jewish or defenseless. At 62-years of age, I have never seen a movie that depicted such utter lack of respect for authority as this movie did. Even Escape from New York, which was fictional, up front, i.e. they told you that this was science fiction, didn't resort to such deep-seated violence. In this movie, most of the elderly victims were victimized and yet had guns but were unwilling to use them. Also, in this movie and I have not seen the prior two, is more lawless than the Escape movie. Secondly, gangs as far as my research shows have never been as cooperative as this movie makes them out to be. On the one hand they catch a gang member from another gang working in their area and he's killed. Yet when the heroes start shooting at the local gang bangers, the next gang over is welcomed with open arms. Outside gang members are always viewed as outsiders and are stopped. We are supposed to believe that when automatic weapons are used against our gang, the other gangs want to be all into it. Why did the outside gangs come to help? I believe that more than one gang from outside came to help. What did they come for? Another question, why was the gang leader in jail and why do fellow jail inmates ask his permission to attack Bronson's character? This was not a great movie and I could go on, but I won't. "}{"Title":"Woarst of the series","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was disappointed with the third film in the Death Wish series and wouldn't recommend this unless you are really into Bronson. He is his usual self in this one, maybe a bit lighter hearted than in the others; the rest of the cast is good if your watching a movie of the week on T.V. - the whole film has the production value of a bad episode of the A-Team and I like the escapism fun of a show like the A-Team but not on the big screen, even if it is an action movie that doesn't claim to be anything to sophisticated. The film takes a while to get going and then when it finally does, it gets out of control to the point of ridiculousness. The plot is something out of an episode of Highway to Heaven and Bronson seems like a fish out of water with the majority senior citizen cast and the gun play is so out of control you don't even get any satisfaction from Bronson's revenge against the bad guys. Skip this and go on to the 4th installment which I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Propaganda?","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie could very well have been a propaganda movie for the North americian falangist party - or some similar group... The strong man (Kersey) places himself above the law (but not outside the law) and liberates upstanding citizens by killing worthless trash. The only thing that made me think it wasn't made by the KKK was the fact that a jew starred as a good guy... Try watching it again while thinking of it as a propaganda movie for an extreme right wing group - and you'll see what I mean...It's a tragedy that Jimmy Page actually made music for this movie... ( "},{"Title":"Average vigilante flick, there's better out there.","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 3 is set in New York where part time architect, part time vigilante Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) has just arrived in order to visit his Korean war buddy Charley (Francis Drake) but is shocked to find Charley lying dead in his apartment, the police arrive & arrest Kersey for Charley's murder. While locked up Inspector Richard Shriker (Ed Lauter) informs Kersey that they have a problem with thugs who the law can't touch & that he know's of Kersey's vigilante past & gives Kersey his blessing to clean up the streets anyway he want with the police turning a blind eye. Kersey agrees & sets out to clean up Charley's neighbourhood & dish out some death wish style justice to his killers...Directed by Michael Winner this was third entry in the Death Wish series which up to Death Wish 3 had all been directed by Winner but he left the series after this one, made by the infamous Cannon Group this has it's admirers but I didn't think it was as much fun as it could have or indeed should have been. Here in the UK a TV channel is running a Death Wish season (how desperate is that?) although for some reason it is starting at Death Wish 3 & going through to Death Wish V The Face of Death (1994) so I won't be able to say how they compare to the original two. Anyway, as a vigilante film most of the clichs are here, a seemingly powerless police force, the helpless victims bullied & brutalised, your typical bad guy's & a no nonsense hero who dishes out some justice. Not that much happens here, Bronson & the main bad guy play off against each other for the majority of the film with me sitting there just thinking why don't one just shoot the other dead? Then there's a silly climax in which a war breaks loose on the New York streets between the bad guy's, the cops & Kersey. There's a very abrupt & unconvincing romance between Kersey & his lawyer & not that much is made of the relationship between Shirker & Kersey. Despite it's faults, or maybe because of them Death Wish 3 is never nothing but entertaining & is fun in a bad sort of way, it's just so bad & funny you can't take your eyes off it. Not a masterpiece but it's good fun if your in the right mood.Unfortunately Winner can't direct action scenes & all the set-pieces are badly shot in a really dull & lethargic way. The violence is quite tame with little in the way of blood or much pay-off for the villains although Bronson gets to play around with some seriously big guns. There's a rape scene although not as graphic as those seen in the previous two. The opening theme music is absolutely terrible, the photography is flat & there's not that much style either. Writer Don Jakoby had his name removed from the credits for some reason although it is still seen on the original promotional trailer.Although set entirely in New York at least of Death Wish 3 was shot in London for some reason. The acting isn't great & Bronson really is very wooden which comes across especially when he's got a romantic bit to act out.Death Wish 3 is entertaining but for all the wrong reasons, it's a laugh if your in the right mood but I really couldn't describe it as a good film. Followed by two more sequels Death Wish 4 The Crackdown (1987) & Death Wish V The Face of Death. "},{"Title":"Golan-Globus sleaze","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson's third appearance as one-time architect, now street vigilante Paul Kersey, here making a deal with the New York police to work with them in eliminating the youthful scum on the barrio streets. These punks are the most over-dressed degenerates in low-grade cinema, each looking like a roadie for a heavy metal rock band. Bronson is still quite a sight calmly removing a rod from his sport coat and blowing away two sneering car thieves; though when he's forced to chase a mugger down the street, one has to feel a little sorry for him. Bronson was one of the biggest stars of the early 1970s, rivaling even Steve McQueen for box-office favorite, but here he looks beat out, another struggling celebrity paying the bills. Deborah Raffin adds a little class, but Ed Lauter is still doing his police sergeant bit (talk about paying dues). Director Michael Winner is also back from the first two installments, however his once-keen sense of gritty style and sarcastic humor is completely missing. Even Jimmy Page returns from Death Wish II as music composer, offering compositions from the dentist's drill. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"Please don't see this movie...","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I would put Death Wish 3 in the same box as Stallone's Cobra and Commando. The box that I would sell for $2 at a garage sale with all the videos inside. The story is about the main character coming back from the previous movies' success to ruin it all with this load of trash. Why did the makers want to destroy the reputation of the past 2 films with this cheap junk. The story is so lame that had to be a outrageous sequel. I mentioned Cobra earlier because it has the same mood, that one man can kill 20 or 30 gang members without a scratch. Both this movie and Cobra were bent on showing the hero firing his guns at hip level and the enemy falling in large numbers. Police officers spend hours at the shooting range so why did they get gunned down by gang members firing aimlessly from their hips? This movie was so bad I thought for a minute it was Death Wish 4. "},{"Title":"Oh please...","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Really ridiculous sequel (violence for violence) with two acceptable actors Charlie Bronson & always great Martin Balsam. Otherwise this movie should be push to trash bucket.My rate 3/10 "},{"Title":"Fascistic Fun","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Paul Kersey of DEATH WISH 3 is very far removed from the Paul Kersey of the original film . If you remember the 1974 film then you will remember Kersey was a  Conchie  during the Korean war and that he was physically sick after he committed his first execution . Ten years later Kersey seems to have learned unarmed combat and how to handle anti tank weapons in his spare time . But I`ll overlook that gaffe because DW3 is the best of the sequels , lowlife scum bags get shot dead , burned alive , their teeth smashed , and thrown to their deaths by middle aged housewives armed with sweeping brushes . Yeah I know the gang members are multi ethnic and for that they deserve some credit but even if they`re not racist they`re still murdering scum who deserve all they get from Kersey and the innocent citizens . Who needs Mayor Rudy when you`ve got Paul Kersey , an anti tank rocket and a bunch of old age pensioners to reclaim the streets from the criminal creeps . Paul Kersey I salute you sir   "},{"Title":"Death Wish 3","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Director Michael Winner may have had a hit with the first film, but the sequel was terrible, and this third instalment is no different, in fact it's even worse. Basically architect and occasional vigilante Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) has come back to New York to see his friend Charley (Francis Drake), who he finds beaten and dying from a gang attack. The police come into the apartment, and handcuff Paul as the guilty man holding a gun, but then he meets Insp. Richard S. Shriker (Ed Lauter) who heard a lot about Paul. He lets Paul go if he sticks to a deal, he can kill any amount of punks he wants, but he must report it to Shriker. Paul moves into Charley's apartment, situated right in the middle of gang territory, and he quickly forms a friendship with Charley's friend Bennett Cross (Martin Balsam), who keeps many guns in his closet. The gang that murdered Charley, led by Manny Fraker (Gavan O'Herlihy), and with Hermosa (introducing Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure star Alex Winter), are living very close by. Slowly Paul, after the death of Cross, gets to avenge both deaths and kill all the gang members he wants, and Shriker joins him too, with all the neighbourhood on their side. Also starring Deborah Raffin as Kathryn Davis, Kirk Taylor as Giggler, Tony Spiridakis as Angel, Ricco Ross as The Cuban, Tony Britts as Tulio, David Crean as Hector and Nelson Fernandez as Chaco. Once again, Bronson is too stiff and not very talkative, and with only one or two good death sequences to watch, you don't really care what's going on, you'll probably be bored within about twenty minutes, I certainly was, a terrible crime thriller sequel. Poor! "}]