[{"Title":"A film of shattering power","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"52 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  In the powerful 1985 film The Official Story, Director Luis Puenzo tells the story of a teacher's awakening to conscience at the end of Argentina's Dirty War of the late 70s and early 80s. As in Pinochet's Chile, the military secret police sought to consolidate their power by routinely torturing and murdering students, political activists, opponents of the regime, and even expectant mothers. Many ended up as desaparecidos, people taken by the government and not returned. The film is about one mother's search for the truth about her adopted daughter and her discovery brings harsh political reality very close to home.In The Official Story, Alicia (Norma Aleandro) lives a comfortable middle class life. She teaches History to high school students and enjoys a family that includes her well-to-do husband Roberto (Hector Alterio) and 5-year old adopted daughter Gaby (Analia Castro). Not used to asking questions, she believes whatever she has read in history books and is confused when one of her students tells her that history is written by assassins. She sees the demonstrations of the Mothers of Plaza de Mayo, a group seeking information about missing family members but remains uninvolved. When her friend Ana (Chunchuna Villafane) visits after living in exile for many years, however, she learns, in an intensely emotional scene, that Ana had been imprisoned and tortured by the police trying to locate her husband, a suspected subversive. Ana tells Alicia that many others had disappeared and that babies had been taken from their mothers and given to childless friends of the junta. Alicia begins to wonder if her own child was the daughter of a political victim and questions her husband but when he is evasive, she suspects that he may be hiding a dark secret. Although fearful at the prospect of losing Gaby, Alicia is determined to find out about her daughter's past and begins to search hospital records and government archives. Ultimately, she must confront her own responsibility in a climax of shattering force that underscores the tragedy of political ideologues who would rather destroy family solidarity than risk losing power.  "},{"Title":"Hard to forget","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Even though we try, the truth brings us to tears... I watched La historia oficial more than 10 times, and weep the 10 of them. One can say that it's a dark, slow movie. Most Latin films are. This one is not the exception, therefore we must understand it's style, not popular around the world. However, great pictures can be made under this style, even greater that many other American movies of the same topic. Luis Puenzo's portrait of a post dictatorship family is the best example of this. Hector Alterio and Norma Aleandro are incredible, as mother and father to an adopted child of unknown past. As the truth starts to pop up after the fall of the cruel and pagan military government, Alicia (Norma) starts investigating what happened to her daughter's real parents. As she goes on searching for the truth, she realizes that his husband, a former military officer, knew lots of the answers beforehand. The movie fairly got the Oscar and Norma Aleandro jumped into fame winning at Cannes. Luis Puenzo also went on to Hollywood. However, he never adopted to the American style, and La Historia Oficial remains as his best movie. A must see in Latin history.  "},{"Title":"Extraordinary film about courage in the face of death","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I saw this movie in my first-year Spanish class.  I love all kinds of movies, both international and domestic.  This is by far one of the best movies I have seen in the international field with particular focus on the character development of one woman who seems to have everything.  In coming to terms with the truth of her lifestyle and the high price others have paid for her comfort, she becomes a heroine who must give up almost everything she has loved and felt identified who she is.  This movie is both heartbreaking and reassuring for its audience.  I highly recommend it as a thoughtful depiction of how ignoring politics can imply inadvertently becoming an accomplice. "},{"Title":"All-time favorite","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I cry each time I watch this film. (The scene with Norma Aleandro and the baby clothes) Always gets me.  An American film-maker would have made a film about one of the desaparecidos (disappeared ones) - but Puenzo is too sharp for that - by making a film about one of the quietly complicit, he has indicted all of us who are aware that things aren't quite right in the world, but choose to ignore the fact...and do nothing.  Devastating, political and yet personal.  My all-time favorite film. "},{"Title":"a very important and well-made film","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Unfortunately, few people outside of Argentina remember the bad old days of the late 1970s and early 80s and Argentina's military junta. During its reign, literally thousands of people just disappeared--never to be seen again. Any possible dissent was wiped out through torture, intimidation and murder. It was this climate of repression and ultra-nationalistic rhetoric that the fatal invasion of the Falklands was staged--ultimately leading to the ruin and collapse of the Argentinian government.Now that I've spouted out all that stuff about the historical context for the movie, let's get to the film itself. The story begins with a rich and well-connected family (just how well-connected you find out much later in the story). They are about to celebrate the 5th birthday of their adopted daughter. However, unconfirmed stories about where many of these adopted babies came from begin to fall on the ears of our heroine. Alicia (Norma Aleandro) is horrified to hear that many adopted babies are probably those taken from these political prisoners that vanished while in police custody. When she brings these concerns to her husband, he ignores her and changes the subject--something he did repeatedly throughout the movie. However, she can't live a lie and MUST find out from where they adopted their daughter.The acting is superb throughout the film as is the pacing--as she goes from a strict conformist to ultimately demanding to know more. The progression is NOT abrupt and it makes sense how it evolves thanks to excellent writing. Also, Ms. Aleandro's acting (as well as that of the supporting actors and actresses) is wonderful--so much that you feel yourself feeling what they are trying to portray. As a result, this movie will definitely get the tears flowing. Also, the final confrontation with her husband, though important, is a bit tough to watch (be forewarned).FYI--this movie is rated R because of the intensity of the subject matter and some pretty horrible domestic violence towards the end of the movie. The movie should be okay for most teenagers to view. "},{"Title":"It perfectly express what we, Argentinos, lived during those times of suffering.","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I really don´t know whether someone from other country, someone who doesn´t know our suffering during the military goverment, would like this movie. I loved it because  I saw on screen what my family lived just two decades ago. I think that this movie is a documental that everyone should see to realize that what happened only 20 years ago, shouldn´t happen again in any civilized country. "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Its hard to convey just how moving this movie is.  Its absolutely haunting, I thought about this flick for days afterwards.  I don't think it represents the experiences of many Argentines during the era of the juntas, but it clearly shows how awful those times were and why Argentines never want to return to that situation again. "},{"Title":"You don't need to be Argentinian to be touched by this movie","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  La Historia Oficial is an excellent movie.  It is also the testimony of the suffering of the Argentinian people during the military dictatorship.  But those who are not from Argentina, like myself, can very well be touched by this movie.  I was observing the cruelty of the government and thought my God, totalitarism is always the same, and no matter if the violation of human rights occurs in Argentina under the military regime, in Cuba under the Castro dictatorship, in Chile under Pinochet, in Europe during Hitler, people suffer the same and the least we can do is to feel compassion. A good lesson from this movie, generation after generation we shouldn't forget the victims.  They deserve justice.  "},{"Title":"Director's Purpose","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I believe the filmmaker's purpose was to charge the viewer to ask the following questions How far will I go in obtaining the truth of the world I live in for myself? Am I willing to make sacrifices and take risks in obtaining the truth? And, am I willing to suffer the opposition that will attempt to silence me in my journey? These questions are answered while the viewer lives vicariously through Alicia's own journey for the truth. Although the ending is ambiguous and the viewer never finds out whether Alicia obtains the truth of her daughter, it seemed to me implicit that she does. I believe that if the director had chosen (which thankfully he didn't) to extend the film a little longer, the viewer would have seen that Alicia consents in giving her daughter back to the elderly woman. I have four reasons for this, all which support the questions above.1). Alicia is the type of woman who wants nothing but the truth and that anything less would torment her mind with guilt. She expresses this guilt to her priest, telling him that she doesn't deserve her daughter if the adoption isn't legal. The lighting during this sequence is dark and dismal&#151;a directing choice that reflects the inner-darkness Alicia is experiencing.2). It is implied through her conversation with the elderly woman that despite how much she loves her daughter, and, that to lose her would be a painful sacrifice, she would still stand for the truth and do what is right. And what is right the right choice? For Alicia, it is to give her daughter back to the rightful and secondary parent.3). Her tenacity to exhaust her abusive husband in telling her the truth, despite getting beaten by him, demonstrates her willingness to suffer all types affliction in order to arrive at the truth. There is a particular shot that demonstrates even the husband's belief that the right thing to do is to give the daughter back. At the end of the film, after the husband has beaten up Alicia and is listening to his daughter on the phone, the camera begins to slowly dolly towards his face. The shot persists for a good minute or so, capturing a single tear falling from his cheek. This suggested to me that despite the husbands love for his daughter, he was beginning to feel that it wasn't right for them to keep their daughter after all.4). After her husband storms out of the house refusing to listen to her and the elderly woman's case, the elderly woman asks Alicia, Shall I expect a call from you tomorrow or shall I call? The use of script development here through Alicia's willingness to initiate the phone call spoke volumes in suggesting that she truly believes her daughter is not lawfully hers. If she had said, You call, it would have suggested that she was not only reluctant but also skeptical whether this woman's case was plausible.Even the title of the film, an element of production design, seemed to suggest the quest for what is true. Given the Spanish rendering, La Historia Oficial, which in English is interpreted, The Official History, there is an interesting contrast shown between the words of the English rendering, The Official Story, and its original title in Spanish. The difference is in the words history and story. The word history seems to suggest facts&#151;the truth of what really happened. On the other hand, the word story seems to suggest fables&#151;the lies used to cover up the truth. Either way you look at it, Alicia's search for the official history (truth) or the official story (lie) regarding her daughter works as a powerful way in conveying what the central theme of the film is&#151;what is the truth and what are the lies. "},{"Title":"Tough","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Even after knowing what happened in Argentina, I have to say that this movie was shocking.  I knew Norma Aleandro is a very good actress.  I went to the theater and saw her interpreting Maria Callas in Master Class.  But it was not enough warning.  Watching this movie was a emotional taste of that time. I knew how it was, now I can begin to imagine how it must have felt.The song En el pais de no me acuerdo (In the country of I-don't-remember), is especially well suited. "}{"Title":"The human face of political cinema","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The Official Story is an excellent example of how to mix political cinema with human drama, avoiding agitprop or crude sloganeering to put a human face on the issue of Argentina's disappeared - in particular the children taken away from undesirables and given to well-connected families who won't ask any questions. When one well-heeled adopted mother learns of this and begins to suspect that her adopted daughter may be one of those children, rather than turn into a sermon the film focuses on her own fears as she tries to disprove the possibility until ultimately she is in the same uncertain hell as the families of the disappeared - she can suspect, but she can never truly know.Although some of the devices may seem a little too schematic - she's a history teacher who depends solely on the 'verifiable' official version of her country's history - it wears them lightly and is often extremely powerful. The Best Foreign Film Oscar has a rather dubious history, but this is definitely one of the more deserving winners. "},{"Title":"Overcoming the banality of evil, corruption in adoption","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" La Historia Official is a well-made film about awakening from passive complicity in evil, in this case, forced adoption. The Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo were and are an inspiration to those who struggle to uncover and resist abuses in adoption practices, be they the enslaved Irish women of the Magdalen laundries or the many indigenous peoples who had children forcibly removed from homes to be adopted by whites. Most of adoption does not involve abduction, but to turn a blind eye to the fact that it does exist, is to be passively complicit, as was the protagonist in this film.The scene in which the teacher realizes that tremendous evil has indeed been perpetrated, and that she may very well be the beneficiary of such evil, is staggering. Norma Aleandro is a talented enough actress that we believe her initial rejection of this revelation, and her gradual evolution from passive cohort to courageous seeker of the truth. "},{"Title":"Powerful Film","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Directed by Luis Puenzo, The Official Story was truly an eye opening film in my view. Taking place shortly after the 1976 coup d'etat in Argentina, this film mainly follows the life of Alicia, Roberto, and their adopted child Gaby. Alicia, who is a history professor, enjoys a privileged lifestyle due to her successful husband Roberto, who is a prominent businessman in Buenos Aires. Unfortunately, living such a lifestyle has made Alicia somewhat ignorant in understanding the suffering of her very own people, especially in regards to the military take over of 1976.Thanks to a get together with her friend Anna, Alicia is told the horrors which took place; some of which include kidnappings, rapes, and torture. In some instances, the individuals rounded up, were forced to give up their kids for adoption. Knowing that Gaby is adopted, Alicia realizes that she could have been the daughter of an individual who indeed suffered due to the unforgiving military junta of the time. Alicia soon finds herself on a quest to find the real mother of Gaby, by checking birth records of various hospitals in Buenos Aires. While doing so, she inevitably is met by Gaby's grandmother, who presents Alicia with photos of Gaby's parents who are deceased. Alicia is shocked to find this out, but in reality, Gaby's parents were only one of thousands who were inhumanely slaughtered by the military junta.Having conferred with Gaby's grandmother, Alicia tries to introduce the lady to her husband Roberto. However, Roberto is infuriated and believes the old grandmother to be a lunatic that is a scum of society. Thankfully, Alicia shrugs this incident off, and at the end of the movie, Roberto, albeit indirectly, admits that Gaby indeed is the child of the two deceased parents in question.Overall, The Official Story was a well-made film. It not only had elements of comedy, drama, but also gripping suspense. All these elements were presented in a fashion that is atypical of traditional Hollywood, yet very effective nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Setting records straight","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  Luis Puenzo's 'La Historia Official' captures a moment in Argentine history from the perspective less common for it's home audience; the aristocracy. Inside the junta military (military rule) of Argentina from 1976-1983 there were many like Alecia Marnet, with their upper class stability and indifference to a rule that left them in power of their own destinies. Alecia is somewhat different in her work as a history teacher seemingly unaware of how history is written by the victors. Her subsequent change of heart parallels that of her country, without which change this film could never have made.There are plenty of compelling stories within 'La Historia Official' that sensitively portray the atrocities suffered by the Argentines at the hand of their own rulers. When Alecia is told of the uncharged detention and torture of her high school friend in a first hand account could hardly believe that such horrors could be committed by those who helped her family build a good life. She dismisses her students' news articles and pleads for peaceful renewal in the country, even threatening to expel them for questioning the official history accounts. Alecia at first reacts in denial to these challenges to authority in protection of herself from feeling guilt and shame for having benefited from others' suffering. It is entirely necessary for her to take the experience personally, through finding her daughter's true identity, for Alecia to accept and then come to terms with her own and her nation's true identity. This psychodrama is furthered by her own husband's opposition to the truth; his definition of success is motivated only when he is recognized with respect. As Alecia finds her husband's own family cannot respect his work, and she in turn can no longer respect him for his deceit, she in turn becomes one of the people before Argentina frees itself from its fascist rulers.There's much to love in any film made about the people like those who are making it. 'La Historia Official' may not represent anything distinctive technically from other films, but its story is a powerful tribute to its own country. The film however is entirely universal. Had the film taken place in fascist Spain or any other fascist ruled country, the only differences would probably be cultural and historical. Through Alecia we find the ability to learn the truth and rise in opposition within ourselves. 'La Historia Official' shows us the truth lay dormant within ourselves but should not be ignored for the sake of accepting the history we are told.  "},{"Title":"powerful","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This Piece was powerful and thought provoking.  It was also perhaps the most depressing film I have ever seen in my life.  The tragic story leaves the viewer with a somewhat empty feeling, which is appropriate.  The sad fact is that thousands of families in Argentina fell the emptiness that this film induces every single day of their lives.  Hector Alterio spectacularly portrays the jaded and evil Roberto, who works with the corrupt ruling military junta.  One truly grasps a sense of the insecurities and weakness behind such bullies.This movie is a wakeup call for anyone who believes that apathy is okay. The truth is that the tragedies in Argentina in the 1970's were partly allowed to occur because of the ignorance and apathy of both people within Argentina and in the outside world.  Hopefully, by watching this film, people will resolve to prevent such a tragedy from ever happening again.La Hitoria Oficial is a spectacular film to learn about a subject which receives little or no attention in the US.  However, be warned it is one of the most tragic films you may ever see in your life.  You will leave the film both saddened and angered that nothing was done to prevent these horrible crimes. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful But Dark Journey to Heartbreak","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This film unfolds so purposefully as if each frame has been chosen with exquisite care. From the lighting to the framing of each shot to the near perfect performances the viewer goes on a journey into the darker and darker mystery as a loving adoptive mother must ask where did this precious child come from? If you want to get an inkling of life in Argentina in 1985 and the true meaning of los disaparacidos (the disappeared ones) see this one. "},{"Title":"History is the memory of a society","Date":"12 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I am from another country and I know very well what happened in Argentina 30 years ago. My country as well suffered from a similar history, but, with one difference, you preferred remembering all this cruelty again and again and calling the responsibles for account, we, on the other hand, preferred just forgetting what happened.There are no Saturday Mothers or Generals being tried in my country. What is more upsetting is that my country is on the brink of loosing its memory.History is the memory of a society. Mr. Puenzo, thank you for refreshing our memories. I wish the same for my country. "},{"Title":"Best Picture of 1985, Bar None","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I don't often quibble with some of the odd things the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences does (Grace Kelly's Best Actress win over Judy Garland in 1955 is a good example), but 1985's Best Picture winner is one of them. OUT OF Africa, uncharacteristically for a Sydney Pollack film, was a bloated and unbearably boring biopic of a woman who at the end of the day was just not that interesting, despite a valiant attempt on the part of Meryl Streep in the lead. If I had been given a vote, and had to choose only an American-made film, I would have chosen THE COLOR PURPLE.But I digress. The best picture that I have ever seen that was made in 1985 was that year's winner for Best Foreign Language film Luis Puenzo's extraordinary debut film LA HISTORIA OFICIAL, better known to the English-speaking world as THE OFFICIAL STORY. For a first film, the director's hand is remarkably sure here; he knows the characters and the territory, and his handling of the actors produces what in the theatre is often known as magic. The film stars Norma Aleandro (in a fierce, towering performance that should have earned her an Oscar) as Alicia Marnet de Ibañez, a history teacher at a Buenos Aires high school, married to a successful businessman (Hector Alterio), raising their adopted five-year-old daughter Gaby (Analia Castro), and living the good life, blissfully, and one suspects later on, perhaps deliberately, unaware of what is happening and what has happened to her country in recent years (the film takes place shortly after the dirty war in which many Argentinians were rounded up, imprisoned, tortured, and killed). At first glance it seems incredible that a history teacher could be so blind to recent events, but as one of her students observes early in the film, History is written by assassins. Alicia sends the student from the room. But a seed has been planted. She attends a school reunion (I am not sure if it is high school or college; I suspect the latter, but in the end it makes little difference) and is reunited with her old friend Ana (Chunchuna Villafañe, who also delivers an Oscar-worthy performance), who has been living abroad, in exile, for the past seven years. Ana comes to Alicia's home for dinner; Alicia's husband Roberto is immediately suspicious and uneasy, but does his best to hide it. Later, after Roberto has gone to bed, the two women sit up talking and Ana reveals, in a devastating scene, the torture that she was subjected to because of her relationship with one of the enemies of the state. During this confession, Ana lets slip that many of the torture victims were pregnant women whose babies were stolen from them and sold to wealthy couples in secret adoptions, to which Alicia reacts almost violently Why are you telling me this?? Ana does not answer, but the seed that has been planted is starting to grow, and despite her love for her daughter, Alicia feels compelled to find out how her husband went about adopting the child. The strength of her bond with Gaby is displayed in a long, silent scene in which Alicia takes from the closet shelf the clothing the baby arrived in and looks at it with tears streaming down her face. But what has been set in motion cannot be stopped.I won't reveal any more. This is an exciting film, magnificently acted, written, and directed, and Aleandro's performance is one of the best pieces of work I have ever seen by any actor, male or female, and it is all the more remarkable because so much of it is internal. The camera lingers on Aleandro's face during key scenes as conflicting emotions flash by, one after the other, revealing both her inner turmoil and her resolve to discover the truth at any cost.A winner all around. And it should have gotten the Oscar. For Best Picture for starters, and also for Aleandro and Villafañe. "},{"Title":"A powerful film","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  It was enchanting the amount of effort that Alicia put into learning about where exactly her adopted daughter came from.  This devotion shows the motherly love and interest that Alicia has towards her daughter.  I felt some tension arising when Alicia was becoming particularly curious about her daughter's origin.  Roberto seemed unbending to his wife's interrogation about the true identity of Ana, the little girl.  By Roberto's actions and evidence she personally gathers, Alicia begins to suspect that the father of their daughter may have been taken from a woman who is among Argentina's disappeared, which was likely a victim of violent political repression.Films like these can be taken for what they are.  However, let me warn you that although `La Historia Oficial' was based on true stories, be careful to assume that all of the facts and evidence that you see in the film are true. I myself enjoyed watching this movie for my Spanish conversation class, because it opened us up to a large floor of discussion.  It was truly fascinating that the film provided us with the opportunity to express our opinions about so many controversial issues.  I recommend `La Historia Oficial' to anyone, because I believe you can learn a great deal about a nation that feared its recent past.  "},{"Title":"Argentina's Dirty Secret","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" After the end of the Dirty War, a high school teacher sets out to find out who the mother of her adopted daughter is.Like many progressive actors and others in the country, the lead actress in the film, Norma Aleandro, was forced into exile. She traveled to Uruguay first and Spain later. She returned after the fall of the military government in 1983. Aleandro once said, Alicia's personal search is also my nation's search for the truth about our history. The film is positive in the way it demonstrates that she can change her life despite all she is losing. Argentina's history is a dark one. It may not get the coverage of Nicaragua, El Salvador or Chile, but it had some of the same problems of unrest in the 20th century. In fact, few places in Central and South America seemed to have it easy, with dictators sprouting up all over. Some of them, sad to say, were put there and / or backed by the United States, something we as a nation have still not properly atoned for.Whether by choice or not, director Luis Puenzo has remained largely an Argentine filmmaker. He did make an American film (or at least a film with American actors) in 1989, Old Gringo, but then went back to Argentina. One wonders what the difference is that makes some directors go international and others go into relative obscurity outside their home countries. "}{"Title":"You don't know what you've got until it's gone...","Date":"2 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Well, I usually don't see much of the foreign language films but after viewing Oscars giving a special award to such great films, I almost got swept off at viewing few films. This one too was one of them where a viewer can't get delight in each scene after scene. But there might be impacts ringing to-and-fro after finishing the whole. The story is quite engaging related to societal issues waving around Argentinian people and their disappeared families. How would one react on losing someone close is what depicted unwaveringly. This was the movie which made me cry at certain scenes. Some dialogs even made me numb. The power of this film lies in placing ourselves into the place of characters of the film. It derives the feelings inside us for how would we react when we are placed into situation of losing a very important thing of our life. Undoubtedly, this movie is the one which shows human emotions on some very realistic aspects of life. This film has also played some beautiful strokes in the field of analyzing history of Argentina. And that is what makes the film to watch with top determination. "},{"Title":"The Official Story","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I found this Argentinian (Spanish language) film in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, the title did not suggest anything particular to me, but the Academy Award win, plot description and of course the recommendation was enough for me to try it. Basically the period known as the Dirty War has concluded, in Buenos Aires lives high school history professor and well-to-do housewife Alicia Marnet de Ibáñez (Norma Aleandro) who is happily married to government agent and successful lawyer husband Roberto (Héctor Alterio), and together they have adopted daughter Gaby (Analia Castro). It is on the daughter's fifth birthday that Alicia becomes curious to know about Gaby's real parents, but her husband avoids the topic and tells her to ignore it, he obviously knows the official story of how their daughter came to be available for adoption. Alicia's longtime friend Ana (Chunchuna Villafañe) returns from exile, she explains how she was tortured and being held for having lived with a man labelled as subversive, and she tells of seeing children taken from their parents who are put in jail, Alicia wonders if Gaby's parents went through this also. Alicia searches for birth and heritage records of Gaby at a hospital, there she learns of an organisation searching for missing children, a woman there, Sara (Chela Ruíz), claims to recognise Gaby as her granddaughter, and says that her parents disappeared. Like other members of the Argentine upper class Alicia is not aware of a lot of killing and suffering has gone on in the country, her views are challenged by fellow teacher Benitez (Patricio Contreras) and some of the students, she does report a student, but Benitez protects him, the two teachers do eventually become friendly as Alicia's research comes together. Roberto meanwhile is stressing at work, with many of his colleagues disappearing, he is also confronted by Ana who she blames partly for her arrest, and he comes to blows with his liberal father and brother, and he is furious when Alicia brings Sara home to meet him. That evening Alicia surprises Roberto, telling him that Gaby is not home and saying how does it feel not knowing where your child is?, she does tell him Gaby is at his mother's house, he becomes enraged and assaults her, this stops when the phone rings, it is Gaby singing a nursery rhyme to Roberto, Alicia meanwhile gets her purse and leaves her key as she walks out, the final shot is Gaby continuing to sing, whilst with her adopted grandparents. I will be honest that occasionally whilst watching this film I found it a little tricky to keep up with, probably because of the subtitles reading, I dozed at one point and had to rewind back, thankfully I did get the concept, I can see why it rated well and won the awards it did, it is an interesting story based on parenthood, with a mix of trust issues, politics and human rights, a watchable drama film. It won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, and it was nominated for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Film. Good! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies in Argentina, tough and touching","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Since I am in fact Argentinian, maybe you can say is not right to take me serious. But, forgetting about the historical facts, this is such a PERFECTLY developed film. I'm gonna go just through ''film facts''. The complexity of the characters are so perfectly well portrayed by really talented actors and actresses (Norma Aleandro and Hector Alterio both go beyond the roles, outstanding performances). They start like a regular middle aged marriage of the epoch pretty much. But they grow up and change alongside the plot and story. The changes while story goes on are not forced and they are actually very well developed. The music, quiet and nice, but with that sense of ''something bad going on beneath'' is perfect. Spoiler part (kind of) --- What surprised me was in fact the complexity of the characters, and the slight changes while you dig into the story inside the story. The characters go from a friends regular talk, then laughs, then hysterical crying, in a matter of seconds! And totally believable! Then at the end of the movie both Alterio and Aleandro going through the breakdown, in just a second you feel so sorry for her and he becomes so hateful. Then he cries listening to his ''daughter'', and you feel also sorry for him! Just in a matter of seconds! And not to forget... the dialog, the script are one better than the other, and the list goes on and on. When he says in the airport ''don't think about it... just don't think'' and you think about the avoiding and the ''censorship'' in this one phrase. Or how about ''how does it feel not knowing where you daughter is?'' Splendid. Script 10/10 Characters 10/10 Music 7/10 Camera and shots 6/10 (the weakest point of the movie to be honest, but don't you worry, you won't even notice if you don't pay attention that much).Well done. Just... well done. "},{"Title":"Drama","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The setting of this movie, took place in the 1970's in Argentina during the Dirty War. A high school history teacher named Alicia is oblivious to the disappearance of many people. She and her husband have an adopted five year old girl named Gaby. One day she arrives to her classroom, and finds pictures of missing people put on her chalkboard. She claims that this is a mean prank that her students have pulled on her. She tells a fellow colleague, and he tells her that they were not trying to be funny. Then she began to investigate the truth. She can't believe how oblivious she had been, and now wants to know the truth about what had happened to Gaby's parents. Watch it to find out! "},{"Title":"La historia oficial","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" La Historia Oficial is a movie which certainly reaches out to the hearts and minds of most Argentines. First of all, the main issue which is the cause for the problems which arise in the household of Alicia and Roberto, is one with which the older generation of Argentines has had to deal with in their own lives. Moreover, the reality and discomfort which is seen in various instances during the movie can easily be a picture of what was going on in countless households during that time period. In the movie we see some of what is going on in the government a little bit by the actual protests, but mostly by the situations which surround Alicia. The story of Alicia's friend Ana and the circumstances involving her daughter all point to great distress in the country's government. Whilst the government has much to do with the movie, the story revolves more around the impact which the government has on a simple Argentine family and their relationships with each other. "},{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" La Historia Oficial is a wonderful film that tells a sad story based on true events. The characters are believable and likable, especially Alicia. She begins as a well-to-do Argentine school teacher who has always accepted what she has been told as true, but as the movie progresses, so does her curiosity and openness to the fact that the official story she has been told may not be the truth. The innocence and ignorance of 5 year old Gaby is manifested beautifully throughout the movie through her singing of an old Argentine hymn about La Guerra Sucia. Every element of the film comes together perfectly and it provides an appropriate introduction to the sad history of Argentina. I rate this movie a 9 out of 10 and a definite must see. "},{"Title":"Irony in The Official Story","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" What is the official story of this film? I find the double meaning of this film's title to be quite ironic - that a history teacher does not even understand the history of her country, or political state that it is in. She also, does not understand where her adopted came from, or who her parents are. I appreciate the way that the lighting in this film highlights that irony. Her classroom and her house are both very dark, except for the splashes of sunshine that spill in from the windows. Also, it is overwhelmingly light outside when she is witnessing the picketing and rioting of the political groups of Argentina. Truly, the absence and presence of light plays an important role in The Official Story. "},{"Title":"intriguing and emotional","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This film is intriguing and emotional. The Official Story tells of a woman who is searching for information about the unknown origins of her adopted daughter. The title itself suggests a lack of truth in regards to the history and events of Argentina. There is an official story that Alicia has contently lived with her whole life, but now begins to question the validity of it when she realizes that things aren't as they have always seemed. The irony of a history professor who isn't aware of her own past is interesting and a bit frustrating. The character development of Alicia throughout the movie is impressive. The audience is introduced to Alicia as a privileged upper-class woman who hasn't a care in the world, but who then slowly comes to realize the horrors of her current society and begins to question everything. I was impressed by Alicia's strength and determination to search out the truth despite all the obstacles that she faces. "},{"Title":"Powerful, Thoughtful, Mysterious","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" This movie is easily one of my favorite Spanish films. It is a powerful story of an awakening from ignorance and the pursuit the truth, not from one of the disappeared victims of the Dirty War that traumatized Argentina in the 1970's, but of a middle-class history teacher who unknowingly supports it. As the story unfolds, we learn more and more that those closest to her may have the most to hide, and we are made painfully aware that ignorance does not excuse us from our responsibilities to justice and humanity. The drama and mystery are thick, almost tangible, and will keep you enthralled until the last shocking, eerie moment. "},{"Title":"confronting an unspeakable truth","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Consider the possibility that many of the children adopted by wealthy couples in Argentina might be orphans of 'Los Desapareaidos', the disappeared those who vanished during the reign of terror that gripped the country after the fall of Isabel Perón. It sounds like speculative fiction, but what might be unthinkable in any other country is just another nightmare fact of life under the military junta. And yet, when a comfortable, conservative schoolteacher (Norma Aleandro) begins to question the background of her own adopted daughter, she does more than simply put her family at risk in her dogged pursuit of the truth she recovers a measure of dignity and identity buried under a lifetime of complacent ignorance. The film invites comparison to the best thrillers of Costa-Gavras, but the impact is more personal than political, sparked by Aleandro's convincing portrait of a loving mother forced to choose between domestic security and an untroubled conscience. Her emotional performance helped earn the film a (well deserved) Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film. "}{"Title":"The government vs the people","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I could spend all day just listing the awards this film won. Besides the Best Foreign Film Oscar, it won 21 other awards and had an additional 3 nominations. It is rare to see a film win almost everything it was nominated for, but this film is just that powerful. The performance by Norma Aleandro, who won every award she was nominated for, save one, was so great that I am anxious to see that one performance that exceed hers.This is Director Luis Puenzo's greatest work, a work that he wrote with Aída Bortnik. It is a powerful story of children stolen from families in Argentina and given to those who support the government. I couldn't help but think of the child protective system in this country, where the weight is heavily towards taking children and getting them adopted as soon as possible instead of trying to work with families to fix their problems. There isn't must difference between that and what was done in Argentina.I am also reminded that the real heroes in the world are not those who wear body armor and have sophisticated weapons, but those who stand naked and march for justice. This happens over and over in South America, where we have supported military juntas that oppress the people.This is a beautiful and powerful film. Look for it. "},{"Title":"The Regime From A New Angle","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" The Official Story explores the crimes of the Argentine regime from an unusual perspective. Whereas movies of this nature like to give voice to guerrillas, journalists, the common man or innocent foreigners, Luis Puenzo's drama depicts the life of Alicia, the well-to-do wife of an army officer, Roberto. Evidently life is good for them; Alicia is a high school history teacher blissfully unaware of the crimes her happiness is built on.But one day Alicia starts wandering about the origin of her daughter, Gaby Roberto brought her home and Alicia always believed she came from a mother who didn't want the child or couldn't keep her. But what if Gaby is the child of a woman who was murdered by the regime? What if the mother is one of the many 'missing'? What if there is still family looking for the child? From this premise Luis Puenzo and his screenwriter Aída Bortnik &#x96; author of the La Tregua, another critically-admired Argentine movie &#x96; paint a portrait of an entire society coming to terms with their past and the truth.I found the movie extremely slow, but not in the good way that Antonioni or Kubrick can be slow while marveling the viewer with unique camera work and cinematography. This is just a well-written drama without extraordinary visual feats, with strong performances from all the characters. Towards the end the movie starts picking up and the climax is unforgettable. Although I didn't love this movie as much as a I wanted &#x96; being a big fan of Argentine literature &#x96; I still recommend watching it for the conflict that is at the heart of the movie. "},{"Title":"Good movie, oh yeah.","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This movie is definitely well worth the watch.  Although a fictional story, La Historia Oficial portrays the lives of people in a real moment in history, and describes situations that undoubtedly occurred in the lives of numerous Argentineans in the late 70's and first half of the 80's. Alicia's awakening and realization of the horrors that occurred in her country without her awareness could very well parallel several situations occurring in the world even today. Anyone who watches and comprehends this movie will be moved by it.  The actors do an excellent job and enhance the movie significantly.  Without taking a partial political stance or making an overt message, the movie leaves the viewer with much to ponder and is a good discussion provoking movie.  I especially like the foresight that the student in Alicia's class has in raising the point that history is often written only in the perspective of who is in charge or who wins a conflict.  This movie, however, does an excellent job in preserving the truth of what happened in Argentina and showing what things were happening in that period of turbulence in Argentinean history.  The fact that it was filmed in 1985 and very near the time that these events were occurring, makes the film all the more effective as a movie to portray the time.  "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I would definitely recommend this movie; it is well made and does a great job of engaging the moviegoers. It a very touching story that although, is based on reality, is not focused on making a political statement or advancing strong political points, rather it is a fictional account of what may be unbelievable to accept as based on truth. The acting is good throughout the production by the entire cast. The open ending ensures that the viewer is influenced and thinking about the story outside of the theater and beyond the running time of the movie. It raises questions and involves the audience, in  a way that promotes further discussion and may even prompt some viewers to seek their own answers and look deeper into the matter, always a positive impact of any artistic production, I think.  "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  This dramatic and powerful film touches the heart of anybody who has investigated their own life and has had to confront the issues they uncover. The personal struggle that the main character, Alicia, goes through in discovering the truth about her adoptive child is heart-wrenching. She battles within herself and with society to come to a personal understanding of her responsibility to her child and how the world works. Alicia's struggle also serves to make each and every one of us think about our own lives and how the actions we take have greater effects on the world as a whole. The fact that this movie is based on historical truth makes it an even more emotional story and I believe that the movie serves as a testimony to all those who have been affected by the situation. Although the film tells a personal story, it symbolizes all of the affected people of Argentina and throughout the world who have experienced similar saddening events and losses. The film serves to educate the public about such tragedies while also conveying a personal message. I learned a lot about the history of Argentina and, although I have never experienced such events in my personal life, I was able to easily relate to the characters in the film. I understand how difficult it is to feel cheated from something and to struggle internally with your own actions. I think that everybody in their own life is trying to come to an ultimate truth of where they come from, who they are, and who they want to be. I believe that by the end of the film Alicia has answered these questions in how they pertain to her own life and to her family. This is a great film and I highly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"Political AND interesting","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I love this movie.I don't enjoy political movies in general, like the ones that Costa Gavras make. Usually they are so busy educating people on the issues that they forget the real point of a movie - to tell a good story.The Official Story is an exception in the genre it is well written, well acted, has characters that you can relate to... AND tells a story that helps you understand violence as committed by the state. It is moving, has a human dimension as opposed to epic and detached.A perfect 10. "},{"Title":"sing for your mother, she'll hear you","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Alicia is a bit of an oddbod, a History teacher who seems ignorant of her own nation's past. The reasons for this state of denial slowly reveal themselves, centering on her adopted daughter Gaby, and the wider search for truth and justice for the missing victims of Argentina's military juntas. Alicia's husband Roberto is to some degree complicit with the regime, though quite to what degree is not revealed until almost the very last frame of the film.The Official Story has a subtle but complex narrative. We go along thinking Alicia's quest is to find the origins of her adopted daughter. However, her quest is much more fundamental, to do with the nature of her marriage and her husband's character. The answer, when it comes, is unequivocal.The slow-drip feed of the plot and fine performances from Héctor Alterio as Roberto and Norma Aleandro as Alicia make this compelling viewing. Events centre around one particularly ugly period in Argentinian history, but the message of human endurance, and potential for brutality, is timeless. A small masterpiece. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I watched this for a project in my Spanish 3 class.  When I first watched it, it confused me very much.  I had never heard of this war thing in Argentina.  So I looked up some stuff on the internet and learned about the dirty war.  When I watched it the second time with understanding, it was very good.  You could feel the horror and all the emotions the characters had.  It must have been so horrible to live through that. "},{"Title":"History was written by the Assassins","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" Although it seems that the film La Historia Oficial was an attempt to mock the contemporary style of its cinematic American competition, I believe that stylistically the film is not American; however, its melodramatic content is purely American. I despise melodramas mainly for one reason melodramatic films tend to use highly polemical historical, sociological, cultural or geographic issues as a mean to intensify their weak content. Thereafter, a sudden, supposedly intense, problem arises; such problem is usually a romantic microcosm of the main source (what I referred to as the polemical source), which it drains and diminishes. American examples of this travesty are Casablanca, Titanic, and All that heaven allows.Stylistically La Historia Oficial is a very Latin film the lighting is very similar to that of El callejón de los Milagros, while the cinematography is not as preoccupied with constant flamboyant takes, and the editing is not as conventionally fluid as that of American melodramas. The opening of the film is a metaphorical depiction of the entire story A deceiving shot that simulates emptiness and isolation (the mental, spiritual and political state in which the Argentineans found themselves at that period of time). But as the film zooms out of focus we are surprised to see that below the camera focus, hundreds of students stand waiting to recite their National Anthem. The use of longs shots reminds me more of European than American films.Thematically the film's focus is to represent the turmoil and corruption that Argentina suffered during the Dirty War. The main family is used as the melodramatic microcosm to represent an entire culture&#133; an entire Nation, but this trick worked subtler than it does in the majority of melodramas. For this reason I enjoyed the film because the duality represented by the two social structures (those above and those below) was interestingly analogous to the dichotomy of female and male, wife and husband, good and evil. The anarchistic undertones of the film interested me while Alicia represented the rigid, formal and intellectual part of society, her blindness to truth is almost unbelievable because of her faith in facts. Slowly she begins to reject the corrupted ideals she once saw as truth and realizes that there is another greater truth the reality that occurs yet is ripped from the history book, for history is usually written by the Assassins. Her rejection of social institutions (education, religion, and family) convinced her that conventional society is a blind organism. On the other hand, her husband, Roberto was concerned with elevating in the social ladder regardless of consequences, which is a way of attempting to do good by disregarding evil. Because of Roberto's blind and cruel conviction, Alicia realized that all of history is fiction, and for once she understands and experiences the truth.Although the representation of the greater truth through this family was well done, the ending was the most hindering point of the film because nothing was resolved. This sad reality of such interesting film contradicts Fernando Birri's idea of what Latin American Cinema should be &#133;This is the revolutionary function of social documentary and realist, critical and popular cinema in Latin America. By testifying, critically, to this reality &#150; to this sub-reality, this misery &#150; cinema refuses it. It rejects it. It denounces, judges, criticizes and deconstructs it. Because it shows matters as they irrefutably are, and not as we would like them to be&#133;. This sad terrible truth applies to Luis Peunzo's interpretation of that sub-reality and misery in which his country crumbled. Incredible flashes of an ultimate truth appeared in his cinematic vision&#133; but the viewers were simply teased, like a young boy hypnotized by a glorious belly-dancer, who at the climactic moment decides to retreat from her art. La Historia Oficial depicts a great truth, yet it veils it in order to appeal to a greater audience. The film lies in order to win the warmth of acceptance and to receive trivial applauses. Even though it is clear that the Nation was left in chaotic turmoil and irreparable hopelessness, the systematic and conventional cinematic format the film had to apply to, forced the filmmaker to end in a happy/inscrutable manner&#133; it is obvious that if the film ended in a tragic form its wouldn't have been accepted as well by the American audience, whom the film was targeting after all. "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  It was shocking for me to find out that this is based on true stories. Stories like this you expect to find only in movies, and you enjoy the movie and then go on with life.  However, there really are the desparecidos, and madres de la plaza mayo that are included in the movie.  I could not imagine finding out that my mother was possibly killed and I was taken from her, without her wanting to let me go, to be raised by a family contributing to my mother's suffering and possibly death.  By having the movie tell the story of one person in particular it made the movie more emotional and easier to relate to, instead of being bored by a list of facts and statistics.  I do think, however, that a short inclusion of real life facts at the end of the movie would have made me realize quicker that this is a true story and several people are suffering exactly what is displayed in the movie and more.  "}{"Title":"comments about the film","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I thought that this movie was very well written and played.  The film did a wonderful job explaining the situation in Argentina between the years of 1976 till 1983.  During this period there were many people who disappeared from there homes suddenly by the hands of the government and never seen again.  This film does an excellent job of showing the reality of the situation during this period.  Often times I felt like i could personally relate with the main character Alicia, although I have never been in any situation similar to this one.  The movie goes through the life of a specific family during this period of dictatorship.  The story focuses around a specific character Alicia whose husband is involved with the government.  They had adopted a daughter named Gaby and after some time Alicia begins to question where her daughter came from.  This was due in part to her discovering more about the women who disappeared and that they were often raped my government officials and then there children were given away.  Alicia begins to wonder where her daughter's birth mother is. Therefore she begins to search high and low to discover more about the people who had disappeared.  I won't let you in to the ending but I will say that it was very good.  The movie is definitely worth seeing by anybody. It does a wonderful job of teaching you about a serious situation and at the same time manages to be very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Worth its awards","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time right after it had been nominated, in my home country of Argentina. And it bored me to death.  I really could not understand why would anyone in its right mind nominate it, other than for trying to be politically correct.  It also felt opportunistic and relative redundant, since all Argentinian films at the time seemed to be about the recent crimes of the latest dictatorship. However, years later, in 2000, while on the States, I saw it again.  And I sat not believing my eyes.  I felt so attached to Norma Aleandro's character, as she slowly uncovers the mystery.  Alterio's portrait of the typical Argentinian husband felt too real.  The use of Maria Elena Walsh's lyrics (a traditional Argentinian nursery theme) is just almost too painful to bear, and a touch of genius.  And the 'abuela' (grandmother), as she discovers the truth and wants to take the granddaughter away from the family predicted many similar stories that were to happen in Argentina later on. In summary, if you watch the movie already knowing what has happened to Norma Aleandro's daughter, the movie will seem a boring soap opera.  However, if you don't or pretend you don't, you will realize that you are in the presence of one of the best Argentinian films of the 80s. "},{"Title":"powerful","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  A knockout. Norma Aleandro is heartbreakingly sensational. Why wasn't she nominated for an Academy Award, it befuddles me. For those of you that do not know, the dvd fails to include that this movie won the Academy Award for best foreign film of 1985, deservedly so. This film is far more deserving of a beautiful widescreen THX transfer than the dvd company that released it might think. (FOX LORBER did a lousy job with its dirty and grainy Pan & Scan version). "},{"Title":"Excellent for what it is","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  The Official Story plot appears in depth both on its IMDB.com home page and in user comments. A thumbnail, however, is A bourgeois Buenos Aires high school history teacher and mother of an adopted 5 year old girl begins to suspect her daughter may have been born to one of Argentina's thousands of missing people (Los Desaparecidos) who disappeared (probably kidnapped, tortured, etc.) while the nation was in the grip of a junta (1976-1983). This Oscar winner is a very well directed and acted human drama with ominous rumbling political undercurrents which stays focused on Aleandro's sterling portrayal of the mother though it does raise the specter of tainted official history. Unfortunately the DVD I rented had VHS quality video and white subtitles with no outline (making them difficult to read on light backgrounds). Recommended for foreign film buffs and Spanish speakers into drama. (B) "},{"Title":"Not as Good as People Say","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  The Official Story won the Academy Award for best foreign film, but I do not believe it deserved it. The film is based in Argentina when the government dictatorship was making may people very angry, let us say. While public protests and outcries are at their peak, the mother of an adopted girl named Gaby, a child of a couple who was killed by the government, finds a woman who may well be her grandmother. The film follows a very melodramatic course as the mother and father prioritize.Overall, the film is borderline good (I gave it a seven). The brooding mother, trying to figure things out about her daughter, brought little to the table in acting, in my opinion. I found the familiar relations between the father and his kin much more interesting than the slowly developing daughter conflict. There are better films dealing with similar topics, and if this film was made in 1986, Ran should have crushed it for best foreign film. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but has fatal flaws","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" First off, let me get this through that this movie is not a bad movie. The acting is fantastic and I could really tell the pain that the characters were going through during the movie. I also like the premise and how realistic the problems were. However, for me there were two big problems that kind of ruined the movie for me. The first one is not that big but the second one really bugged me.The first problem is how confusing the plot was to me. Maybe it's because the movie is in Spanish and I had to rely on the subtitles but I had trouble catching on to the plot. For me the movie sequence was like Gabby is adopted-I wonder who her parents really are- I think I found her grandmother- Her parents may be political prisoners- No wait, they might not be her parents after all. This is just a summary, but I dislike how the movie constantly nullifies its progress. The second problem for me was how the entire movie was built up for us to find out who Gabby's parents are, but we never find out. That bothered me because I had spent two hours trying to figure out the plot and hang on to every word to find the answer, but it's never given. That just left me feeling empty.Overall, this movie has a lot of great moments but what it doesn't give really takes away from the overall movie. "},{"Title":"Soap operas win Oscars too","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":"  The non-Argentines may not be aware of a significant fact; this film was made about 1985, shortly after the last military government fell, together with a bunch of similar denouncing TV and big screen films -only a few of them deserving to be remembered. Only this one achieved worldwide recognition. Director Luis Puenzo was a former 30-seconds advertising maker, and it shows pretty well; he masters at timing, lighting and use of music score, but the plot is hopelessly poor and kitsch. He knew the time was right for such a movie and he did it -actually winning the Oscar seems to have been a too oversized prize. I do accept the film was useful to let foreigners know what have happened here, but this alone does not make a great movie -not even a good one.  "},{"Title":"OK, movie","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, War","Review":" I saw the movie because my Professor brought the movie for us to see. I have to say that the movie wasn't my type but it wasn't bad. It was a bit slow and very sad, about how people were shouting against the military so that they can tell them where their missing loved ones are. I think it was very brave for people to stand up and unite for something that is right. When you see the movie you wonder, how can some powerful people like rich, politicians and militarist can take away people like they have no meaning. Getting them tortured, hitting the pregnant woman so hard that they would lost their babies or their babies were taken away from their mother so they can give them to rich people that cannot have babies. All of us at the classroom were in shock with what had happened in the end. She tells him her daughter isn't there and he starts losing it and hitting his wife to the wall and crushing her fingers with the door. We all gasped like he was crazy.Also when she hugs him we all thought she forgiven him, but it was a way of saying goodbye, although we did not like the end. The child singing and in a chair that a was bit like all that to end here. The movie wasn't bad although some said it was inspiring to me it will be like how people corrupt themselves. "}]