[{"Title":"Rather stretched avant-garde movie","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I wasn't expecting anything when I rented this, except maybe good performances of both the lead actors - Ben Kingsley and Nastassja Kinski, both of whom I think are very good at what they do. I expected it to be avant-garde (which as far as I know usually implies a rather complicated or stretchy movie that might be strenuous to watch at parts), and it turned out to be just that - little dialog to make the images work, and some scenes the movie could have done very well without. What separates this from a GOOD avant garde is the notorious lack of any meaningful plot, or idea that the director wishes to convey. And if there's something I can't stand it's an old-as-the-hills story cosily cloaked in a directors' slightly demented vision. susceptive foreigner falls in love with a man from foreign culture, and learns to love and understand this foreign culture after initial struggles. That's it. Not more and not less. This movie may be slightly less kitchy than other movies with the same theme, but the price for this is high - many endless and dragging scenes portraying things previously shown enough times. That just makes you want to grab your remote and fast-forward a little bit. However, this movie does have some rather original twists to the plot, and it's good enough to keep you watching throughout. It's also straight-forward enough to appeal to people who usually avoid avant garde and the artsy. No prior knowledge of the theme is needed before watching this movie, which is a bliss. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood...","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...and no wonder.I'm not sure whether Harem is too subtle for its own good, or if it simply fails to adequately get its point(s) across even to clever audiences accustomed to subtle storytelling. I'm not so sure I'm clever enough myself to decide that, you see. To pick up on all the (plentiful) symbolism and accurately interpret it. Certain plot twists at the very end lead me to believe, however, that perhaps I shouldn't give the creators too much credit.However, whatever its failings (or mine), Harem is certainly a thought provoking movie. Don't let the title and the bare skin fool you; the last thing Harem is about is sexuality in any way, shape or form. I can't say for certain what it is about, but it made me consider, among other things, loneliness, and whether its an inescapable part of the human condition in any society. It made me consider the passing of time; change; permanence. The constraints culture and society place on the individual. Whether people ever really connect. Other things I've yet to grasp well enough to verbalise.This is a fascinating movie. Difficult to watch at times, and at other times mesmerising. Ugly, and beautiful, the way humanity is ugly and beautiful. It will not appeal to those who like their world neat and well-defined.Confused by this attempt at a review? Well, consider it an indication of what to expect from the movie. I would not be reviewing something I understood this poorly, if I did not feel that other reviewers understood it even less than I did. This is not a love story. At least, it is not a story of romantic or sexual love. Nor is it some perverted fantasy put to film, as some would have it. It's a semi-successful examination of what it is to be human.In my opinion, it's well worth seeing, but only for the curious, the philosophically inclined, the introspective, the in-the-mood-y. The ones willing to be left without any answers at the end. Folks looking for easy entertainment, romance, or sexy exotic whatever, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Powerful love story!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The video cover portrayed womens breasts and immediately I thought it was going to be a trashy film, this was not so!  It was a well executed character driven film concentrating on lifestyle, love and changing lifestyles.  Very little dialogue which was incredible to watch and when it was utilised, it was very powerful.  A quiet beginning, but unfolded soon to be quiet intriguing.  I found the script to be masterly.  In addition to excellent performances by Ben Kingsley and Nastasha Kinsky.  Definitely worth watching if you like this genre and plot line.  A little more scenery wouldn't go astray, but overall - brilliant - it wasn't a trashy boob harem movie at all (sorry to disappoint you fellas) "},{"Title":"A lovely, complex film","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Diane is a young, promiscuous trainee stockbroker, who leads a life that is not unhappy, but is rather empty of meaningful human connection. This is shown in her flippancy towards her friend's upcoming wedding, and her lack of a relationship with her mother. She receives a sunflower with a blank card, but soon forgets about it. She discovers another blank card in her bag, which she left in the church during her friend's wedding ceremony. After missing the ferry to the reception, she is offered a lift by a friendly seaman in his tug boat. He gives her drugged tea, however, and she wakes up in a strange harem, surrounded by Arabic women and children. What follows is a brief mental breakdown after wandering in the desert, and being found by the sheikh's falcon. She eventually accepts her fate, and when she does finally meet the sheikh, Salim, she realises he has been watching her for some time, and that she has no real qualms about sleeping with him. He does not share her cavalier attitude towards sex, however. He is a man who is trying to reconcile his Arabic roots with his need to embrace the Western World. This is a complex desire, and his relationship with Diane is equally complex, for it is based upon obsessive love on his side, and conflicting emotions of love and loneliness on hers.This film has beautiful cinematography, and a hauntingly lovely Middle Eastern themed score. The two go hand in hand to create a film which is atmospheric and lasting in ones memory. The performances of Ben Kingsley as Salim and Nastassja Kinski as Diane, are both very powerful and subtle. Some have said that Ben Kingsley comes off as dull, but I can not disagree more. He conveys every emotion with his usual subtle brilliance. It is not necessary for him to try and convey his emotions with excessive energy. This is a man who is silently torn by his loyalty to his culture and responsibilities, and his desire for what he knows is unobtainable for a man in his position. Nastassja Kinski gives one of her best performances, and shows Diane's slow emotional maturity, and gradual acceptance and understanding of both herself and Salim. Their chemistry is excellent, because it is genuine and natural. It is sensual and languid, much like the film itself, which is why most people would not enjoy it. This film requires a large amount of patience in order to truly appreciate its development. It is also not for those who wish to have conclusive answers at the end of the film. The film requires an audience or viewer who is content to interpret its ending as they will. The film's ending while tragic and open, is the only one that it could realistically have. Harem is very much in the same vein as 9 1/2 Weeks and Wild Orchard, with its distinctive mood and non-linear plot. It does not have the hectic sex scenes of these films, but it has the same sort of message the examination of loneliness, the realisation of a quiet kind of melancholy which can rule ones life without one realising it, and finally the discovery of another person who is also lonely and unaware of their melancholic existence. Whether or not the connection with this other person is lasting, positive or destructive remains to be seen. "},{"Title":"The film is a gem.","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is very beautiful, and Sir Ben Kingsly acts outstandingly. The film is huge in France, and with good reason. It is an intriguing, unique, and magical film. The film is on French TV I hear like every other week, still to this day! PS Don't be thrown off by the title, the film is, in fact, a sincere love story. I think it deserves a re-release in theaters in America. The only critique I have is the orchestrated music, which is a bit melodramatic. But other than that, the cinematography is beautiful, the acting is subtle and brilliant, and the direction is excellent. I suggest to rent it! Voila! I think that it is a breath-taking film. "},{"Title":"extremely painful to watch","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An American woman, Nastassja Kinski, is kidnapped off the streets of New York and ends up in a harem.  This movie is not to be confused with Rudolph Valentino's The Sheik essentially because Harem is dead once the scenery moves into an unknown Arabian desert where the shifting sands seem to have caused time to nearly stop.  Poor Ben Kingsley plays a lifeless role that is in marked contrast to the more meaty role that Nastassja has been given. Without Nastassja, there is no movie and even she cannot save this very slow, dull, when-is-it-going-to-end movie.  Except for Nastassja, the picture lacks life.  The script is DOA and one wonders how these sorts of movies ever see the light of day.  At least it is comforting to know that no amount of money in the world will buy off Nastassja's character - American women can be feisty and independent even if they have to rely upon their feminine wiles.  Harem is a movie that is so bad that one cannot forget it.   "},{"Title":"Was an extra in this movie.","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Back in the eighties I was a floor trader on the NYFE where the opening trading scenes were filmed. We filmed in the late afternoon\early evening after the exchange had closed. Remember facing forward toward the camera in the center of the trading ring as the fellow traders had their backs to the lens, and upwards at the camera when the director said action. I can distinctly recall how beautiful and large Ms.Kinski's eyes were, as we mock traded with her in the futures pit. The movie was somewhat dry (maybe the second location in the Arabian desert had something to do with it) otherwise only the personal memories would make me have the slightest interest in it. "},{"Title":"An odd failure....","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film about a relationships, old versus new ways of life, culture, sex and traditions should have been better. However what we get is strange art-house film that borders to exploitation.The director Arthur Joffé is really trying to say something deep here but according to me,he fails. While trying to do a dark, meaningful film along the same lines as Jalsaghar (1958), Da hong deng long gao gao gua/ Raise the Red Lantern(1991) etc this film almost never reaches that level and becomes more like Paradise (1982).More like a softporn drama film in a exotic setting, then an romantic drama with very dark undertones. It is shame, because Nastassja Kinski is very good here, gives of probably one of her best performances, and with Ben Kingsley holds this film on their shoulders.The directors choice to use the stockholm syndrome as romantic plot device doesn't really sit well with this reviewer and also reminds me of some Pinku eiga films I've seen.But people who are still curious about this unusual and hard to come by film, see it for Nastassja Kinski & Ben Kingsleys sake, nothing else.Also viewers sensitive about nudity or sex should avoid this film. "},{"Title":"Downright Silly","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We the poor public have to watch the contents of someone's sexual fantasies up there on the silver screen.An American girl, who - by design or otherwise - looks strangely like Michael from The Bangles - is given a drugged hot drink on a cold day and wakes up in the heat of the Arabian desert minus her pantyhose. She discovers she has been captured not by a Valentino-type, but by a middle-aged man with a bald head and a moustache. The rest of the film is a seduction and a motor tour through the desert, punctuated by this poor girl being painted with henna.Unless you are looking for a cure for insomnia, you would do well to give this film a miss and watch Valentino in The Sheik instead. "}]