[{"Title":"Masterpiece from maligned genius","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"65 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Okay, so it loses a bit of steam in the final third, but that's true of most movies. It still rates a ten. The first film by Paul Ruebens, Tim Burton and the incomparable film composer Danny Elfman, it bubbles with the pure joy and exuberance of three talented people playing with a brand new toy. No film has ever been more fun to watch.Reubens' media crucifixion in the early 90's was a crime against pop culture. America's snickering sanctimony stifled and virtually silenced one of the few original voices in the entertainment industry. I'm only thankful that Pee-wee lives on in video-land, so that my children and I can continue to enjoy his film and television work (the new DVD of Big Adventure, by the way, is a treasure).Pee-wee Herman, it's time to come back! Your loyal fans await your triumphant return. And to all those sicko name-callers out there, we have only one thing to sayI know you are, but what am I? "},{"Title":"One of the better pure comedies.","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"48 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  My favorite Burton film, the only one under his direction I've seen where there is no heavy handed attempt to create a mood or an effect. In fact this is as straight a comedy as the Marx Brothers created in their films, totally without seriousness and with no opportunity to just do something funny passed by. Ruebens was inspired, well supported by cast, pacing and minimal props. His Pee Wee appears as a genuine person which gives the comedy enough bite to stick. This is a vastly underrated movie in my opinion and worth the consideration of anyone who likes to laugh. "},{"Title":"Good fun if you're in the mood for it","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"32 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Man-child Pee-wee Herman lives a magical life but has one possession that he treasures over all the others &#150; his bicycle.  The envy of the neighbourhood, his bike is his life and he is horrified when he finds it stolen.  With the police unwilling to start a statewide search, Pee-wee sets out on an adventure to try and find his bike.Pee-Wee Herman is a fairly acquired taste and won't please all audiences.  I quite liked him here but couldn't have watched his show on a weekly basis.  In this film though his `man-child' style and outlandish sense of humour really work out well.  The plot is fairly pointless and just sparks off a road trip, which has a series of bizarre characters and adventures along the way.Tim Burton's darkly comic imagination certainly helps and he gives the whole film an other-worldly feel to the whole thing, whether it be in the delivery of Herman's dreams or just the look of the film as a whole.  Not all of it works of course, some of it misfires and isn't as funny as it would like to think that it is, however much of it is weirdly amusing and will be entertaining if you like Herman's style.Herman can be annoying but here he stays on the right side of irritating and he is amusing in his delivery.  He certainly suits the material and his OTT/hyper style helps the audience get into the very silly plot!  Support is good and has lots of small roles that are weird and funny.Overall this film is very much a matter of taste.  If you like Herman then you should enjoy this film as it is very well done and is blessed with a real other-worldly touch by a great director in the making. "},{"Title":"An overall success of laughter and class combined!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Some people may think that this movie is silly, pointless, and has ridiculous scenes.  But I, however, find it to be entertaining, very funny, and a good family movie made back in the 80's.  It has a lot of jokes that are mostly the ones that are funny because they are weird and never seen anywhere else, but it does also have some one-liners that make even the most stern of audiences laugh.  What I liked about this movie was that it had a lot of people involved in it.  There were also a lot of locations that were shown in this film, even if the places were not the initial location that they intentioned of in the movie.All of the characters gave pretty good performances that were done at optimum level of expectation.  To be honest, I cannot think of any reason off the top of my head that could make Pee-wee's Big Adventure better.  There are plenty of jokes as I have already said that make you laugh .  The camera angles that they used also coordinated with the way that the jokes went together.  The camera might be having a close-up frame and behind the character's back Pee-wee might do something to make that character turn around with the camera behind it.  The things like that are what make this movie good.  My other favorite parts of this movie are the scenes of Pee-wee's house, that had a very creative touch to it, and how Pee-wee had such dedication to his magical bike.  To see if I am right, you should go out and rent Pee-wee's Big Adventure.  I guarantee at least five long and hard laughs.  With all of it's silliness combined, I give this movie ****/****, a 10/10.  It was really a good experience to me. "},{"Title":"Pee-wee's Big Adventure (1985)","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Pee-wee's Big Adventure (the first full-length feature by acclaimed film-maker Tim Burton) is the kind of movie you'd have to force yourself NOT to like. Adapted from Paul Reubens' hit children's (and adult's) television show, it is a delightful fantasy that is bound to entertain. The tagline for the film describes it as the story of a rebel and his bike, and that really about sums up the entire movie, but there's something about Pee-wee that taps into everyone's inner child and captures the care-freeness of youth, making his adventures irresistible and utterly captivating ... because -- afterall -- Pee-wee is still the coolest man-child out there (take THAT, Michael Jackson!). The plot (which is really rather insignificant) revolves around Pee-wee's prized bike, which is tragically stolen while he's shopping for novelty toys at the mall (who DOESN'T wish they had this man's life?). After deciding that the police couldn't possibly help him in his endeavors, he takes the law into his own hands and sets out on a quest to find his bicycle -- which a phony fortune-teller has told him is in the basement of the Alamo. The film can be enjoyed on a number of levels while there is always the sheer fun and hilarity of Reubens comic genius, there is another genius at work here -- Burton's. One of the many pleasures of watching a Burton movie is that you can tell you're watching a movie by a man who's watched a lot of movies, and each feature of his is drenched with homages, parodies, and inside jokes Pee-wee's Big Adventure features references to beach blanket movies, horror movies, Godzilla movies, Tarzan movies, and even The Wizard of Oz. The other great thing about Burton is that he always adds a dark edge to his work, regardless of how flippant the work may be when Pee-wee's bike is stolen, it's a moment of almost Hitchcockian intensity. Burton's playful use of shadows and cartoonish set pieces conveys a sense of simultaneous lightheartedness and malice; his films accomplish that rare feat of creating a world entirely of their own. But even if all of this film-geek babble means absolutely nothing to you, you can still have fun on this adventure, because Pee-wee is one of the most likable characters in the history of entertainment anyone who claims to find Reubens obnoxious or unfunny is either lying to you or has no sense of humor. The screenplay for Pee-wee's Big Adventure was written by Reubens and Saturday Night Live alumni Phil Hartman, and its combination of childish humor (I know you are, but what am I?) and unexpected insight is absolutely charming. With top-notch direction and full-blown hilarity (the Tequila scene is one for the time capsule), it is one of the most purely enjoyable films ever made; it's that rare cult movie that's just as good as its fans would tell you it is. So go on give into your temptation and watch it. As Pee-wee himself would say, I triple-dog-dare ya not to like it.Grade B "},{"Title":"Why it's my favorite Tim Burton movie","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"31 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I absolutely love everyone of Tim Burton's movies, but if I had to pick which one was my favorite, this would be the one. Why you ask? Well, first of all, this movie has everything. And I do mean everything. Horror, comedy, family fun, you name it. This movie scared me so much when I was a kid. I mean come on, that scene when you see all those clowns and the dinosaur, not to mention the Large Marge scene, were scary.Simply put, I could pop this one in and easily watch it for lots of fun. Not saying that Tim Burton's other movies aren't fun, but this one can be watched under any circumstances. It's like the reason BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA is my favorite John Carpenter movie. "},{"Title":"Pee Wee Herman + Tim Burton = MANIC FUN!!","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Wow, deja vu.I haven't seen this one since....years ago back when wearing wrist bracelets was popular.  It brought back all these memories of the fun I had watching this a kid.  Surprisingly, this is Tim Burton's first movie and he did a great job.  His unique directing,  visual design, and dark comedy just work superbly as a whole.  I can never remember being so affected by clowns in hospital smocks.Let's not forget Pee Wee as well.  He was definitely a character who I enjoyed watching because he was so carefree, happy, and it was hard not to like him.  There are so many great scenes in this one like breakfast time, the Alamo, Pee Wee's nightmares, any scene with Francis YOU'LL BE SORRY PEE WEE HERMAN! Buxton, Mickey the con, the Warner Bros lot and so many more.  The characters are great too and from their performances, you can tell they had fun doing this film cause it shows.  With a the limited budget, Pee Wee's wacky nature, and Tim Burton's imagination, it all adds up to a really entertaining film.  Oops, can't forget Danny Elfman's great soundtrack which sets the tone rather nicely.The DVD has great commentary from Paul & Tim and provides great insight into the film.  Watch this one and rememberBe sure and tell them Large Marge sent ya!! "},{"Title":"Recommended for people who like colorful visuals and absurd characters.","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Not ever being a fan of Pee Wee Herman (Paul Reubens), I found myself very surprised that I enjoyed this movie when it first came out on VHS and several viewings since (including on DVD.)Despite Pee Wee's stupid character he's still a likable guy and the movie is outrageously funny, a tribute in part to the visuals of director Tim Burton. This is one of his earliest films and his first hit. It began to stamp him as someone who could make stylish films with a good sense of the absurd.It took four viewings until I finally got sick of Pee Wee's stupid laugh, which he overdoes and finally made me reduce the rating of the film from '9' to '7. This is another one of these films for kids and adults.Once Pee Wee gets on the road looking for his missing bicycle, the films gets rolling and has some memorable stops on the way (large dinosaurs, his famous Tequila dance, Large Marge and other assorted strange scenes, all of which are very entertaining.) "},{"Title":"A man and his bike and Burton in the middle","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Tim Burton in his directorial debut directs a masterpiece of a comedy. This movie which has Pee-wee Herman (Paul Rubens) in search of his stolen bike is hilarious and full of gags. Burton does a terrific job creating the world of a man-child which proves that Burton is one of the greatest directors of all-time. How many directors have struck gold in their first picture? This is a movie not to be missed and check out for E.G. Daily, the voice of Tommy in Rugrats, as Dottie a/k/a Pee-Wee's love interest. "},{"Title":"One of Tim Burton's best films and one of the great classic comedies of all time. ***** out of 5","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of the earliest films I can remember watching as a kid. I mean I was literally obsessed with Pee Wee Herman. HEck, I even dressed up like him for Halloween and I'll even admit I dressed up like him when I got back from school. I had the white church shoes and everything.I even dress up like him nowadays from time to time... no no, just kidding... come back! I was only kidding.Anyways, Paul Reubens created one of the funniest characters to grace the big and small screens and this Tim Burton film certainly had an impact on my life. I sincerely believe this film had a lot to do with my love of films today. As funny as the film is, it's the look of it that probably drew me in at such a young age. I mean, there are tons of jokes that just fly right over your head at that age. The fact that this crazy guy in a red bow tie was going cross country to get back his gadget laden bicycle was really cool.That bike, man... how I wanted one. And still do. -) Brush Brush Brush... Brush Brush Brush!The dream sequences are outstanding, especially the clown dream. Quite possibly why I hate clowns to this day. The visions of Pee Wee standing there while the surgeons hand surgical tools to one another in front of him is something disturbing. Not to mention the unveiling of the lead surgeon. I mean, these are some profoundly disturbing images... and let's not forget Large Marge! Sheesh!The music by Danny Elfman remains one of his very best scores. And to think it was his first orchestral score! Brilliant!The inclusion of Godzilla and Monster Zero was a real plus as I have always been a huge Godzilla fan. The chase through Warner Bros. back lot is really awesome!I can't praise the film enough. Definitely one that is among my Top 20 films of all time. "}{"Title":"Much more entertaining than Star Wars!","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"28 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  i'm appalled at the rating for this classic. what i gathered from the few negative nellies is that they were (a) not Pee Wee fans or (b) obsessive burton fans who think of this as one of his films, when really the comedy stylings of pee wee & phil hartman, both former groundlings, who are the heart and soul of this movie. i'm not saying burton didn't contribute, but that it was a collaboration between the three.10/10 "},{"Title":"Come back, Pee-wee! All is forgiven.","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When you look back at Paul Reubens' career, it's easy to forget what a joy Pee-wee's Big Adventure was. He followed it up with a disappointing sequel and, to some, an even bigger indiscretion in his personal life.Pee-wee's Big Adventure is a rarity for a live-action film A film for kids that adults might like even more. This road movie about Pee-wee's search for his stolen bicycle is colorful, imaginative, well written and even, gulp, educational in spots. After all, who would have thought that the Alamo doesn't have a basement? Director Tim Burton's surrealistic touches provided an introduction to his quirky career, and Danny Elfman's score set the stage for brilliant soundtracks to come. The delightful walk-ons by Milton Berle, Phil Hartman, Jan Hooks and Twisted Sister make this a good one for the time capsule, and James Brolin and Morgan Fairchild are hilarious in the Hollywood version of Pee-wee's adventure.Pee-wee's Big Adventure is a good movie to watch when you're depressed, and a better one to watch when you're happy. Whether you take it straight or with a shot of Tequila, it holds up on repeated viewings. Come back, Pee-wee! All is forgiven. We need you now more than ever before. "},{"Title":"This Movie is Great","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I know a lot of people think when they hear his name (PeeWee Herman) they think what a terrible actor and how not funny. But really this movie is great.  There are so many funny parts to it that I find that whenever I watch it I can't help but laugh.  I recently received this movie on DVD and I probably have watched it ten times.  If you need a good...no great laugh see this bodacious movie.  The totally radical lines are great and who would have that he could swing on a vine like Tarzan on his bike.  I loved how at the end they mad fun of all of the WB's stupid movies.  This movie is a must have.  "},{"Title":"A classic for the quirky people.","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I remember seeing The Pee-Wee Herman Show when I was a little kid, laughing mainly because my older sisters were laughing. However, when this movie came out, my sense of humor officially began to gel. At age 7, I saw this movie on opening night with one of my sisters and our cousin. It actually appealed to my sense of humor but my sister and cousin were also rolling in laughter. It quickly became a family classic; a movie that I would come to watch over and over again. Fond memories came to attach themselves to it, and I will proudly admit to having the entire script committed to memory.Nowadays, my sister and I use it as a bonding experience. We watch it together every time we visit one another, and we make friends endure it too! However, I never thought I would look so fondly upon such a silly movie.When people think of Pee-Wee, his arrest in 1991 is usually the first thing that comes to mind. If you can look beyond that, and beneath the seemingly stupid exterior of the movie, it is possible to enjoy an unmatched delight of off-the-wall stupidity and unique humor.With Pee-Wee and Francis portrayed right from the as grown men that act like kids in the sand box, it is clear that you're in for something truly bizarre. Dreamy conversation at a dinosaur-guarded truck stop, an amazing breakfast machine, and run-ins with Godzilla and Twisted Sister are just a few of the many hilarious traits of this movie. There are no boring parts at all, and `Pee-Wee's Big Adventure' will always reign supreme as a comic essential.  "},{"Title":"A Film With Just as Much Absurd Energy as its Frantic, Sugar-Raging Centerpiece","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is the stuff cult classics are made of, the kind of film that's so offbeat, unexpected, kitschy and contentedly niche-inhabiting that you can't help but wonder how a major studio ever gave it the green light. Paul Reubens lives and breathes this role, (literally - he's credited for the role of Pee-Wee as himself) and he couldn't have asked for a better partner than the similarly quirky, fringe-dwelling director Tim Burton (in his first major picture). Reubens is genuinely larger-than-life in this loose collection of vignettes and skits, with the whole mess tied together with all the care and subtlety of a spaceship made of duct tape and cardboard. Even when he's not making a direct footprint on the screen, Pee-Wee's influence is positively oozing out of each frame, coating everything from the scenery to the wardrobe to the manic, impulsive style of shooting. It's a perfect interpretation of the character's famous stage show, an ideal introduction for the unfamiliar masses, and a natural launchpad to super-stardom. I'll grant that it's not for everyone, but for those of us with an appreciation for drag queens, John Waters, the B-52's and sixties housewife chic, it's a direct hit. It's that rare crossroads where unbridled mayhem, conscienceless good times and hysterical laughter collide in a loud, twisted, dirty ball of pandemonium. I think it's safe to say this will never be replicated, and I'm both overjoyed and deflated to realize it. "},{"Title":"GENIUS!","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A childlike man in a red bow-tie scours the country in search of his stolen bike, believing he will find it in the Alamo. In the basement of the Alamo. Just you try and tell me that isn't funny.Paul Reubens is synonymous with Pee-Wee to many of us, and watching Pee-Wee's Big Adventure, one see why. The actor disappears into his character's giddy enthusiasm and childlike logic - and Pee-Wee becomes real. Director Tim Burton (this was his first feature) seems equally tapped into Reubens' fantasy world, giving the film the right energetic pace and some of that Burtonian visual pop. Everything coheres to make Pee-Wee's Big Adventure one of the funniest, most watchable movies on the planet. "},{"Title":"OH MY GOODNESS","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film is fall-down funny. I love it so much, and always have since I was a child. It's so colorful and Herman's whole appearance and character is so unique and child-like that you can't help escape from reality and laugh your hardest for a little while. Also, E.G. Daily is a little cutie. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever made","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'm 22 and I love this movie more now than when I was a kid. It's pure hilarious. A masterpiece of goofy comedy. It's in my category with Dumb and Dumber, Beverly hills ninja, Naked Gun and Happy Gilmore. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Comedy For All Ages","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Wow, where to start with this movie?  I remember being 11 years old when i first saw this movie, and my friend and i thought it was one of the funniest things we had ever seen!  Lots of clever catch phrases and a wacky plot just made this movie hilarious!   And now, 16 years later, this movie makes me laugh just as much, if not more.  This movie has it all, from slapstick and physical humour to more subtle humour, there is something for everyone.   The directing by Tim Burton was first-rate, and the score by Danny Elfman (The Simpsons, Oingo Boingo, Batman) was incredible.  It was perfect for this movie. Oh, and there are some great cameos by Morgan Fairchild and James Brolin at the end of the movie that are just a riot!  Trust me, forget any of your preconceived notions of who you think pee wee herman is, rent this movie, and just enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Is there something you can share with the rest of us, Amazing Larry?","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Gloriously goofy, vividly designed feature film vehicle for co-writer / star Paul Reubens' enduring character of Pee-wee Herman, a snazzily dressed man-child who lives in a world of his own. Pee-wees' world is subsequently shattered when his beloved, custom built, all- important bicycle is stolen from him, and he embarks on a cross country journey to find it again. Along the way, he will encounter escaped criminal Mickey (Judd Omen), wistful diner waitress Simone (Diane Salinger), an ominous sounding trucker named Large Marge (Alice Nunn), a gang of bikers known as the Satan's Helpers, and runs amok at Warner Bros. Studios.This viewer can understand how a character such as Pee-wee wouldn't be to all tastes, but speaking personally, he has a blast with this amiable movie every single time. Debuting director Tim Burton, a former animator, was obviously the right choice to take the helm of such zany shenanigans. He and his production designer David L. Snyder have a great time with the material, which was conceived by Reubens, his fellow Groundlings member Phil Hartman (who has a bit as a reporter), and Michael Varhol. One good thing must be said, and that is that if one is seeing it for the first time, it has a gleefully unpredictable quality to it. The rich array of characters also helps to keep things interesting.The whole chase through Warner Bros. Studios provides what are far and away the brightest moments. Pee-wee rides his bike through the sets of a beach party movie, a Christmas movie, a Godzilla movie (!), and, most uproariously, a Twisted Sister video.Reubens is great fun as Pee-wee. Elizabeth Daily as Dottie and Ms. Salinger are endearing, and Mark Holton as Francis is a hilariously unsubtle villain. There are cameos for Morgan Fairchild, James Brolin, Cassandra Elvira Peterson, and Tony Bill, and bits by the likes of Lynne Marie Stewart, John Paragon, Susan Barnes, Professor Toru Tanaka, Jan Hooks, and Jason Hervey.Danny Elfmans' score is one of the heaviest assets. It's catchy and really sticks in your head.An enjoyable film for kids and young-at-heart adults, with some inspired moments of twisted nightmare imagery.Eight out of 10. "}{"Title":"Watch this movie and tell em Large Marge sent ya!!!","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love this movie so much that practically every time I see it on TV I am powerless against it's comedy magic, and that Dotty (meow, what a lil fox right?) . I would have my parents rent this gem from the video store when I was just a kid and I think I love it even more now then I did back then. Pee Wee's treasured bike gets stolen and he goes on a hunt for the missing two wheeled wonder, which takes him on a wacky road trip full of crazy characters. This movie is just pure joy from start to finish and you can really see the fingerprints of all the major influences (Ruebens, Hartman, Burton, Elfman, etc.). If you haven't seen it you wouldn't understand, couldn't understand, shouldn't understand (let me guess u don't understand? Right?). Watch this movie and you will. "},{"Title":"Let's talk about your big but ....","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Chintzy, yes; silly, ineffably; hilarious, very; a masterpiece, probably not, but who cares.I've heard it said that you either love Pee Wee Herman or you hate him. I can't imagine anyone hating him after they see this imaginative comedy. Paul Rubens is a very funny and talented man and it's a crying shame he's been ostracized by the hypocrites in Hollywood. 'Pee Wee's Big Adventure' was Tim Burton's breakthrough movie that launched him on what is now a brilliant career, a career that goes from strength to strength, with the occasional great film, like 'Edward Scissorhands', 'Ed Wood' and 'Big Fish'.This is the only movie I know centered around the theft of a bicycle, other than Vittorio di Sica's 'Bicycle Thieves' which is anything but a comedy. Burton makes this slight plot line work and holds the viewers' interest through 90 minutes of absurdity and charm.There are the now-usual Burton touches, like scary clowns and stuffed animals and startling facial effects, Large Marge, for instance. The film is a series of vignettes, like the Large Marge scene in the truck and the bikers in the desert and Mickey the convict running from the law and a very funny scene at the Alamo and Pee Wee riding a bull in a rodeo and a wild and wonderfully ridiculous chase scene through the Warner Brothers studios back lots and sound stages. It sounds banal but is very entertaining to watch.There is a great deal of subtlety in the performances and they are easily over-looked if you happen to be rolling your eyes in disbelief at the childish naivety; sometimes Pee Wee's personality gets to people and they have to express their impatience, only to be re-engaged a moment later. Roll your eyes at your peril, this is very funny stuff, and the scenes never over-stay their welcome. There isn't a boring moment in the whole thing.It even has a great ending which is the most notoriously difficult thing to write in a film script. Pee Wee gets a small role in a film about his big adventure in which he plays a hotel clerk, and it is a comic gem equal to some of Charlie Chaplin's better work. The 70s hunk, James Brolin, plays Pee Wee in the film within a film, and to see him in a Pee Wee suit with the red bow tie fighting international criminals with Morgan Fairchild is to see something wholly unique on film.Kids and adults will love this comedy. It's good natured and sophisticated. "},{"Title":"A madcap delight","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Eccentric man-child Pee-wee Herman (Paul Reubans in top loopy and frantic form) embarks on a cross country odyssey to find his beloved stolen bicycle. During his journey Pee-wee meets a motley assortment of folks and has several wacky misadventures. Director Tim Burton does an expert job of creating and maintaining a positively infectious sense of sheer joy and inspired lunacy. Moreover, the marvelously vivid and surreal live action cartoon world depicted in this film is quite cool and charming. Moreover, the frantic pace never let's up for a minute. Sidesplitting comic highlights include Pee-wee's late night encounter with creepy phantom truck driver Large Marge (a memorably intense Alice Nunn), the tour of the Alamo, Pee-wee's run-in with a gang of hostile bikers in a sleazy bar, an elaborate chase sequence through the Warner Brothers studio lot, Pee-wee saving all the animals from a burning pet store, and the slicked-up Hollywood movie version of Pee-wee's story starring James Brolin and Morgan Fairchild. The cast play their broad roles with delicious lip-smacking gusto Elizabeth Daily as Pee-wee's adorable gal pal Dottie, Mark Holton as infantile spoiled rotten rich brat Francis Buxton, Diane Salinger as friendly diner waitress Simone, Judd Omen as bad-tempered escaped convict Mickey, Cassandra Peterson as a mean motorcycle mama, Luis Contreras as a nasty eye-patched biker, and Jan Hooks as perky, ever-smiling Alamo tour guide Tina. Popping up in nifty bits are Milton Berle, Phil Hartman, and Twisted Sister. Danny Elfman hits it out of the ballpark with his perfectly zany and spirited barnstorming score. Victor J. Kemper's bright, sparkling candy color cinematography is likewise on the money excellent. A sublimely screwball treat. "},{"Title":"I was caught enjoying myself in the theater watching this one.","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" OK so I didn't see this in theaters, and I definitely haven't masturbated while watching it, but I do enjoy it and always have.Pee-wee is cool I don't care what anyone has to say. As a kid the teachers let us watch this in school and I liked it a lot, especially the scene where he dances to Tequilla.My sister became obsessed with Pee-wee Herman and even hung the movie poster to this up and she was in her 20's and married. The movie was always so great and she watched it at the theatre and I watched it later at school on video and went almost 20 years before I watched it again. I bought it on video for less than a dollar and watched it about 6 months ago and it was nice to see it again. It wasn't as great as I had remembered but I still enjoyed it.I decided the other night I wanted to watch all Of Tim Burtons movies because there is a few of the newer ones I had not seen BIG FISH and THE CORPSE BRIDE and I decided I'd watch all of his from the beginning. I looked them up on this website and I already had every one of his movies so I didn't have to buy any of them and that was good. What shocked me though was this movie PEE-WEE'S BIG ADVENTURE. I had no idea Tim Burton did this movie. I had never noticed it.I watched it and I was watching it for the direction and feel of it as far as visual more than story, and well it didn't feel like a Tim Burton Movie. It was a bit dry as far as direction style goes, but the actual direction was well adjusted with the screenplay.Great story and great cast, one of those eighties guilty pleasures - gotta love it. "},{"Title":"A man that never grew up brings out the kid inside us all.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Reading over the many enthusiastic comments on this board, I was surprised to see only a handful of the posters make mention of the true genius of this film.  Many seem to consider it a guilty pleasure, or stupid humor.  But it's much more than that, and the key to understanding and enjoying Pee Wee's Big Adventure is to realize that his world is simply the adult world seen through the eyes of a child.The most wonderful thing in the world when you are a kid is your bike.  It is the first thing that a young boy really treasures, as it represents freedom and the possibility of adventure.  A child learns to love his bike (or at least kids used to before video games - I think that's why the bicycle in the movie has such a retro feel), and truly believes that it is the best bike in the whole world.But Pee Wee's bike is no ordinary bike, of course, because he is an adult and adults (according to kids) should have much cooler bikes.  And so Pee Wee, who never really joined the adult world, has the most decked-out bike in the world.  And we, as an audience of children, connected with Pee Wee, because that was the kind of bike that we would have when we were grown up.And yet the bike is not the only part of this film that reflects how children think adults should live.  Pee Wee has a house full of cool toys - a fireman's pole to get from his room to the rest of his house (didn't we all want that?), a kitchen with a massive machine that actually cooks your breakfast for you (designed the way we would have designed it when we were kids), and a secret storage compartment on the side of his home that housed his wonderful bike.  Pee Wee didn't work, he didn't spend money, and if he only wanted to eat two bites of his Bacon & Eggs & Pancakes & Mr. T cereal breakfast... he could.  Because he had no parents and was therefore free of those stupid rules that your parents always seemed to place upon you.Even Pee Wee's friends are reflections of our childhood pals.  He is sorta-friends with snot-nosed Frances, even though the two do not like each other - and who amongst you never had a friend like that?  Frances seems rich, even though his father dresses like he is actually a painter - but didn't it always seem like your friends had more money than you and could get whatever they wanted, regardless of reality?  Pee Wee's best friend, Dotty, is clearly interested in him, but Pee Wee looks at her as if she has cooties - as all girls do until you enter puberty.And this is just the beginning of the film.  The loss of Pee Wee's bike sets off a sequence of events in which we get to see the world through the eyes of this child, with the innocence and insanity that the illogical mind of a child provides.  Pee Wee tries to hitchhike (that thumb!), and gets a ride with a convict that wasn't really that bad.  He tries to drive and runs off the road and over a cliff.  In one of the most famous comedy scenes of all time, he meets what we learn is the ghost of Large Marge.  He rides in a rodeo (and does really well). He runs into a gang of bikers, but they're really not that bad.  He visits the set of Warner Brothers, gets to be in a movie, and finds his beloved bike, the greatest bike in the world.  And he made friends with everyone along the way, except the 8-foot tall bully.In its own way, his bike becomes Pee Wee's gateway to adventure, the way that we all hoped our own bikes would.  No other movie has more accurately dipped into the minds of our own childhood the way Pee Wee's Big Adventure has, and for that reason it stands as a true classic. "},{"Title":"You'll be sorry Pee-wee Herman!!","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  So says Francis Buxton to Pee-wee Herman. Ah, if only he knew how prophetic those words were...But hey, I digress. I honestly can't think of a movie that I enjoy watching more than Pee-wee's Big Adventure. For my entertainment dollar, it is easily one of the best movies ever made. It's also the quintessential surreal movie a crazy, nutty, escapist romp through the circus-like dreamworld of Pee-wee Herman and company. In fact, I like this movie so much, that it compelled me to do something I've never done before, and that is, to put the movie on a tape so I can listen to it while driving.Yep, that's just what I did I recorded the entire movie onto an audiocassette tape, and I often play it while driving in my car. Believe me, it's great fun to come up to a stoplight, roll down the windows, and then crank up the volume so that people in other cars nearby can look around with utter puzzlement on their faces as they hear various crazed snippets from the movie.So, I'm driving along, listening to The Large Marge scene. The scene where he dances to Tequila by the Champs. The scene where he is in the tour group at the Alamo. The I know you are but what am I ad infinitum scene. The conversation with Dottie (I'm a loner, Dottie, a rebel). The conversation with Simone (C'mon, Simone. Let's talk about YOUR big but). The wonderful tune Burn in Hell by Twisted Sister. Plus, What makes you think the Soviets are involved? Would you like a piece of gum, Mr. Buxton? Paging Mr. Herman, Paging Mr. Herman. And on and on. Wonderful stuff! Finest form of escapism there is!For all you fellow Pee-wee fans out there, I'm sure I don't have to list all the great scenes in the movie, but believe me, they play almost just as well on audio as they do in the audio-visual form. Take my advice, make your own audiotape of the movie and listen to it while driving. You won't regret it. Like I said, it's escapism at its finest. Driving never felt so good! (But do be careful, lest you end up going around laughing like Pee-wee Herman Heh-heh! (laugh like Pee-wee.) Heh-heh! (laugh like Pee-wee.)I can't think of a movie that more encourages me to lighten up and JUST BE ME! And for that, I sure wish Paul Reubens all the best. How do I rate this movie? How many stars do I grant it? Simple I give this movie every star in the known universe. I even give it the moon, the Sun, and heck, I'll even throw in the rings around Uranus. (Hey, what's uranus doing in my review anyway. Sheesh, get the heck outta' here already, will ya??)You'll be sorry Pee-wee Herman! (Heh-heh! (laugh like Pee-wee.)) "},{"Title":"Goofy, crazy, I love it!","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was a child of the '80's, and like many others, I remember Paul Reubens' TV show as well. But this movie is great, it kind of started it all. It's a very crazy, slapstick movie, and it brings back lots of childhood memories. My friend, Diana, and I would pop this into our family's Beta machine remember those?and watch this movie all the time. Our favorite part was the Large Marge scene. We'd watch it, get scared, rewind the part, watch it again, get scared again, and so on and so on. It's a great movie, and every kid, and kid-at-heart, should see it. "},{"Title":"Oh yeah?  Where are they hosing him down?","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hilarious movie and always will be.  Has not aged one minute since I first saw it over sixteen years ago.  You cannot say that about every movie, hell you can't say about about ANY movie!  Now that its one of the cornerstones of Comedy Central, its on quite often and I watch it from time to time.  So do my nephews, who love to quote this movie more than any other one.  Paul Reubens really gave us a gift with Pee Wee.  I guess the character was never meant to live forever and we will always have this comedy to enjoy.  It was light years better than 'Big Top Pee Wee' which I also saw.To the child in all of us, I say...'I know you are but what am I?'PS For trivia fans, Simeone and Pee Wee were reunited by Tim Burton in 'Batman Returns', as the Penguins' parents.   "},{"Title":"Better than E.T.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think I'll start a paper route right now. Wait! I have to write this first. This is a wacky film made by one of the weirdest film makers since Ed Wood, Tim Burton. Words come to mind to describe it Odd, Demented, Bizarre, Inspired. All those words fit, especially the last one. Spielberg could not have made this, nor could Cameron. Only a truly twisted individual like Burton could have held on to Pee Wee long enough to share his world with him. The result is a unique experience. 90 minutes of craziness that is as unpredictable as Burton's career has been. Any movie that has Godzilla, Twisted Sister, the Alamo, shrunken heads, a gypsy fortune teller, Large Marge, a full-size hollow T-Rex, Amazing Larry and a ride in a railroad freight car with a singing hobo has to be seen at least once. Equal credit must go to Burton and Pee Wee for this delightful film, with an edge to Burton. Just take a look at the sequel to see how much Burton was missed on that one. My rating 7 out of 10. Don't miss. "},{"Title":"Somehow Succeeds","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Pee-Wee's Big Adventure seems to be a prime example of a mess of a movie. However, I cannot help but like this strange film.  Tim Burton's direction is uncanny and Paul Reubens' amazing enthusiasm as the title character make this film one of the strangest over-achievers in the history of the cinema. Actually a good film that never seems old or dated.  4 stars out of 5.  "}{"Title":"Classic!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of the cutest movies ever! It's funny in that child-like way.. But also has a ton of sarcastic humor that flew over my head when I was little... I love it! Paul Reubens is genius.. tis all I gotta say. Never once do you look at Pee-Wee and think he's an actor.. and even if you try, its so hard to believe. Anyone who could be that convincing deserves like 50 awards ;-) Anyway.. This movie is hilarious.. I urge you to all go see it now if you havent yet!! "},{"Title":"Excellent, fun film of the mid-1980s","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Not to be confused with Pee Wee's other big adventure, this is a great film that probably could only have been made in the mid-1980s.  A funny, fast-moving film that takes Pee Wee across the country, this movie is filled with lots of one-liners that any kid from the 1980s would remember.  A cinematic triumph!  "},{"Title":"Knitting and knitting","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  On the foundation of De Sica's neo-realist classic The Bicycle Thief, Tim Burton filters elements of various genres (classic cartoon colors, German expressionsist acting and sets, and Waters-worthy characters) through the cultural sieve that is Pee Wee.  When I was a kid I loved it for the childlike other-world, now I appreciate the bizarre and often perverse subtleties (not a word you'd think of in relation to a Pee Wee movie).  This movie is classic pop-culture trash, and maybe even art?  "},{"Title":"It's like you're unraveling a big cable-knit sweater that someone keeps knitting, and knitting, and knitting, and knitting, and knitting, and knitting, and knitting...","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" One of strangest, most original, and most imaginative comedies I've ever seen, PEE-WEE'S BIG ADVENTURE is also my favorite. It's all like an old Warner Bros. cartoon that's come to life, with wild sight gags and situations, lines that are so silly and pointless that you can't help but laugh at them, melodramatic and delightful music by Danny Elfman, and characters that are so eccentric that you can't help but love them all. It's all handled so skillfully by Tim Burton, making his feature film debut as director here.Of course, you have to be in the mood for it and allow your practical, sensible mind to turn off for 90 minutes in order to enjoy the fun and humor of it all, especially if you're an adult&#x97;Burton's bizarre sense of humor won't appeal to everyone. The film's sense of humor is different from the Zucker brothers' films (AIRPLANE!, THE NAKED GUN films)&#x97;although the actors did their comedy while keeping straight faces in those films, here the actors rely on intentionally melodramatic acting and odd facial expressions to make the weird, totally absurd humor work. And the one who relies on those behavior methods the most is the title character, Pee-Wee Herman (Paul Reubens).This type of plot may have been done many times in so many movies before (including IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT (1934)), but the situations and characters are so otherworldly, absurd, and bizarre that I doubt that there has ever been a comedy like this one before or since. My one complaint is that the fresh, original style of the film wears thin during the middle. As Leonard Maltin so agreeably put it, Some real laughs and clever ideas as Pee Wee searches for his stolen bicycle, but not enough to sustain a feature-length film. This film would've worked better as a short film&#x97;but the film goes back on its tracks once it reaches the wildly funny climax. If the film were shorter, it could've been a masterpiece&#x97;but we'd be missing some great characters that Pee-Wee meets throughout his wild and wonderful adventure. I was never really a Herman fan, but this film has so many priceless scenes that it's definitely a keeper. To this day I've never seen such wild things in films before or since&#x97;except for the best Warner Bros. cartoons, that is. And who could not smile at the wonderful Danny Elfman score throughout the film?All in all, a film that is very hard NOT to like&#x97;especially for the young and the young in heart. "},{"Title":"Truly a great movie... very well written","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a very well written movie. I think the combination of Phil Hartman, Reubens, and Burton was magical. It was one of those moments that some really sharp and keen people came together to produce intelligent humor. Yes, I know, on the surface it does not look intelligent... but it really is. Compare the comedy in this movie to most comedies that come out at any given time, and you can quickly see the humor holds up.Plus, Burton adds an almost dreamlike quality in some key parts of the movie. It is not overdone. In fact, the simplicity of the movie and the scenes are key.Check it out if you've never seen it... or, if you have, take another look. This is a great movie for kids and us who still like to pretend. "},{"Title":"A fantastic debut from Tim Burton.","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Every director has to start somewhere, and in the case of Tim Burton, his career got off to a shaky start. Before he struck box-office gold with Batman, he was hired as an animator at Disney. While in their employ, his sensibilities were somewhat different from theirs. His creative style was just too bizarre for them. He got the chance to make two personal films, Vincent, a six minute stop motion film about his idol Vincent Price, and a 27 minute short film Frankenweenie. Both films were canned by Disney because they were considered unsuitable for children. It looked like Burton's career was about to hit the skids.But fate had something else in store for him. The actor Paul Reubens, best known for his alter ego Pee-Wee Herman, was looking for a director to bring the character to the big screen. He saw Frankenweenie, and was impressed by the film's unique visual style. The two got together, and introduced to audiences one of the most unusual films ever made, Pee-Wee's Big Adventure.For anyone unfamiliar with the character, Pee-Wee Herman is a man-child. He describes himself as a rebel, which shows in the way he dresses. He wears a suit a couple of sizes too small for him, a red bow tie, a military style haircut with a defiant quiff on the fringe, and faint make-up to accentuate his pallid features. When you think about it, Pee-Wee is an admirably proud non-conformist.He lives in a very colourful house that looks like a cross between Rube Goldberg and Heath Robinson. It's filled with toys, gadgets, gimmicks and all kinds of off the wall weirdness. What seems strange to us is perfectly normal to him. He lives a simple life, is friendly with everyone, and has no intention of changing things.The one thing that matters most to him, is his bike. Some people have described it as a girl's bike on steroids, and it is definitely not like any bike I've ever seen. Pee-Wee's bike is his pride and joy, and the envy of the neighbourhood. A spoilt rich kid in town Francis (in actuality a man-child just like Pee-Wee) wants the bike. And when Pee-Wee refuses to sell it, Francis steals it.Pee-Wee goes berserk as his world falls apart. Desperate for help, he goes to a phony psychic, and she tells him the bike is at the Alamo, in the basement. Pee-Wee goes off on a road trip across America to find his beloved bike.I'm not afraid to admit this, I have never seen a film quite like Pee-Wee's Big Adventure. It's no surprise Tim Burton quickly established himself as one of the most visually striking filmmakers in the business. The film is a visual treat, with bright pastel colours, surreal settings and a breathtaking palette of America. If you watch the film enough times, you will realise it is actually a very sly satire on suburban conformity. A theme that Burton would explore again in Edward Scissorhands.Whether or not you take to Pee-Wee himself is really a matter of individual taste. His nasal voice and petulant antics can be wearisome at times, and then there are times when you can't help liking him. His child-like enthusiasm can be very infectious, so I think a lot of people would grow to like him.I also love road movies, and this definitely counts as one of my favourites. Typically, he will meet a lot of quirky characters along the way, including an escaped convict, a phantom truck driver, a lonely waitress, an Alamo tour guide, a biker gang, and finally, in one of the most inventive climaxes ever put on celluloid, a mad dash across Warner Bros studios.Pee-Wee's Big Adventure is certainly a consistently inventive film. Tim Burton often finds new ways to keep surprising you, such as Large Marge showing her true face, Pee-Wee's Tequila dance, some very surreal dream sequences, a fantastically sustained sight gag at a burning pet shop, and causing chaos at Warner Bros only for them to buy the rights to his story. The Hollywood version of Pee-Wee's Big Adventure is a blast, and really has to be seen to be believed.The quirky tone of the film is helped no end by the edgy, whimsical musical score by Danny Elfman, making his feature film debut too, and marking the first of what would become a lifelong collaboration with Tim Burton. The music is just incredible, that helps the film sprint along at a cracking pace.A huge surprise to everyone, Pee-Wee's Big Adventure was a huge success, and became one of the sleeper hits of the 1980's. Tim Burton started off his trend of casting outsiders or misfits as the hero of the piece with this film, and Pee-Wee Herman certainly qualifies. The idea may sound off the wall, but if you just give the film a chance, I think you will be pleasantly surprised, and a little charmed too. "},{"Title":"not a masterpiece but a good debut movie for Burton","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Those of you who want to see another Ed Wood could be disappointed, but should still have a look at it to see how Burton succeeds in putting his own personality in a movie whose real author might be Paul Pee-Wee Reubens. Gags are sometimes really funny, others totally missed but there's always Hermann and Burton's welcomed craziness to save the movie. Far from perfect, but still very interesting. "},{"Title":"comedic genius","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  the timing is too perfect, the gags too accessible, and the underlying theme too sublime and American for all the world to ignore - find your dream and live your life to nurture, promote and protect it. no matter what it is... no matter what the cost.no matter; as long as the possible outcome is funny, and at worst, simply ridiculous. "},{"Title":"One Word....BRILLIANT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Absolutely Tim Burton's most imaginative and enjoyable film. Paul Reubens creates one of the most original and inspired characters in American Cinema. I AM NOT CRAZY!!! If you haven't seen this film in awhile, see it again. You will not be disappointed...it even gets better with age. And if you have never seen it...DROP WHAT YOU ARE DOING AND GET TO THE VIDEO STORE!! Rent it at all costs!!! DO IT NOW!!!! "},{"Title":"The Best Pee-wee Herman movie I have ever seen!","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"   Pee-wee's Big Adventure is an impressive movie and overall a success. This movie is about Pee-wee Herman finding his stolen bike at the alamo in San Antonio, Texas and thought there was a basement, but there wasn't, after that he went to Hollywood and found his bike in the studio. This is the best movie I have ever seen. Go see it, you'll laugh and love it. **** out of **** stars and 10 out of 10 stars.  "}{"Title":"A personal favorite and an all time classic!","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was just a child when I discovered who Pee-Wee Herman was. Luckily, my best friend's father was one of those few adults who got the joke so I was allowed to view it. As a kid, I appreciated the zany obvious. We had a Betamax bootleg from the original HBO recorded Pee-Wee Herman's Play House, live at the Roxy...Do you have a license to sell hotdogs? Mirror Shoes! Mr. Bungle!Ok, you had to be there.Yes, before the famous TV show, it was a campy night club act lampooning 1950's kid TV a la Howdy-Dooty. But I was too young and back to the movie...As an adult, who used to love it as a kid, it's even better.This is a film that should be admired because it hits so many bull's-eyes.How can you not admire a film that's not only funny-as-hell entertaining, but makes fun of both art-house film school classics (The Bicycle Thief) and the saccharin Hollywood make-overs of mainstream cinema (Brolin as the Bond-like PW).Again, we're talking about a movie here that you can watch with your kids and laugh just as hard as they do at the sight-gags and witty/dumb dialogue.It has talent in front of the camera (Ruebens and odd-ball supporting cast) and behind (The late-great Captain Carl Hartman's writing, Burton's comic direction and Elfman's nightmare circus soundtrack).Great elements, melding together. Yes, they ment to do that.It's got Twisted Sister, Amazing Larry, The Satan's Helpers biker gang with, look, it's that Elvira lady!Hell, it's got freakin' Elizabeth Daily as Dottie. ELIZABETH DAILY! Hello? Elizabeth Daily is the litmus test for quality, duh!How many lines can fans remember? So many I'd waste bandwidth.It's as fresh today as it was in 1985. A golden, quirky satire for all ages. "},{"Title":"A classic, one of the greatest movies of all time.....","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Everyone, young or old, should have enjoyed this movie. This is one of my all time favorites, in my top 5. Everyone should see this at least once in their life. Great story, great acting, great music, and great comedy. And, for those of you who didn't like Big Top Pee-wee (which is definately not as good as this, but still ok) don't worry, Pee-wee himself is planning on 2 more Pee-wee movies. Hooray! 3 and 1/2 out of 4 stars! "},{"Title":"The stars at night . . .","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mr. Reubens' scene to prove he was in the Lone Star State by singing out the Texas National Anthem has to be the funniest thing I ever saw in a movie. Thing is, that scene(to a lesser degree perhaps) probably WOULD happen that way on any given street in Texas.  Being a Texan I feel qualified to affirm this.  My apologies in advance to any fellow Texans who disagree.This is one of my favorite films of all time.  Paul Reubens' uniqueness translates well into the movies, unlike so many other's created characters do.  I believe this is due at least in part to the fact that Mr. Reubens doesn't seem to simply put on the make-up and get-up and play Pee Wee, he just becomes a whole other person called Pee Wee Herman.The wild creativity with camera shots/angles, and the props, coupled with the silly, sometimes irreverent dialog between characters proves to be a very effective combination in this film.  The phrase tell 'em Large Marge sent ya has become part of my vocabulary (much to the consternation of friends and family I'm afraid) since viewing this film years ago.  The 'Large Marge' scene has to be my second favorite.  This whole movie is a surreal, hilarious experience.  The fact that it's pretty much suitable for the whole family is a cool bonus if you've got young'ens to consider when looking for a fun flick to rent.  "},{"Title":"I'm a loner, Dottie. A rebel","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What can I say about a movie that defined my childhood? This is one film that we watched over and over and over again. I've watched it again recently this year after not having seen it for almost fourteen years. Do you know what? It's still as funny today and when I first watched it long ago. I'm still as obsessed about this movie today as I was about it then. I practically got all the lines memorized.What is amazing about the movie is the star himself, Paul Reubens. As a kid I actually believed there was a person named Pee-wee Herman. When you watch him, you don't see an actor playing the character of Pee-wee, you actually believe he is Pee-wee.After watching the movie again, I was so surprised to see that Danny Elfman did the score for this film. It's pretty obvious. It's reminiscent of the music for the Simpsons. Danny Elfman's score was amazing! The music so fit the type of character that Pee-wee is. The music is manic and crazy just like Pee-wee.I was also surprised to see that Tim Burton directed this film and that it was his first directorial debut. I love his use of colours in the film. It made the whole movie seem like a cartoon, a lunatic's version of a sideshow.One of my favourite scenes is the Mr. Breakfast scene. Here we see that Pee-wee is a demented fellow, possibly with a history of mental illness. He talks to his pancake breakfast (Mr. Breakfast) and he eats Mr. T cereal. I loved his imitation of Mr. T's voice. We see him using oversized cutlery and toothbrushes and he has a scotch tape fetish which he uses to mold his face into bizarre contortions.Then when he embarks on his Big Adventure, and meets all those crazy people (like Mickey the escaped convict, Simone the waitress, the hobo, the Satan's Helpers), you actually begin to see that he is actually pretty normal compared to them and that is where the humour lies.This movie had plenty of visual gags and many cool catchphrases by Pee-wee himself. Also, if you were a child in the Eighties, you'll understand all the 80's stuff (like radical, BMX bikes, Mr. T cereal, Twisted Sister).All in all, it's a great movie and really funny. One of my most favourite comedy films of all time. Get the DVD version as there are many extra treats in it for fans of Pee-wee. "},{"Title":"Find that bike!","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Pee Wee Herman is a man who embarks on his greatest missionTo find his bike!But who stole it from the mall while Pee Wee was buying his horn?  Was it the Soviets?  Was it some terrorist group?  Was it Francis Buxton the 3rd?Butler Francis is busy! Pee Wee Busy doing what? Butler He is taking his bath. Pee Wee Oh really? Where are they hosing him down?Pee Wee's bike is not ordinary. It's a special customized bicycle.  It has removable/replaceable handles.  Rocket-powered boosters.  Oil slick for when you're being followed.  Ejector seat for unwanted riders.  A license plate for ID.Pee Wee journeys through several states in the movie, meeting new and strange people, picking up clues as to where his bike actually went.  He hitches a ride from a ghost and gets a hot tip from a psychic that the bike is at the Alamo in the basement...Along the way, Pee Wee helps people in the movie with their own problems.  He really is very funny and this movie is without a doubt, his best feature film to date.  Big Top Pee Wee is very bad compared to this one.  I recommended buying this on VHS or DVD.  The DVD has deleted scenes and director's commentary with Tim Burton and Paul Reubens!!  Get it now! "},{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I started to laugh. Now I still watch it and I never get tired of it. The storyline is great, the actors were excellent and the entire movie was very good. I have this movie on DVD and I really love to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"an amazing classic","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  surprisingly this is tim burtons first movie, and you can also tell it is a tim burton movie.  I`ve never seen a movie like this. i`ve liked it since i was born which was 1985. danny elfman did a kick ass job on the music. to bad the tv show does not air any new episodes or even reruns on tv since the paul reubens incident.  but its overall a amazing movie which you could watch over and over again.... "},{"Title":"I Love That Story...","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I based much of my young adult life on this film.  Pee-wee Herman was a role model for me because of this movie.  I've always told people this is my favorite film of all time (and I'm only partially joking).It's got lot's of laughs, great dialogue, truly weird moments and of course it's action-packed.Paul Ruebens is a genius!My rating 9 "},{"Title":"Watch this with an open mind, and you will be entertained","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Incredible first film from director Burton may be his best.  A film that shows off star Reubens at his best advantage in a truly strange role as the comic book geek Pee Wee (who the comic created in stand up) who sets out on the road to find his stolen bike, to which he is fetishistically attached.Any film featuring Mr. T cereal, just has to be great.Touching characters, a mythical plot structure right out of the Odyssey, and a world peopled by odd archetypes of 50s culture (much like Bobcat Goldthwait's similar and similarly excellent Shakes the Clown).  I enjoyed this one as a kid (I was about 10 when it came out) and I still enjoy this as (I hope) an adult.  In fact, I think I like it even more now, because I know what a bright spot a film like this is on the dark horizons of modern film.  An artistic and comedic success. "},{"Title":"Tim Burton's debut has gummy pacing and a tepid finale, but Pee-wee's a born star...","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In 1985, Pee-wee Herman (a.k.a. Paul Reubens) was mostly familiar to American audiences via his MTV appearances, inserted gamely as a stunt comedian between segments, or as a guest on David Letterman's show. Certainly few people believed an entire movie headlined by Pee-wee Herman would take off (indeed, Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert didn't even review the movie during its theatrical run; Siskel later put it on his Worst of '85 list). Luckily for Reubens, green but imaginative short subjects filmmaker Tim Burton was assigned to direct, and the picture does indeed fly despite some fundamental problems. The plot--Herman's prized bicycle is stolen by his nemesis, sending him across several states to reclaim it--doesn't really matter because so much of the extraneous detail is effervescent enough to completely captivate an audience. However, Burton plods a bit through some episodes, and he isn't helped by the editing, which feels blunt or choppy; he also drops the ball with about 10 minutes left on the clock, finishing the film rather conventionally. Still, Pee-wee isn't tarnished by the picture's faults; in a natty gray suit and red bow-tie, his hair in a '50s-style crew cut, Herman is a grown-up child living in his own world, and not above an occasional outburst or getting into mischief. He's funny and foolish--and scarily appealing. *** from **** "}{"Title":"Well, I liked it as a kid","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Tim Burton's directorial movie debut is a film for acquired tastes. I remember seeing it on television when I was around 5 years old in the 1980s and thinking it was very funny; time hasn't been kind to it since then, however. Pee-wee Herman feels like an American version of Rowan Atkinson's Mr. Bean, although nowhere near as funny.Indeed, Paul Reubens gives such an over-the-top performance of constant mannerisms and tics - not to mention THAT laugh - that he becomes irritating after about, oh I don't know, five minutes. The resultant film, which follows a journey narrative as he goes on a nationwide hunt for his stolen bicycle, is therefore tiresome. For most of the running time I kept thinking about the various run-ins with the law that Reubens has had since, and for some reason I found THAT funnier than the supposed humour here.PEE-WEE'S BIG ADVENTURE isn't a complete mess. Burton's direction feels assured and confident even at this early stage of his career and he certainly puts in a lot more effort here than he did in something like the CGI monstrosity that was ALICE IN WONDERLAND. There are also a handful of funny moments along the way, like the bar dance, although my favourite moment is the excellent homage to the Japanese Godzilla series. A shame the rest of the movie couldn't have followed suit. "},{"Title":"Vehicle (nyuk nyuk!) flick for Reuben showcases cool artistic chops","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The odd thing about the Big Adventure is what an oddly well-made flick it is. Reuben appears to have great comedic sense/timing, Burton whips the second string cast into decent shape, and Burton's general skills in directing set design, choosing shots, setting theatrical tone, and (no doubt) his contribution to the final edit make the flick actually work. In spite of it being a bizarre, cubistic picaresquerie, the story continually rewards your investment of time and attention.But, of course, it's not a great movie. At heart, it's a string of comic bits which range in quality from watchable to classic. The premise isn't that someone stole Pee-Wee's bike; it's that Pee-Wee woke up in the morning. Hence, something fundamentally milkable for comic value was bound to ensue, regardless.I loved this flick, as I also loved P-W's Playhouse, back in the day. The man was absolutely ON FIRE as Pee-Wee, and I hope his legacy is appreciated as a significant part of American pop culture history.The Big Adventure is a not-half-bad encapsulation of the wonder of Pee- Wee. "},{"Title":"That laugh gets in your head","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" That laugh is contagious, in fact even when this guy is just generally doing something basic he makes a little laugh come out. I am of course talking about Pee-wee Herman, a man who wears a suit, rides a tricked out bike and just generally talks like an 8 year old kid. The movie is all about his beloved bike which is stolen, Pee- wee is devastated, in fact so much so that he faints in the local bike shop. We then follow Pee-wee as he travels far to find his bicycle and over that time he gets into many situations and meets some crazy characters. OK this movie is funny, in fact some scenes are actually really funny and you can't help but find most things Pee-wee does pretty humorous. The movie is though no masterpiece and can be not so funny at times, it is good don't get me wrong but not as good as I have seen some claim this to be. If you take away its cult status then you get a good and very welcome entry into the world of directing from Tim Burton who makes this even funnier than it probably should have been, his odd style actually improves this to an extent that Pee-wee seems crazy and yet so does everybody else. Phil Hartman, Paul Reubens and Michael Varhol create a screenplay that is pretty nicely done for the movie and although most laughs really are generated from the physical side of Pee-wee, it still is very nicely written.One of the writers Paul Reubens is of course Pee-wee himself and creates an extremely memorable character who is likable albeit his kind of annoying personality. Reubens recreates his character for the big screen and brings a kind of person who can make both children and adults laugh. I think one big thing about this is really the fact that adults can enjoy this too, I said about Reubens making it funny but also the way in which the jokes are done are in a way in which all ages can laugh and I feel Burton was really the one who made that work.This movie is as I said before not the very best when it comes to comedy though, some jokes fall a little flat and the movie by the end can feel like a crazy ride where you can't quite remember some of the jokes on show. I did however enjoy the story and that is another thing which makes this a good movie and one that is likable, you don't just have the comedy stuffed in there, but genuinely an interesting story about a guy who loves his bike so much he has to travel far and wide to find it.So overall a recommendable movie and one you could easily watch again one day, it's nice and snappy and at a running time of 90 minutes it doesn't' feel like a slog in anyway. Tim Burton may be remembered for a long time in the future for making his Gothic and very dark films that although are mostly humorous, they never feel like this one, it isn't exactly dark and is a very basic story, never goes over the top and just feels nice, a good little watch for anyone of any age. "},{"Title":"A lot to learn and improve yet, young man!","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" TIM BURTON &#x96; PEE WEE'S BIG ADVENTURE &#x96; 1985That sure is a comedy, what do I say, a farce indeed in Molire's style, and as they say in French Bonjour les dgts! meaning something like Good Morning Vietnam! I must say there is no logic, no real development of any theme at all, except absurdity and tomfoolery, maybe some masquerade and charade in shambles. And it is funny just because it is absurd.But really what's left at the end of it, will you ask or shouldn't I say shall you ask? Life us absurd. We knew that. Crooks end up in prison. Let me doubt that one. Love is number one human interest. Ah Ah maybe in Hollywood but is it for real in life? Let me be dubitative, or is it doubtful I should say? Some physical episode maybe but Pee-Wee loves his dog and his bike more than anything and anyone else. Love is mental not physical like they pretend in Hollywood. The film then is some good exercise of a rookie director who is learning his job and tries to make teenagers and children laugh. A dinosaur in your cup of tea is always funny and a few snakes in your hands will make any infant laugh like hell. Or be frightened to high heavens.Some will say we have all the magic of Tim Burton in this old film. I don't think so. Tim Burton's art is not in this twisted absurd story but in the spirituality he will often reach beyond the surface of things. And here the spirituality is rather light and the surface is rarely pushed aside to get something more empathetic and sweetly cultural.The only moment I see something deeper is when he makes fun of Hollywood. That is both deserved and justified. Hollywood has to put some flesh on this absurd skeleton of a story and that flesh is a couple of kiss, a lascivious girl friend and some hot steam we can imagine in the background, though we know better and the pee-wee actor and his girl friend actress are only making out for the screen and in real life they may hate each other, the man may prefer men and the woman may prefer women. Make believe and nothing else. But the real Pee Wee is just the same. Make believe and nothing else. Well, I guess the first steps of Tim Burton were not yet very brilliant as for the mental side of things. I guess he could not go lower and he was bound to improve. See you in the next episode.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Puts arrested development to brilliant comic use","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Pee-Wee's Big Adventure is one of those movies I watched repeatedly as a kid, and was caught off-guard but its all-ages appeal as an adult. My kid even tool to it surprisingly well. Didn't even bat an eye at the clowns, although I was gun-shy on Large Marge. I'll save that for when she's older.It tickles me that this is a (seemingly unlikely) Tim Burton movie, and there' a distinct Better Off Dead vibe with the animation (which comes outta nowhere but still totally fits). And I love that, not only is there an educational tour of the Alamo right in the middle of the adventure, but that the journey culminates in a satirical show-stopping chase through the Warner Bros. backlot.This movie's a treat.8/10 "},{"Title":"It's Very Funny and that's All it Really Needs to be,","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Pee-wee's Big Adventure is a good movie with a well developed storyline and a great comedic cast.The movie is not heartwarming or has anything like character development or an intriguing story,it is simply a funny comedy,and honestly,that's all it really needs to be,it's certainly not one of my favourite movies but I didn't go beyond five minutes without something making me laugh.This movie is the directorial debut of Tim Burton,and he did a great job,he has gone on to prove that he is a great and very unique director,and this very unusual movie was given to the right person to film it.Funny,short and sweet,I would recommend Pee-wee's Big Adventure to anyone looking for a good comedy if they have some time to kill. Pee-Wee Herman sets off across America in pursuit of his stolen bike and gets embroiled in a bizarre adventure.Best Performance Paul Reubens "},{"Title":"Hugely Influential, Love It Or Hate It","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When eccentric man-child Pee-Wee Herman (Paul Reubens) gets his beloved bike stolen in broad daylight, he sets out across the United States on the adventure of his life.While this is Tim Burton's first feature film, it does not have the dark tones he was later known for. But it does have the elaborate inventions he is sometimes associated with. Reubens and Phil Hartman wrote in the script that a machine makes breakfast, but it was Burton's crew that really made it something memorable. (Reubens was the one who hand-picked Burton, narrowing the choice down from 100 options. He actually went against the studio's choice, who remains nameless.)But not only did this film launch Burton's wildly successful career, it also launched the career of Danny Elfman. Elfman had already been in music as part of Oingo Boingo, but had not yet transitioned to composing. After this film, he never looked back and is now among the most successful in the business. Besides his work with Burton, he is now known for the Simpsons theme, which is probably one of the best-known songs throughout the world. (As of 2014, he has four Oscar nominations but zero wins. Come on, Academy!) Heck, this film even launched the career of E. G. Daily, who plays Pee-Wee's sort-of girlfriend. She is now better known for Rugrats and Powerpuff Girls, among others. This was also the same year she signed a recording contract. (She was later married to Rick Salomon, a man known for his relationships with Paris Hilton, Shannon Doherty and Pam Anderson.) The DVD commentary is very insightful, and we learn a bit more about Reubens and Hartman's background in the Groundlings, and how Pee-Wee sort of developed out of his rejection from Saturday Night Live. In retrospect, it may have been the best rejection he could ever have wanted. "},{"Title":"My bike got stolen too","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I just watched this movie again after first seeing it in the late 80's. I enjoyed it then and I enjoyed it even more last night. Reubens had the Peewee character polished to a quirky perfection in the TV series and I used to love watching for the wonderful messages it gave out. Such a pity the scandal engulfed him, and thereby the character, as I'm sure it would still be going strong even with all the years that have passed. It's a sweet plot about Peewee having his beloved bike stolen and there's some fabulous lines throughout the movie that have you just plain giggling. It's a sure sign of great comedy when it still produces laughs in this iphone addicted world. I find myself saying This is so stupid and it is , but it's a nice stupid and in the end you feel like a little kid yourself. "},{"Title":"a great film for both kids and adults","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The film stars Paul Reubens as Pee-Wee and the movie is directed by the young Tim Burton. The movie is the character Pee wee is trying to find his missing bike and meets colorful characters along the way.The story isn't original but the true strength is the look of the setting. Tim Burton adds his own style and it makes the background of some scenes incredibly enjoyable and some of the shots are gorgeous eye candy. Since this is an early Tim Burton film it has the always charming stop motion effects. The reason i like this movie is not only the Tim Burtonesqe style but the characters and moments that are so creative and unique you have to love it. The movie isn't meant for everyone i would only recommend it to only young children and anyone who is a fan of films. The reason i love this film is because i saw it at a young age and it has stuck with me for a long time but i have seen adults you watch it for the first time and still like it. "},{"Title":"Pee-Wee's Big Adventure Review","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Tim Burton's directorial debut stars Paul Reubens as Pee-Wee Herman, Elizabeth Daily as Dottie, and Mark Holton as Francis. This is one of those movies that I can watch over and over again and it never gets old. I first saw this movie on VHS as a kid and certain scenes scared me as a kid which were the Large Marge scene and the clown dream sequence, I remember I would always turn my head during those scenes because they freaked me out. I did still enjoy the movie though and would watch it a lot, because those scenes didn't ruin my enjoyment of the movie.I still enjoy watching this movie even today and appreciate more now than I did then. Those certain scenes though don't scare me as much as they used to, but they are still creepy, the Large Marge scene though kind of makes me laugh now because of how random it is, and how you don't expect it when watching it for the first time. Anyway, there are a lot of things I love about this movie too.First off, this movie is hilarious! yeah, most of the dialogue is silly, but it's Pee-Wee Herman, and his style of humor. This movie has a lot of funny quotes that are very memorable (I know you are, but what am I.), and a lot of memorable scenes, it's hard for me to really pick a favorite. Another thing I love is the score by Danny Elfman, I believe this is Tim Burton's first collaboration with Elfman on the score, but it's a great score.My only complaint in this movie is really a silly nitpick which is when Pee-Wee only takes two bites of cereal after that breakfast making invention, or whatever it's called, makes him all of that breakfast which looked really good, by the way.Overall, this is a hilarious and enjoyable movie with some silly, yet memorable moments. I highly recommend this movie to fans of Pee-Wee's Playhouse, which this movie inspired, it's a very fun and entertaining movie. "}{"Title":"It's bonkers, but maybe not bonkers enough","Date":"7 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A strange and likable movie that introduced the world at large to Paul Reuben's Pee-wee Herman character and is most notable for being the feature debut of Tim Burton. Watching it again after many years it's interesting to see bits and pieces of pure Burton scattered throughout - the dream sequence with clown medics, for instance - but it's actually quite a flatly directed movie that can't sustain the comic invention it sporadically displays.The first scene, in which Pee-wee wakes up and gets ready to start his day, is absolutely hilarious; my favourite part is when he sits down to eat the fried breakfast prepared by a complicated automated process, pours a mountain of Mr. T cereal on top, eats a mouthful with a giant fork and heads out. The way he crunches that cereal had me on the floor! I had high hopes for the rest of the movie, which I remembered being absolutely bananas. The rest of it isn't as good as that opening. It's a fun film but it isn't particularly funny; enjoyable but a wee bit dull, possibly because it doesn't add up to much, being an episodic collection of silliness that doesn't always quite come off. Pee-wee is certainly an original character, by turns creepy, childlike, hilarious and cruel, and Reubens is certainly committed to his creation (leading to a TV series and an inferior sequel). The chase through the studio backlot is an obvious highlight, as is the movie within a movie with James Brolin starring as Pee-wee! But I couldn't shake the feeling that all this needed to be so much weirder and visually less based in the real world. Whether this was the studio hedging their bets or a restriction of the budget I don't know, but it does feel like a movie that never quite bursts open the way it should. "},{"Title":"Not as funny as hope for","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Pee Wee Herman (Paul Reubens) is a childlike manic eccentric whose one great love is his red and white bicycle. When it is stolen, he immediately suspects his chubby wealthy nemesis Francis Buxton. It turns out that Francis had hired somebody else to steal it, and now he just wants to get rid of it. Pee Wee in desperation turns to the scam artist Madam Ruby for help. She tells him to go to the Alamo in the basement. He takes off on a cross country trip to find his stolen bike.This is Tim Burton's big screen directorial debut. His outlandish style is already present. That and Paul Reubens' unique character are the two major appealing aspects of this movie. Other than that, the movie is rather silly and empty. It would help if he had a gang with him on his road trip. There should be at least three characters on the road trip. Obviously Dottie (Elizabeth Daily) must go. This is simply Pee Wee doing one wacky thing after another. "},{"Title":"A True Burton Classic!","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" SynopsisPee-wee Herman, a boyish adult who finds joy in the strangest places, loses his most precious possession His Bike! Facing the quirkiest scenarios, Pee-wee sets out to find his bike embarking on a remarkable adventure.ReviewWe already know Pee-wee from the early '80's TV show. But we see Pee-wee in a much stranger world created by the ever-so-strange Tim Burton. This vision is what lifted Pee-wee's character and legacy to new heights.While funny, quirky, and just downright silly, this film carries with it a darkish tone which adds to the suspense of the film. While a scene may just be silly, Burton's vision just makes it remarkable. For instance, in one scene Pee-wee finds himself abandoned in the middle-of-no-where only to be picked up by a creepy trucker. This trucker, inconsiderate of hitch-hiking etiquette, finds it necessary to immediately terrorize Pee- wee with a creepy story. But just before the story ends the audience finds themselves asking, What the hell was that?!!Pee-wee's humor is redundant but never gets old and especially when Pee- wee is furious. He acts much like a 10 year old boy would. But honestly, we all want to act out like 10 year olds, we just don't want to admit it.If you haven't seen this film then give it a watch. It's only 90 min and will at least weird you out! Also, if you're a Tim Burton fan, you owe it to him to see it. "},{"Title":"Someone keeps knitting and knitting and knitting and knitting and knitting and knitting and knitting and knitting and knitting and knitting!","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When this pale man child's mechanical love ride is stolen by a bikenapper a lot of quirk and circumstance follows as this cultural icon tries to rescue his two-wheeled friend. This really is the most beautiful relationship to exist between a man and an inanimate object. Tom Hanks and a volleyball comes in a close second. Things really get tense when Pee Wee pays a visit to main suspect and ferocious fatty, Francis. And what follows is the most intense swimming pool fight you will ever see. And just when you thought the homoerotic undertones were over, here comes a palpable whiff of sexual tension between Pee Wee and a guy who hates mattress labels. There's a ghostly encounter with a Marge who is large and in charge, a daring escape from jealous jellyboy Andy and a train ride singalong with a sardine swallower. Then it's off to the Alamo for the third act, and it's the third act of this film that shows just how inspiring a figure Pee Wee really is. He shows that he can make the best of any situation when he turns a potential execution at the hands of the Satan's Helpers into a glass-smashing biker bar dance. -SPOILERS- And just when you thought this tomfoolerific tale was over, there's an incredible chase to top it all off! During this climax, Pee Wee dons none other than a nun costume, ruins a Japanese monster movie, liberates a pet store and doesn't get a wrinkle in his impeccable suit in the process. Oh yeah! And no Twisted Sister music video is complete without a guy in a Godzilla outfit! "},{"Title":"80's Burton Classic!","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Paul Reubens, Elizabeth Daily, Mark Holton and Diane Salinger star in Tim Burton's 1985 comedy. Pee-Wee Herman (Reubens) is a child-like man who is obsessed with his bicycle. One day after shopping, he discovers his bike is missing. He reports it to the police and his friends, but decides to embark on a quest cross country to find it. He meets some new friends and has some scares, but eventually finds his prized possession. Daily plays his friend, Dottie, Holton plays Francis, a wealthy man who wants Pee-Wee's bike and Salinger plays Pee-Wee's new friend, Simone who dreams of going to Paris. I grew up watching this 80's classic and always liked it. Reubens is great and Danny Elfman's score is excellent as usual. This is one of Burton's best I recommend. "},{"Title":"Pee-wee Big laughs (cinematheque)","Date":"5 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's simple This is one of my rare screening that I laugh so much and non-stop. This Pee-wee is a sort of Mr Bean as much American as Bean is English. In other words, you enter a very personal world of an adult who has never grown and sees the world as a kid. Indeed, it's so absurd and naive that you can have just sympathy for the character. Maybe the big difference between the two is that Pee-wee is more active sexually (maybe a premonition of Reuben's life...). Next, It's amazing how Burton and Reubens have touched the soul of America as well it starts as small town,USA then it becomes a road trip in wild west and ends to Tinsel town, Hollywood. It's full of amazing visuals, excellent first score from Danny. In conclusion, the team-up between Tim and Reubens is a success and it's a pity that Burton never done again a funny movie, even though all his movies have humorous seeds in them (ex Beetlejuice, Mars Attacks). "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" this film never gets old, it's a classic 80's film. it works for both children and adults. looking from the outside, the film should be cheesy and over the top, but it's not. it walks up to that line, but it never crosses into the camp factor. it has a endearing character, and a innocent charm that's hard to deny. hopefully that can retain this feeling for the third film? the music and direction is spot on, which I credit a lot to the construction of the film. there's a reason why this character is still around today, and I solely attribute it to this film. the negative aspect of the film some might say is the plot. I however am pleased with the simple story about a man and his bike. the film stands out for it's b-plot that it creates, and a overly complicated plot would only distract from it. it's about creating a pee wee's playhouse that we want to visit, not necessarily explain. "},{"Title":"Not Much Middle Ground","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of my all-time favorite movies. When I say this to my family or friends they look at me kind of odd, they know me as being a discerning film fan, and my liking this film is atypical. It's the kind of movie you love or don't without much middle ground.I'm guessing most people can't get beyond the veneer and image of Pee-Wee to fully appreciate this film. They see Pee-Wee, their eyes get glazed over, and they can't see the unusual compilation of qualities this film has; adventure, suspense, intrigue, passion, romance, thrills, chills, spills, heroes, villains, unbridled fun, and all backed with the best sets, costumes, soundtrack, cinematography, and super polished editing. Those who don't appreciate this film probably never were able to appreciated Pee-Wee's Playhouse either.Also, Tim Burton's use of blacked-out background to bring the characters out of the screen is a technique he will use again in his other films with equal success.Finally, how many movies this good are there the whole family can watch together? My daughter grew up watching Pee-Wee and we enjoyed every minute.This movie is timeless and I never grow tired of watching it.Simone Ah, Pee-Wee, C'est magnifique! "},{"Title":"Oh really where are they hosing him down?","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have seen this movie so many times that I could probably recite it line by line. This has been a childhood favorite of mine for many years.Pee Wee loves his bike and that of course could be no more apparent from the opening scene when he dreams that he is riding his bicycle in the Tour De France and wins the race. Pee Wee's nemesis Francis Buxton wants Pee Wee's bike. Francis tells Pee Wee that it's his birthday and that he can have whatever he wants and that everything is negotiable with money. Pee Wee tells Francis that his bike is not for sale and Francis finds a way to take away Pee Wee's bike. When Pee Wee's bike gets stolen he comes up with an idea to get it back but Francis decides to doesn't want the bike anymore and the guy that stole it for him takes it away. Pee Wee desperate to find his bike ends up on an adventure cross country after a phony fortune teller claims that his bike is at the Alamo in the basement. So Pee Wee sets out and gets picked up by Mickey who is on the lamb. At some point he gets abandoned from Mickey after falling from a cliff in the car. He then picks up a ride from the crazy Large Marge and gets dropped off at a truck stop and he runs into a girl named Simone and he ends up having to get away from her jealous boyfriend Andy. He then ends up in a bar where some bikers hang out and he gets out of a tight spot after he knocks over their bikes and he decides to win them over by dancing in platform shoes to the song Tequilla. He's a hit and they decide to let him drive a bike on his adventure only he ends up hitting a sign and is sent to the hospital. There he has a dream about his bike getting destroyed by clowns and Francis as the devil finally doing his bike in. He wakes up and finds that his bike is not far off at a movie studio. While there he takes his bike and ends up on a hilarious chase scene that's probably one of the biggest parts of the film.Pee Wee is a great film and while it isn't a classic it is probably one of the best films of the 80's.If you have never seen Pee Wee's big adventure I highly advise it. You will be in for a real treat and a hilarious adventure. "},{"Title":"Excellent fun... perhaps a bit short","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Speaking as and for those of us born in the UK at the tail end of the eighties... Forget everything you learned about Reubens and Pee-Wee before you watch this. Pee-Wee Herman as a character is bold and bright and childish, a concept which can be incredibly jarring for the viewer if they are unfamiliar with the character. If you're like me, your only experience with Pee-Wee is through modern American shows that give throwaway references to Reubens or the Playhouse. I feel that the reason it's so jarring is because he portrays his role brilliantly. It's possibly quite difficult for anyone without prior knowledge of Pee-Wee Herman's theatre and television history to reconcile the idea of a sincere manchild with themselves. Which is, of course, a true shame.The film itself is lots of fun, with a simple plot that rarely branches off. Manchild loses bike. Manchild tries desperately to retrieve bike. Hilarity ensues. It's such a simple formula. The only problem I really had with it was time. I know that most studios don't like their kids' movies being too long so much of what gets filmed ends up on the cutting room floor. In the case of Pee-Wee's Big Adventure, it feels almost as though the big part is overstating it a bit, especially since the final part seems a bit rushed after the racing climax. Since I don't want to give too much away and I want no spoilers in my review, I can't actually say much, but I will say this. Despite the end- of-movie flaws, its familiar humour and charming simplicity will have young and old alike laughing and smiling. Just as long as you can allow yourself to become attached to Pee-Wee Herman. Sure he seems a bit difficult at first but forget your alarm - you'll find, as I have, that Pee-Wee is simply adorable, possibly something like you remember your early years, no matter what age you are now. "}{"Title":"It's just something you have to experience","Date":"18 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There's a kind of comedy that cinema has been lacking since the silent era, the style of such legends as Charlie Chaplin and Harold Lloyd. Pee-wee Herman is one of the few comparable figures we have in modern times. It's not the slapstick and sight gags that he has in common with the silent comics, although there is a fair bit of that in Big Adventure. No, what really makes Pee-wee a great comedy figure is that his comedy is driven by his character. Like Chaplin, Lloyd and Buster Keaton, Paul Reubens developed his persona (Pee Wee Herman) and the stories sprang from that character's potential.At the time of Big Adventure's release, many in the audience would be familiar with the character from the popular Pee-wee Herman Show. The opening moments of the movie however introduce Pee-wee and his brand of humour, his childlike playfulness his Heath Robinson-esque inventiveness. And like Chaplin before him Pee Wee is constantly interacting with his environment, exploring it, making bizarre gags out of everyday objects. The comedy in Pee-wee's Big Adventure takes many forms &#x96; wordplay, cheeky satire, crazy leaps of logic &#x96; but it all stems simply from the Pee-wee character's encounters with one road-movie clich after another. It's the mixture of familiar situations and the oddball tangents with which Pee-wee enters them that keep the laughs coming.Pee-wee's Big Adventure is also noted for being the feature debut of Tim Burton. Although this is very much Pee-wee's movie, the distinctive cult director still lays his now-familiar print upon it. Even then Burton was clearly getting himself heavily involved in the production design and cinematography, and he has this uncanny knack for making normal things look strange and baroque. He uses an odd mix of bright colours and the kind of high-contrast lighting more often scene in black and white. He throws in the occasional odd angle to heighten things further, but normally his crowded shot compositions and the pure weirdness of the sets themselves is enough. A great Burton moment is when Pee-wee realises his bike has been stolen, with the once innocent-looking mechanical clown now appearing nasty and mocking. I would say that Burton even allows the sets and props to overshadow Pee-wee, but nothing could really do that. As it is, Burton's visual creativity provides a nice counter-balance for the hero, stopping him becoming too wearing on the audience.Pee-wee's Big Adventure is certainly hilarious from start to finish, but a great comedy picture should be more than that. The movie also provides a well-rounded story, and that gives the audience a sense of satisfaction. On his journey Pee-wee seems to spread a little joy and goodness to everyone he meets, and this is important because it makes him a proper hero rather than just a funny man. This, again, is something the great comics of old did when they graduated to full-length movies &#x96; made their characters into heroes without losing the laughter. It's a shame their aren't many like Pee-wee around these days, but at least we have his masterpiece, his Big Adventure. "},{"Title":"Tim, Paul, Danny, a great job well done!","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Paul Reubens' humour mayn't be to everyone's tastes but I for one found him delightful and very funny in this movie as Pee Wee Hermann. He is well supported by a great cast, including Elizabeth Daily. The film looks great as well, with great locations and cinematography and Danny Elfman's score is brilliant. Tim Burton directs wonderfully too, and the script is very funny while the story is charming and has plenty of fun moments(too many to list actually) and the film moves briskly with very few dull moments. Pee Wee's Big Adventure is not my favourite of Tim Burton's movies, but I am very fond of it and would definitely see many more times. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Tim Burton's brilliant first outing...","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of the few Tim Burton films I had never seen and what a film I've missed out on. From the very first scenes this had me laughing out loud and me doing so for the remaining film. Paul Reubens is utterly brilliant as the kooky and sometimes child like Pee-Wee, who provides some brilliant laughs often just through altering his voice. There are some fantastic scenes dressing up to evade the cops with Micky the con the onslaught of people with various types of bikes after his is stolen the Alamo tour Pee-Wee acting in the film version of his life and when Pee-Wee asks the bikers to be quiet as he's on the phone.They are just a few of the wonderful moments the film contains, one that also shows the amazing visual style of Tim Burton that we have come to love and that this was his first full feature is wonderful. The film contains great cinematic references and though it does drag slightly towards the end it is a rare treat to see a film that entertains so fully from start to finish. It is difficult not to fall for Pee-Wee, he is a wonderful character, an oddball but his character never veers towards something too strange otherwise you'd have a whole different story.Full of silly, absurd and almost surreal ideas, there are also some great animated scenes the two white eyes among the blackness broken when Pee-Wee puts on his light beam goggles and the nightmare of the dinosaur eating his bike, these are more reasons to put this film high up there with the best.Deserves several viewings and gives the desire to revisit some of Burton's other greats like Beetlejuice and Mars Attacks.More of my reviews at my site iheartfilms.weebly.com "},{"Title":"Tim Burton, you've done it again","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a very good movie. I mean, Paul Reubens does a great job as Pee-Wee Herman, who gets his coveted bike stolen from him. At first he thinks that this arrogant blond kid named Francis took it (dumb name, huh?) but finds out he's wrong after attacking him when he's taking a bath. So he embarks on a trip to get back his bike. The Pee-Wee Herman humor is hilarious, and when he laughs, you laugh. Simple as that. This movie deserves more recognition, and P.S. Tim Burton directed it, which makes it even better, since Tim Burton is a genius in movie-making. I had no problems with this movie, you can just watch it again and again without getting bored.10/10 "},{"Title":"Personally meant something to me","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In the mid-to-late summer of '85,I was not one to go to a lot of movies. Two main reasons1)I had pretty much been disowned by practically all of my friends and 2)I was thirteen and couldn't drive yet. That may sound depressing,but it was just reality to me back then. I bring this up because this was one of about four movies I saw back then(by contrastI see,on average,twenty-five movies in theater per year and have done better than twenty per ano since 1991),and because of that sparsity of filmgoing,each film had a more special feel to it.EArlier that summer,I saw a film that meant a lot to me, BAck to the Future. And while those memories of that great film gave that experience a gilded feel to it,this movie was a lot of fun,too.Expanded upon the hugely popular exploits of Actor/Comedian Paul Reubens' stage show and HBO TV Special(first aired in 1982),this movie is at once,both preposterous and yet so right. THe tale of a overgrown man-child's search for his beloved bicycle that will take him practically across the country. That's it. And filled out--besides by Reubens,who co-wrote this with the late PHil HArtman--by a cast of hearty but somewhat obscure actors such as Elizabeth Daily(as Pee Wee's long-suffering girlfriend),Diane SAlinger,Mark Holton,JUdd Owen and Alice Nunn and directed by then-unknown Tim BUrton,this movie is so gleefully pure and memorable that one would have to have a truly low sense of frivolity or fun to not get enjoyment out of it.I suspect I may've come away still remembering fondly this film EVEN IF it weren't from a period of time when the movies I saw were so few and far between,during such a formative part of my young life. HAving seen this at least once since(though I could stand for another viewing about now),I think I can say safely that it's still a greatly appreciated film offering. "},{"Title":"A Cartoon Cavalcade","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Boy that's an adventure you'll love with all your heart or hate for all it's hectic helter-skelter digressions. Until Pee-Wee got out of his house I was getting exasperated but then it got better, than it got fantastic. The twisted sense of humor of Tim Burton is in full blossom here and has many wonderful layers. I'm not the greatest fan of his work ( I very much like Edward Scissorhands and Ed Wood but I'm not one of those many college students that goes epileptic when they talk about his grandiose palette of colors ) but I've got to say that Pee-Wee's Big Adventure is an astonishing debut. Pee-Wee Hermann gives a brilliant, unforgettable performance ( even if he sounds like the turtle in the Sly video games ! ). Danny Elfman wrote a flabbergasting score for this one ( if alive and well Tchaikovski would probably have adored it ). I'm sure the top executives at Warner Brothers scratched their heads wondering how to market this movie, and were it not for the subsequent success of Burton it probably would have been buried by now, so I'll suffer any Mars Attack ! they release and just watch Pee-Wee again to console me. My favorite part  she stop chewing that damn chewing gum and maniacally informs poor P.W. that there's no basement in the Alamo ! "},{"Title":"A bit corny, yet very great","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Pee Wee's Big Adventure was the first feature-length cinematic movie of my favorite director Tim Burton. It's about the man-child Pee-Wee who must find his bike back.It is one of Tim Burton's lighter movies and it's very witty and has a very interesting screenplay. Every joke is worked out very well and everything's told so that it's easy to understand. Most of the scenes are hilarious, and even a quick reference to Nosferatu is made. Paul Reubens is a very good actor in this movie, and the witty music contributes a lot to the overall, very childish, yet witty, atmosphere. Some of the special effects are very good as B-movie references, and things like the fortuneteller are just really funny.Some jokes are clich or just too weird, but in the context they can be very funny.I give it a 8/10. "},{"Title":"A colorful and whimsical comedy","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Here's director Tim Burton's first feature film after his debut short film Frakenweenie (1984). The writing, production design, music score and photography work together successfully in a zany and whimsical way. Tim Burton decided to go for a colorful and playful story and main character, instead of his trademark dark style, in this, his first film. The story, set in 1985, is simply, Pee Wee's beloved 1950's style cruiser bicycle is stolen and he is out to recover it no matter what. Some 1980's TV drama and comedy stars and Milton Berle make cameos in the film. Some may not like the boy-man character of Pee Wee Herman (Paul Ruebens). His character is basically the mind of a child in an adult body. I found his character to be likable, charming and funny. To balance the zany and playful humor of the story and main character,there are some dark humor moments in the film. I'm guessing this is Tim Burton's influence on the story. The production design and cinematography are impressive. Tim Burton's uniquely imaginative visual style is on display here. Paul Ruebens is one of three screenwriters for the film. "},{"Title":"Paul Reubens","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is an excellent film. It is fun, enjoyable, classic, adventurous, chic, Fons, fantastic, Real-possible, impossible, imaginative, with no imagination at all, a conundrums of joy, explosive, a fourth car in your circuit, a circuit in your dreams, a step-down and roll-over of popcorn, a secret of splash. You will like of you see it Paul Reubens is an acrobat of intelligence An historian of histrionic arts, and fire-fending realistic fun, his space-balls are on fire! Watch it Charlie Chaplin, this son of Walt Disney World will set your strawberries on cream He is hot, belligerent's and cautions in his pantomime of children babysitting He is a high professional of sophisticated comedy and acrobacy and entertainment High Chinesse court! "},{"Title":"A brilliant and original film !","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film is the best version of Pee Wee, in my opinion.I think it's a lot better than the sequel, Big top Pee Wee, and Pee Wee's playhouse, which was more for children.Pee Wee's big adventure was for anyone of any age. I loved this film when i was little, and I still do now.I haven't seen the original TV series that was on before this film was made, but I would like to.Spoilers !!.My favourite scenes are when Pee Wee meets Large Marge and when Pee Wee dances to  Tequila  in the biker bar.This film is original and one of my favourites. "}{"Title":"Big Fun from Burton and Reubens","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is a sentimental favorite of mine. When I was in college, my pals and I watched this over and over and we never got tired of it.An early, under-appreciated gem from Tim Burton, this movie is harmless, lite-hearted fun from beginning to end. Its a live action cartoon with no pretense of being anything other than pure, silly entertainment.The plot (which exists only to set up the gags) involves childlike adult Pee Wee Herman (played hilariously by Paul Reubens) who lives in perpetual boyhood, surrounded by toys and games. His most prized possession is his super rigged-up bicycle. When his precious bike is stolen, Pee Wee becomes obsessed with finding it. When he is falsely directed to search for it at the Alamo in Texas, the scene is set for a wonderful parody of road movies.Pee Wee travels across country, meeting bizarre friends, foes and even a ghost. Nothing will deter him from finding his bike. The chaotic finale at the movie studio is probably the weakest part of the movie, but getting there is the real fun.Burton managed to give a genuine charm to this antic film, and Reubens is genuinely likable as the childlike Pee Wee. He just wants to live his Peter Pan life without the problems that plague most of us adults. I can empathize with him. Can't everyone? "},{"Title":"Discovered at last! The Missing Link, the Bridge between Live Action and the Animated Cartoon, Proved by the tell-tale Funny Bone!","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Erupting onto the Movie Screen, rendering a seemingly serious scene into a laugh riot! That is how this PEE WEE's BIG ADVENTURE(1985)opens up. The strong, action-filled, lively opening has been a hallmark of all of Paul Reubens' PEE-WEE projects had in common. The sheer manic, high energy, rapid movement of the character demands proper handling. This was one point that David Letterman recognized and Pee-wee's appearances on either Dave's NBC Late Night Show or his CBS Late Show were conducted with that in mind. Hence, Dave would introduce Paul, he would devote all of the available time to the presentation of his Pee-wee Act and when all of the crazy schtick was disposed of,and what ever Film, Television Show or Personal Appearance was plugged, Pee-wee would say good night. Reubens can do just about anything as Pee-wee, except sit still.When Joan Rivers had her last late night's show, she had Mr. Reubens as a guest, Paul having also guested on Joan's first show of that series. Well, after he was brought out and did the old Pee-wee Act, he just moved down the couch, a la Jack Parr/Johnny Carson's Tonight Show Style. After a short while, it was apparent that the lack of center stage activity was as painful on Pee-wee as it was for one watching it.Anyhow, after a high energy, curve ball of an opening sequence, we're given a fast lesson of what it's like to be a man child. Morning toilet time is shown (by the way, that means bathing & grooming, not defecating-look it up, Buster). Preparing breakfast cereal and feeding his little Dog is featured. It's when on a trip to the local pet store, for the purpose of purchasing some more Gold Fish, and his own Super Customized 1950's Style Retro Bicycle is stolen, that the story really takes off.An interesting confrontation with the neighborhood Spoiled Rich Kid, Francis(Mark Bolton)just adds fuel to an already existing feud. Francis is the Prime Suspect, but his 'Butler'(Pro Wrestler, the Late Professor Toru Tanaka) greets Pee-wee at the door with Francis is having his Bath!, to which Pee-wee replies in his falsetto high pitched voice, Where're they hosing him down!(my own personal favourite gag line in the movie!)A cross country odyssey follows as info about the missing Bike is fervently followed up. The meandering journey takes them to the Southwestern Dessert country and to the Alamo in San Antonio, Texas. He crosses the path of escaped convicts and Motorcycle Gangs. Quick thinking, Tequila and 'Big Shoe Dancing', saves the day once(another favourite gag! See the movie!)The team of Reubens(Pee-wee), Director Tim Burton(Batman 1989), and writers Michael Varhol, Reubens and the Late Phil Hartman, provide the proper situations to fit this character. There are some very well made and character appropriate sets. Pee-wee's home makes it look as if he lives in the Toy Department at one of our finest,old downtown department stores.All of the action is underscored by the original musical score, courtesy of Danny Elfman(Batman,Batman Returns,Spiderman,etc.) This turns the film into a feast for the senses, especially the funny bone!The effect of the World we have entered in here is to bring us something that has been little in evidence in recent years. That is comic figures that are just that, comic all the way. We had their likes in bountiful supply in the days of some guys with names like Sennett, Roach, Chaplin, Turpin, Arbuckle, Keaton, Langdon, Lloyd, Semon,Laurel & Hardy, etc.One last comparison that has been made to Pee-wee's world is to that of the Animated Cartoon. There seems to be plenty of evidence here as his behaviour is closer to Bugs Bunny & Company than to the Bob Hopes, Jack Bennys or Rodney Dangerfields of the World.And by the way, I didn't forget about Paul Reubens' troubles with the law. Well, here's wishing,hoping and praying all of that business is behind him. And we can once again enjoy the God-given talents of this multi-faceted guy, this Man-Child, truly a Cartoon Character of Flesh and Blood. "},{"Title":"Inspirational","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Many might consider this movie frivolous and silly but most viewers correctly consider this movie to be a story of inspiration, dedication, bravery and compassion. A story of a man in the pinnacle of his life when an unimaginable tragedy forces him into an odyssey of epic proportions filled with dangerous and deadly consequences.The acting, directorial style and overall movie challenges the perennial greats such as Casablanca, Citizen Kane and Gone with the Wind, the diverse and inspirational acting abilities of Mr. Herman has inspired many critics to imagine the performances if Mr. Herman had been able to fill the acting roles of other great parts.Just imagine Mr. Herman as Rooster Cogburn in True Grit, Rick Blaine in Casablanca or Don Vito Corleone in the Godfather. It has been suggested that if Mr. Herman had been Kunta Kinte in Roots it would have been more of a commercial success as would have The Terminator series if Arnold Schwarzenegger would have relinquished his role to Mr. Herman.But, back to the movie, purportedly based on actual events Mr. Herman's true love is taken from a small strip mall in southern California. Heartbroken and confused Mr. Herman prepares to meticulously search to the four corners of the earth, even to the Alamo to bring his beloved back home. Bravely encountering numerous dangers including biker gangs, ghouls, escaped convicts, and a French speaking waitress, Mr. Herman's devotion gives him strength to overcome all odds and fight through all the injustices that mankind has to offer.An inspiring movie that has found a place in military training bases, motivational seminars and mental health institutions, all movie goers owe themselves this delightful treat. There also seems to be a grassroots effort in Texas to make this the Texas state movie, however Oklahoma with the same desire to claim this as their state movie has claimed that the Alamo was actually in the Oklahoma panhandle and that Texas hooligans moved it during the dust bowl. "},{"Title":"Hysterically Funny movie!","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is hysterically funny and suitable for the entire family. I first saw the movie while in high school and I've been hooked ever since. I've watched it so many times, I know the movie line by line.The great thing about the movie is the simple straight-forward storyline (a boy in search of his bike) and the interesting figures Pee-Wee meets along the way in search of his bike Large Marge, Tina, the ex-con and others. In addition, I don't recall any swearing or violence (which is truly rare in movies these days).Reminds me of modern, twisted version of the Wizard of Oz. I would highly recommend the movie in a family setting. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie, Ever","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Yes, it's true. This is my all time favorite film. Why? Well, here's some reasons. First, I've watched this film about 30 times since i was just a little kid. second, it is one of the funniest movies of all time. Who can't laugh watching this? And third, it has Pee-Wee. This movie is about a boy and his bike. But what happens when the bike gets stolen? The boy travels all around the country to find it. That boy turns out to be Pee-Wee Herman. Okay, before anyone says anything, I don't think it deserved any Oscars or Golden Globes. Yes, scream and yell but even though this is my favorite film it sure wasn't worthy of any Oscars. The acting is pretty well done but I just think that Paul Reubens is extraordinary as Pee-Wee. I have always been impressed about how well Reubens captures the goofiness and silliness of Pee-Wee. And don't even get me started with the Tequila dance sequence. It is a classic moment to be remembered in comedy history. This is one of Tim Burton's best films he will ever make. Now give me a tequila "},{"Title":"A superb 80s flick that put Burton on the map!","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a fun, fun flick that the whole family can enjoy. A memorable film with many memorable quotes. It has everything in a movie that people could want. it has comedy, drama, adventure, romance, and an intriguing premise. The movie is about a special bicycle. A bicycle that gets stolen by Pee Wee's neighbor Francis. He goes on a cross country journey to reach Texas, the location he believes it is. Many unexpected things happen along his journey like riding in a car with a convicted felon and meeting large Marge a ghost who is supposedly dead. It is an adventure like no other. I only hope the third installment of Pee Wee Herman is being made. I love him. He is a great feel-good comedian with a lot of range and skill, more than the average person might think. "},{"Title":"Bizarre, but rather entertaining funny flick...","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Perhaps it is Tim Burton's influence, but there is something I really enjoy about this movie that I would not otherwise like. I am not a big Pee Wee fan, however, this movie for me still works. I found it a very funny movie, though it took a bit on first viewing to really get it for me. I really didn't start really laughing good until the strange night time road sign scene...on subsequent viewings, though, I laugh all the way through it. This movie has a bright side and dark side to it, and that is what makes it work the contrast. The story, guy goes about his everyday life and does a little shopping, guy gets done shopping only to find his beloved bike stolen...after futile attempts to round up help guy goes to gypsy who sends him on a trip to the Alamo to retrieve the back. So yes, it is a cross country type movie, however this one is far from being typical. Our hero must help a prison escapee, hitch a ride with a ghost, and do various other things in order to finish his quest. You will see the strange along the way as there are bikers, rich guys with really big bath tubs and even Godzilla along on the trip. Then you finally have a daring pet shop rescue and a reunion of Pee Wee and all the fellows who shared in his really big adventure. Very funny and well worth the time. "},{"Title":"Way 2 Go!!!!!","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" From the classic archives of the Old School Disney Channel comes to you Pee-wee's Big Adventure, a fun and fantastic movie starring that grown kid-like adult living in his playhouse, Pee-Wee Herman!!!!! HA HA HA HA HA!!!!! So he needs to get something for his bicycle as well as some joke stuff when suddenly... HIS BELOVED BICYCLE IS GONE!!!!! Shocked at how his life flashed before his eyes, he set off on, well, an exciting and unforgettable adventure that takes him everywhere! (And it all started with a phony fortune teller!!!!!) And the lines were funny, too!!!!! Especially lines like You know those 'Do Not Remove - Under Penalty of Law' tags on mattresses and stuff? Well, I'd rip them off!!!!! and Is there a basement in the Alamo????? - those lines made it into my family's vocabulary in an instant and we laugh as we say these lines!!!!! LOL I've seen this on the Old Disney Channel a lot in 1997 and 1998. If it weren't for the superiority this channel had (as well as ACTUALLY watching the channel), I would have never discovered this pot of gold!!!!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Imanginative","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is so unbelievable yet very plain and simple. The creativity that went in to this movie could only be reached by the imagination of Tim Burton and Pee Wee Herman (Paul Ruebens). Peew Wee Herman (Paul Ruebens) is at his best in this movie. Even though it was made in 1985 it is way beyond our time. This movie is unbelievable for all ages. You may watch the trailer and see nothing special but it is only a fragment of greatness compared to the real thing. The plot the script and the acting is all magnificent. They could not make a re-make of this movie and make it as adorable and incredible as the original.This is a movie for the ages. "},{"Title":"one of the most colorful, thrilling rides ever","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Tim Burton has a way to make a film brilliant in its colors, textures, gadgets, and visual wizardry in general. This is quite possibly his best effort at doing so. Then you have the amazing character of Pee Wee Herman -- a man (or a boy trapped inside a man?) so ambitious and naive you can't help but side with him. He may have an attitude problem but that's also why you like him! The combination of Paul Reuben's amazing character, relentless wit (It's like you're unraveling a big cable-knit sweater that someone keeps knitting and knitting and knitting and knitting and knitting and knitting...), and Tim Burton's stunning visual world makes this a true classic of my adolescence and beyond. "}{"Title":"A childhood favorite","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Wee Wee Hermer is what I think one of my first words were. When I was little I probably watched this movie every day. Amazingly, I still love it as an adult! This movie is a real classic and it has a million quotable lines and hilarious moments. Paul Reubens may have a bad rap for some porno theater stuff, and be in his 50's now, but that doesn't mean that this movie should go bad. I think Pee Wee is a great character. Although, I don't particularly recommend Big Top Pee Wee, Pee Wee's Christmas or even Pee Wee's playhouse. They all seem kinda weird and creepy. Plus, Tim Burton directed this film and that man is a genius! So, I recommend this to anyone skeptical of Paul Reubens or the creepy factor of Pee Wee in all the other stuff his character is in. "},{"Title":"Pee Wee's Weird Behavior","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Did anyone else think that Pee Wee elluded to being gay? He wasn't attracted to Dottie, and he didn't try to make the moves on Simone (when she was clearly interested.) When he's in the car with Mickey, and he's dressed like a woman, he starts to act giddy. He seemed very at ease in a dress and he even looked like a woman. You'll notice that Mickey stares at Pee Wee's leg, while Pee Wee is giggling like a schoolgirl. There were a ton of homosexual undertones, but I can understand why they couldn't discuss it (it was made for children,) and I'm sure they didn't want to upset parents.) I love this movie, and I love how certain elements are hidden for the viewer's amusement. "},{"Title":"Shear Complete Joyful Genius","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love this movie. It is an action packed fun filled adventure of everyone's lovable kid. A more pure joy has rarely come out of Hollywood. Pee Wee is unpretentious as well as cool. He brings me back to my childhood when kids just needed to have fun without worrying about their self-image to others.Everything from Pee Wee's avoiding Dotty's advances to the chase scene keeps you entertained. No agenda; no subliminal message - just Pee Wee being a kid without any stresses of adulthood. 11/10 = my highest rating ever.-LD__________________________________________________my faith http//www.angelfire.com/ny5/jbc33/ "},{"Title":"Tim Burton's Debut in Full Length Movies","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is the very first movie Tim Burton did. Way back when he was still a no buddy. And he did a great job on this movie for his first time as Director of a motion picture.This movie has everyone's favorite playful and happy guy, Pee Wee Herman, he enjoys his life and feels proud of owning his own bike.But when his bike got stolen, he went ballistic. And is determine to search and find his most valuable position.As the movie goes on, he gets into some trouble and some random situations.There's a lot of comedy in this movie. And it has the common Director trademarks you'd find in Tim's other movies including Stop Motion animation, Gothic/dark humor, and a small use of clowns.Not to mention that Pee Wee is a total nut. I don't remember much of his TV series but he does act hysterical in this movie.It's highly recommended for the Tim Burton and Pee Wee Herman movies. "},{"Title":"Not a modern masterpiece, but certainly a delightfully funny film","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Even though my taste in movies will be questioned, and so will my manhood, I am still going to say it Pee-Wee's Big Adventure is brilliant. With a great musical score, a superb acting performance by Paul Reubens, and a nice script full of wacky characters and even more wacky situations, this became the surprise hit of 1985. Adding to the magic of the film is then-rookie director Tim Burton, whose unique talent, out-of-the-ordinary imagination and directing style added to the quality of this colorful movie. If you are in the mood for silly comedy, this is the perfect film. Actually, it sounds like one of those things that is so much better when you are drunk. So it is lacking in sense and coherence but honestly, who cares? This is Pee-Wee Herman for crying out loud, what else are you going to expect? This is as close as you will get to watching a non-animated cartoon.Meshing plenty of physical comedy with clever one-liners, excellent comic timing, unexpected surprises, dark humor, double meanings, and even cheap shots at other genres of film-making, Pee-Wee's Big Adventure has a bit of everything for the entire family. To add to that, there is a bit of horror and action as well, and a fun musical sequence involving a tough gang of rebels. Quite the accomplishment for a film that doesn't surpass 95 minutes, and that can be traced back to the writing (and eventually Burton himself). Written by Phil Hartman (Saturday Night Live, the annoying neighbor in a personal favorite of mine, Jingle All The Way), Michael Varhol, and Pee-Wee himself, the talented staff behind the script and storyboard packed in plenty of content from start to finish to make sure the film never runs dry at any moment. Even whenever the jokes aren't there, Tim Burton throws in his two cents to the work, by creating visually appealing, yet creepy nightmares from time to time. Burton was at his best with sight gags here, as there are some hilarious moments that did not require a single word of dialogue.To separate your comedy from everyone else's, you need to have excellent pacing. This film's strongest point comes in its pacing. Within the first 10 minutes, the viewer already knows why Pee-Wee loves his bike so much, why he's well-liked amongst the townspeople, and why he wouldn't live in the real world of today. Before you are even a third into the film, he already has you almost on the ground laughing, and he would have already been far in his quest to recover his bike. Oh yea, the plot, well, I just revealed it. Basically, Pee-Wee escapes the safe haven of his town to recover his bike, which was stolen and was then taken to who-knows-where. Along the way, he will save animals, encounter ghosts, remember the Alamo, and also even engage in conversation with a fugitive. That's just a little sample of what he experiences, because believe it or not, he does a lot. There is only build-up in the first ten minutes, after that the jokes come flying at you and for the most part, they hit.Will Pee-Wee annoy you? Of course he will; Pee-Wee would get massacred in the real world if he were caught riding his bike laughing the way he does. But, as much as you are sometimes annoyed, you are also just as engaged in the film. Paul Reubens is superb as Pee-Wee, it is not easy smiling all the time and having a corny laugh and sounding like you just inhaled a tank full of helium. Reubens is like a campy Jim Carrey, willing to embarrass himself to the extremes just to locate some laughs&#151;of course the only difference is that Carrey would injure himself severely to get people laughing. He runs this film, but all the small roles throughout the movie helps a lot indeed. What actually is a rarity in movies nowadays is the fact that the biggest laughs really don't come until the final portion of the film, as if Reubens and the rest were saving their best moments for last. The ending should also leave pretty much everyone satisfied, as it strongly affirms the belief that there should always be a sense of closure in the film, the ending needs to be just as strong as the beginning.Bottom Line Forget what you all think, I totally enjoyed Pee-Wee's Big Adventure. So it isn't Oscar-worthy nor should it be mentioned in the same sentence as the great films past and present, but it remains one of the funnier silly films to ever come out. Why Burton stays away from these kinds of films now is beyond me, because this movie put him on the map and this one is among his better works. The writing wasn't amazingly clever but still gave plenty of content to keep you laughing, the acting wasn't Godly but remains funny, and even Burton seemed like he wasn't trying too hard but it nonetheless worked. Whether its Pee-Wee dancing to a classic oldies tune, delivering one of many awesome one-liners, being chased in the Warner Brothers studio lot, or even eating some Mr. T cereal, this film should have something for everybody. Otherwise, you do not have a sense of humor. Pee-Wee's Big Adventure grab some friends, grab some Tequila, and enjoy.10/10 "},{"Title":"makes you feel like a child all over again","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have to admit that I don't know too much about Pee-wee Herman outside from his real-life mishaps, so this is pretty much my only exposure to him. The plot of course has him looking for his bike and experiencing some weird situations along the way. That whole skit with the bikers was pretty cool. Tim Burton was clearly showing his skills as a director here.All in all, Pee-wee's Big Adventure is a movie that you're bound to like. Maybe it's not exactly a laugh a minute, but it's still quite neat. It makes you feel like a child all over again. Look for Phil Hartman, Jan Hooks, James Brolin, Morgan Fairchild and Milton Berle in small roles. "},{"Title":"Here's another goof","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Here's another goof...when Pee-Wee is about to go to Mario's Magic Shoppe, he pulls a giant chain out of his bike's basket alongside the rear wheel, but I am sure you aren't supposed-to see the chain being fed up through the bottom of the bike basket (the illusion is that the giant chain is contained entirely in the basket). This a great movie; the kids and I have seen this about 15 times altogether. Big Top Pee Wee is interesting because it's so different and not as good as this one. I also bought the entire set of Pee Wee's Playhouse on VHS 4-5 years ago and we thoroughly enjoyed that and I remember seeing him on Saturday morning. "},{"Title":"For some reason this movie is very funny.","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" stars Paul Reubens, EG Daily, Mark Holton, Diane Salinger, Jud Omen, Jan Hooks. Cameo Phil Hartman.Hahaha...this movie is so stupid, yet so clever. It's a pretty mild comedy about a man child named Pee-Wee Herman (Reubens) that has his bike stolen one day when out. At first, he suspects his other man child nemesis Francis (Holton), but he convinces Pee-Wee that he didn't. Francis actually did have a friend steal the bike, but he feels so under pressure that he tells him to just get rid of it somewhere. To make the plot thicken, Pee-Wee goes to a psychic and she tells him that his bike is in the basement of the Alamo, so off Pee-Wee goes. This movie doesn't seem like it would be very good, but it came out quite well. Paul plays Pee-Wee without ever going out of character and has his role mastered completely. The writing on it is really so stupid, that you can't help from laughing with a great script co-written by Paul Reubens and Phil Hartman (RIP). The direction, from a young Tim Burton, is very stylish and easily recognized as one of Tim's movies. It has weird moments with claymation mixed in to real life, like many of Tim's older films, and it has those Burton-y disfigured dream sequences. Danny Elfman does the score, and it is really excellent. It fits the movie so well. I highly recommend this movie if you enjoy silly family comedies. ***Next year Pee-Wee would have a playhouse in his hit children's show.My rating 3/4. Rated PG for scary moments and mild language. 92 mins. "},{"Title":"my favorite movie ever!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is the best movie ever! Paul Reubens is my hero! I even named my cat after him! Despite his criminal record (whatever that means- he is INNOCENT in my book), this is a great film for children because it is full of adventure and pure family fun!!! My sister and I have been quoting this movie since we were little. I can't tell you how much this movie has impacted my life- it teaches viewers to pursue their dreams and to stand up to opposition (Frances), no matter how frivolous those dreams seem to others. The character Pee Wee has passion AND compassion for others (reference to Dottie, Simone, and the pet shop scene). Pee Wee is innocently fun loving and adventurously joyous, yet still the actor Paul Reubens is judged for his alleged crimes in Sarasota. This film and the crimes allegedly charged against the actor need to be distinguished- in my opinion, the plot of this movie is discordantly paradoxical to modern video games which evolve around hurting others. BRAVO to Paul Reubens and Tim Burton- this film is a classic in my book and, one day, I will show it to my children. "},{"Title":"I know you are, but what am I?","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is the story of a young man, Pee-Wee Herman, and his bike, which is stolen by mean next-door-neighbor Francis.What makes this movie so good, is the childish whim. If you look at it, you will think Spongebob came from this. Pee-Wee is an adult, but is still a kid at heart. When his bike gets stolen, Pee-Wee goes from San Antonio to Warner Bros. Studios. In the end, his adventure turns into a movie, with all his pals he's met at the premiere.The movie has a childish feel to it, but adults will enjoy it to. Tim Burton makes well in his debut as director.Rating Reason very mild language, creepy dream scenes, mild innuendo "}{"Title":"Creative, silly, Saturday morning-type film","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I can understand why a lot people who write comments at IMDb hate this - they aren't children at heart.Being the child-at-heart that I am, I thought the film was quite good. I've probably seen it 3 or 4 times and I enjoy it every time.It's not just Pee-Wee that holds this film together - it's Tim Burton's creative, colorful direction.Notice how much color is in this film? The colors remind me of the TV series, The Prisoner, only for a different reason. The colors seem to represent Pee Wee's incredible energy, especially early on; the colors seem to diminish as the film progresses. I might be making too much of it.Anyway, if you like Pee Wee, you'll love this movie and I'm sure you have already seen it. Those who hate Pee Wee aren't going to watch it anyway...I gave it 7 stars... "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have watched this movie since it came out, so long ago! I know it front to back and then some. My four year old son has taken a great interest in it! We watch it two sometimes three times a day. I have several favorite quotes from the movie....but my all time favorite is when Simone and Pee Wee are in the dinosaur waiting for the sun to rise and she asks him if he has any dreams......and his reply......Yea I'm in the desert rolling a huge donut, and this snake wearing a vest.........I just find that very funny. I have a question for all of you out there. The biker mama in the bar scene, looks a lot like Elvira, another 80's icon. Is it her or am I crazy?  "},{"Title":"A Classic For All Ages","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Paul Reubens is a genius. The character of Pee-Wee Herman is fantastic and entertaining no matter what your age. Children love Pee-Wee because of his child-like life and behavior, adults love him because for an hour and a half you remember what it's like to be young again, as clich as that may sound. Me, maybe it's because I still remember the days of Pee-Wee's Playhouse on TV, or it might just be because I love being a kid again. That's the power this film has. If you just give it a chance you will love it.Some may try to pass it off as being just a kids movie. Most of the humor is directed at children obviously, but there are many jokes and references for people that have been around a little longer, too. For example, Pee-Wee getting Texans to all clap in sync and sing Deep in The Heart of Texas when on the pay phone, or after he rides the bull and finally comes to. The cowboys ask him if he remembers anything and Pee-Wee's classic reply, I remember the Alamo.The goofy story line is just that, goofy. It may seem stupid, but when you are a kid your bike is quite possibly your most important possession, and everyone wants their bike to be the best. Like I said earlier, by watching this film you are letting yourself become a care-free child again, no matter what your age.The movie contains heaps of memorable scenes. Some of my favorites include Pee-Wee's trip to the Madame Ruby the fortune teller, his confrontation of Francis in the giant bathtub and of course his last request of dancing to Tequilla in the Satan's Helpers biker bar.I'm a grown man who loves Pee-Wee Herman and I'm not afraid to admit that. This is one of the greatest children's films of all time, no doubt about it.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just cuz he was arrested doesn't mean it wasn't a good movie.","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought this movie was a masterpiece. Tim Burton directed it beautifully. It is so funny everyone at the movie store rents it all the time. Pee Wee is so classic in this movie. I think Pee Wee then hit it off with Phil Hartman and Paul Ruebens then producing the film both and credits too I think this should be a million doller movie. That is just my opinion. Some people think that just because he was arrested they cannot enjoy this movie, well don't worry you can still watch it. He is okay in this movie but any child can watch it just don't tell them he was arrested.It actually was a funny movie about the alamo and that dude that tells his fortune. and Mickey who escaped from jail. but I hvae heard stories and yes Francis does bug me a little not much but he is also funny in the movie with his rich snobby attitude.Paul did a good movie. Then it made it to Pee Wee's Playhouse and everything else to his saying mekkamekkahi mekkamekkalow. You can go up to anyone in the 80's and they would repeat it back to you.I give this movie 10/10 because the great child in Pee Wee made the screen enjoyable and funny in the 80's and it still does now. "},{"Title":"Kitschy fun","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  For those who don't get Pee-Wee, this was a character that Paul Ruebens had created on the comedy stage, with many appearances on David Letterman's show, and then continued on his inventive Saturday morning kids (and adults) show, before moving on to the big screen.  Pee-Wee's act was always meant to be absurd, full of 50's kitsch and childhood playthings. But with plenty of double entendres and gentle poking fun at kiddie shows. I just watched the DVD with commentary by Tim Burton, who mentions it was made on a low budget, and I believe it was Burton's first full-length movie.  It is just silly and fun, and through all these various permutations, Pee-Wee never grows or changes, he is just Pee-Wee marching to his own drummer.  I enjoy this movie as much as my 8 year old son does, but for very different reasons. "},{"Title":"A young man loses his bike and goes on an epic quest","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I love this film, it is brilliant on so many levels I don't know where to start. Watching this film is  entertaining for children, who generally don't know what a special work they are in the midst of, and especially entertaining for those of us who are now adults who saw this film originally as children. Having watched thousands of movies since this came out, I had nearly forgotten it, and then I saw it on Comedy Central in '96, and was surprised how well it still worked. Then seven years passed without a thought about Pee Wee, except as a tabloid story or conversational footnote when discussing Tim Burton's films.Then I found this film new for five dollars at Walmart.My life changed. I was now fully able to appreciate the tapestry which is Pee Wee's Big Adventure. The DVD pays loving attention to detail, including brilliant sound and video, not to mention Paul Reubens and Tim Burton commenting on the film, and trust me, this is worth five dollars by itself, but you can also isolate the music, which has Danny Elfman's commentary is, and he only comments on his music, its inspirations and its synchronicity with the visuals. All very interesting for the film buff as well as for fans of movie scores.Highly recommended on DVD, and I mean this, I am not a retailer. "},{"Title":"I love this story.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  While simplistic and some-what offbeat, this movie was the launch pad for some of the most influential and creative individuals in the motion picture industry.Pee-wee's Big Adventure was Tim Burton's first feature film as well as composer Danny Elfman's first orchestral score. The picture brought the two together and would forge a long-lasting career relationship that still exists today.Elfman has since served as composer on numerous films, his most recent work can be heard this summer in The Hulk and upcoming in Spiderman II.The late Phil Hartman also had a brief appearance in Pee-wee's Big Adventure, along with co-writing the film.A must have for any film-enthusiast's DVD collection as the commentary by Danny Elfman is both entertaining and informative. "},{"Title":"I love this story.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  While simplistic and some-what offbeat, this movie was the launch pad for some of the most influential and creative individuals in the motion picture industry.Pee-wee's Big Adventure was Tim Burton's first feature film as well as composer Danny Elfman's first orchestral score. The picture brought the two together and would forge a long-lasting career relationship that still exists today.Elfman has since served as composer on numerous films, his most recent work can be heard this summer in The Hulk and upcoming in Spiderman II.The late Phil Hartman also had a brief appearance in Pee-wee's Big Adventure, along with co-writing the film.A must have for any film-enthusiast's DVD collection as the commentary by Danny Elfman is both entertaining and informative. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Fantasy?","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Pee-Wee is the ultimate fantasy character. He represents a side inall of us. Most of us try to be cool by wearing sun glasses or hairgel or leather jackets but Pee-Wee is that side in all of us who justdoes anything he wants and he can be really stupid and crazy butis THE ultimate fantasy figure and this film is absolutely excellent.The first feature length film by Tim Burton (Beetlejuice, Batman,Edward Scissorhands, Sleepy Hollow) it is the simple story ofPee-Wee (Paul Reubens) a very slim, eccentric little man whonever lets his beloved bike out of his sight no matter how muchmoney arch enemy Francis (Mark Holton) is willing to pay. Thenone fateful day, his bike is mysteriously stolen and Pee-Weetravels across country meeting up with the likes of ghost truckersand movie directors until he reaches... Hollywood! Although manypeople would be turned off by Pee-wee simply calling him a kiddiecharacter, he is a character for everyone and this film is one ofthose kid films that has references adults can enjoy too (much likeAladdin and Toy Story). It's a very fresh film and the last twentyminutes are pure genuis (I loved the James Bond-like Pee-Weefilm). It's a must see. "},{"Title":"The adventure of a lifetime...","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  After several years of development on stage and in a TV presentation, Paul Reubens unleashed his character of Pee wee Herman on the world in this feature film.  The bizarre, utterly infectious characterization represents a truly unique and captivating persona (though for some sad people, he is the definition of the word annoying...)  The film centers on Herman's obsessive love of his bicycle, a decked out, souped up dreamcycle which is coveted by his rotund enemy Francis.  When the bike is stolen, Herman sets out on the title adventure to retrieve it, running across a myriad of odd, often hilarious, people and situations culminating in a large scale chase through the Warner Brothers studio lot.  From the moment Herman wakes up in his eye-popping house with it's unforgettable kitchen, it's clear that this will be no ordinary movie (the first feature directed by Burton.)  Herman flawlessly displays the never-ending childlike fun and innocence of his character, yet includes a sarcastic, knowing quality which makes him clever and even more unusual.  Because Reubens as Herman is so completely immersed in the character and presents a world of his own, the audience accepts the string of inanities and comic situations with glee.  Even if a certain episode happens to be less enjoyable, they all go by so swiftly that the pain is over rather quickly.  Burton infuses the film with wondrous set decor, color and camerawork and is aided greatly by a tremendous Danny Elfman score.  A galaxy of inspired character actors help move the tale along (a tale that is smartly trimmed of most of its fat, as evidenced in the less amusing deleted scenes on the DVD.)  Omen, as a furrowed prison escapee, Nunn as a doomed truck driver and Hooks as an insipid tour guide give highly memorable performances.  There's even a delightfully ragged little dog named Speck (his unfortunate, dotted coat couldn't earn him the name Spot?)  The film is chock full of kooky, simple humor paired with sly parody and witty repartee.  Children and adults alike find many lines to quote and many moments to recall.  One of the most remembered scenes involves Herman doing a dance to the old song Tequila in a biker bar.  The campiest joke of all occurs when the adventure is spun into a film within a film and Herman finds himself cast as an extra in his own story, only to be replaced by James Brolin as the lead!  He, along with Morgan Fairchild as his leading lady, provides the perfectly silly payoff to this wondrously one of a kind film.  This was spun off into the highly praised children's show Pee wee's Playhouse.  Avoid the horrendous sequel Big Top Pee wee as it doesn't begin to capture the magic of this first film.  "}{"Title":"A bizarre film and a true classic!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of those films that I will forever love because I watched it so many times as a child. I don't think it's the funniest movie ever made, but it's just an all around fun movie. I could definitely see how someone that didn't grow up with this would find this film to be less than great, but even then, there is some great comedy that is just plain hilarious.Even to this day I find it extremely hard to believe that this film was directed by Tim Burton, this is definitely his brightest and most colorful film to date. Most of Tim's films seem to be quite dark, but not this one.The story is far from complex, but rather simple (as it should be, this is a kids movie after all). Basically Pee-Wee's bike gets stolen and he has to find it, and quite an adventure ensues.The film obviously takes place primarily around Paul Reubens (Pee-Wee Herman) and doesn't contain much of a supporting cast, but the few that are present do a fine job. I was really taken back by Elizabeth Daily (Dottie), she is such a cute actress and does a great job with her character in the film. There are also some cool cameos of Phil Hartman, James Brolin and Morgan Fairchild, so keep an eye open for them.All in all, I think this is a good light-hearted and fun movie to watch. No, it's not the best movie you'll ever see, but it's worth watching. I hope that you enjoy the film as much as I do. Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"My favorite movie!","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I love this movie. Simple and clear, it's a masterpiece. Without delving into the uncomfortable romances and unfunny comedic segments of most 1980's movies, it has established itself as truly 1980s. And it was a simpler time, then, too. Almost as simple as Pee-Wee himself. On the outside. But delve deeper and you see someone who can tell Dottie that he's a loner and a rebel with a straight face and then start laughing outside the store.What I love about this movie is that it's screamingly juvenile in its' humor, but DOES NOT resort to fart jokes or why're you hitting yourself?. Someone may compare Pee-Wee to Adam Sandler, but the difference between this wonderful picture and anything with Adam Sandler's name on it is that this movie is actually funny. Do yourself a favor and rent this movie NOW.  "},{"Title":"THE GREATEST FILM EVER COMMITTED TO CELLULOID!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ahhhh... Pee-wee's Big Adventure.  I couldn't say more than many of the people here have already said about this (almost) timeless classic.  If not for the bad 80's hairdos and a Wicked Sisters cameo (You're gonna burn in hell! Dee Snider, how dare you flee from Pee-wee's intoxicating mania), then this film would be an ageless wonder that will sparkle in the eyes of generations to come.  Not to say that it isn't anyway. Tim Burton outdid himself in this magnificient directorial debut.  Danny Elfman perhaps composed a musical score (The Breakfast Machine theme anyone?) that decimates all of Beethoven's works combined.  Paul Reubens is a comedic genius!  From the Tour de France to the Warner Bros. lot, Pee-wee spans the globe and the masses of the planet must succumb to his awe-inspiring power.  Forget the scandals, forget anything Paul Reubens might have made in the past decade, Pee-wee's Big Adventure is his invincible landmark on American cinema and may never be toppled by anything, anytime, anywhere!  Like Mr. T cereal says, I pity the fool who don't see this movie! You may say I'm a loner, a rebel for my outrageous claims.  But there are things about this movie you couldn't understand, you wouldn't understand, you SHOULDN'T understand if you haven't seen it already.  My frenzied typing cannot even begin to encapsulate the masterpiece that is Pee-wee's Big Adventure.  PAGING MR. HERMAN, PAGING MR. HERMAN!  The president says it's about time you make ANOTHER PEE-WEE FILM!  Get out of the Big House and into the bowtie, because THE LAW cannot stop the genius that is PEE-WEE!! "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was such a cool movie. My favorite part was when Pee Wee was dancing on the bar table. The music was cool and He was so funny. Everything about this movie was cool. I recommend this movie to anyone and everyone who loves a good family movie and likes Pee Wee Herman. "},{"Title":"Any time I'm sad, I watch this movie.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie has got to be the funniest, wittiest movies ever made.  Most people would call this movie stupid, losery (I know its not a word, but hey) and above all childish.  I love this movie.  It makes me laugh and its just ridiculously hilarious and imaginitive.  All his little gadgets he has and all the little inventions around his house.  I highly recomend this movie. "},{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Paul Reubens is very, very good in his role as Pee Wee Herman!  This film has quite a lot to offer, and grows more funny with each repeated viewing. So many great supporting characters in this particular film!  Now available on DVD, so buy it! "},{"Title":"Never a dull moment","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I always though this was one of  the funniest films of all time, but  now that I am better educated, it  comes off as much more. It's the  ultimate boy's dream, a life which  seems devoid of responsibility and  sadness. I mean, what the heck  does Peewee do for a living? Also,  Peewee possessed a personality  which made him open to everyone,  no matter how eccentric or homosexual  he appeared to be. If losing his bike  is the worst thing to ever happen in his life,  then many people would like to switch  lives with him. Peewee really  encompassed all that everyone wanted  carefree living and a child-like existence.  Anyway, Peewee will be an icon for kids  who grew up in the 1980s. How the  heck did we ever like this guy? will be  the first question, followed by Why can't  anyone create an individual as sensible  as Peewee?  "},{"Title":"A childhood favorite.","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie takes me back to the time where I loved Pee-WeeHerman.  What other story is as great as this;  a wacky man whogoes on ordinary adventures is searching for his bike on a quitenot-so-ordinary adventure?  When Large Marge's face exploded infront of Pee-Wee, as a 4 year old I would run behind the couch,wait until that part was over, then get back on the couch for the rest. Ah, those days. "},{"Title":"Imagine That!!!!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  You know, I read a lot of reviews on all the movies I like from IMDB, and here's the most amazing thing.  Movies like The Godfather, Star Wars and even The Wizard of Oz have received bad reviews from some people.  As I write this, I have just finished reading everyones review for Pee Wee's Big Adventure, and there is only ONE bad review.Now this is probably because most people don't go into this movie with high expectations, so they are usually pleasantly surprised.  Either that, or this movie is the Classic that we all believe it is.I admit, I love Tim Burton movies!  I have not been disappointed in anything he has ever done, from Frankenweenie to Sleepy Hollow (Planet of the Apes is due out in two weeks, and I asked for the day off work.)  I think his vision is amazing.  There is not another director that could do Pee Wee.  Then again, there is not another director that could've done Batman, as Shumacher proved...but that's a different story.Pee Wee's Big Adventure is a great story about a guy who just wants to find his bike.  The dialogue is hilarious, Paul Reubens is INCREDIBLE!  One reviewer said that they always thought Pee Wee Herman was a real person. It's true.  When you see Paul being Pee Wee, you see Pee Wee.Now there is a fair warning to go along with this movie.  If you think you're going into Ghandi, well, you're an idiot.  Pee Wee is just a fun little movie, proving that Tim Burton is a genius.  Add to that a great score by Danny Elfman, a script co-written by comic genius, Phil Hartman, and a cameo by Cassandra Petrson, AKA Elvira Mistress of the Dark, and you have the makings of a comic masterpiece. "},{"Title":"First-rate fantasy film","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie in 1985, when I was two, and it's still funny. The movie is ridiculous and completely untrue to life, and that's what makes it appealing. It has this joke throughout the movie, but it finds fresh new ways to employ it. Get a load of Mickey, the escaped convict.Thank goodness, unlike many other fantasy films I saw as a child, this one takes place in a world that still exists today. "}{"Title":"90 minutes of what the hell? filmmaking","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Pee Wee's Big Adventure is less a movie than a bizarre phenominon.Nearly everyone around my age, back when we were kids, was obsessed with this demented movie.  We had the dialogue memorized and acted out our favorite scenes.  It was, in essence, the Austen Powers or Ace Ventura of my generation.  It's also better than those two movies combined.I can't possibly imagine what today's kids would think about Pee Wee and his friends.  Watching it will most likely only give them more reason to wonder what is currently wrong with today's adults.  Heaven knows, we don't need that.On the other hand, without a second thought, I must say this  Hands down, best chase scene EVER! "},{"Title":"I'm listening to reason...","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I saw the last ten minutes of this movie at a friends house, and laughed my head off.  I saw the DVD for sale, and said, why not?  And I'm glad I did. Tim Burton does an excellent job keeping it realistic yet cartoonish (after just coming off the animation circuit) and does a fantastic job!  Danny Elfman making one of the most memorable scores ever!  (They play it a lot at Kings Dominion or one of those parks, and I've had it stuck in my head since, never knew where it came from until now).  Paul Reubens, a glorious job before his senseless fall from the character. Pee-Wee at his best.  "},{"Title":"The Premiere Tim Burton Film.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  No one else but Tim Burton could have made this film.  Perhaps I'm saying this because I do have a significant bias towards Burton's works, and I think he's one of the best visual directors around today, but I think under anyone else's direction, this would have been a film swept away with '80's nostalgia and left there.This film is so visually intriguing it still works well for me today.Pee-Wee Herman.  The name alone brings up several images and associations to various points in his career.  But this was one of the finer ones.  Pee-Wee's Big Adventure is a thoroughly enjoyable trip into Burton's surreal Americana, that does what Burton does best Promote weird as normal and normal as weird.  You can buy into the fact that a grown man acts like a little kid and has a super-bike that can easily compete with any James Bond vehicle.  The search for the bike is where the fun is, as Pee-Wee meets everyone from homeless people, to truck-stop brutes to the ever unforgettable Large Marge (a scene which emotionally scarred and amused me all at the same time).  And the Alamo's basement is about as ludicrous as one can get, but that kind of attitude is what makes this film so darn enjoyable.  (I've yet to find that basement myself, nor any tour guide that speaks like Jan Hooks).  The best thing to compare this film to is a fun house.  It's quick, a lot to see, and it provides laughable entertainment.  Unlike the fun house, this one tends to stay with you after seeing it.  If only to provide a few in-jokes or movie quotes (God Bless Mr. Breakfast and Mr. T Cereal).  And of course, there's always the pop culture references from the '50's to (what was then considered) today.  Danny Elfman's score (Burton's personal John Williams) only adds to the film's atmosphere with it's maddeningly catchy carnival-esque music.I enjoy a fun movie, and this ranks in there as one of them.  As I said before, I'm a Burton fan, and other fans probably know what it is that makes this movie so unique.  Fans will love it.  Those uninitiated will probably either like it, or think it's just too out there.  But you can't help but get into Pee-Wee Herman's adventures before the Playhouse.  "},{"Title":"Rebellion","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  There are few movies than make me chuckle in remembrance of a single line -- in Pee-wee's Big Adventure, it's the line Tell 'em Large Marge sent ya!Pee-wee claims to be a rebel, and early on, it's funny because he's so over-the-top conventional it's not funny -- like some 50's ideal fantasy gone overboard and haywire.But as he travels, it becomes clear WHY he's a rebel -- he's completely honest -- naive to the point of innocence while remaining knowing. He's a rebel because he never gives in to danger -- he knows exactly what to do and what to say to get what he wants, whether acting like a vampire to scare off hoodlums, or dancing to Tequila to soothe bikers. He's a rebel because he's so untouched by cynicism and duplicity. He believes what you tell him -- hell, he believes you when you're a cheap fortune teller telling him to look for his bike in the basement of the Alamo. But he always wins out because he's simply a good person, and with Pee-wee, innocence will perservere. "},{"Title":"This is a funny movie for kids.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Some serious people might not find this movie funny at all, but for those out there like myself, you can enjoy this one.  A lot of the jokes are a childish, which makes sense, since this movie is aimed at little kids. So, if your children are bored and you don't mind if they watch something a little silly, then get Pee-wee's Big Adventure.  Who knows, they might even learn something good from it. "},{"Title":"IS THERE SOMETHING YOU'D LIKE TO SHARE WITH THE REST OF US, AMAZING LARRY!  BEST KID/COMEDY EVER!","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Tim Burton's Pee Wee's Big Adventure is a movie for anyone (even us teens), for kids, they will love pee wee's charm as a kid like adult (even though there is a scene in a magic shop where he puts on glasses that foreshadow something that he is well known for), but anyone else will love the adult humor (the alamo scene is the best) and if ridiculous enough, will get it.  Great story involves Pee Wee Herman (played by himseld, but himself is played by co-writer Paul Reubens) who goes on a odyssey to find his stolen bike.  This is just the tip of one of the most imaginative, creative and funny (the Large Marge scene is a classic among comedy scenes) films to ever be witnessed by yours truly, courtesy of first time director Burton.  Co-writer Phil Hartman appears breifly as a newsman.  A+ "},{"Title":"Let me just say You can tell Tim Burton directed this.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"         I saw this back when I was about 6 or 7 and I thought it was really FREAKY! One day my mom was vacuuming  and she said Oh, that Peewee movie is on. Ah! The one with the bike?! That one's kinda' scary. My mom thought I was weird ever since that moment in 1987.       This is wonderfully directed...you can see Tim Burton's style written all over it. Creepy characters giving off creepy vibes, a motif of darkness, characters on the brink of insanity, and a creepy musical score that always goes along with Burton flicks.                  When I was little the parts that scared me the most were the scary truckdriver, the French lady who had a crush on Peewee(the one that looked like a man), and the actual scene of them two sitting in some kind of plastic animal watching the sun set. Her boyfriend sees them together and gets ticked. I'm not so sure if it's the situation or purely the lighting and background music that make these parts so freaky.        I don't remember if the biker bar dance, where Peewee is breakdancing and dancing to Tequila, is in this film or not, but that's a good part.       If you haven't decided if you want to see this flick yet, imagine watching this a Beetlejuice-ish Atmosphere with Beetlejuic-ish music, but without the supernatural and with Peewee as the lead. If this sounds scary to you, then the movie probably would be. I, however, liked it, because I liked it when I was young. The thing is, I'm realizing the reason I liked it when I was young was because it was about a pretty bicycle.=) Sep "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Movie","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Sure it's childish and immature. Sure it's devoid of any significant social commentary. This film may not belong in any top 100 list of films(except maybe my own), but it's fun and I never get sick of watching it.This is easily my favorite Tim Burton film, but the real talent in this picture is Paul Reubens as Pee Wee Herman. From the beginning of the movie, he is full of energy and it's difficult not to smile as he gets up in the morning or has a memorable confrontation with his nemesis Francis.Be prepared to laugh and enjoy yourself when you watch this movie and for those of you who think I'm an idiot for loving this movie, I have one thing to say I know you are, but what am I? "},{"Title":"I wrote a poem.","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This exceptional film has profoundly inspired me to greater heights of self-confidence and achievement than I ever thought possible.  So deeply affected was I by Mr. Reubens' masterwork, that I wrote a poem to express my devotionPee Wee, Pee Wee, you're so great.(I didn't say it would rhyme).Thank you Mr. Burton.  Thank you Mr. Hartman.  Thank you Mr. Elfman.  And most importantly, thank you Mr. Reubens, and keep it up.  (The good work, that is.  What did you think I meant?) "},{"Title":"Strange, but good","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is screwed up, but for some reason (check my head) I enjoyed it.It features the famous (and infamous) Paul Reubens character Pee Wee Herman, who is on a quest to find his missing bike. Along the way he encounters several unusual characters, my favorite was Mickey, the escaped con.This movie also contains a lot of neat special effects; they are strange on one level, yet cool on another. The movie as a whole just clicks.Overall, it beats a root canal. Inane fun from the minds of Paul Reubens, and director Tim Burton.  "}{"Title":"A GREAT movie if you don't prejudge","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movie.  I don't know whether it's the nostalgia, or whether this is a truly good movie, but i have always treasured it. It's the little kid in every one of us exposed and sent out to the street. Hilariously funny.  Well-made.  Has some always fun mistakes to look for. And a definitetly witty script.  A must see for everyone. "},{"Title":"classic Tim Burton movie.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is one of the wackiest and weird movies I've ever seen. It doesn't surprise me either. The movie starred wacko Paul Reubens and and was directed by the exceptionally unique Tim Burton. The movie is also extremely funny. Being one of Tim Burton's earlier films, I didn't expect it to be as marvelous as his other films, but I was sure wrong. The story in Pee Wee's Big Adventure is so far out that you can't help but laugh and think, Am I really seeing what I think I'm seeing?. From scenes like the Large Marge scene and Pee Wee's dream about clown doctors were my personal favorites because of the obvious Tim Burton style to them. Danny Elfman also makes a perfect score to the movie (when has he failed me, I don't know), which adds to the craziness. Although I think this movie is cult fun, people who don't like the character of Pee Wee Herman would not like the movie, because it's just like his TV show, which in my point of view, is also classic humor. I'm very glad to say that Tim Burton has made another classic film, and one which is very different from his others. If you like weird and crazy humor, go rent this movie tonight! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've ever seen.","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  As poorly put together and just plain silly as it may be, it contains countless laughs and no dull moments.  It may not be the best example of Tim Burton's directing, but it does contain his unmistakable style (as well as the style of its late screenwriter, Phil Hartman).  If you've seen the ultra-lame sequel, please don't let it scare you away from this one.  It's an absolute classic. "},{"Title":"It's silly; I love it!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"       This extremely silly but nonetheless well-made movie introduced the world to a fine comic actor (Paul Reubens), a deliciously idiotic catchphrase (I know you are, but what am I?) and of course a wonderful producer and director (Tim Burton).      This movie is sort of like a child's version of Homer's Odyssey hero goes on quest, gets into lots of trouble, meets weird characters, etc. Burton just keeps the comedy coming at a frenetic pace, and just about anything can happen. In what other movie would evil clowns try to destroy a bike, a truck driver turn out to be a long-dead ghost, a character single-handedly save a pet shop full of animals from a fire?      The movie's wacky, illogical, irreverent, and juvenile - and quite funny to boot. It's a great thrill ride for kids and a subversive treat for adults. See this movie!    "},{"Title":"tale of a hilarious weirdo","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  We dont know if he has a job or if hes mentally unstable.  All we do know is that he talks to his breakfast, giggles at almost everything, and has a major woody for his bike.  Hes Pee-wee Herman, a character creation from comedian Paul Reubens, who plays Pee-wee.  Reubens is obviously in his late 20s, but plays Pee-wee as a childlike wacko.  Though he has his oddities (like the scotch tape mischief in front of the bathroom mirror) he comes off very friendly and most everyone he meets on the road takes a liking to him. His quest is to find his hi-tech, flashy bicycle which has disappeared. Pee-wee goes through standard road movie mishaps, but its terrificly goofy stuff that Im a sucker for.  The highlight being his carnage caused at Warner Bros. Studios toward the end of the film.  Director Burton seems to have purposesly made this as cartoon like as possible, with glaring mistakes so obvious that they mustve been thrown in for a laugh.  Road signs on dolly tracks and an endless bicycle lock thats seen being fed into a compartment at the bottom of the screen.  But because the film is not to be taken seriously, its not viewed as unprofessional, just silly.  Danny Elfmans dream-like score is perfect as the film is not set in too much reality.  A lot of fun to be had if your in the mood for dopiness.  "},{"Title":"For kids of all ages....","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Pee Wee himself makes a great poster child for arrested development. But in this movie, he certainly does appear to be better than usual.Thanks to Tim Burton, Pee Wee's Big Adventure is just that - big and adventurous.  It's obvious where Tim's imaginative mind was at work, with the stop-motion animation scenes and big, cartoony look, Pee Wee's world is nothing more nor less than a huge comic book.There's a lot of fun in this movie BMX bike, big shoes, pet snakes and all.  And look at all the other talent corralled into this stable.  With Phil Hartman, Cassandra Peterson, John Paragon, Jan Hooks, James Brolin, Morgan Fairchild and Dee Snider along for the ride, this movie succeeds as few comedies do nowadays by being...well, different.Just like Pee Wee.Nine stars.  And I know you are, but what am I? "},{"Title":"Large Marge sent me.","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is one of the greatest movies ever filmed. Why it did not win an Oscar is beyond me. No one can deny the hilarity of Pee-Wee Herman. Those of us who love this movie are some of the few that understand the genius that is PeeWee.  "},{"Title":"He meant to do that!","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is a classic. Although Pee Wee (himself) was created for mature viewers, he did a superb job entertaining the kids and grownups in this movie. Where ever you are Pee Wee you'll always be the Rebel we all wish to be!!  "},{"Title":"it is a good movie!","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I saw this movie as a kid around 1986 or 1987 I laughed a lot.  Now that I'm older I don't laugh as much, but I still find it entertaining, and fun.  I also think there are some good one-lines in this movie.  It never really gets old as far as entertainment goes.  I give Pee-wee's Big Adventure *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Pee Wee's Big Adventure","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  All in good fun comedy with the always off the wall Herman (a.k.a. Paul Reubens) who is in pursuit of his stolen bike. Reubens and Phil Hartman wrote the script the constant madness Pee Wee gets himself into.  "}{"Title":"It's nothing but complete nonsense and I love it!","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I loved this movie when I was a little kid. There's something crazy about it that other comedies can't touch. I guess it's kind of like a family friendly Blazing Saddles, but in a lot of ways more daring, and much more creative. There are some slow spots and not everything works. The whole segment with Simone kind of drags. Diane Salinger unfortunately is just about the only person in the movie who doesn't ham it up. She almost makes the character believable!Scenes like Pee-Wee's ride with Large Marge and the way they dub over his voice in the movie version of his life are classic. Like Space Ghost Coast to Coast and Mystery Science Theater 3000, this movie is a treasure of nonsense humor. ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Demented and fun -- shhh!!! I'M TRYING TO WRITE A REVIEW!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The epitome of silly, this highly inventive flick throws as much as it can at you about a grown man who still has an 11 year old mentality. His bike gets stolen and he goes on a big-adventure to get it back. Lots of fun, if you can toss your brain aside for a couple of hours. Paul Reubens had a great character here, too bad he got bored with him and decided to call it quits. Followed by Big Top Pee-Wee, which was horrible, and Pee-Wee's Big Pee-Wee  which was filmed in a porno theater in Florida. 8 for 10.   "},{"Title":"Ssshhh.  I'm listening to Reason.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The reason you should watch this movie is that it is an 80's classic.  How many of us sat around and viewed this movie over and over again.  Then we would go around the neighborhood quoting lines.  It is lighthearted and filled with things children of the 80's would enjoy.  Simply put, it is funny.  The adventures of a Pee Wee and his search for his bike.  You even laugh at the movie mistakes, such as the highway signs easily seen on tracks.  It doesn't matter.  I say don't let this one go, see it first, then let me have it.  "},{"Title":"Reubens is a pioneer.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Anyone with the audacity to dismiss Reubens due to his over indulgence in sexual activity in cinemas of ill-repute shouldn't bother watching this, but anyone who likes a laugh will appreciate this classic. This is the greatest comedy movie. Watch it now.  "},{"Title":"I want to be Tim Burton","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I was 5 and 6 years old, watching Pee-Wee's playhouse on Saturday mornings I wanted to be Pee-Wee.  Now I've found a new obsession in the genius that is Tim Burton.  Pee-Wee's Big Adventure allows me to combine the two into a demonically fun 2 hours.  I saw Pee-Wee's Big Adventure in the theaters, as I vaguely recall, but I remembered little, so I rented the movie recently to revisit it and I can safely say that Tim Burton is actually a genius in every sense of the word.  Edward Scissorhands, The Nightmare Before Christmas.  Who else could have pulled off that great scene when Large Marge transforms in the truck?  Considering I watched this movie when I was 4, and then again when I was 16, and loved every minute of it, I would have to say that is is a great movie. "},{"Title":"This movie RULES!","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A man and his bike.  Well....sort of a man.  Whatever you consider Paul Reubens to be, this movie is really cool.  I've enjoyed this movie ever since I saw it in '85 when I was a kid.  Traveling all over, even to my homestate of TX, in search of his awesome (at the time) bike, Pee-Wee really does a good job in his first of 2 major motion pictures.  I liked this one a lot more than the sequel. Rock on, Pee-Wee. "},{"Title":"Nice, Fun Film","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Pee-wee's Big Adventure (1985) *** (out of 4) A pretty simple story as Pee-wee Herman (Paul Reubens) has his bicycle stolen so he must track across the country to locate it. On this journey he will come across a killer, the ghost of a dead trucker, a few bullies, a biker gang and various other oddballs before landing at a movie studio. A minor story has to go along with this film because this was actually the first time I had ever seen Pee-wee in any type of action. I was a kid when this show and movies were out and people always made fun of Pee-wee so I never wanted to check anything out with him in it. It took quite a while to finally few this cultural phenomenon and I ended up enjoying myself a lot more than I thought I would. I must admit that it took a few minutes for me to warm up to Pee-wee and his personality. Once you get use to it then I think it's nearly impossible not to somewhat enjoy his charm and over the top qualities. I think it's rather amazing at how well Reubens can morph into this character because you really don't see any type of actor but instead a real person. You could have fooled me that this wasn't a documentary capturing a real eccentric person instead of me just watching a movie. There are quite a few good scenes because the screenplay is smart enough just to throw this odd character into a pot with other odd characters who normally wouldn't enjoy him. The scene with the bikers was a true gem as was his car ride with the man who escaped from prison. More credit also needs to go to Burton who really makes a colorful film that's great to look at and that includes the wonderful breakfast maker at the start. "},{"Title":"Herman/Burton combination works with this kind of material...","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" What strikes me about PEE-WEE'S BIG ADVENTURE is that Paul Reuben's style of clowning is so reminiscent of the early Buster Keaton/Charlie Chaplin type of comedies in silent films where everything depend upon the ability to pantomime in order to create a fully realized character.Reuben (or I should say Pee-Wee Herman) has that ability in spades. He's innocently childish, plays the role gleefully in a Buster Keaton sort of way (never stepping out of character), and the cartoonish material, as thin as a wisp about his feverish pursuit of his missing bike, suits his comedy style admirably. Burton was wise enough to get everyone else in the cast to act accordingly in spirit with the farcical situations.That Burton was the director of this offbeat film is especially evident during Pee-Wee's nightmarish scenes where he's pursued by strange creatures--but it's also evident in all the sequences on the road whereby Pee-Wee hooks up briefly with various eccentric types in his quest to reach the Alamo where he's been told he'll find his bike, by a fake fortune-teller who took his money.Of course, not everyone will be enchanted with this sort of wildly improbable adventure which, while catering to the child in all of us, requires adult understanding to get the connection between this film and the many others that are spoofed along the way. What I wasn't prepared for was the movie version of Pee-Wee's adventure being portrayed by JAMES BROLIN and MORGAN FAIRCHILD. I'm not quite sure that this bit of odd casting, meant to be intentionally funny, really worked.Tim Burton's fans ought to enjoy it (unless they have an aversion to Pee-Wee Herman), but it's recommended as just the sort of silly madcap comedy/adventure that passes the time pleasurably, no more, no less.And finally, a word of praise for Danny Elfman's jaunty score which helps immeasurably in setting the right tone for the comic adventures. "},{"Title":"Super stupid but super fun","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" While I am the first to admit that a little Pee Wee Herman goes a VERY LONG WAY, I must admit that I enjoyed this film. That's because the movie is fun and silly from start to finish. Plus, there are enough separate episodes that the movie does not rely completely on Paul Rubens' mugging--and that is definitely the problem with the followup film, BIG TOP PEE WEE. Instead, a wonderful and creative script pull you into a strange world of adventure. Considering just how weird and fun this surrealistic world is, it certainly should not come as any surprise that the movie was directed by Tim Burton in one of his earliest films.The plot of the film is pretty irrelevant, as it's just a silly excuse to travel America in search of strange friends and bizarre adventures. The film is all about Pee Wee looking everywhere for his stolen bicycle--and that's really it! But the journey is so odd and funny that the thread-bare plot is just fine! You get to see Pee Wee in drag, meet and befriend a motorcycle gang, see Twisted Sister, hitchhike a ride from a ghost, and many other strange things. Each of these adventures is handled in a very tongue-in-cheek manner and the fun is infectious. The only thing is, after an entire movie of the asexual and creepy Pee Wee, I think I was finished and had no desire for more. "},{"Title":"Not just good, great","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's rather unfortunate that this ingenious film has been dismissed as a kid's movie, stupid, or silly.The fact is that Pee Wee's Big Adventure isn't just a light-hearted romp, it's a great film.  Nearly every scene is exceptionally memorable and the script is full of countless quotable lines.  It's remarkable how this film manages to skillfully toe the line between childish craziness and satirical intelligence.  Moreover, it's undeniable that this film has a rather distinctive visual look (which Burton was still developing) as well as stunning musical score that enhances the picture as much as any other.While the Pee-Wee character certainly isn't for all tastes, neither is anything worthwhile.Tons of classic moments and lots and lots of fun, it's amazing how fresh this film feels nearly 20 years after it's original release. How many titles can you say that about while appealing to such a wide audience of children and adults?  "}{"Title":"A simple, yet highly engaging adventure","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Pee Wee's Big Adventure is definitely one of my favorite movies from my childhood and I still would rank it in my Top 25. It is very simple in nature and the story is not complex. But the characters are so interesting and funny to watch. The creative forces of Paul Reubens, Phil Hartman, Tim Burton and Danny Elfman make this movie work. The humor is childish at times, but it's also very adult-oriented in some instances. This is what makes this movie entertaining for all ages, though. Tim Burton's imagination and twisted, but sweet style shine, as well. The nightmare scene with the red dinosaur and the Large Marge scene are classic Burton! Danny Elfman's score is one of my favorite's and really captures the frantic and dizzying pace the movie moves at. If you hate Pee-Wee Herman or Paul Reubens then this movie might not really be to your liking. But I have met a few people who still enjoyed it besides their disdain of him. I use to watch this movie everyday as a child when my aunt taped it for me from cable back in summer of '86. Since I bought the DVD back in 2000 I have probably watched it at least 20 times. So it still has lasting appeal to this day. I highly recommend Pee-Wee's Big Adventure. If you like Tim Burton you will love it. If you liked Pee-Wee Herman you will love it. If you like Danny Elfman you will definitely enjoy the score. And if you like crazy and outrageously unique movies that have a quirky touch you're in for a treat! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest children's movies ever","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a great children's movie that is easily enjoyed by any adult. Every scene is a winner, and it helps the movie move quickly through the jokes. I know Paul Reubens has had his trouble, but this is one movie I can't turn off if I flip into the middle of it.  Unlike Reubens' real life, the humor is very clean.   "},{"Title":"An Insanely Inventive Comedy","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is wrongfully labeled as a kiddie film. I think not. Consider it's directed by Tim Burton. Consider it's written by Paul Reubens and Phil Hartman(!). Let's just put it this way. If you love the satirical humor of THE SIMPSONS, this is already your movie.The absurdity of man-child Pee-wee on a cross-country search for his beloved bicycle is only half the fun. It's full of played-out road movie cliches and stereotypes from all over the U.S. (all knowingly, you can almost see them all wink at you from behind the screen) and there are enough in-jokes and sight gags to write a term paper on. That is why it's so fun to watch over and over again, you always catch something new or understand something more.The ending is the real kicker, where Warner Bros. ACTUALLY makes a movie out of Pee-wee's story which stars James Brolin (all equipped with a grey tuxedo and red bow-tie!) and Morgan Fairchild as ninja-fighting secret agents. Just that scene was enough to inspire the jokes in BOWFINGER, but there's way more.Plus Tim Burton's wacky visual effects including some twisted dreams with clowns and dinosaurs and (don't miss this!) Pee-wee's ride with Large Marge, the old hag trucker from beyond the grave. This would be a great cult-movie if Paul Reubens's character wasn't so whimsical and based on a children's television show. In the end, though, you find this movie to be a satirical laugh-fest, dumbed down just enough for the kids to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Adventure on a grand scale","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When it come to films about a man on a quest, this is the movie by which all others are measured. Drama, mystery, comedy, romance, set on an epic scale and a stage that spans America. In Pee-Wee's expressive manner we see happiness, sorrow, hope, despair, failure, triumph, fear, and heroism. Pee-Wee is Everyman, and his mighty quest speaks to us all.Okay, maybe not. But this is a fun, original piece of film work. "},{"Title":"Greatest movie of all time.","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I first saw this, I was amazed. It was hilarious, touching, creative and a milestone in Hollywood. Nothing was ever made like this, and nothing ever will be like it. A true American classic. "},{"Title":"A cult classic!  And suprizingly entertaining!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I know what you're thinking.  It's Pee Wee Herman, some tacky weirdo comedian trying to make a film.  Trust me, though, this movie is hilarious! I've watched it since I was young, and only now that I'm older do many of the jokes make sense, and they're great.  The scene in the biker bar, the Alamo, the Warner Brothers movie lot.  The stereotypes portrayed in this movie are some of the funniest I've yet seen.  If you like slap-stick comedy, this movie is for you.  Keep your eyes peeled there are cameos everywhere! "},{"Title":"Unique Masterpiece","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  There was never anything like this film, and probably never will be anything like it again. It is totally original and unforgettable and hilarious from beginning to end.(Care for a piece of gum, Mr Buxton?) "},{"Title":"We're pullin' for ya, Pee-Wee!","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What a wacky movie. A man, clearly in his mid-late twenties would rather ride his bike than go out with that chick who sang at the dance in Better Off Dead. A man who lives in clear and utter mayhem yet has the brains to make his life easier by inventing contraptions to make his breakfast and dress him in the morning. I bet he even has a machine to pick Spek's poop up off his psycho-lawn. For sheer entertainment value, this movie is a big score. Speaking of score, Danny Elfman's score makes Pee-Wee come to life and seem oddly human in his quest for the one thing every man wants a bike. There's no excuse not to like it even if for the very fact that there are a number of future stars in it (Jason Hervey of The Wonder Years, Jan Hooks of Saturday Night Live). Hang in there, Pee-Wee.  "},{"Title":"Either ya love him or ya hate him...","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  there's no middle of the road concerning PeeWee Herman.  I happened to love him.  And in 1985, when this film came out, I laughed for WEEKS!  I sent my non-movie-going friends to see it and they were APPALLED.  They came dangerously close to asking ME to refund their money!  That's what God invented the exit door for!  I've walked out on plenty of movies and have even managed to get my money back a time or two (from the theater, of course).  But I was happy to pay full price to watch PeeWee's Big Adventure several times.  Tell 'em Large Marge sent ya!  "},{"Title":"What's wrong with this movie?","Date":"22 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Many things. To start with, the make-up of the leading actor. It is repulsive quite definitely. Lipstick, rosy cheeks&#x85; It's wrong. You feel it. And if you don't, then it is your problem. Why should a little kid of male sex apply lipstick and rouge to his cheeks? A vomiting choice for a family comedy. Maybe it would have passed unnoticed, if it had been a black and white film&#x85; Well, we can stop here and give it the lowest mark already, but if this is not enough, read further.The creepy fillings go next. They are scattered all over the place. Even in the very beginning, when the main character prepares breakfast. It's all wrong. And he plays with his food, - something, which should never be done (remember the famous Lion King phrase?). Skeletons, human prop heads, weird clown-devils, an old lady-ghost, etc. If there is a need to watch a horror comedy, my choice is Toxic Avenger, Elvira, or Killer Klowns, which are far from being family features but impressively good horror comedies.Funny material is not scanty - it's almost absent. Of course it is very subjective but to sit in front of a TV and being fed with some thrilling mishmash, neither scary nor funny, for almost 2 hours is cheating. Tried real hard to laugh at anything here but failed.The bad-ass bikers are fake too. Because they are soft-ass wanna-be bikers. The real ones would kick Pee's butt into non-existence for his gay looks and uncool behaviour (his jerking dance is stupid and simply cannot evoke any admiration at all, only shame).And if you start discussing the plot&#x85; It goes nowhere, though the hero is touring America and travels quite a lot. The main character does not become a better person (cf. Bean, where Mr Rowan Atkinson showed us a real quality jump in the main character's mental development) - he is the same queer jerk at the end of the feature, painful to stare at and listen to. And the actor does not do any inspiring gags (cf. the masterful Buster Keaton) either.My advice watch Bean the movie. It is a tear-jerkingly funny family feature devoid of any disgusting moments and full of witty dialogues and brilliant physical comedy, though dealing with the same material the grown up man behaves like a spoilt brat. Or try the original Dumb and Dumber if you still haven't seen it.Tim Burton missed a lot in this feature. But he did amazingly well in Batman dilogy. It's a mystery to me how the American public could endure this kind of character and this kind of flat gags in a numerous shows and movies a few decades ago...A sheer example of bad taste - can give this one only a one 1 out of 10, one of my biggest disappointments in cinema. Thanks for attention. "}{"Title":"Pee-Wee's Pretty-Good Live-Action Americana Cartoon","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" While focusing on how childlike the Pee-wee persona is&#x97;he's like Steve Martin's infamous jerk, but off Ritalin&#x97;it's possible to miss how remarkably strange the plot of Pee-Wee's Big Adventure is. The movie is so successful at using cartoon logic in a live action format that it's easy to think I've seen this before instead of realizing Wait, I've never seen this in a real movie before! Nobody could predict that the scene immediately following Pee-wee's prosaic stint as a dishwasher would take place inside a giant, hollow dinosaur. It makes no sense whatsoever that Twisted Sister would show up in the film, much less in the same sequence as pair of elephants in full body paint. You could hardly come up with a justification if you tried, but in the movie the transitions are so smooth that these things almost pass as logical. Most of the movie's madness is closely linked to one of two themes, Americana and Americana Childhood Edition. The occupations and settings are straight out of America's Best Of truck drivers, roadside diners, rodeo cowboys, biker gangs, The Alamo, Hollywood, Mister Potato Head, clowns, drive-in theaters, and so on. These things have a certain familiarity and consistency, but the actual sequence of events that links them together is truly unpredictable. And yet, even inspired and well-structured zaniness does not necessarily equate to laughs. There are a lot of chuckles, some extended ones, in Pee-Wee's Big Adventure, but there are some strung-out dead zones as well, and some parts that are more funny huh than funny hah. A chase through a movie studio lot, for example, is visually and conceptually interesting, but it lacks the great punchlines of the scenes in Texas. As man-child heroes go, Steve Martin's is more likable, more of an innocent, more hilarious in his total misunderstanding of reality, than Paul Reubens' Pee-wee, who has a certain aura of irony and, dare one say it, perversity about him. Yet the persona and the film are entertaining enough to spend 90 minutes with. "},{"Title":"Great fun Pee-Wee film for ALL AGES","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was a fun film I watched when I was a kid back in 85. I never liked the TV Show as much, but then I bought this movie on VHS and now own it on DVD - hope to buy the Blu-Ray in the near future... Anyway, Pee-Wee is one of those classic cheesy films that makes you want to get up and dance towards the part when Pee-Wee was in the bar doing his last dance request! Anyway, the movie is fun to watch on how he has a awesome bike and tries to save it from bad guys and founds out it ended up in WB Studios and they turned the bike adventure into a movie and made Pee-Wee a star of his own film in a film! I just wish the film they made in the end of this movie was real as a 2nd movie adoption. However, it is a fun film for kids and adults at heart who enjoys this for many years to come! "},{"Title":"A loner and rebel you won't forget!","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a fantastic, enjoyable movie for all ages. I am still a relatively new Pee-wee Herman fan, having first heard of him 6 months ago, but I'm a huge fan already, and this film does not disappoint in any way. The story is essentially about Pee-wee (played magnificently by the excellent Paul Reubens) who is on search across the USA for his stolen bike, and the interesting people he meets along the way. My particularly favourite encounter was when he met Large Marge, which is hilarious and strange in equal measure. The soundtrack is fantastic, which is unsurprising because it was made by Danny Elfman, who I am a fan of already. Great supporting cast, many laughs, and a re-watchable flick, this will not be a movie you will be bored of watching. This movie started it all off for me, and I'm now definitely a Pee-wee Herman fan for life!Also stars Elizabeth Daily as the super sweet Dottie. "},{"Title":"Good Morning Mr. Breakfast","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Tim Burton and Pee-Wee are a Comedy Combo that is as creative as it is confoundedly different. This Movie is so unusual it would be hard to find anything that remotely resembles it. This Film is truly unique, unquestionably, and utterly out there.Of course this will divide some Viewers because you either accept this Surreal Cartoon World or you dismiss it and move on. Those who jump aboard for the Road Trip will be complemented with a non-stop, vibrant, visual and verbal Comedy worthy of the Screen's best Wackiness.Like the best Movie Comedies it has an edge that is consistently breached. It goes as far as it can, and then some. There are numerous silly sight-gags and relentless one-liners, a full-blown plethora of side characters and side-splitting slapstick. There is so much here that it is almost inconceivable, but yet it is conceived with brilliant irreverence.The Movie is a timeless tale of Youthful exuberance and Childhood imagination. Enter a Fantasyland that is a breathless array of Colors in the Collective Subconscious that anyone who has ever been a Child will recognize. It is Fun and Frightening, Marvelous and Manic. So return with us now to those Wonderful days of Yesteryear when everything was bright and new, Fantastic and Fun. After all, those times never went away, we just forgot about them. Thankfully, Burton and Pee-Wee are here to remind us. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought that this movie was going to be horrible. But I was wrong. When I actually watched it I was shocked to find out that not only did it have a decent storyline, but it was also surprisingly entertaining and funny too. Good movie. Props to Pee-Wee.  "},{"Title":"It could have been a classic.","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When Pee-wee's Big Adventure was released, Mike Clark of USA Today said, This will be a classic someday.  Trust me.  He would have been right if not for Paul Reubens' unfortunate scrape with the law.  That made Pee-wee's name mud for years, even though he's come back to an extent recently.  The movie had bizarre set designs, some striking visuals, memorable characterizations, a perfect supporting cast, and, above all, the surreal humor of Reubens brought to life by Tim Burton.  It's very sad how this could have been the all-time favorite of a future generation which now doesn't exist.  Tim Burton's tag line, From the Director of Betelgeuse and Edward Scissorhands should be From the Director of Pee-wee's Big Adventure.  It was better than the others and will forever hint at what-might-have-been. "},{"Title":"Exploding cartoon diesel dyke head","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I got into Pee Wee Herman's TV show when I found out the sets were done by one of my favorite underground cartoonists Peter Panther.  Well It got me so I had to make a point of getting up early Saturday to see it.  Being the fan of German expressionist cinema, I loved the talking chair, the head, the clock everything and everyone.  Now I had to see the movie too! And it did not disappoint!  Whew.  That little pansey boy befriending those big bad bikers (hint bikers like people who are real and themselves.)  And Big Marge - what can I say. I almost jumped as high as when the witch in Armies of Darkness showed her real face.  This movie reminded me of a dorm councillor in college (lasted exactly one semester and even his wife left him) who responded to our rebellious antics with the timeless wisdom I think this is all pretty juvenile (As we tossed his volkswagen off the freeway overpass onto a gasoline tanker to the cheers of thousands of spectators on one of our radio shows.)This movie is juvenile in the finest traditions of American cartoon cinema, think Betty Boop meets Bugs, Daffy and the Road Runner on a classic 50's red bicycle.  Memories of the song about the wreck of the old # whatever will run through your head when you meet Big Marge.I will never forget Isabella Rosselini's first Letterman appearance, when she commented about Pee Wee's pee wee scandal. That's not a scandal, she said, now my mother having me while living with my father and still married to her husband, that was a scandal.  Then proceeding discuss the sex life of snails, their organs, hermaphroditic gender....American have no idea how hilarious our sex scandals are to the rest of the world. "},{"Title":"I Know You Are, But What Am I?","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This may have been a tale about Pee Wee's big adventure, but everything about it said small to me. It's like the saying goes - Small things amuse small minds - And, yes, so, indeed, does this movie.It sure seemed to me like everything in this garishly loud, flippantly gay movie was being shown to me as if I were all still in kindergarten.Wearing mascara, face powder, and even lipstick, Paul Reubens' Pee Wee Herman character (with his slight frame and decidedly effeminate mannerisms) came across to me like some sort of frustrated transvestite who would've obviously been much more comfortable wearing 6 stilettos and a frilly dress.The small-minded mentality and eccentric humour that prevailed throughout Pee Wee's Big Adventure was strictly hit-n-miss stuff which only worked to its advantage about half the time.For the life of me, I cannot fathom Reubens' Pee Wee character being as popular as he apparently was back in the 1980s. At best, I found his often-bitchy shenanigans to be only marginally amusing, for the most part.As well, I find it hard to believe that this film of flighty nuttiness was actually directed by the heavy hand of Mr. Gloom & Doom, himself, Tim Burton. "},{"Title":"Burton's strangest","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a really strange film. Like the title suggests, this is at least as much Pee Wee Herman's film that it is Tim Burton's. In fact Herman has also made the script. Tim Burton's movies are important to me, just like to so many people who grew up in the late eighties and nineties. This don't feel like a Burton movie very much, so I try to review it as an independent movie. It's a movie about a weirdo guy who lives in his own childish fantasy world. To me it feels more like a pictorial of some kind of mental problems than, say, a funny comedy for children. Anyway the main character is about 35 years old. The viewpoint of the movie is from this guys perspective, from where everything seems miraculous. Pee Wee is more like a sad clown, not someone who would make you, or at least me, laugh. In all his strangeness he's kinda unhuman and distant. I think this film portrays this guys communication with the world quite interestingly; he don't have much contact with it. But, there is another possible way to watch at least some parts of this film, and I realised that only after the first twenty minutes or so As an old time-style comedy. Pee Wee Herman is just like some Buster Keaton, Harold Lloyd or Chaplin -kind of mute comedy character. Only difference is that now we would have the sound, the capability to communicate by speaking. If you would want it. With no doubt this is also a tribute to those old movies. In any case, I think this movie is quite boring; at least it don't manage to get me interested of itself. Maybe it is a children movie, that only children are able to watch. Generally I think that most of the best children's stories work also for adults, and have many different dimensions and depths to see for people of any age. But this don't work like that. I think the other Burton's work I've seen from the beginning of his career (I mean before he started to make REALLY great films), for example Amazing Stories episode Family Dog (with Brad Bird) and other animation Vincent are really great movies, and I would recommend those instead of this, if you'd have to choose. But because you do not have to choose, and if you're interested, then see this just for the general education. It's not bad, it's just boring. "},{"Title":"There are things about him you couldn't understand, things you shouldn't understand","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  SPOILERSPaul Reubens stars as Pee-Wee Herman, a man-child who must travel cross-country when his beloved bicycle is stolen.  Along the way, he will encounter such characters as a deceased truck driver (don't forget to tell them that Large Marge sent you), an escaped convict (he cut the tag off one of those DO NOT REMOVE UNDER PENALTY OF LAW signs), a hobo who won't stop singing folk songs, and a bratty child star.  He has been told by a gypsy that his bike lies in the basement of the Alamo.  Unfortunately, the Alamo doesn't have a basement (they don't tell you those kind of things).Former animator Tim Burton was the perfect choice to direct this live action cartoon, and Danny Elfman's jokey score is a further asset.Some people I know won't watch this film because they don't like Pee-Wee.  Hey, how can you not like a guy who'll dance before a biker gang, encourage a waitress to follow her dreams, and even save icky snakes from a fire?  This is one family film that adults can enjoy alongside their kids. "}{"Title":"enjoyable, funny","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" 'Pee-Wee's Big Adventure' stars PeeWee Herman, an oddball adult man who plays practical jokes and who acts like a big kid, on a trek around America to find his stolen bicycle. I loved this film when I was younger because of the insane situations that PeeWee gets into on his search. Along the way, he also meets several strange characters, including a convict who likes to cut things with knives and a scary female truck driver. One of the funniest parts of the film was the chase scene around a film set. This film has plenty of comedy along with the seriousness of the story Pee-Wee's bike is stolen, and he will do nearly anything to be reunited with it. Who could have thought that a stolen bicycle would bring so much adventure and humor? "},{"Title":"Just so strange","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  As a child this movie scared the living begeses out of me (Large Marge?) , and I must admit the clown-doctors operation scene still completely freaks me out, being a clown phobic.  However, there are so many hilarious, great memorable parts, that it must be watched anyway (even if I have to leave the room or turn my head).  I have so many jokes with old friends from this movie.  Paul Ruebens is just a comical genius, despite his shadiness as a person.  Personally, I prefer Big-Top Pee-Wee, but this is a good movie too. "},{"Title":"Um...","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Today was the first time I ever watched this movie (at the age of 33) and my guess is that if you're over 10 when you watch it for the first time, it's just stupid and silly. Pee-Wee got on my nerves with his his giggling and antics after about half a minute. Sure, he has a cool house and his dog is cute, but that's about it.I love Tim Burton and I love quirky characters, weird stories and children's movies, but this was too much. Just over the top.Bottomline is, if you haven't grown up watching this movie and loving it, it probably isn't for you. And Pee-Wee is a terrible actor. Somehow I didn't believe in his character at all from the very start. It would have been much better with a different actor because the story has potential and (to me) he is the one who ruined it. Not being American I had never seen him before in anything else, so the same goes here. If you haven't grown up knowing and loving him, this movie is just stupid. I'm sure I would have loved it as a kid and would therefore still like it today, but the 90 minutes I invested in watching this have been a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Good film, bad director","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Imagine if John Waters, David Lynch, or the Coen Brothers (never mind Frank Tashlin, Luis Bunuel or Jean-Luc Godard) were allowed the opportunity to bring Pee Wee to the big screen first!  Pee Wee Herman is such an iconic and unconventional character that the heavyhandedness of Burton's direction greatly lessens his impact; what should've been a souffle ended up a pancake. Burton brings great colors and cool toys, but there's no bite, and the inherent, Freudian perversity of the Pee Wee is painfully watered down.  As with all of Burton's films (and I still think this is the best), there are impressive flashes of style (which is where his true talent lies), but little, if any substance.  The three sequences I think really stand out are Pee Wee's breakfast scene, Large Marge's immortal moment, and the tour of the Alamo with Jan Hooks (that gum!), all of which I attribute to great writing, not directing. In addition, there's plenty to recommend here, not the least of which is Danny Elfman's incredibly nuanced score.  Paul Reuben's, the scapegoat of mass media puritanism, proves that fringe comedy (and pathos) can have a profound influence on both the public and the box office. Let's hope there's a sequel in the works "},{"Title":"Defines Retarded","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A movie that I would never have watched on my own. I'm taking a history class of contemporary America-the 1970s to the 1990s, and part of the class is a discussion of cultural and entertainment trends of that timeline. My professor recommended this, so I had to go out and rent it. I'll forgive him for that since I'm such a nice guy, but, that being said, I found this movie-and the Pee Wee character not only to be intelligence insulting and completely brain dead,but absolutely pathetically painful to watch. In a nutshell, Herman is the man-child living in his own fantasy world. When his bike gets stolen, he embarks on a cross country journey to find it- with utterly predictable results. Duh! I really can't understand why Burton is considered to be a great director. Personally I find his films to be too self-indulgent and I can't for the life of me understand why they are considered to be art. Anyway, if you get your jollies watching a grown man with a rubbery face in a gray suit and a bow-tie uttering inanities that a 6 year old would find to be lame, this movie is for you. Totally retarded in every sense of the word, this movie has absolutely nothing to recommend itself, but, if you do want to get a look of what very bad American film-making from a good era looked like, by all means go for it.I read somewhere that Paul Rubens intends to revive the Pee Wee character. PS this movie was released some years before the Florida porn theater-masturbation incident that finished Ruben's career. Nice character, huh? Zero stars. Another PU movie review from Lou! "},{"Title":"A Comedy Worth it's weight in gold","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I can't believe that nobody has commented that Pee Wee's Big Adventure doesn't use elements from the classic b&w film Bicycle Thieves !Just like Bicycle Thieves, the issue of the stolen bike and the owners determination of finding it is displayed. With different themes, Pee Wee's Big Adventure is more on the comical side than Bicycle Thieves. "},{"Title":"HORRIBLE!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've read pages of reviews about this movie, and it seems that everyone loves it. Well, I don't. I really love most of Burton's films (Sleepy Hollow being my favorite), but this movie is just plain awful. The so-called humor is more than just terrible. It's scary that people find this funny. It is the most braindead thing I have ever seen in my life. Everybody is going on and on about how positive and nice this movie is, but I find it fake and disgusting.So sue me. "},{"Title":"Pee Wee's Big Adventure","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I made a small vow to myself that I would watch every film directed by or mainly involving genius director Tim Burton who in the future brought us Beetle Juice, Batman, Mars Attacks!, Sleepy Hollow and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Unfortunately this very first film directed by Burton is not a very good start to my taste, however when you think about it, it does have okay moments of fantasy and it is quite entertaining for kids. Written by and starring Paul Reubens (who appears in Burton's Batman Returns as The Penguin's Father) plays Pee-wee Herman, a naive and pretty happy idiot that laughs at everything he does, e.g. get cup of coffee, switch the light on, make breakfast. Basically the whole film is about Pee-Wee trying to find his stolen and precious red bicycle that was stolen. Stupid. But for a Burton an okay start. A better film, Beetle Juice, followed in Burton's very good career. Adequate! "},{"Title":"How Far Would You Go to Retrieve Your Stolen Bike?","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSPee-wee Herman's first motion picture! Pee-wee awakens one morning, makes breakfast with his state of the art machines an Abe Lincoln statue flipping pancakes and a Pteridactyl skeleton making toast. Then Pee-wee sets out, on his neat-o bike! It has all sorts of cooky stuff on it. Once out, he runs into Francis, whom says that today is his birthday and we wants Pee-wee's bike. Pee-wee declines the offer and Francis swears Pee-wee will be sorry. Pee-wee ventures into town, picks up some things at a joke shop, then goes to the bike store then discover his bike has been stolen! The police tell him that a stolen bike cannot be considered an emergency. He then realizes Francis! He races over to Francis's house and has it out with him in his giant bath tub. Francis' father explains that Francis couldn't possibly have stolen the bike, so Pee-wee calls a meeting of all his friends and shows them evidence, but he ends up ranting and raving, yells that he needs no one and ventures out alone in the rain. He goes to see Madam Ruby, a psychic. She tells him (for a price) that his bike is in the basement of the Alamo, so Pee-wee must hitch a ride to Texas. He finally get's a ride with Mickey, an escaped con. They soon become friends. More or less. Pee-wee takes the wheel at night and drives them off a cliff, Mickey kicks Pee-wee out of the car and drives off. Pee-wee finds himself alone until a truck arrives. He hitches a ride and the driver tells him the story of an accident 10 years ago. Worst accident I ever seen. Her name was Large Marge. Later, Pee-wee finds out a chilling secret about Large Marge. At a cafe, Pee-wee meets a waitress named Simone, who has a dream of going to Paris, but has a jealous boyfriend named Andy who's holding her back. She and Pee-wee watch the sun come up and then Pee-wee meets Andy. He get's away on a train and meets Jack, a hobo. Pee-wee soon jumps off the train and lands in San Antonio, Texas. He hurries to the Alamo and learns there's no basement. Just then, Andy shows up again and chases Pee-wee into a rodeo where Pee-wee rides a mean bull, then he runs afoul of a biker gang, especially when he knocks over their motorcycles. He makes up for it dancing to Tequila. He goes riding on a motorcycle...and crashes. At the hospital, he sees his bike on television at a movie set in Hollywood.So he travels to Hollywood, California to the Warner Bros. studio lot. He finds his bike on the set of a movie starring spoiled child star Kevin Morton. Pee-wee snatches the bike and takes off and soon the entire security force, and Santa Claus in his sleigh, chases him.He escapes the lot and finds a pet store on fire. He saved all the animals, even the snakes, and faints. The fire department declares him a hero while the police declare him under arrest. Back at the studio they watch the movie Pee-wee had wrecked while running from security. The CEO, Mr. Hawthorne, thinks Pee-wee's story would make a great movie! Of course they spiced it up a little. All of Pee-wee's friends came to see it. This movie is a personal favorite of mine. Here are some things to look for when Pee-wee is at the movie lot, he asks where he can find Kevin Morton and a guy tells him Stage 6, that guy is John Paragon who plays Jambi the Genie on Pee-wee's Playhouse. The woman who plays the Mother Superior is Lynne Stewart, who plays Miss Yvonne, and when the media interviews Francis at the end, one of the reporters is Phil Hartman, who co-wrote the film and played Captain Carl on Pee-wee's Playhouse; This movie was followed by Big Top Pee-wee, which wasn't as nice. Pee-wee had another big adventure in 1991 where he got busted. It was at a theater in Florida and, well, you know the story. Pee-wee's Playhouse was pulled from TV and Paul Reubens (Pee-wee Herman) ruined his career. He was lucky he could still have an acting job, 'cause we couldn've seen him working at McDonald's. Paul played mediocre roles in big movies, like he played FBI Agent Bob in Matilda and wasn't funny. He played an exterminator in Dunston Checks In, and wasn't funny. Paul ruined his life by committing these perverted acts and alot of people, including me, hate him for it. But we can still all enjoy the work he did that he was good at Pee-wee Herman.- "},{"Title":"Appalling","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" To think I was a fan of Tim Burton before seeing this. OK, it doesn't deter in any way from his other work but Pee-wee's Big Adventure is nothing short of atrocious. I really have to question the sanity of most of the other users that have given rave reviews to this film. Whether Burton made it specifically for children and I am out of the target range seems quite doubtful because even as a child I would have found this a completely stupid waste of time. Pee-wee's an idiot obsessed with a bike - and there I was wondering what the 'Big Adventure' bit was.Thank God it only ran 90 minutes. I don't think I could have put up with that ridiculous voice for much longer - especially as my teeth were already gritted and my fists clenched. It was a cross between voice-breaking puberty and utter blandness. I cannot think of anything worse than an American Mr. Bean but here we have it. Believe me it isn't pretty - in fact it is unbearable to watch. To add insult to injury, we then have the most annoying laugh in the history of cinema to contend with. If everything else about this film doesn't kill you, then I guarantee that Pee-wee's cock-sure chuckle every 30 seconds, will! Get this tool off my screen forever!!!!I wouldn't watch it again, I wouldn't recommend it, I won't ever talk about it or mention it to anyone again. In fact if it was up to me I'd burn every copy of it in existence.A woefully immature baby film. "}{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I just can't get the point of this movie. Its material isn't defined enough. Is this supposed to be a kid's film? Then what for the sexual puns and innuendos, or the soft, yet present, critics to Hollywood and studio executives? It seems a mixture that doesn't glue together.PEE-WEE'S BIG ADVENTURE isn't entertaining. At least, it isn't entertaining enough. Its dialogues are undeveloped and basic, in its worst sense. There's an absence of a strong story-line and our main character doesn't grow up in his journey. What's the point of having a journey if the character doesn't evolve? In the beginning, the only thing that matters to Pee-wee is his bike. In the end, he feels everything exactly the same way with the exception of the opportunity he gives to the girl. Naturally, Pee-wee is helped through his journey when initially he though he wouldn't need help from anyone, but this isn't strong enough to denote a change in the character.I like Tim Burton and his universes but I find this film very poor. It's not a visual extravaganza like some of his posterior films would be. There are a couple of interesting scenes &#150; the dinosaur in the Pre-Historic Museum and Pee-wee's dream inside the hospital - but in general the film is not as rich as it could be for a Tim Burton picture. Even though, I can understand Burton was preparing territory for his following films.Special mention must go to composer Danny Elfman &#150; in his first collaboration with Burton &#150; who delivers a wonderful score, sometimes scary, sometimes radiant, always magical and powerful. The soundtrack is predominantly present and, ultimately, that's what brings some color and life to Pee-wee's adventure and gives some cohesion to this film.As an adult, I didn't enjoy this fantasy film but I can't either imagine what message a kid can take from it? `Mommy, daddy, can I have a new bike?', `No, you can't! And stop talking like Pee-wee!' Is that it? "},{"Title":"Predictable, obvious and annoying","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Story and Main Character Firstly, I'm not gay, but I have a lot of friends who are. I frankly don't care who is doin' what in the bedroom, but the truth is some of my friends are annoying. When I saw first ten minutes of Pee Wee's Big Adventure I knew that it's going to be long movie to watch. Pee Wee's hardly likable, easily fooled and very selfish. That's like Wonka in Chocolate factory but Wonka was charismatic and charming, after all Johnny Deep is Johnny Deep. I'm not Deep fetishist but I hope You get what I mean. Pee Wee isn't charming, he's annoying just like some of my friends are. One of the advice almost every writer can give is If Your character isn't likable give him a dog. So Pee Wee's got the dog. He even saves animals from burning Pet Shop. Wow. I think he's still a prick. So much for the main character of this story.Secondly I enjoyed most of Burton's movies (specially Ed Wood and Batman Returns, both of them I consider as masterpieces). But scenario this time is weak. Why should we care about a stolen bike? Because we like it's owner. I don't like him, so I don't care.Directing and misdirectingSome shots are great, but let's be serious as for Tim Burton camera works is rather poor.The only character who isn't just a paper cut figure is Simone - waitress, who dreams of living in Paris, rest of characters are simply clich and inhuman.Some parts of this movie are really good. The highway scene with Pee Wee's bike going the other way is nice, also the scene with police officer, but it's easily predictable.The worst part of this is, that everything in this picture is obvious and predictable. Everything must be shown in loudly manner, as if audience was 5 years old. I know it's a fairy tale, but come on. I don't like to be treated like an idiot.Should I admire this movie because it's signed Tim Burton? Nah, I don't think so.Music, acting - the operaI like Danny Elfman since Oingo Boingo but this time it's all to loud and turns into killjoy. Music is exaggerated and ruins almost every scene (exception is chase at the end - frankly the Hollywood part is quite good). And so is acting. It turns story into some comic opera, which isn't very comic but rather pretentious and annoying.SummaryIf You think Burton was great from the beginning You're wrong. If You don't believe me - watch Pee Wee's Herman Big Adventure "},{"Title":"The Worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I watched this movie as a kid and hated it then.  I just watched part of it again, and I couldn't finish it.  This movie had no business being made. There was only one part worth watching.  That was with large Marge. That's the only reason I gave this movie a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pee-wee's Stupid Adventure","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is just plain dumb.  Tim Burton is my favorite director and most of his other films are excellent.  He really needed practice when he did this one, though.  There are a handful of funny scenes, but eventually Pee-Wee becomes too irritating to laugh at.  My advice would be to skip this one and watch Beetlejuice, Edward Scissorhands, Ed Wood, or Sleepy Hollow instead.  "},{"Title":"Totally forgettable","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" So totally forgettable in fact, that thankfully I don't remember much about it. We rented this some time back as my husband had read somewhere that it was a good, fun film and an obvious plus was being a Tim Burton film as well. Honestly I can count the number of videos that I've not been able to finish watching after renting on one hand. Half of one hand. Okay, one finger.It hadn't even make it past 15 minutes when I remarked I hope this gets better real soon now.Unfortunately it never did. Definitely don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"so disturbing!","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have seen this before about 10 years ago I recently tried to watch this film again. Anyway I couldn't get passed the part where he is fixing breakfast in the very beginning, why.... because I was so disturbed. I don't know what it is about this movie, the lighting, soundtrack, Peewee himself, but it honestly just freaked me out to the point where I had to turn it off. Some of it might have to do with Paul Reuban's getting arrested for the Sex crimes. The atmosphere of this film is just so dark and freaky, the 80's had something to do with for sure but I just don't understand the appeal of this film. Don't get me wrong, I love Tim Burton. I also really enjoy horror movies and such but this film is just to eerie and disturbing. "}]