[{"Title":"Great replay value","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"31 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are two kinds of good movies The movies that, because of one or more characteristics, win grammys, oscars, and much lauding by critics. Gladiator comes to mind. Great cinematography, plot, acting.Then, there are movies, that, although they don't win critical acclaim, seem to find their way onto my TV much more than an oscar-winner. Princess Bride is a good one. Timothy Dalton's bid for a James Bond movie as well. And Jewel of the Nile.Jewel of the Nile is not a stellar specimen of a film in any way. There are movies that are better filmed, better acted, better scripted, ones that don't have as many plot holes, whatever the comparison. It doesn't leave you in a state of deep pondering or leave you not wanting to go to bed for fear of your life. But it is a movie that I, and my family, put in when we want to watch something light, uninvolved, comical, and with actors we like to see. It's something to watch on a Sunday afternoon, over whatever sorry excuse for lunch I decide to have, and to go to sleep on the couch to. It's a good movie to put in and listen to while doing housework, homework, or another activity. It is full of great one-liners that find their way into conversation as well as a severe cheesiness factor in some parts(which isn't a bad thing).Bottom line, I guess, is this You will find movies that are of superior quality to this one. Ones that you will feel outweigh this one in every single way. All the same, I would highly recommend adding this movie to your cabinet (but purchase and view Romancing the Stone first) because every once in a while, you'll come back to the Nile. "},{"Title":"A Good Movie To Watch On A Boring Night","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have given this movie a 7/10 because, taken on its own merits, it is just a delightful movie to watch. It's funny, although the slapstick sometimes is a little over done; but good wins out over evil, and leaves you satisfied at its conclusion. It reminds me of the On the Road movies made by Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, and Dorothy Lamour during the forties, but with better, if not sometimes outlandish, special effects and chases (e.g., the F-16 chase) and just as many, if not more, one liners.However, the movie is more than just comedy. It pits secular evil against a spiritual goodness (the Jewel), albeit a spiritual goodness which on the surface seem naive and comic...but which, in reality, achieves its goals through that apparent naivty. That is a serious overtone which many of the previous comments on the movie seem to have overlooked. The Jewel does not perform miracles, but his presence and comic actions create an aura of the miraculous. "},{"Title":"Worthy sequel to Romancing the Stone.","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a worthy sequel to Romancing the Stone, although not as polished, with the featured actors already a little stilted after the first outing. It is probably significant that the following 15 years have not yet seen a further addition to the series, despite the star quality and charisma of the two leads who do play comedy well together, both in this truncated series and in the blacker War of the Roses. The film suffers from a disjointed plotting, which appears to serve only to link together both some admittedly fine action sequences (a ground-based escape in an F-16 fighter plane, among them) and also the interminable arguments and subsequent reconciliations between Douglas and Turner.Whilst certainly not reaching the heights of style of the original film, The Jewel of the Nile nevertheless provides a good rounded slice of action/adventure/romance entertainment, with some witty one-liners for DeVito delivered in his own inimitable style and featuring an endearing cameo from Avner Eisenberg as the mystical `Jewel' of the film's title who delivers his religious and philosophical pronouncements in a curious combination of the spiritual world and western pop culture.  "},{"Title":"Somewhat Enjoyable Movie But Ridiculous Jewel","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's been too long since I have seen 'Romancing the Stone' and I had forgotten that 'The Jewel of the Nile' was a sequel. As a stand alone movie itself this movie is fun in parts. It's got plenty of ridicule, a disjointed plot, poorly spoken Arabic, bad pacing, poor special effects but it is the cast, that includes, Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner and Danny Devito that keep it alive. They're the ones who provide the funniest moments. The chemistry between Douglas and Turner shines on screen. They seem to have a good rapport off screen, which might explain them doing so many movies together and looking good on screen. Turner is incredibly sexy. 'The Jewel of the Nile' has some wonderful shots of Africa and the comedic action sequences are enjoyable. The African dances are fun to watch. I was quite disappointed by the ending and what exactly was the point of the holy man being the 'jewel'? Why is this man so important to the people? There's also a terribly done pointless scene where the 'Jewel' walks through the fire. All, in all, it does have a feeling of adventure which would have worked better if the pacing was a little tighter. There's enough action, adventure and romance (even though the element of suspense is ruined) to make it enjoyable at least for a one-time watch. "},{"Title":"Horrible sequel","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This sequel is rather quite disappointing to me. In all honesty I loved the first film, Romancing the Stone, so I when I heard there was a sequel to this I was excited to see it. So I went ahead and rented Jewell and it turned out to be one of the worst sequels I've ever seen. I figured it would be at least an entertaining fun movie, especially since it had the stars back from the first film. One thing that really ticked me off was the cheezy score that accompanied the film. I don't know whose idea it was to make this movie but as soon as Robert Zemeckis and Alen Silvestri said no this production should not have gone underway. Michael and Kathleen weren't bad but even they couldn't save this one. "},{"Title":"Lacks Everything That Made Its Predecessor So Good.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A somewhat sketchy screenplay and unsteady direction sink The Jewel of the Nile, the sequel to Romancing the Stone. Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas are taking it easy on their yacht, but soon become a bit bored with their now simple lives. Turner gets an invitation from a suspicious sheik in the Middle East who has a dastardly plan up his sleeves. Danny DeVito is also along for the ride once again as everyone is searching for the seemingly unobtainable jewel. Likeable performances are the main attraction, but the film is a large step behind Romancing the Stone. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"After the movie, here's the comics !","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved (Romancing the Stone). I was quite amazed when I knew that it has a sequel. For a long time I didn't come upon it at all (some channels hate it ?!). It took me 13 years to get to watch it. And did I love it? Yes. But lesser than the first. So why is that ?! First of all, the script. Compare (Romancing..) to this one, and you'd know the difference between the Hollywood perfect script and the Hollywood draft. Simply the first had more emotions; being like a romantic comedy about the opposite attract, more talk about the dreams; which makes the characters humans to be related to, before heroes to cheer on, more hard choices; there was a scene where the lead had to decide between a gem and a girl, and more twists; namely  more heat. This one is only a fine skeleton for all of the above, however empty. Looking to the movie as a whole assures that it's not the matter of the action-with-more movie and its pure-action sequel, rather the memorable B movie and another B movie !True after the jungles in the first they went to the desert in this one, and after pursuing a gem, this time the gem is a man, but that was it concerning any changing ! The movie is enjoyable but hyped. Everything runs very fast (in one scene  Joan is at a book signing engagement, meets Omar, a charming Arab ruler, he offers her the opportunity to live at his palace while she writes about him, she agrees, leaves Jack, and travels with Omar&#x85;JUST LIKE THAT ?!). The characters don't think, they just do. There is no gag thrown in-between or special emotional moment. And it lacks the surprises along the way. To say the least  It's tangible that the time spent in writing (The Jewel..) was less than the time spent in writing (Romancing..).The title character, The Jewel, it's extremely pathetic! Who is that man anyway? Sometimes he's a very poor street magician, sometimes he's a man of miracles, and all the time he seems like A-one fool ! And more than that I was forced to believe that this fool is a religious leader and beloved icon ???!!! It mirrors dumb writing for sure, especially when he uses naive tricks to rescue Jack at one moment, while &#x96; at another &#x96; we discover that he can walk amongst fire with no harm whatsoever!! Or it's part of many Hollywood movies' dogma while dealing with Arabs; whereas they're pictured, eternally, as throng of idiots (the movie, this round, resorts to giving them a funky look sometimes to change the flavor of the pretty old idea though !). Or maybe it's the way things work in a movie about American adventurous leads, where the American must be the cowboy, and the rest must be Red Indians !Then, THE MUSIC ! Jack Nitzsche produced electronic weak thing that doesn't live up to what it expresses of non-stop action and adventures. It's a major let-down which almost turned the movie into a cheap, hasty and cheesy TV episode. And take it from me, don't beat a dead horse by comparing the first's music, by Alan Silvestri, to this; it would sound like a comparison between Charles Chaplin and Tom Arnold ! The special effects took a lot from the movie's personality as something done by big production company. They, instead, fit a B movie from independent destitute company! The last walking in the fire scene is clear example.The 3 stars, (Kathleen Turner), (Michael Douglas) and (Danny DeVito), aren't playing their roles inasmuch as playing at them, with not much of fun. However (Kathleen Turner) is still a treat to watch apart. She reminds me, with that husky voice of hers, with (Lauren Bacall). Back then, at her young non-fat phase, she was so sexy. And since her long legs couldn't be resisted, they have been put, exactly like the previous movie, in always torn skirts, so with a lot of running and jumping around you might have a pretty sight indeed. Even at one moment (DeVito) calls her LEGS, and obviously he has a point. By the way, for every male viewer who missed it; its color was white (You know well what I'm talking about !). The character of (Omar Khalifa) is none other than a handsome version of (Muammar al-Gaddafi), see how the smallest details refer to him (the picture with the commander's white suit). At the time (al-Gaddafi) was a favorite laughingstock in the American movies. Albeit, the Nile doesn't flow in Libya.The stars' glow, not glee, and the action sequences are the sole facts in this movie. Director Lewis Teague, who made many TV series, mastered a good comic book. He was as vigorous as (Robert Zemeckis), the director of (Romancing the Stone), yet with less saturated script and more speedy pace. I bet, with not much time between the 2 movies, they quickened the sequel. Overall (The Jewel..) made money as huge as the first (rarely when a Michael Douglas production goes wrong), it works in terms of being flashy flash, and it shows the nature of the initial scripts in Hollywood, and the initial ideas at understanding other nations in the same city too ! "},{"Title":"Not abysmal but not as good as the first one","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Jewel of the Nile is a follow-up to Romancing the Stone. It lacks the greatness of the original but it keeps the same spirit. This one has lots of adventure and action (even more than the original, and is also far more violent).Robert Zemeckis didn't return to direct this one, but 4 of the same actors reprise their roles Michael Douglas (who also produced it), Kathleen Turner, Danny DeVito and Holland Taylor. The rest of the cast is entirely different. There are plenty of new characters and new villains.As the title says, this movie takes us not to Colombia again, but to the Egyptian deserts (in Africa, close to the Nile river). Exotic like the original's but a completely different scenario than the original's.The main villain in this is Omar Khalifa (well portrayed by Spiros Focás). He is just as treacherous and dangerous as Zolo from the original film. Like Zolo, he fools Joan Wilder so that she falls in his entrapments. He pretends to be a good person, but he's a brutal dictator. But I do like Omar's Egyptian accent. He speaks with a charming accent. Funny that he plays an Egyptian when the actor is Greek, but then, Demis Roussos is a Greek who was born in Egypt.Avner Eisenberg does a nice portrayal of The Jewel but the character has a mix of charm and silliness and isn't always lovable.This film has some really funny and great sequences, but also has a large number of faults and does not possess the charm of the original. Therefore, it doesn't match the original's greatness.Apparently Michael and Kathleen only made this movie because their contract forced them to. Kathleen even attempted to back it out but was threatened by 20th Century Fox to be sued with a $25 million lawsuit. Geez, that is just so wrong! They shouldn't have been forced to do something they didn't want. I sort of can see why they didn't want to do it and why Robert Zemeckis refused to make the sequel.I used to like this movie almost as much as the original. But now it doesn't seem that great to me anymore. Looking at it now, many things about it don't make much sense. The original is a great blockbuster and a timeless classic. "},{"Title":"An over familiar retread of the original that lacks sparkle.","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As much i have enjoyed the chemistry of this cast in Romancing and War Of The Roses i felt that even that strong bond could not save Jewel Of The Nile from being a dud of a film.The first film had a much stronger Indiana Jones type feel to it,Douglas and Turner hit it off superbly and although that continues to some extent here,its mainly a tired retread that isn't quite as much fun,partly due to the barren desert setting as opposed to the lively mud slides and tropical setting of the first film.The finale of the film is also not a satisfying as the first film and one is left to ponder what was the point of it all.Its a below average action adventure film that relies too heavily on the chemistry of its actors to salvage some credit. "},{"Title":"Reasonably entertaining tosh","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A previous reviewer has taken this film to pieces, and while many of his criticisms are well-made, I can't go along with the overall rating.If you're looking for plausibility, then this is certainly one of the worst movies of all time, but it wasn't actually intended as a documentary, unless I miss my guess completely.This is a silly action adventure, mostly set in North Africa. There are good guys and bad guys, and they have personalities rather than well-rounded characters. There's some slapstick humour. Danny de Vito is cutely irritating, Michael Douglas is brave and rugged. We even have a scene in a tribal village compete with tribal dancing.In other words, it's an updated version of the Stewart Granger/Rod Taylor African adventure type movies.What makes this film worth watching, though, are the chase-type scenes, the specific likes of which I'd not seen before. Suffice to say that they're unusual.If you can accept a plot with more holes than a tuna net and just let it flow by, this is a fairly jolly way to spend a couple of hours. "}{"Title":"Nice Sequel","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think the entry review is being very unfair with the movie, so I transcript ed this review from L. Shirley Laurie's Boomer Views (I hope she doesn't mind;) that I think is much more correct.If you loved Romancing The Stone, and can hardly pass the TV without stopping to watch when it's on, then go ahead and follow the adventures of Jack, Joan and Ralph in Africa in Jewel Of The Nile. It may not stand up to the repeated viewings like RTS, but it is a fun and action packed sequel, and it is the characters that we have come to love, that make us want to watch them in action in a new and different story.Joan(Kathleen Turner) and Jack(Michael Douglas) have been living together on his boat for six months already. Jack wants to take off and see the world, Joan has a bit of a writer's block and wants more from life. Opportunity knocks on her door when a powerful Sheik wants her to write his story. She's whisked off to Africa, leaving a brooding Jack behind, and immediately finds herself in the midst of a mysterious, intriguing and very dangerous situation involving an all powerful Jewel. But have no fear, Jack is warned of the danger his beloved is in and is off to save her. Ralph( Danny DeVito),who has been lurking about and hears the word Jewel is not going to be left out this time, and tags along as well. An added bonus to this one are the fabulous Flying Karamazov Brothers juggling troupe, who jazz up this film a little with their entertaining skills.Get the Popcorn ready, and maybe some lemonade..it's a hot trek through the desert!...enjoy... "},{"Title":"Pales in comparison to the first film, but Douglas and Turner have chemistry","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Short review Dumb fun; not as good as Romancing The Stone.Longer review It's not that this is a bad movie. It's a pretty average adventure film. But there lies the problem -- it's pretty average.First off, the script seemed hastily done. The general story line was easy enough to follow, but every once in a while I would find myself thinking -- now why was that being done. For example, I'm sure there was a reason for having a British rock & roll technician involved in the story...but the reason escaped me; totally irrelevant to the story line, a distraction.On the other hand, the acting was fine. Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, and Danny DeVito were a charming trio, as we had already learned in the first film. Douglas was just really coming to my attention in a series of 3 films, including this one. I thought he was very promising, and then Fatal Attraction sealed the deal. Kathleen Turner is one of those actresses where when I see her in an old film I remember just how good she was...and then wonder what happened to her (turned out her health sort of defeated her star career). Danny DeVito -- well, he has had his ups and downs in films; I don't feel this is one of his better roles, although I thought the script (or the director) let him down here. Spiros Focás as the Khadaffi-like dictator does nicely, though it's nothing memorable. And Avner Eisenberg as the jewel was good for some laughs in a very subtle way.What can I say? If you watched the first film, you'll want to watch this sequel, but you'll surely decide it isn't the quality of the first. But, it's not okay. "},{"Title":"Let's help this nice man get his jewel back.","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Talk about your old bait and switch, this film offers two of them. First off, the jewel of the picture isn't some fabulously expensive gem, but a person (Avner Eisenberg) who represents the spiritual power of his people. And then, instead of giving you Omar Sharif as the would-be emperor, you get a look-alike character portrayed by someone named Spiros Focas who I never heard of before, but is apparently one of Greece's finest and most respected actors. Who knew? You know, if I'm flipping through the cable channels and come across Romancing the Stone, I'm liable to stop right there and tune in. I always enjoyed watching that one. Jewel of the Nile doesn't quite capture the same magic for me, as the Jack Colton/Joan Wilder romance balancing act gets a little tedious at times, and Danny DeVito is reduced to playing the Wile E. Coyote character of all those Roadrunner cartoons. Some of it's funny, but a lot of it seems forced as well.What I didn't get was the convoluted resolution to the whole 'Jewel' premise. Recall at the finale that the crowd was wildly chanting for 'Omar, Omar' right before the would-be emperor went over the side, and then they quickly replaced it with 'Al-Jawhara, Al-Jawhara' in a split second when the kidnapped Jewel was freed. Just how loyal were the Omar followers supposed to be anyway? Well I guess it was never intended to make much sense. As a vehicle to reunite Michael Douglas with Kathleen Turner and capitalize on RTS, it looks like this was a moderate success. They make for an attractive on screen couple as far as that goes, and the film offers some light hearted if mindless diversion. One bit of trivia I learned watching the story this time around, who knew that Joan Wilder wrote 'Return of the King'? "},{"Title":"Passable!","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A sequel to the much loved 'Romancing the Stone', 'The Jewel of the Nile' is, at best, a passable sequel, that appeals in parts. One Expected More!'The Jewel of the Nile' Synopsis Joan Wilder & Jack Colton are off to a new adventure in a African desert, in an effort to find the precious Jewel of the Nile.'The Jewel of the Nile' begins tepidly & remains dull for its first 45-minutes, but gathers momentum rapidly in the final hour. This time the adventure isn't very adventurous, though. Reason? A half-baked Screenplay Written by Mark Rosenthal & Lawrence Konner. There some moments that inspire, but they aren't enough. Lewis Teague's Direction is a plus-point. Cinematography is excellent. Editing is well-done.Performance-Wise Michael Douglas & Kathleen Turner reprise their roles & they deliver superbly, yet again. Even their on-screen chemistry, is exciting. Danny DeVito is okay.On the whole, 'The Jewel of the Nile' is a so-so fare. "},{"Title":"Lives up to its predecessor","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Lewis Teague's sequel to Robert Zemeckis' 1984 smash hit Romancing the Stone is a very similar adventure-romance, only it's a lot sillier. Once again we follow novelist 'Joan Wilder' and her lover 'Jack Colton', this time across Egypt as they romance a very different kind of stone. Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner reprise their roles with no great flair, while Danny De Vito (in tow) provides some comic relief.The Jewel of the Nile does remain light-hearted which it needs to as it is often a little naive. Overall though the yarn leaves us relatively uninspired and lives up to its predecessor.Thursday, October 29, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"A rousing sequel","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner reunite as the hard-hitting  and constantly bickering couple Jack and Joan for the  hilariously violent sequel to Romancing the Stone, The Jewel  of the Nile. This time, our heroes are looking for the jewel lost somewhere in the Sahara, battling shieks, hostile soldiers,  and crazy tribal men. Danny DeVito also returns as the greedy wind-bag Ralph. With enough laughs, romance, and bullets to satisfy the comedic, romantic, and action fan in you, The Jewel  of the Nile is your ticket for a go "},{"Title":"Disappointing sequel to 'Romancing'","Date":"12 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone was great, funny, original etc. etc. Yes. It was made in S. America. Picturesque, oddball, eccentric... Unfortunately Jewel of the Nile does not follow this. Not entirely its fault. For Americans esp. South America is a kind of picturesque Spanish Latino backwater for the US. A few drug barons, corrupt governments but otherwise exotic and enjoyable. The Middle East is another kettle of fish altogether. Ebert the critic wrote something about the charm of 'Romancing' missing from 'Jewel'. He's probably right. It does feel a bit as if the actors are struggling to recreate the chemistry and humour/quirkiness of 'Romancing', and not quite managing. Chemistry either is present or it isn't. Also it's the ME, the Arabs. US relations with and attitudes to the ME are entirely different from those with LA. So there is a kind of 'tenseness' about this film. It can't reproduce the enjoyable quirkiness of 'Romancing'. It's just too 'serious' being in the ME. Bad choice of culture for 'fun and quirky'. Anywhere else would have been better. This film was made in '85, with all the conflicts out there (Iran 79/80, Lebanon 82-2000, Iran/Iraq 80-90). Not an area for 'fun film making'. So they try to make fun of the Arabs and Islam. Doesn't really work. Americans tend to see the ME as a threat (Islam, Israel), or as a necessity, (Gulf oil, Iran oil, Iraq oil). Again not much fun... So bad choice of culture area for 'fun' 'quirky' etc. Now even less than then... Acting 'by numbers' for the cast who didn't really seem to be enjoying themselves as much as they were in 'Romancing'. While it can be said that the 2nd half is 'lighter and more amusing' than the 1st half, the fact that the viewer has to get through 40 mins of 'acting by numbers' to get to anything even vaguely amusing or entertaining says much about the sorry way the film was put together. I give it a 3 'for effort' but really a 2 for'enjoyability and chemistry'. Regretfully. There are unfortunately too few films then or now that have produced the 'innocent quirky fun' of Romancing. Maybe the Raiders trilogy came closest. Why do film makers and TV producer always start 'bright and breezy' then go down into 'dark'? (MD + KT + DdV in 'Wars of the Roses'...?). Great shame really... "},{"Title":"This jewel fails to sparkle.","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone closed with romantic adventure novelist Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) finding love and excitement of her own in the company of the roguish Jack Colton (Michael Douglas), the pair disappearing over the horizon on Jack's new yacht Angelina. It was the perfect ending to a fun little film.This ill-judged sequel sets off on the wrong foot almost immediately, its adventurous couple falling out after a mere six months together on the high seas, with Joan yearning to return to the drudgery of New York; having ruined the magic for fans of the original, the film then proceeds to stumble awkwardly from one lacklustre set-piece to another until the forgettable finale, screenwriters Mark Rosenthal and Lawrence Konner never once matching the wit, sparkle and originality of Diane Thomas' script for Romancing the Stone (Thomas was unavailable for the sequel, and sadly died in a car accident soon after).With seemingly no understanding of the dynamic between Jack and Joan, and even less idea of what makes for a rousing adventure, Rosenthal and Konner deliver a stodgy mess of mishaps for the couple, whilst finding a weak excuse for the return of Danny De Vito as Ralph. Worse still, Jack's quest for the Jewel of the Nile turns out to be a damp squib when the presumed precious stone is revealed to be a person, an irritating little holy man who convinces our hero and heroine to help him prevent a power hungry tyrant from seizing control of the surrounding lands.If Robert Zemeckis had returned for directorial duties, this might have been bearable, but Lewis Teague's workmanlike direction fails to inject any life into proceedings the film's largest action scene, which sees Jack in control of an F-16 fighter jet, fails to get the adrenaline pumping, and goes on for far too long. A nasty mid-'80s pop soundtrack only adds to the annoyance.As '80s sequels go, this is down there with Ghostbusters 2 and Return of the Living Dead 2 as one of the most disappointing. "},{"Title":"A nice follow up sequel to the original flick Romancing the Stone!","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take a solid sequel in action adventure from the original flick Romancing the Stone, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.The Jewel of the Nile (1985) is a nice worthy follow up to the original flick Romancing the Stone (1984). I love the original flick, but I don't love this one. Still I like this movie a lot and I don't think it is a terrible sequel, I thought it is good. Just a lot of things are changed in here The director, writer and music score from the previous flick are all replaced. Director Robert Zemeckis is replaced now by Lewis Teague, Writer Diane Thomas is now replaced by Mark Rosenthal and Lawrence Konner and music score Alan Silvestri is now replaced by Jack Nitzsche. Even cinematography Dean Cundey Is replaced by Jan De Bont. Editors Peter Boita and Michael Ellis also replaced Donn Cambern and Frank Morriss from the original film. They made a lot of changes, but I think it is still a good film and I still like it. Plot The Jewel of the Nile is the 1985 sequel to 1984's Romancing the Stone and once again reunites Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner and Danny DeVito as they travel to Africa when a ruler enlists their help in locating a precious jewel that has been lost. It is not my favorite film of the two, but this movie is good and it is awesome. Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, and Danny DeVito reprise their roles from the previous film. I am glad and happy that in this movie Danny DeVito's character Ralph is a little better person, than he was in the first movie. Ralph (Danny DeVito) was even helping out Jack (Michael Douglas) saving Joan (Kathleen turner) from Omar (Spiros Focás). This time Joan did not kill the bad guy but Jack did. I still like the character Ralph played by Danny DeVito more than I do in Romancing the Stone. The film is filled with humor and a little romance, it has two explosions in the movie. The music is mixed to me, it is not awesome, or great, like was from Alan Silvestri in the previous film, but it is good. Looking for a Jewel in Africa without any map was ridiculous! Than finding out that the Jewel of the Nile is actually a holy man, Al-Julhara (Arabic for 'The Jewel'), (Avner Eisenberg) is ridiculous! This film suffers for one simple reason the characters have nowhere to go.The plot about a holy man who is a actually a Jewel of the Nile is terrible and went wrong. This in my opinion is a lackluster and it is still good on his own way but not as good as the first movie. Things I did like in this movie are the new score from Jack Nitzsche and how they improved the character Ralph from Danny DeVito in to a better person. I don't think Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner did a solid job in here. As I said I love the character Joan Wilder in Romancing the Stone, she has a heart in this movie she did not had that tool, like she had in Romancing the Stone. The impact I saw from the character In earlier is gone. The opening scene on the ship from pirates that Jack saves him self, while he leaves Joan dying was selfish. Jack flying to Africa to a get a Jewel of the Nile in the first place and not saving Joan from Omar was just selfish! I am sorry guys if you read my review but the filmmakers just screwed up the characters and the story and they make them all less interested and less likable.Still I also grew up watching this movie and I own both of the films together in one pack on Blu-ray and that is too me enough. I will still watch this movie, even if it is not that great. Why I will still watch it? It is simple Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner and Danny DeVito reprising their characters back. I rather watch this movie than their last third movie The War of the Roses (1989) which I hated that movie! Like most sequels this one falls a little flat in plot and gives you basic thrills that pass as action sequences. Compared to Romancing the Stone, Jewel is more cartoonish in it's scope and less funny with it's dialogue. After Nile was released in 1985 there had been rumors of a 3rd film, but it never filtered into production other then a title The Crimson Eagle. Overall I like this movie I am a giving a solid 8, even tough the movie deserves less rating, I like it and I don't care what anyone says about this movie. It is good and I like the locations they were showing in The Jewel of the Nile and it is my childhood movie. The Jewel of the Nile is a 1985 action-adventure romantic comedy and a sequel to the 1984 film Romancing the Stone, with Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, and Danny DeVito reprising their roles.8/10 Grade B Studio 20th Century Fox Starring Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, Danny DeVito, Spiros Focás, Avner Eisenberg, The Flying Karamazov Brothers Director Lewis Teague Producer Michael Douglas Screenplay Mark Rosenthal, Lawrence Konner Based on Characters by Diane Thomas Rated PG Running Time 1 Hr. 46 Mins. Budget $25.000.000 Box Office $96,773,200 "},{"Title":"lost most of the charm","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the sequel to 'Romancing the Stone', romance writer Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) and Jack Colton (Michael Douglas) are sailing their yacht in the south of France. Joan is frustrated with her writing and sick of their nomadic life after six months on the boat. Joan accepts Sheik Omar Kalifa's offer to go down the Nile and write his biography. Joan and Jack agree to go their separate ways. Ralph (Danny DeVito) seeks revenge against Jack for getting left in prison. They are met by Tarak who has just tried to assassinate Omar. He tells them that Omar is a ruthless dictator who has stolen the Jewel of the Nile. Omar blows up Jack's boat and Tarak warns him that Joan is in danger.I love 'Romancing the Stone'. This sequel has lost the original's charm. It's stupider and less funny. The joy is mostly gone. Jack and Joan start off on a sour note and is mostly separated in the first half. There are flashes of the old chemistry for the couple. However, even that isn't enough to make this a good movie. It's a sad sequel to a great 80s movie. "}{"Title":"A Livng Jewel.","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Most sequels don't measure up to the original and this one is no exception. I guess Romancing the Stone, with the same two stars, Kathleen Turner, Michael Douglas and Danny DeVito was an original, although the incunabulum was Raiders of the Lost Ark -- antic adventures in an exotic land among colorful and vicious enemies, with plenty of wisecracks along the route. Notches above an Abbott and Costello movie. (A jackass sits down on top of DeVito, who squirms and hollers.)This sequel is bigger, splashier, more expensive than the original. More of the slapstick and derring do, but less fresh.The plot's not worth describing, something about the pursuit of a jewel that turns out to be a religious reformer whose name means jewel in Arabic. (That would be 'جوهرة', according to my translator, Shaymala.) Still it's an undemanding and enjoyable diversion, what with the explosions and bodies flying through the air and last-minute rescues. It passes the time painlessly, like a dental procedure under laughing gas.The acting by the three principals is about the same as it was in Romancing the Stone. That is, not much is required. Douglas and Turner worked together well on three films, along with Danny DeVito. Here, DeVito is just along for the ride. Listen, Colton, you OWE me, so wherever you go, I go. That's DeVito's motivation, and it satisfied, because who gives a damn anyway? I've always kind of liked DeVito. He's pretty clever for a guy from Neptune, New Jersey. He and Jack Nicholson were childhood friends, and DeVito dated Nicholson's sister. DeVito has managed to work with a number of recognizable actors from New Jersey, including Michael Douglas (New Brunswick), whose regional accent reflects his native state. "},{"Title":"Want to make a great film? Just do everything opposite of 'The Jewel of the Nile'","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jewel of the Nile is the poor made sequel of the somewhat acclaimed 'Romancing the Stone' . And what i mean by poorly made is 'very poorly made' . The script is laughable. Way too bad. It's filled with poor dialogs, and unfunny racist jokes towards the people from Africa. It has also totally nonsense and cliché moments, composing perhaps one of the worst screenplays that i've ever saw. I'm not exaggerating, and if you think so, just go watch the film by yourself and you'll see what i'm talking about. A quick example would be the unfunny jokes by DeVito. The acting is horrible. The actors really seems to not care at all about the film. And rightfully so. And the soundtrack. Come on. That's one of the reasons of why the 80s are so lame. The music is horrible in this film, the typical annoying 80s pop beats as a soundtrack really wasn't a good idea to put in it. The edition is equally poor. Shame.Avoid this film. It's too bad for the sake of being bad. 2.6/10 "},{"Title":"Doesn't measure up to the first","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Watching this, you get the feeling that half way through production, everyone decided that it just wasn't going to work, and best to wrap things up and put away dreams of an enduring franchise. It wouldn't shock me if somewhere down the line this turned out to be the real story of what happened. Not that it is horrible. It's one of those movies that's fun to watch on a cold winter night when there's nothing else to do. I like watching it usually sometime in December every year. And it's fun. But that's about it.The movie is basically formulaic, following the same gist of Romancing the Stone. But in each case, things are a little less where they should have been more, and more when they should have been less.While Romancing the Stone let the humor come from the story, the incidents, the characters, Jewel almost self-consciously feels the need to inject humor where it may or may not belong. While Romancing had fun encounters with people that never seemed entirely unrealistic, Jewel had a series of encounters where suspension of belief entered almost fantasy film levels. In Romancing, the scenery and the settings helped move the plot along. Here, they were usually just backdrops, the scenes could have been in the American West or in the Great Plains for all it mattered. There was a lack of attention to the little things.The actors, on the whole, were OK. In most cases, it was the support cast who maintained the drive. Both Turner and Douglas appeared, at times, to be biding their time, working through a project that they initially were excited about but eventually lost their enthusiasm.Movies usually are not filmed in order of the story. I would be interested to know if this was the exception. I would like to know this because, at least to me, it seems as if there are two movies one set of scenes - in no particular order - where the mood, the film, the directing, the acting - are all of a higher quality, one that hearkens back to Romancing the Stone. The other, the directing, filming, acting, humor, dialogue - all seem sub-par. Even the final clip, that shows everyone coming together - no matter how illogical - seemed to be an afterthought, as if to say 'there, that's done! We're out of here and not coming back!' That is why I sometimes wonder if somewhere along the line something happened that took the wind out of everyone's sails, forcing them to just throw things together to make something coherent out of what they began. I dunno.In the end, Jewel of the Nile remains nothing more than mid-80s farcical romp, failing to be as good as its predecessor, and leaving the audience with the notion that it could have been better. And maybe I'm wrong. Maybe from beginning to end, everyone threw their all into the movie. But if they did, it would take something other than the movie itself to prove the case. "},{"Title":"Ranges from below average to good","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After seeing Romancing The Stone, I expected that, as with most sequels, this movie would be terrible. It is not completely bad.Although it has sections which are merely average, there are also some flashes of wit. The script has quite a few clever parts. The finale is below average, and the plot is a bit of a joke. But if you can tolerate all that, this is a mildly entertaining movie. Admittedly it's not the most highbrow movie around but you may find yourself enjoying the duologue.I don't have any knowledge of the making of this movie but it seems to me like there have been numerous scriptwriters working on this - some who are clever, others who are simply filling in the gaps. Don't expect this to surpass the original but it is still an OK movie. If you feel like a night of mildly brainless action, watch this. Don't bother thinking about the plot holes, just veg out. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review showing its age, skip it","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Jewel of the Nile is an attempt to reproduce the classic Raiders of the Lost Ark, with two twists. The first, they introduce a real romance. But I wasn't impressed with the acting by Kathleen Turner, and I'm not into romance novels. Also, the action is a little campy, unlike in Raiders of the Lost Ark where they clearly went out of their way to make the movie feel gritty and immersive, as if it had really taken place in historical distant lands.These things sap the film and as action movie just get bigger and badder I think it's showing its age. Romancing the Stone, the prequel, was better.Who should see this film-- Action movie buffs with nothing better to do on a rainy day,and only if you're trying to rent something for two, and yourSO wants some kind of romance. But try Crocodile Dundeefirst, which is still a classic. Or Six Days Seven Nights.-- Romance lovers, I don't mean romance / comedy, I mean people(primarily women) who actually read romance novelsI'll give The Jewel of the Nile an aging 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jewel is a spaz","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Have you seen &#145;Free Willy'? I really hate that movie! I haven't actually seen it, but how come that stupid whale gets so much attention? I bet if the film was about a giant funnel web spider that was held in captivity then some kid wouldn't fall in love with it. Let's see a kid try and hug that! I bet if I was held in captivity and the owners of an aquarium were going to let me die no one would care! Obviously I could just climb out of the pool and just walk away, but that's not the point.Anyway, I'm all worked up now because of that stupid whale so my review of &#145;Jewel of the Nile' might be a little unfair, and harsh. I bet if Willy wrote a review of &#145;Jewel of the Nile' though everyone would be all amazed and impressed. 'Ooh that's such a good review Willy.' `Ooh you're so clever Willy.' Do I get that kind of response? No, I just get hate mail from people who say thinks such as, Like a koala is going to know how to come off crack, just because YOU saw it in a movie and `In summary, I hope you go to jail for a long time, for being such a braindead idiot.'  Do you think people would say things like that to Willy? Neither do I.Kathleen Turner plays Joan Wilder who is a famous romance novelist who lives on a boat with her boyfriend Jack Cotton. How come so many heroes are called &#145;Jack'? Why don't we have more heroes called Colin or Jeremy? It'd be a more realistic film if he was called Nigel Cotton, but what do I know eh? I'm not a big, dumb orca who needs to enlist the help of a CHILD (that's right someone too young to buy porn) to get me out of a giant fish tank!Joan is having trouble writing a new book and ends up going to the desert somewhere for some reason with this guy who seems too good to be true. Then the Yacht that Joan and Jack own blows up and so Jack goes to the desert as well. A fat lot of good a whale would be in the desert. All it could do would be to flounder on the dry, rocky ground without a drop of water in sight. Ha! In your face Willy!Unfortunately for Jack the &#145;Jewel' in question isn't a precious stone it's a man. Well that's just great. If I named myself &#145;Mr Elixir of Life' and people turned up trying to find me and when they did found out that I wasn't actually the &#145;Elixir of Life', just somebody calling myself that I'd expect a good kicking. To be honest if I called myself &#145;Elixir of Life' I'd give myself a good kicking, or jump down some stairs or something, just for being such a complete spaz. Anyway the guy who seems too good to be true turns out to be too good to be true and in fact evil, so Jack has to save Joan and this guy called &#145;Jewel'.Actually, now I think about it, &#145;Jewel' was quite annoying. He kept calling Joan Wilder &#145;Just Joan'. Duh! Jewel you retard! Don't you understand English or something? Sure he didn't need a dullard of a child to rescue him from and aquarium, but he was really irritating. And he carried an umbrella with him all the time. Why? He's in the desert! He might as well have carried a freaking aqualung! Oh man! He's really winding me up now! Especially when he started balancing his umbrella on his finger as a diversion. What the hell kind of a diversion is that?`Look! There's a guy getting seven shades of excrement kicked out of him. No wait! There's a guy balancing an umbrella, that's far more exciting!'I thought reviewing this film might actually calm me down, but it's actually making me even angrier! Especially when it turns out that &#145;Jewel' is some kind of martyr or the Egyptian pope or something. He can't even grasp the fact that &#145;Just' isn't the first part of Joan Wilder's name, so god knows what he'd be like trying to negotiate the peaceful end to a war.On the plus side though Jack manages to steal an F16 but doesn't know how to fly it, so instead he just drives it around a town firing machine guns and rockets at things. I quite enjoyed that bit and it inspired my unsuccessful attack on the Aylesbury RSPCA offices in a milk float.In summary; a reasonable film ruined by Jewel making stupid comments and always turning out to be right in some way.   If you're reading this Jewel, you just made my list&#133; "},{"Title":"Not bad for a watch, but not that good either","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In some ways I did enjoy The Jewel of the Nile. It has our favorite characters from Romancing the Stone, funny and romantic dialouge, and some decent action. But did we need it? No, not really. Romancing the Stone was a great action and romance movie; with a perfect ending that needed no explanation.This movie starts off with Jack and Joan sailing in the Medateranian. They are fighting already about who gets more time to do what they want already. They go to a party that is being thrown for Joan by a devote fan who happens to be a leader of a middle east country. He wants her to write his biography. She agrees but she and Jack have to spend 6 weeks apart from each other ending in a separation or break up, who knows? And of course it ends up being a crazy adventure looking for the Jewel of the Nile that ends up being a disappointment somewhat? Over all, it's a decent flick. It's the 80's, it's the time for not so great films. The effects are cheesy and the acting is so-so. But for the most part, it is a film worth giving a chance too.6/10 "},{"Title":"Full of fatal flaws making this one of the most dreadful films in history. * out of ****","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Romance, adventure, sailing the high seas, sinister villains who desire to rule the world, cliff top fighting, F-16's, courageous heroes, bumbling sidekicks, daring heroines, over powering sandstorms, high speed train chases, mythical legends, desert runaways, native wrestling, pirate kings, daydreaming, secret maps, kidnapping, dastardly explosions, deadly death traps, and a couple who reunite in the shadow of doom. And to sum it all up, it's a sequel to Romancing the Stone. A sure masterpiece, you think? Then you have yet to see The Jewel of the Nile, that rare film that destroyed a reputation and a career.The movie takes a turn for the worse when the opening sequence presents itself. It is only a daydream scene, but oh, what a daydream it is. It features Jack (Michael Douglas) and Joan (Kathleen Turner) getting married on a boat in the middle of the sea. The suddenly, a pirate captain invades their territory evolving into a fight with the same laughable quality as a middle school drama play. The script is all down hill from there, and trust me, it has to dig its way though the gravel, for it is already at the bottom of the barrel.Then there's the dialogue in which the subtext quality of the characters' conversations explains how they feel; an almost certain suicide for any movie's structure showing the character's feelings is the right way of development, telling the audience about them is the wrong way.How about the film's disappointing false second act. In which we first learn that the characters will be searching for a certain jewel, then half way though the production, the problem is solved, and a new one then opens a villain named Omar wishes to take over the world. There we have it, two conclusions, neither of the two related to one another, leaving the audience to only wish that there was an actual storyline basis here. The entire second act does absolutely nothing to further the plot movement.And the villain, Omar, who has zero dramatic structure to him. In a selected scene he is made to look dumber than a stump. In another, he devises a trap that not even Einstein could have concocted. And the Jack and Joan characters, who seem to look like they can take care of themselves, are saved in every danger scene by a natural complexion rather than their own smarts. None of the explained characters contain anything of interest to the viewer.The performances are about as good as anything else in the film. Kathleen Turner looks like she'd rather be in bed than on the set. Douglas seems to have very little confidence in the screenplay, and Danny DeVito is nothing but a pesky little goofball.How about the romance in which Joan and Jack argue one minute and make love the next. There is no imagination in the scenes developing chemistry between their relationship. Thus we never care about what goes on between them.There is some comedy in The Jewel of the Nile, that is colorful and energetic. Most of which isn't all that laughable, however. I did laugh a few times, though, but I don't think those scenes were meant to be funny. "},{"Title":"Good followup to the Stone","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Jewel of the Nile is a good follow up to 1984's Romancing The Stone, as it continues the adventures of romance novelist Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) and her boyfriend, Jack Colton (Michael Douglas). The last time we saw them, they were sailing into the sunset together (actually 5th Avenue in NYC, but close enough). Spending 6 months on the Angelina, Joan wants to go back to NYC, but Jack wants to go to Greece. While at a party, Joan meets Omar Shareef (Spiros Focas), and she travels with him to South Africa, Morocco, to write a novel about him, but she stumbles on his plan to become a powerful leader and start a war. Jack, meanwhile, travels with Ralph (Danny Devito), who has escaped his Columbian jail to find the Jewel of the Nile. That is the main plot. The acting is good, not as good as in the first movie, but I think Danny Devito has some terrific one-liners and the different tribes and groups the trio encounter are pretty funny. The villain stinks however. Omar is a pale imitation of Zolo from the first movie. The audience doesn't really know what he wants to do. Start a war? Bring together different people? Imitate a magic man? His true purpose doesn't seem to be explained. Also, the romance between Jack and Joan doesn't seem to be developed as well as in the first movie. One minute they fight, the next they make love, the next they argue. What gives? All in all, this is a great sequel to Romancing The Stone with some clever characters, great locales and music to match. You don't need to watch the first one to understand this one, but it is recommended. Rent it! "},{"Title":"Bad Idea...","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The sequel to romancing the stone is rather disappointing.The plot is shallow, humour is dry, and the whole atmosphere of the first is just not there.I wish those responsible for its production could see that and realize that this was not meant to be as memorable as the first.Nevertheless if you decide to watch this film, it is not what you call boring and overall it is just pleasant watching Douglas and Turner getting into trouble with their unexpected friend De Vito adding a bit of fun tone in the process.4/10 "}{"Title":"Indiana Jack and the Temple of Boredom","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It was just one dollar cheaper to order a double-feature Bluray of both Romancing the Stone and The Jewel of the Nile, so my initial reaction was Why not? And now, I miss that dollar and simply ask Why?Racist, boring, unnecessary, bad special effects and a terrible soundtrack and score were all the thoughts I accumulated during my first viewing. In the movie's defense, however, they did have only one good song (the end credit's When the Going Gets Tough, the Tough Get Going by Billy Ocean,) a couple of lines were actually good (yeah, I counted only two) and the cast actually looked like they were trying to show up. Other than those positives, this movie shouldn't have been made.While they took the jungle out of Jack from the first movie and made him an Indiana Jones rip-off, they did keep the same story that Joan is highly respected and sought out, despite her writing garbage novels. Basically the rest of the story involves a mesh-up of the first two Indy films that actually had me continuously check the time left and my mind wandering.The first isn't great, but it's a fun, no-harm adventure. This is the second Staying Alive/pointless sequel of the 1980s. Avoid. * * *Final thoughts Surprisingly, in a movie that had ho-hum and far from fresh dialogue, one of two lines stood out and actually made me laugh out loud Don't be ridiculous. Jack would never die without telling me. I have no idea how this made it in, as this would fit perfectly in an all-out comedy. But, at least it gave me something to cheer through this ordeal. "},{"Title":"Great popcorn flick, sequel to another great popcorn flick","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't know what people are expecting from this film. It is fantastic for what it is - an over the top popcorn adventure romance comedy. Each of the actors is perfectly suited to the role and plays it well. Chemistry is wonderful. If you go into a movie like this expecting a sophisticated story, no plot holes, no over the top corny humour or unbelievable action, the fault is with you and not the film. This is just an opportunity to have a bit of fun and switch off your brain and have some fun. Along with the prequel these are some of the best movies of their genre. Over a quarter of a century later, they hold up pretty very well. "},{"Title":"jewel of then nile comment","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this film is nowhere near as powerful or believable a story line as romancing the stone but it is still an enjoyable movie to watch on a Sunday afternoon. this is what let me down Firslty because when i saw Jack Colten in romancing the stone i thought he was a real indestructible mans man. but in this film his weaknesses and shortcomings show. Firstly when Jack was forced to take on the big African man he experienced total humiliation of the highest order and, to put it bluntly, a real ass kicking. The fight makes it clear that Jack simply doesn't stand a chance against this guy as he is picked up and thrown about all over the place. hes was toyed with. even his hardest possible punch right in the African mans face doesn't move or hurt him in the slightest as the African mans punch sent colten three meters back onto the ground. the most humiliating was that no matter how much colten kept coming back at him he would get knocked down again. when the black man puts colten on his shoulders and walks about there is nothing colten can do except continue to take the pain and this humiliation takes place right in front of his girlfriend. colten could have been beated and humiliated even more than he was. then he smashes a pot over his head when hes not looking and then has the audacity to jump about like some sort of warrior when really he just got lucky.the other thing was how lucky joan is to survive. firstly when shes escaping omars layer she falls off the building a jack there to save her. secondly he saves her when shes hanging hopelessly off the train and, embarrisangly doesn't have the strength to pull herself up but jack does that for her. her show of squealing and physical pain while trying to pull herself up is pathetic. then shes dangling by a rope with jack above a very deep well and ralph comes to the rescue of both of them at just the right time. the colten of old would have found a way out but instead their just hanging there crapping themselves waiting for there death. then when omars going to kill wilder jack comes to the rescue again. also they argue a lot then joan and jack kiss passionately 2 seconds later. in romancing the stone we really cared about what happened to jack and joan but in this we don't.3/10 "},{"Title":"Fun film of the 80s","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Great fun film of the 80's. But some stereo types of Colombia should not exist. We must get past these awful stereotypes of people and countries.Slam-bang romantic adventure with all sorts of goodies, aside from the always sexy Turner. There's suspense in a mad dash for buried treasure and twinkling humor between the perfectly matched Douglas and Turner. DeVito is also in top as a bumbling member of the thugs who have kidnapped Turner's sister. Director Teague keeps the pace going smoothly with wonderful mixes of adventure, suspense and come.Let's make more of these films! "},{"Title":"Diminished return","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember when I first viewed this action adventure romp in the 80's after its entertaining predecessor Romancing The Stone and being disappointed then but gave it another chance recently, unfortunately with the same underwhelming impact as before.The main fault here is that it's an almost exact remake of the original so that there's no plot surprises or character development to compel the viewer's interest. It also makes the same mistake as the second Indiana Jones film in devoting the bulk of its length to an extended chase sequence which for all its pyrotechnic interludes actually ends up boring you to indifference. It's also weighed down with a lumpen synth-driven soundtrack completely at odds with the Eastern locations.In its favour, it's colourful and bright, has one or two smile-inducing lines and the leads try hard, Douglas handsome and stylish as the matinée dare-devil idol, Jack, Turner pretty and vivacious as romantic adventurer Joan and DeVito his usual waspish self as Jack's perennial rival for the imaginary gem of the misleading title.You can certainly see where the money's been spent, with exotic locations, literally hundreds of extras and enough expensive hardware to supply a small third-world country. However, like so many things from the decade that style forgot, namely the 80's, it hasn't aged well and looks like nothing so much these days as about a hundred Duran Duran videos welded back to back, which I don't mean as a compliment! "},{"Title":"An enjoyable sequel.","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Jewel Of The Nile is an enjoyable action romance comedy and a good sequel to the successful Romancing The Stone. Now a couple adventurer Jack Colton(Michale Douglas)and Joan Wilder(Kathleen Turner)are sailing around the world on Jacks yacht.Although still very close their relationship has hit a bit of rocky patch and Joan accepts an invitation to write the biography of a ruthless wealthy man who lives like a prince.Well before long she witnesses his brutality and Jack has to come and rescue her.Although not as good as the first one this is still a great deal of fun and is well made.Danny Devito returns as well as the con man intent on getting revenge on Jack after the exploits in Romancing The Stone. A good one to watch on a rainy day or if you need cheering up. "},{"Title":"The Jewel of the Nile","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Romancing the Stone was a brilliant adventure film, and this sequel could have been just as good if they put the tiniest bit more kick into it. Basically Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) and Jack Colton (Michael Douglas, also producing) are together relaxing, but Joan gets bored quite quickly, and accepts an invitation for another adventure, to find the Jewel of the Nile. When Joan ends up captured by the bad guys, led by Omar (Spiros Focás), the only person Jack can turn to his old nemesis and half-good half-bad friend Ralph (Danny DeVito), who is also eager to get the Jewel. It turns out that the Jewel is in fact a holy man (played by Avner Eisenberg), a little silly because I want to see real treasure, but never mind, there are some good chase sequences, and in the end Jack and Joan get married, and Ralph gets something valuable. Also starring Randall Edwin Nelson as Karak, Samuel Ross Williams as Arak, Timothy Daniel Furst as Sarak, Howard Jay Patterson as Barak, Hamid Fillali as Rachid, Paul David Magid as Tarak and Holland Taylor as Gloria. Very, very slightly less exciting and fun compared to the first, but certainly a good film. Very good! "},{"Title":"The Films Of Turner, Douglas And De Vito","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Jewel Of The Nile (1985) Starring Kathleen Turner, Michael Douglas, Danny De Vito, Spiros Focas, Avner Eisenberg, Paul David Magid, Howard Jay Patterson, Randall Edwin Nelson, Samuel Ross Williams, Timothy Daniel Furst, Hamid Fillali, Guy Cuevas, Peter De Palma, Holland Taylor, Mark Daly Richards, Hyacinthe N'Laye, Sadeke Colobanane, Daniel Peacock, Benyahim Ahed, Makoula Ahmed, Alaoui Hassen, Ted Buffington, Flora Alberti, Patricia Davison, Ziraoui Mustapha, Mohammed Attifi, Kachela Mohammed, Hilal Abdellatif....Director Lewis Teague, Screenplay Mark Rosenthal, Lawrence Konner, Based On Characters By Diane Thomas.Released in 1985, this is Director Lewis Teague's sequel to Robert Zemecki's Romancing The Stone which had been in theaters the year before in 1984. Picking up where the first film left off, novelist Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner)is enjoying a blissful vacation with her true love Jack Colton (Michael Douglas) but has discovered she's acquired writer's block. Tired of writing the formulaic romance novels, she hopes to write something that will challenge her. At one of her book signings, a mysterious Egyptian ruler named Omar (Spiros Focas) gives her the opportunity she's been waiting for- to write about his rise to power in a small city by the Nile. Before long, she becomes involved in a dangerous game of foreign politics and a search for a priceless Jewel of the Nile. Comedian Danny De Vito's Ralph character returns and finds himself as much a part of the intrigue as the others. The Jewel was never as successful and beloved as The Stone but I believe this is a worthy sequel and a great film overall. With dramatic music by Jack Nitzche, as well as an 80's pop score, and stunning cinematography by Jan De Bont, this film is a winner. There are vistas of sprawling desert landscapes, primitive villages and rocky canyons It has the feeling of an old Hollywood adventure film/romantic comedy. The chemistry between Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner is wonderful. They even echo Spencer Tracey and Katherine Hepburn in scenes where they are at each other's throats. Their romance is entirely dependent on the adventure of the movies which always brings them together. Because the 80's was still a time where audiences loved a good adventures story (the Indiana Jones films are proof of that), this film did well. While a lot of it fails to be entirely realistic, and reeks too much of fiction, it's a well-delivered and highly entertaining film that does not take itself seriously. It's a feel good film from the 1980's which was in itself a feel good decade. The Jewel is but one film in the team that was Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas. They shared equal success in the film The War of the Roses in which they were also paired (inevitably) with Danny De Vito. This is a wonderful film and because it's available on DVD, it's a film that is now available to a younger generation who do not know either Michael Douglas or Kathleen Turner or the 1980's. "},{"Title":"A bit too slow to be a real successful action movie","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm afraid I never read a romance novel, and there might be some links regarding this that I've missed. However, this movie is certainly too slow for a real action movie. However, some scenes are wonderful, and I like the fact that the Arabic is pretty authentic. "},{"Title":"just a few words about the movie","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's a great film, with great chemistry between the two lead Actors- Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner. I've watched it many, many times and each time it never fails to get a laugh! Danny DeVito only adds to the great Comedy. I love the scene in the beginning when the two main characters are going their own separate ways. Also, when they meet again. On the whole, it's definitely one of my Favorite movies! "}{"Title":"They're BACK!","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a sequel to Romancing the Stone and the major players, Douglas, Turner and DeVito are all back. Despite great acting from all three, this film just kind of lacks the ZIP that the first one had. It's a good story overall, but I think the spontaneity is gone. Still, it's a decent flick and one that you'll enjoy if you liked the first film. You just will like it a LITTLE less...it's still worth a watch! "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is an awful film witless, humorless, pointless.  It's essentially a chase film, the heroes running constantly from an assortment of wicked Muslim extremists.  There are the usual explosions.The low point of the film is a dance scene.  The heroes, during one of their many escapes, are captured by wild natives, perhaps pygmies.  Then there is a festival featuring topless black dancers--who suddenly turn attractive.  Kathleen Turner gets carried away with the drum beats and the nude natives, and she (sort of) joins in, wiggling her behind and making everyone notice that she is much less endowed in the chest area than the dancers.Danny Devito runs around during the chase scenes screaming four letter words.  And you have to see Turner and Michael Douglas hanging by their wrists over a bottomless pit while rats gnaw at the ropes suspending them.  You'll howl.In short, this is a film for bad movie lovers.  The unintentional laughs are many. "},{"Title":"Exceptional follow-up to Romancing the Stone","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Jewel of the Nile is a very entertaining sequel to Romancing the Stone. It comes just a little short of topping the first film, but it's still a really good follow-up. Kathleen Turner, Michael Douglas, and Danny DeVito all reprise their roles from Romancing the Stone, and their prescene helps to make The Jewel of the Nile an excellent sequel. Once again comedy, adventure, and romance collide here just like in the first film. But the main difference here is the setting. Instead of the South American jungle that was depicted in Romancing the Stone, The Jewel of the Nile takes place in the deserts of Northern Africa. Romance novelist Joan Wilder meets an Egyptian dictator who wants her to write a biography of his life against the wishes of her publisher Gloria (Holland Taylor, also reprising her role from the original). So she leaves the man of her dreams, Jack Colton (Douglas), behind and flies to the dictator's palace to start a new chapter in her career. Soon after she's gone, Jack finds out who the dictator really is and that Joan's life is in danger. Also, Jack has a run-in with Ralph (DeVito), that inept kidnapper from the first movie. This time Ralph tags along with Jack as they travel to Africa to rescue Joan. They all go through some wild and crazy adventures in the African desert. They also try to search for the sacred jewel of the nile, which they think at first is just another rock like the stone in the first film but turns out to be a magical holy man. The Jewel of the Nile is alot of silly fun helped by the performances of the three main actors. DeVito once again steals the show and gets the biggest laughs. Turner is radiant, and Douglas is great. Director Lewis Teague takes over for Robert Zemeckis and does a terrific job here if not quite as brilliant as Zemeckis' job on Romancing the Stone. Still, Romancing the Stone and The Jewel of the Nile is one of the best one-two punches for a movie series. I would have loved to see another movie in this series. It's too bad they never made another one. Turner, Douglas, and DeVito would eventually team up again for another movie, but it wasn't another sequel to this series. Four years after this film, the trio made the black comedy The War of the Roses (which DeVito directed). I didn't care much for that film, but after seeing these three stars together in these three movies, they work wonderfully together. Hope to see them working together again on another movie sometime in the near future. ***1/2 (out of four)   "},{"Title":"Douglas and Turner join up for more fun in the sun","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Michael Douglas and Kathleen Turner return in a sequel to the highly succesful Romancing The Stone. In this one all is not well between the two and after a not so happily after ending Douglas and Turner go their separate ways..But trouble intervenes and Douglas must rescue her again..While Douglas and Turner do well together and DeVito returns the chemistry doesn't. A good sequel but like most sequels not as good as the first.. on a scale of one to ten..7 "},{"Title":"More comical than the first","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Unlike the original, Jewel of the Nile is packed with more jokes and slapstick than it can handle. It is still enjoyable as an adventure movie, although the romance kind of a fifth wheel just filling in a few empty minutes of screentime. Probably the best way to enjoy the movie is to watch Romancing the Stone just before watching it, and then you'd probably understand it better and wouldn't think it's worthless. "},{"Title":"Unimpressive sequel.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The sequel to the movie Romancing the Stone, was for me just not very good at all.  Where as Stone was a well-paced, funny action movie in this one there are many periods of dullness.  Danny DeVito is the only highlight to this one, as once again his character is great.  The plot really kills this one though as it just isn't as fun as the originals.  It involves some sort of ruler of a Middle Eastern country who wants Joan Wilder to write about him or something.  She agrees and parts company with Jack Coltan.  For some reason the ruler tries to kill Jack, by blowing up his boat, and this only sends Jack after them.  Once in the country Joan begins to realize that the ruler is not as good a guy as he wants her to think.  She runs into a guy called the Jewel of the Nile who I think is supposed to be the real ruler of the country.  Meanwhile Jack and DeVito's character learn of the Jewel of the Nile from this people and mistakenly think it is some kind of real jewel worth money like in the first movie.  Some good sequences here and there, but really nothing all that great.  A good scene involving a jet and anther with Jack and Joan hung over a pit are pretty good and for me the highlights of this one.  This movie just didn't appeal to me though like the first one...who knows; maybe I prefer jungles to desert. "},{"Title":"Sequel to Romancing the Stone not quite there","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner, and Danny DeVito star in 1985's Jewel of the Nile, a sequel to the popular Romancing the Stone. Cutting right to the chase, it's not as good. It has a fine cast that manage to keep it going, some funny scenes, but it suffers from plot holes, a poorly held together story, and uneasy pacing.Turner and Douglas, as they've proved several times, make a great team. The scenery is beautiful, and the African dances especially enjoyable.The movie has romance and action aplenty, and with a little more work, it would have been quite good.Without giving away the ending, it was kind of a dud. I didn't feel as if anything was ever explained about the actual jewel of the Nile that everyone is seeking. It all seemed like a useless exercise.This all probably sounds like it isn't worth seeing, but that isn't true - you might not wanted to have paid $10 to see it in a theater, but it's a good rental or a good film to catch on television. "},{"Title":"A jewel of a sequel.","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Take An enjoyable sequel. I was stunned when I've read some rather bad reviews about this movie, which was pretty good, I can tell. It was packed with action, comedy and romance. Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner and Danny DeVito reprise their roles gloriously and the story is quite convincing. This and its predecessor Romancing the Stone both deserve a thumbs up. I suggest you give this sequel a try, right after watching the original.Not as great as the first yet, despite a few corny instances (not to mention the few forgettable songs), the critics are still mostly wrong with this one. An enjoyable romp, for a sequel. Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"maybe they thought it was Nat. Geographic","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Is this really the movie I liked in the 80's. I watched it again for the first time in years and man am I disappointed in myself. Devito, Turner, and Douglas couldn't act their way through a trailer park news story, and apparently they couldn't remember their own names because just about every other dialog sentence end or begins in Jack, Joan or Ralph. Joe the Jewel was the real saving grace of this movie, though I could have swore it was supposed to be Fisher Stevens. The only thing that kept me from passing out completely from boredom was Joe's bumbling Yoda-mystical actions and sayings and Devito spewing out the lamest one-liners in movie history Yeah and I'm a kumquat from Queens! I strongly suggest watching Romancing the Stone and forgetting this standard sequel that couldn't, unless you have a strong desire to see modernistic Middleeasterners rocking out to No Shep is Safe Tonight "},{"Title":"Not as Good as the First","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although Turner, Douglas and DeVito return together to make the sequel to Romancing the Stone, the movie falls short. The action scenes and some of the comedy is just as good as in Romancing the Stone, but, unlike the passion and true grit that the original had to offer, Jewel of the Nile misses it. Trying to be the roller coaster ride that the first film offered the audience, many of the scenes are force feed to the audience to wow them or to make them laugh and the bland comedy. DeVito is funnier than ever but falls short. Douglas and Turner are typical together but do not have the passion which they has in Romancing the Stone. Much of the setting is desert and not romantic. As oppose to the jungles of South America, at least Romancing the Stone added moments of thrills and chills as Jewel of the Nile gave us one chase scene after another. A decent film, but nothing great like the first one. "}{"Title":"A Change Of Director Is Sometimes Like A Breath Of Fresh Air.","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A million times better than Romancing the Stone 1984.Lewis Teague is a much better director than R. Zemeckis (no offense!) and he PROVES himself here.The plot and script is damn ingenious! And that is why I loved this film.The Jewel Of The Nile never does refer to a priceless gem as you will find out in the film, but pertains itself to something more miraculous.I loved the acting of M.Douglas, D.DeVito and K.Turner. Spiros Focás is superb as the villain in the film. Watch out for Avner Eisenberg in the film.Yet again DeVito splits our sides with some good comic relief. I think he is in the same league with the best comedians in Hollywood namely Eddie Murphy, Gene Wilder and Steve Martin.Brief Plot Six months after the events in the last film, Romancing the Stone, Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner) is having trouble writing her next romantic novel while living with Jack Colton (Michael Douglas) on his boat, the Angelina which is currently docked in a South of France port, and she refuses to discuss marriage. Later that afternoon at a book signing engagement held by her publisher, Gloria (Holland Taylor), Joan meets a charming Arab ruler named Omar (Spiros Focás) who has managed to persuade the world that he is the firm, but fair, ruler of Kadir, a fictional nation. Omar offers Joan the opportunity to live like a queen at his palace, while she writes a fluff piece about him. However, as soon as Joan leaves with Omar, Jack runs into Ralph (Danny DeVito). Ralph, a comical swindler from Jack's past, recently out of prison, plans on killing Jack for abandoning him in Colombia to the authorities, but is stopped by an Arab named Tarak (Paul David Magid), who tells Jack of Omar's true intentions. This includes the fact that he has their greatest treasure, the Jewel of the Nile, in his possession. Ralph, immediately interested at the prospect, agrees to help find the Jewel. Jack, however, is less than convinced. But seconds later, the Angelina explodes, having been sabotaged under Omar's orders. He then agrees to team up with Ralph and Tarak in order to track down the lost jewel in Omar's kingdom...Break/burn your copy of Romancing The Stone. BUY AND KEEP THIS INSTEAD. "},{"Title":"Terrific!!!!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first got interested in this movie because of my mom. ( She used to looooooooooooove Michael Douglas movies, until he got in Rated R movies.)Anyways . . . it is a fantastic movie! The humor and everything, In this movie M.D. (Michael Douglas) is reeeaaallllly cute! Anyways I suggest you watch it unless you are really young. It even shows a little bit of some cultures of Africa in it. I love it. You should see it. Danny DeVeto even is still funny. He gets sit on by a donkey!!! Hahahahaha! Great Movie! These characters in the movie are terrific! Everything is just simply terrific in this movie. I love it and I hope you will too. Also watch the first movie, Romancing the Stone. As I have said already . . . fantastic movie!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Cut Turner and Douglas Some D**n Slack","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I happen to see this movie for the first time last night. I actually enjoyed it. To those of you who thought it sucked, shame on you, SHAME ON YOU! It was kinda of funnier than Romancing The Stone because Turner and Douglas were sort of arguing. One of the best scenes is when they are arguing in the desert. It was awesome and hiliarious. The other best scene is when Michael Douglas didn't know how to operate the plane, that part was insane. He really tore up that town. The greatest scene in the movie is when Kathleen Turner was dancing with those village people. Man, she was breakin' it down, it was like go Kathleen, go Kathleen! LOL. I think that was a good follow up from Romancing The Stone. I was happy for them when they paired up again. You guys know, you wanted it to happen, s**t I thought it was a pot luck party. "},{"Title":"About what I expected...","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I decided to sit down and actually watch this movie and its predecessor to find out for myself how they fared.  While the first one was a bit of a disappointment to me, I had high hopes that The Jewel of the Nile would turn out to be any better.  Unfortunately, I found it drawn out, disjointed and I pined more than once for it to end.Kathleen Turner as Joan Wilder, the dissatisfied romance novelist with recently acquired writer's block, takes what might have been an interesting turn for some REAL development of her character, but again, she turned out to be inconsistent and sometimes not believable.  Michael Douglas as Jack T. Colton was more annoying (if possible) this time around, and I truly wonder if it hadn't been billed as A Michael Douglas Production if we would have starred at all.  Danny DeVito as Ralph was believably underhanded and slimy, but overbearingly obnoxious, throwing around racial slurs that would have landed him on the Hollywood blacklist today (it didn't really bother me, but in this politically correct world, it's hard to get away with anything...).So take a disjointed and bad script, couple it with several instances of poor acting and absurd uses of miscommunication, combine it with wretched 80s elevator music (not as bad as in Romancing the Stone), add a few moments of interesting character and some fun action scenes and you get The Jewel of the Nile.7/10. "},{"Title":"Nearly but not quite","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a commendable sequel to the first film bar some ugly racial stereotyping and AWFUL music.   The odd funny one-liners, location photography and honest lead performances cover the fact that the characters (and plot) become more unconvincing as the film progresses, culminating in a veritable directors mess of an (anti) climax. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel to 'Romancing the Stone'...","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A different setting (the desert, rather than the jungle) provides the background for another adventure by the characters from 'Romancing the Stone'...Joan Wilder (Kathleen Turner), Jack Colton (Michael Douglas), and greedy little Ralph (Danny DeVito), with his heart set on acquiring the jewel.Once again, there's the same comic strip quality to the adventures and, again, all of the action is played for laughs, of which there are plenty. This time Joan is mixed up with a Shiek when she agrees to write his biography. When she is kidnapped, Jack and Ralph have to come to her rescue. It's another no-brainer, none of it meant to be taken seriously. All in all, it's an enjoyable enough comic adventure--not quite up to 'Romancing the Stone'--but the humor is even sharper and everyone seems to be enjoying their roles. Danny De Vito steals some of the scenes as they trek through the desert with some angry Muslims hot on their heels.As sequels go, this is a good one. "},{"Title":"Couldn't have been made in any decade other than the 80s","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsYep,this is pure floss all the way,people.From the obviously big budget stunts,to the Billy Ocean theme song,this is distinctively a viewing pleasure from the yuppie decade.But it's not really that enjoyable.The plot drags on like crazy,Danny De Vito's character is essentially unpleasant and dis-likeable throughout and all that stuff about the Arab guy with the glasses being the 'real jewel of the Nile' and having the power to walk through flames and what-have-you emerges as totally silly and far fetched,especially since actor Avner Eisenberg portrays him throughout as a gawky,comic relief character only played for laughs anyway.But there are some nice set pieces and photography,not to mention a fair bit of exciting action,if only there was a more involving plot to go with it.Corny as hell,but just about watchable.** "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite have the spark of Romancing the Stone, but still quite enjoyable","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved Romancing the Stone, yes it was old-fashioned but it was a lot of fun too. The Jewel of the Nile isn't as good, there are pacing problems, the story isn't as well held together this time around and the chemistry between Douglas and Turner doesn't quite sparkle as much. However, the locations, scenery and cinematography are superb, as is the score, while the action and one-liners effortlessly come by thick and fast. The direction is also pretty good, while Michael Douglas, Danny DeVito and especially Kathaleen Turner clearly have a lot of fun as they search for the Jewel of the Nile. All in all, not quite as good but it is a sequel worth watching. It isn't as well thought out, but there is plenty to enjoy and the film doesn't fall into the trap of being a sequel that is its predecessor all over again. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Another Hollywood rip-off sequel","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jewel of the Nile is a thrown together sequel and obvious attempt to capitalize on the success of another Douglas production,  Romancing the Stone. As with most sequels, Jewel.. doesn't measure up. The film fails to deliver and wastes the Turner sparkle and DiVito charm on an uninspired production. Very ordinary stuff from the  turn-the-Hollywood-crank school of film-making not worth revisiting. "},{"Title":"Terribly boring sequel.","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Terribly boring and unfunny sequel to the Robert Zemeckis smash-hit Romancing the Stone, which returns Michael Douglas, Kathleen Turner and the apparently there-for-no-reason Danny DeVito for another adventure. The plot is weak, the gags are weak, and the film is boring. Michael Douglas looks tired, Danny DeVito isn't even trying to be funny.2/5 stars -John Ulmer "}]