[{"Title":"Rabid Weasels?","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"116 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those very rare films that combines good black humor with bloody, messy gore and does it perfectly.  Where `Children Shouldn't Play With Dead Things' fails miserably, `Return of the Living Dead' succeeds triumphantly.  It takes a tired plot (zombies eat teenagers) and makes it new again.  The teenagers here are not faceless, stupid, oversexed victims at all.  They are misfits and outsiders, the kind of kids who probably go to horror movies every day and make fun of the faceless, stupid, oversexed victims who populated the majority of the slasher films made in the 1980s.  The nihilistic punk rock teens can identify with the zombies, and even though it is their ultimate fate to be consumed by them, you like them, you want them to survive and you're sorry to see them go even though the zombies are every bit as cool.Long before `28 Days Later' appeared, `Return of the Living Dead'  presented us with FAST zombies, zombies who could run, jump and work together like a football team, tackling people and making it a group effort to tear their victims apart.  There are very few slow, shuffling monsters here; these are zombies to contend with.  They talk, they think, they problem solve.  Who could ever forget the Tar Man (my personal favorite) rigging up a device to tear down the metal closet doors, behind which our heroine has locked herself?  The adult characters in this film are no less interesting than the teenagers.  James Karen is absolutely hysterical in his role as a medical warehouse manager, whose bumbling irresponsibility leads to the zombies being unleashed.  Clu Gulager is a stressed out corporate jerk who will do anything to save the name and reputation of the warehouse he owns.  And Don Calfa is excellent as the slightly shady mortician who may or may not be an ex-Nazi.  The mismatched cast really comes together and forms a bond here, fighting back and growing more desperate as the zombies grow stronger.  This film never lets up, not for one minute.  There are no long explanation scenes, no boring set-up, just in-your-face excitement from the very first scene.  It is the perfect homage to the Romero films; there is no happy ending here, only an ironic twist which will make even the most cynical doomsayer grin.  This film is already a cult classic and deserves its status.  It's as close to flawless as you can get.   "},{"Title":"Be a man Frank goddamn it!!!","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"97 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is quite possibly one of the funniest movies ever made.It succeeds not simply thru its humor but in the way that it takes the plot seriously. That is, the characters avoid doing anything cliché or 'movie-like'. They react to an amazingly unusual situation in a very logical, sensible way (even as things become more & more desperate). Consequently none of the humor is forced. It all comes from the combination of having to deal with all the insane things that are happening to them in the sanest way that they can. The contrast of these two makes for absolutely brilliant comedy.For example» They have to kill an already dead guy so they put a pick axe thru his head.» This doesn't kill him so they saw his head off.» This still doesn't work so they decide to incinerate him in the neighbor's crematorium.» In order to do that they make up a rabid weasels story to tell the neighbor.All of these things, as hilariously ridiculous as they are, actually make sense in the context of trying to deal with the situation. In other words, if you found yourself confronted with re-animated corpses you would probably do exactly what they do to try and stop them. And even as the situation slowly progresses from bad to worse to desperate the film maintains this idea.In fact, the film quite brilliantly maintains this idea at the very end. As over-the-top as the ending seemed I can completely picture the military wanting to do exactly that! "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films of all time!","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"93 out of 106 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Return of the Living Dead has held a special place in my heart for a very long time. This satirical take on Romero's classic (if you don't know which one, you shouldn't be reading this) is one of the greatest horror films ever made and is also one of the most respected. The direction by Dan O'Bannon, writer of Alien (also one of the greatest), is superb and Jules Brenner's cinematography is stunning for a film not shot in a widescreen aspect ratio (it was shot 1.371 full frame to save money). The scene with the rising of the zombies is best described as hauntingly beautiful yet chilling. The cast gives great performances and the special effects are astounding, as is Matt Clifford's rousing score. The nasty going-ons is highlighted by a powerful metal soundtrack featuring The Cramps and Billy Idol.The plot concerns some nasty chemical that has the ability to bring the dead back to life. When a barrel of the stuff is accidentally opened, all hell breaks loose the cast is forced to do battle with scores of zombies (this time hungry for brains). Twists and turns abound as the cast is trapped at Ground Zero-the epicenter of the plague, if you will. All of the characters are likely even though they are mostly sleazy and corrupt. Linnea Quigley is great as Trash as is Clu Gulager as the corrupt warehouse owner. The zombies themselves are fun to watch; be warned, however, that they are not the usual slow, shuffling stiffs we've all come to love.All in all, The Return of the Living Dead is an amazing thrill ride that will remain in your mind long after it's over. Do yourself a favor and seek out this cult classic. You won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Influential Cult Classic!!","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"66 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film when I was around 9 or 10, and I remember loving it back then. Unfortunately, time has not been kind to most of the movies I enjoyed during my youth. Imagine my surprise when I realized that not only was Return of the Living Dead every bit as much fun as when I first saw it, its actually improved!!First off, this is NOT a serious horror film. It is meant to be viewed as a comedy. Period. Once this perspective is taken, the horror elements are subtly introduced until, towards the end, we almost begin to feel a sense of disgust with ourselves for laughing at these people. I say ALMOST because a few silly decisions here and there (it would have been nice if the movie hadn't ended with recycled footage) turn what could have been the finest, and most disturbing, horror-comedy EVER MADE into a merely excellent one.Honestly, I challenge anyone to find a horror-comedy that delivers laughs, gore, some genuine scares, and combines it with what can only be called the finest acting I've ever seen in a horror-comedy (much less one from the 80's!). James Karen, Clu Gulager, and Don Calfa absolutely STEAL this movie with their sidesplitting hysterics. Listen to the lines, note the deliveries. These guys are pros! Anyone who could THINK to call their acting wooden clearly knows nothing about the traps horror-comedies often fall into. Personally, I was thinking of the OD scene from Pulp Fiction the entire time. The absurdity mixed with tension was eerily similar. Tarantino (an admitted zombie-movie fan) must SURELY have seen this movie upon its initial release. Gulager in particular is just plain brilliant here, he's like a burned out shop teacher fighting zombies!! This film is a hidden treasure in a genre all too often plagued by mediocrity.  "},{"Title":"Genius from the co-creator of Alien","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"52 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ROTLD is one of the rare cases where horror meets comedy to good effect. With some classic lines like you gotta hit the brain and watch your mouth kid if you like this job, this film works because it doesn't rely solely on gore or stupidity; the script is very well written.ROTLD pays homage to George Romero's Night of the Living Dead but veers away from the slow lumbering zombies of the '68 classic, and instead gives us the original super zombies (ie before 28 days later or Dawn of the Dead remake) that are not so easily dealt with! This proves to be an interesting problem for the script to resolve which I think it does with style by the end of the movie.The characters are a little predictable and one dimensional except for the lead pair who are introduced at the start of the movie, but that's perhaps the only flaw. What I really like about this movie is that, whilst not entirely a gorefest, it still manages to kick-ass because of the flawless plot. By this I mean that there a few scenarios where you find yourself saying that's just dumb or they'd never do that etc, which is very rare nowadays in the horror/sci-fi genre. Dramas & thrillers etc get an easy job of it because all they have to do is convince us that their reality is real-life. Horror on the other hand needs to convince that the unreality it portrays is what is real-life, and that's not always an easy task.ROTLD is funny, sick, clever and above all entertaining if you can stomache some pretty twisted content. Personally, I love it. "},{"Title":"Should be a cult classic","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"51 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in 1985 this movie was deemed unreleasable by its studio. They (purportedly) re cut it and quietly opened it. To their surprise it was a sizable hit leading to two sequels. I saw it twice when it came out--this movie REALLY delivers the goods to horror fans.It starts off by saying all the events in this movie are true (???). It focuses on 2 warehouse workers played by Thom Mathews and James Karen. It turns out that the movie Night of the Living Dead was based on fact and the dead bodies are stored in the basement in air tight canisters with some gas keeping them asleep. One of the canisters breaks open, the dead guy comes to life and all hell breaks loose. Also, the gas leaks into a graveyard next door and all the dead people come to life...hungry for brains! And how about that group of punk kids hanging out in the graveyard--including Linnea Quigley who spends 99.9% of her screen time nude? Also, unlike Night of... these zombies move FAST and bullets don't hurt them...This movie is strange. It pays homage to old zombie horror flicks and goes of on its own direction. The annoying, constantly swearing bunch of punk kids are only there to be victims--and they inexplicably have an innocent, sweet girl with them--Tina played by Beverly Randolph. The first half is very funny--expertly mixing laughs with some truly scary, gory moments. The laughs disappear completely for the second half. Then on in its a gore show and VERY disturbing. It's moves extremely quick, there are tons of people killed, the number of zombies is incredible, the special effects are great and the blood goes flying. But the change from humor to horror is jarring and some of the stuff at the end is VERY disturbing (Karens and Mathews' slow deaths are very upsetting and painful to watch and hear). This movie is also helped by good acting. The punk kids are by the numbers (except for Randolph who is kind of fun), but Mathews is good and Karen and Gulager are hilarious in their respective roles. They all play it reasonably straight and it helps.Gory, scary, funny--a definite must-see for horror fans. This film deserves more recognition than it's gotten.Best line I think things are getting a little out of hand. "},{"Title":"Crackerjack ...","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"47 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this film to living death ... Every actor got the right part, and they all got the part right.  High camp, higher parody, positively hilarious scenes so well set up that a mere facial gesture delivers the punchline, sometimes only a few beats of music delivers.  In the midst of all this ripping off of Romero's Night of the Living Dead, it borders on worship of its inspiration.  Pathos holds hands with hilarity, genuinely creepy scenes bleed into high gear humor.  I haven't found a misstep.  There is a high quotient of Oh s**t scenes and they all work.  The undraped Quigley is neither gratuitous or prurient; just imagine the movie without her character; loses much.  This is a delicious, feverish living dead romp that plays out to one crackerjack musical score.  Everything meshes, everything works.  How do you fault a film that gets it all right?  This title will survive a long long time. "},{"Title":"What every horror comedy wants to be","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"47 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return of the Living Dead is an often hilarious, often frightening, often disgusting, and always entertaining horror comedy. The cast is great, the dialogue is snappy and very quotable, and the special effects still hold up very well, nearly 20 years after the film's release. Fans of the horror genre, 1980s buffs, or just folks who enjoy something different occasionally will most likely get a kick out of it.10/10 "},{"Title":"Straight comedy...","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"32 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best comedy is played straight, and there are few films straighter than horror movies (in which the intent is, ostensibly, to terrify). Dan O'Bannon's straight comedy is gut-bustingly funny. I also remember being impressed by his performance in the delightful DARK STAR, which turned up at an art house showing along with the STAR WARS parody, HARDWARE WARS. Intense, and boasting great music and some of the best performances ever seen in a fright film (including Clu Gulager, James Karen and Don Calfa, veterans all, whose frantic on-screen antics are the cornerstones of this film), RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD is one of those must-see movies no serious fan should miss. The cinematography is simply stunning, and the fx are 100% believable. It's amazing that O'Bannon hasn't directed more often it's clear that he belongs behind a camera.     "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"38 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best $10 dollars I ever spent was buying The Return of the Living Dead on DVD! This is such a kick ass zombie movie its my favorite I enjoy this movie more than Dawn of the Dead the best thing about this flick is the outstanding cast I love everyone in this movie they made it all happen with Dan O'Bannon and the crew Return of the Living Dead is a classic point-blank!Overall IMO this is the best horror/comedy movie of all time I think its tops Evil Dead everything this movie is a must see it still kicks ass after so many years.10/10 "}{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Contains Spoilers!! An absolutely PERFECT blend of horror and comedy. I honestly cannot think of any other film that pulled it off so well. Unlike George Romero's zombie trilogy, Return of the Living Dead, written/directed by Dan O'Bannon, it didn't take itself seriously. It had FUN. It never dragged, zipping you from one moment of dread to another and when it got too gory or intense, O'Bannon brought in the laughs. Not slapstick but genuine, over-the-top gags. Whether it be a hungry zombie asking to send more cops as if he was ordering pizza or the bumbling warehouse employees who, after accidentally releasing a toxic gas that re-animates corpses, find that killing zombies by destroying the brains doesn't work. When they finally exclaim WELL IT WORKED IN THE MOVIES! you know the rules have been thrown out the window.The film works on so many levels of gore and humor and the fact that it makes fun of itself and Romero's classic Night of the Living Dead come off as more self-aware than Wes Craven's Scream films of the 90's.The film took it's chances and could've p***ed off fans of Romero's original by actually referring to that movie within the first few minutes, saying it was all fictional and that what really happened was... well you get the idea. In fact, O' Bannon tried as hard as possible to make his film as different from Romero's. You see, O' Bannon's zombies could RUN after you, could think and plan ways to get at you, they could TALK to you and tell you what part they wanted to eat from you......BRAINS!The film was shot on a $4 million dollar budget and had it's problems with make-up and FX but the wonderful, brisk editing and the gloomy lighting more than covered up it's technical flaws. You'd be hard pressed to find any obvious goofs.The film's punk rock soundtrack is excellent. Dare I say goth punk? Sure it fit in with the punk characters that got stuck in the horror but the tone of the songs fit in so well with the movie.The cast was superb, all somehow finding the perfect way to play their parts. There isn't a single 'off' performance. Frank's over-the-top freaking out, Burt's calm this is what we're gonna do attitude and Freddy's realization of what's happening to his body and mind all showcase the talent that made the film work.When one of our heroes (who's been zombiefied) commits suicide by burning himself alive in the crematorium....it's not horrific but truly sad. Actor James Karen embodied 'Frank' with such an every guy quality, you couldn't help but feel for him.Thom Mathews played Freddy. A new level was added to the zombie genre. We see a young man, full of life with lots of partying left to do, slowly get snuffed out. He was exposed to the gas you see and he's slowly dying.....yet already dead. He's conscious while feeling rigor mortis setting in.....and he describes every pain to you. It's unsettling.Clu Gulager plays the warehouse owner 'Burt' (his best friend who owns the funeral home next door? Ernie. Nope, not kidding!) who seemingly dead pans throughout the entire film. While the entire film is going crazy, he is the constant throughout and you feel that if you were in the same situation, you'd want him there helping to make crucial decisions.Linnea Quigley, the B-movie scream Queen plays 'Trash'. Her infamous, FULL FRONTAL strip tease has left many of my fellow 20-something's with fond memories of their childhood.This film parodied it's sub-genre of horror YEARS before the crap that was the Scream trilogy. It also managed to be FAR scarier than Wes Craven's poor attempts which basically amounted to a Boo! a 9 year old attempts on Halloween.Dan O'Bannon, the film's writer/director (primarily responsible for the classic Alien) created a film that, in every way, perfectly blended horror and humor. I'm not saying it's the first, I'm saying it's the first at *doing it right.*The film was released in 1985 and went head-to-head with George Romero's Day of the Dead. Return not only got better critical reviews but bested George the King at the box office and Romero is considered the best at this type of film. Wrong.Compare such boring trite with O'Bannon's work and the superior *film* shines through. O'Bannon saw the genre in a way most could not. Treat it's subject with respect yet realize, this is incredibly silly.O'Bannon's script is self-aware yet understands it's fictional world is very real. We get the humor, the film's characters aren't so lucky.The film goes the opposite of what you'd expect in such a subtle way. The hapless humans are caged in places normally associated with the dead (a funeral home, a medical supply warehouse) whereas the dead are free to roam around in the land of the living. Subtle.This is NOT a dumb film at all (as some uneducated people might mistake zombie films for.) It's an ironic, horrific, campy and witty take on a classic horror genre. A film I can watch over and over again.This classic film will FINALLY be released on DVD in America by MGM Home Video on August 27th, 2002. "},{"Title":"It's not a bad movie, Burt.","Date":"30 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In fact, it is indeed a freakin' classic, one of the most delightful 80's genre efforts, and a nice modern spin on zombie fare.A deadly chemical leaks out of misplaced Army canisters and proceeds to infect various unlucky people, including the corpses that had been resting peacefully under the Earth at a nearby cemetery. An unlikely bunch of would be dinners end up having to team up in order to try and survive.Marking the directorial debut for the late Dan O'Bannon, it injects a wonderfully quirky, comic sensibility into its raucous story, incorporating elements of farce into its mix with ease. It also populates its story with not the usual sex obsessed, personality deficient teenagers but a group of outcasts that is genuinely interesting and engaging. The pacing absolutely never lets up, delivering one riotous scene after another; this is energetic, spirited stuff. Even the zombies themselves - not the typical shambling kind, but relentless, speedy, and quite smart as well - are given a degree of personality. In addition to the movie's most popular zombie in the form of the foul, dripping Tar Man (Allan Trautman), we are treated to a Civil War soldier zombie, a half woman corpse with some of the most striking blue eyes one will ever see, and a midget zombie. The zombies even talk, and from one of them we're even given an explanation why they would crave brains in particular (this movie can take credit for introducing the eating of the brain idea into pop culture).Highly quotable dialogue is another plus, as well as the kick ass soundtrack featuring such cool groups as The Cramps, 45 Grave, Tall Boys, T.S.O.L., and others, and the extremely catchy Trioxin theme (Trioxin being the name of the chemical). The nicely chosen cast all work incredibly well together, including the under-rated veterans Clu Gulager (as the corporate weasel who cares only for saving his business at first but eventually turns into a real take-charge kind of guy), James Karen (delivering a memorable, delicious comic performance as the warehouse supervisor), and Don Calfa (as the mortician with a possible Nazi past). The younger generation is represented by Linnea Quigley, in her break through role as the kinky Trash, the hilarious Mark Venturini (who unfortunately has also passed on) as Suicide, the spooky guy who just feels misunderstood, Thom Mathews as the ill-fated Freddy, cute Beverly Randolph, sexy Jewel Shepard, and Brian Peck, John Philbin, and Miguel Nunez, all of whom are fun to watch.The makeup effects and gore are excellently done, with some juicy gross 'em out moments. Culminating in an effectively ironic twist, The Return of the Living Dead is definitely one of those modern classics that veteran horror fans are sure to proudly display among their movie collection, and which newcomers to the genre really ought to check out. It's too good to miss.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"' I don't know what is going on out there, But it's getting worse! ","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're an adult who's childish impulses get the better of you and would like a scary movie to watch, you found it. This feature came on the heels of the very popular Night of The Living Dead, by George Romero. Although I saw that film, I went away disappointed. On a second occasion, I ventured into a theater and viewed this offering.  The Return of the Living Dead.  Despite it's cheese beginnings and my first reaction to leave, I recognized a reliable actor who prompted additional consideration. That actor was Clu Gulager who convincingly plays Burt. Two of his employees namely Frank and Ernie (James Karen and Don Calfa) have accidentally discovered a strange metal cannister stored in the basement of their building. Careless handling of the drum, causes it to break and releases it's deadly toxic gas which drains life from the living and re-animates dead bodies. Realizing their mistake, a small accident now becomes a larger problem with horrendous results. While their boss believes quick fiery cremation has destroyed the initial re-animated bodies, a gang of Punks fall prey to a wave of re-animated zombies resurrected from a nearby cemetery. The more the living try and destroy the dead, the brain-eating corpses keep multiplying. The movie with it's maniacal echo, Brains, We want Brains!  becomes terrifying and after overwhelming the arriving police, the army is alerted. One can see where this is going. The result is one horrifying escalating monster mess and a comical dark drama sure to scare the wits out of you. Excellent story. **** "},{"Title":"Unrivaled genius","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Living Dead is notable in the pages of film history for being the rarest of rarities, a horror-comedy that is *actually* funny and *actually* scary, not only in comparison to other horror-comedies of the same period but to other movies in general. Most of the humor is due to the characterizations rather than the gags; Clu Gulager absolutely NAILED the small town blue-collar boss, and Don Calfa is weirdly funny as a sophisticated Nazi mortician. They are the unlikeliest duo ever, but by God, it works. The horror is far more engaging, though, as it relies on an element that is missing from 90% of horror movies today imagination. Director Dan O'Bannon, the writer of Dark Star and Alien, who must be a genius, dreamed up a lot of sadistic aftereffects of a zombie epidemic that eluded even George Romero. The part with the little dog is one of the most disturbing things I've ever seen and actually left me feeling ill. And the idea of people's physical bodies decaying while their minds stay alert takes Romero's walking corpses to a new level of horror. The zombies, as explicitly stated, can feel themselves rotting. All of the horror scenes involve the idea of continuous physical pain, and what's scarier than that? Other touches of genius are too numerous to discuss; the Tar Man and Yellow Man are classic movie monsters and the ending rivals Dr. Strangelove with its spoof of the military (okay, not really, but it's funny). And then there is the totally gratuitous female nudity; one has to admire O'Bannon for not even pretending to connect it with the plot. This film has rightly preserved its status as a camp classic, but in my opinion it should be viewed as a serious entry in the horror genre, even if O'Bannon only set out to make a dumb zombie flick (in all seriousness, he didn't pollution is scary, and I've never seen another movie handle the subject so well). 9/10 "},{"Title":"Best horror-comedy out there.","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is a moment early in Return of the Living Dead that instantly puts it in a class all it's own. A cadaver in the basement of a warehouse has come to life and has been locked in a walk-in freezer. The guy who runs the warehouse and his two employees are trying to figure out how to deal with a dead man who's come back to life and is throwing a fit in their place of business. One of the guys asks what the people did in the movie Night of the Living Dead, it being the most famous of all zombie flicks so the best point of reference. The guy says that in the movie the humans destroyed the zombies by destroying their brains. The guys slam a pick-ax through the zombie's head which pins him to the floor, but does not kill him. Well, it worked in the movie, one guy screams and the other guy replies, Well, it ain't working now! Sheer cinematic brilliance, if you ask me. Think about it, if zombies did start walking the Earth and attacking us, we would do the same thing. We'd reference a zombie movie simply for the sheer lack of anything else to look to. If a vampire attacked we'd look for some garlic and a stake, and not because we learned it in grammar school, but because we saw it in a movie. A lot of people thought Shaun of the Dead was such an original idea, a zombie comedy! News is, people have been making them for awhile, and this one's the best of the bunch. Clu Gulager's performance is wonderful, he's equal parts Jimmy Stewart and Clint Eastwood. He's got that everyman quality, but exudes the classic movie tough guy machismo when it's called for. I don't know what other actor could sport a Members only jacket for an entire film and still look cool. Don Calfa is also memorable as the bug-eyed mortician who really takes pride in his work. The soundtrack is great, featuring Surfing Dead by the cramps and some other eighties underground classics as well. There's good gore and even some frights, despite the comedic tone. The ending is classic horror movie all the way as well. This movie is often referred to as the punk rock zombie movie, I guess because of the punk rock kids who stumble into the plot via an excursion to the cemetery. I simply refer to it as the best zombie movie ever made. Watch it with a bud! "},{"Title":"A happy surprise","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can't believe, that for all the years that I've loved horror and horror/comedies, I've never seen this movie before. I'd heard of it,but never bothered to watch it until now.This movie was great fun. I hadn't expected the comedy elements in it. It kept my attention and gave me some good laughs. Even though the plot isn't a particularly deep one, the writing is excellent. The zombies aren't the slow, shambling, dim witted ones we're used to....Many can move quickly and and even talk. It's so nice to see a zombie movie that has the word..'brain, brains, brains' used so much. The zombies also had some of the funny lines.The film was cast perfectly. Each actor and actress made the most out of their character. I do so enjoy good acting in my horror flicks and this one has that. The action was pretty constant and I'd say gore isn't all that gory. I was drawn into the characters and was anxious to see who would survive. It has a good, solid script which makes the dialog interesting. I found the ending very satisfying.Most of all this is a fun film. It has a good balance of horror and comedy. I wish I had watched this movie years ago. It would have been one of those movies I'll watch over and over again. I will own this one day. So, yeah, give it a try. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"One of the best  Zombie movies ever!!!!","Date":"7 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There back from the grave and ready to Party!!! Filled with great Special Effects and a great soundtrack Return of the Living Dead stands out a one the best 1980s Horror films ever.Like it said above the Special Efx were especially on the Tarman zombie. Allan Trautman who portrayed Tarman had the right movement as if he was going to fall to pieces.And the cast of the film.Another thing that makes this movie stand out.With great actors like Clu Gulager,James Karen,Don Calfa.And the younger cast of Thom Matthews,Miguel Nunez Jr.,Linnea Quigley and the rest.Who I believe all of them gave performances of a lifetime.Dan O'Bannon who made the film what it was showed that he was a talented writer and director.The setting of the film was fantastic.The sets were believable.And also gave the movie a great vibe.This film is as original as it can get.When I was younger and seen it on VHS for the 1st time it actually did terrify me. But I grew into it.And the artwork for the film is great So many great things can be said about this movie.Why couldn't Return of the Living Dead 3,4,and 5 be as good as this.Not a bad question Burt "},{"Title":"F**k  you, ball-buster!","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, we have zombies, punk rockers, a punk rock soundtrack, violence, gore, nudity, one-liners, comedy, great special effects, gratuitous profanity, an old creepy/shady mortician, an old cool caddy, brains, cheesy acting(where needed), dissected dogs, three sweet settings, and an awesome plot...BOOM! What else do you need? This movie has been one of my favorites for the past 25 years. This is by far one of the most entertaining movies I have ever seen. Hilarious when it needs to be and sadistically chilling when the plot calls for it. This movie will be remembered for years to come. A definite cult classic. If you have never watched this movie then you are depraving yourself. Watch this movie...again and again! "},{"Title":"Dead Scary, Dead Funny, Dead Good!!!","Date":"27 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Without a shadow of a doubt the best zombie film out there, it's short and sharp! it has the right mix of horror and humour and quite simply characters to die for. The cast work great together and you can tell they're having a riot. The more you watch the film you'll always find something new. The zombies are amazing and actually run (this was probably the first zombie film to have them running). The soundtrack is also great with a load of 1980's punk songs too, the only problem with the DVD is that the soundtrack has been tampered with along with the zombie's voices -( the old VHS is better apart from the grainy picture. The most fun you'll ever get out of a zombie movie! "},{"Title":"Rabid Weasels","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Brilliant. Incredible dialogue and deadpan delivery. The funniest comedy/horror ever. This movie does not fail to deliver on sheer entertainment delight. The low budget effects are part of the charm. The strength of the film comes from the incredible interaction among the actors. The situations they find themselves in are over the top, but the solutions they come up with to deal with them are what makes the movie. Watching the warehouse supervisor come completely unhinged after he discovers dead things coming to life was pure joy. Especially as he momentarily regains his composure as he calls his boss to explain that they have 'a situation' at the warehouse. I've watched this movie several times over the past 20 years and watching it last night, forced me into convulsive laughter. Tears were streaming down my face as I tried to catch my breath. Too many funny moments to mention, but the dialogue between the warehouse owner and the mortician as they discuss how to deal with bags of rabid weasels is worth the price of admission alone! "}{"Title":"THE RETURN of Return of the Living Dead","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the greatest horror films of all time (in my opinion) has been pretty rare to find but now it is returning. With a DVD due out August 27th ROTLD is also being shown regularly on Showtime Beyond (good news for people with digital cable)and I am so happy because I think this movie will be a real treat for anyone who likes good horror films. This hard to find film is awesome and has everything that makes movies great. "},{"Title":"I wish it was easier to get!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I fell in love with this movie when i was 13 years old. I used to sneak into the movie theater to see it. I must have done that about 15 times. It's beyond me why no one has released this movie onto dvd yet. In my opinion it's the best zombie movie ever made! If this movie would be released again in large quantity someone would make alot of money. Right now if you try to buy it online (when you can find it) it costs about $40.00! it's such a shame all those people have to miss out on such a great movie. sometimes i'll ask a 19 year old (here and there) if they have ever seen return of the living dead and the reply is always the same never heard of it. it breaks my heart. BOO HOO. "},{"Title":"It doesn't get any better than this","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return of the Living Dead has it all... scares, gore, punk rock, humor, satire, Linnea Quigley, and the best looking zombies ever.  The level of decay on the zombies is dead on (pardon the pun).  Rather than just going with a blue-green makeup job like the Romero zombies (of which I am also a fan), Return of the Living Dead goes all out with oozing, dripping corpses. And who doesn't love Send more paramedics... croaking from the throat of a reanimated body.  Quick-paced and in your face, this is what zombie movies should strive to be. PLEASE please please please please please please please please let a widescreen DVD of this zombie classic be in the works.  I need it like corpses need brains.  "},{"Title":"A true gem","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll start by asking, why don't they print this movie anymore?  Whoever owns the rights to this has gotta realize that they're sitting on a goldmine; that millions of zombie-heads WANT THIS MOVIE!  I'm fortunate enough to own a copy, but if you don't have one, tough!  When I think of all of the horror garbage that you CAN buy at any video store it puzzles me to no end why one of the greatest horror films ever made is basically not available.The first half of the film involves the employees of a medical supply warehouse and their little problem- a canister of 245tri-oxin leaks onto a cadaver causing it to come back to life.  The employees deal with this problem, but in turn cause a much bigger one- an army of rotted, brain eating zombies.  From there the movie escalates into an all out war between zombies and humans, and centers around the small group of punks and scientists who must escape the raging battle.  I LOVE the Romero trilogy, but honestly this is just as good.  The quotable dialogue, the zombie effects, the action, the horror, the jokes- it just all comes together in a way that really has never been duplicated.  There are some scenes that are so...CRAZY, that you don't know whether to laugh or scream.  If you're ever at the video store and they actually have a copy of this, offer to buy it from them right away, as you won't be able to return it.  Avoid the stupid sequels. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly entertaining and one of my favorite films","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Combination of horror, comedy and great acting make this one of my favorite films of all time. A few famous (or at least recognizable) actors certainly helped the acting but the unknown ones are good too. I like that they didn't have a bunch of dumb girls being chased around. There is never a slow moment in this film, like riding a roller coaster. It tells a great story. It isn't too gory but gory enough. The special effects, especially the dead talking and moving around, are great and very realistic. You definitely have to see the second Return of the Living Dead as it continues with some of the original characters and is also a great film. The third installment was a bust but viewable. I highly recommend this fun film. "},{"Title":"Braaaaiiiinnnsss","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is really, honestly no way for me to give an accurate assessment of this movie. Sometimes, you are just so in love with something that you are far past seeing any of its' faults any longer and only concentrate on what you love about it. When you have crossed the line from objective critic to outright fanboy, your opinion should be taken with a grain of salt, so I'm just throwing out that caveat right now.This move was my first experience with the zombie genre and probably one of the first movies that really terrified me. Like a lot of us, if I wanted to see things that my parents would have considered to be too mature for me, I went to obvious outlet -- my grandparents. It's 1985. I'm 10 years old. My grandparents have HBO and pretty much let me stay up as late as I want to watch what I want. Queue up a Saturday at 2 AM and my first viewing of this classic movie. I only barely knew what zombies were and that knowledge had come from Scooby Doo and old comic books. I certainly didn't understand why they wanted brains so badly, but I was terrified that they were coming to get my brains. This created the zombie template, in my head. It would be a number of years before I ever saw a Romero zombie flick and remember being disappointed that they didn't moan braiiins the whole time. ROTLD was my first experience and, to me, all zombies were brain eaters.What I clearly missed out on, as a 10-year old, was the bizarre sense of humor in this movie. It's not even just a comedic interlude or two, the movie goes for humor the entire way through, creating a much different feel than the Romero and Fulci zombie moves that had come before it. I think it's that angle that has helped this movie to create its' own niche in zombie lore. While so many zombie flicks come and go and are soon forgotten, this movie was able to stand the test of time and even spawn numerous sequels. Yes, the effects are great, but many zombie movies can claim the same. It was that odd black humor that set this movie apart.I see that now, but didn't all those years ago, which brings me to the most important part of the movie. It may be strange and humorous, but it's also pretty terrifying. The setting of a dark and stormy night with the three central stages of a medical supply warehouse, a cemetery and a mortuary help to create a bleak feel throughout. The zombies are not just simply rotting shamblers, either, but have a real menace about them.As I started the review stating, I know that there are many 80s kids like myself that probably view this movie much higher than others do because of its' place in our hearts, but that's okay and I'm not going to apologize for that. This movie helped to solidify my love of the horror genre and will always be one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"spectacular!","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is not only one of the best (if not the best!) zombie movies of all time, but it's one horror movie that throughout my childhood never got old and still doesn't to this day. part horror movie, part comedy, and all kinds of fun, this one never bores, even if the effects look dated. for this, like the golden zombie films of the immortal George Romero, relies on make up and mechanics rather than CGI and cheese. playing as if Night of the Living Dead was based on a true story, but in order to prevent lawsuits, the facts were changed around a military chemical reanimates dead bodies, turning them into unstoppable zombies with a craving for human brains. all of this was contained with the zombies and the chemical stored in steel tanks, but these tanks were mistakenly sent to the wrong place, a medical supply warehouse in Kentucky, where the story opens. all is quiet and fine until two morons, frank and Freddy (james Karen and Thom Matthews), crack one of the tanks and release the chemical (as well as the tank's inhabitant). frank and Freddy inform their boss, Burt (Clu Gulager), who enlists the help of local mortician, Ernie (Don Calfa) to help cover up the mess. this makes things worse, spraying the chemical over the nearby graveyard and raising an endless swarm of nasty (and very hungry) dead people. these poor saps, along with a group of teenage punks, end up trapped inside the mortuary, barricading themselves inside with very little hope of escape. the formula is the same as most zombie films, but never has one been more fun. for the most part, this piece is a comedy, loaded with lots of foul language and nudity (thanks to punker babe Linnea Quigley), but the situation (zombies that can only be killed by being completely destroyed to nothing) and setting (an old, cemetery enclosed in thick trees and woods on a dark, rainy night) are most serious. the actors have fun, but are never cheesy. gulager's great as always, calfa (basically playing a Nazi in hiding) is awesome, but Karen and Matthews are the best, especially in the first half. as the two dumb bastards responsible for this nightmare, their interplay is both frantic and hilarious as they squabble over the next course of action. the movie has its share of gore (open skulls, pieces of brain, blood sprays, rotting bodies), so along with the comedy, it has a little bit of something for everybody. then there's the ending which basically shows the best solution for such a large type clusterf*#k. i don't expect everybody to like it, but most horror fans will love it and probably consider it an 80s classic. i know i do. "},{"Title":"One of the most under rated horror movies ever","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think that as a horror (slash) spoof (slash) comedy that this movie though extremely popular to this day has also been under rated. This was a well executed horror film. It also worked great with the brains eating spin. Also when the zombie explains why they eat brains gave it a sort of realism which added to the Science part of it being great Science-Fiction. This movie was not only truly scary and disturbing but it was very comical as well. It also had some fantastic tee hee moments as well. Like when the kids ran up the basement stairs to get away from one of the zombies. What I mean by tee hee is that nervous kind of laughter like when you are kids and someone is playing the monster. Some part deep in side of you always actually gets scared even though you know it's not real. You laugh with a bubbly yet nervous tee hee or Eak. I think that is what made the original Night of the living dead opening so great. when Barbara's brother was teasing her about the old man being a zombie. Then he turns out to be a real zombie. Sorry for any spoilers if you haven't seen either movie but I'm sure 90%+ of us have seen both by now. I sort of liked the other Return of the living dead films but they just can't hold a candle to the original. It's sort of like any movie from the 80s. There were a lot of great films like Poltergeist but the sequels fell short of recapturing that spark. I think that The Return of the Living Dead (1985) was & is one of the all time best horror comedies out there. Even with some of the effects being low budget or cheesy it was the 'way' in which they had them perform that made this film great. "},{"Title":"A modern zombie classic","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A good twist on Romero's living dead. This time the dead are rising due to chemicals from chopped up living dead bodies being burned and their ashes combining with rain and falling onto a graveyard. Well, would you have made it that complicated? The acting is not strong outside of Clu Gulager and James Karen, and Don Calfa plays a wonderful mortician with several clues as to a possible nazi past scattered around.The punks are cannon fodder, only Linnea Quigley being memorable for obvious reasons. The sight of 2 of the male leads succumbing to rigor mortis is priceless.The creatures themselves are a change from the hobbling zombies of yesteryear. Only the tar-man hobbles in his quest for more Brains. The idea that they eat brains to take away the pain of decay is brilliantly disturbing it hurts to be dead. Add to that the classic line that has inspired at least one rock band send more paramedics.All in all this is a well crafted horror movie. "},{"Title":"What's wrong with you? Have respect for the dead!","Date":"16 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently viewed this wonderful zombie movie (again) and I am still in awe how good it is. Truly ahead of its time with Running and Talking Zombies! Classic! I can really understand the confusion in the title alone. A lot of people thought it was a continuation of the George A. Romero movies. But it's not. It's sort of a comic spoof/homage to them. But it does have that Night of the Living Dead quality to it. And why not? John Russo and Russell Streiner of the original, were involved in the writing of it!. I enjoyed how good/silly the acting, the music, the action was, all good! If you seen it, watch it again and see things you missed the 1st time and if you haven't, by all means check it out! ) "}{"Title":"Return of the Living Dead No It's Not a Sequel","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Zombie films can be very different from each other. Romero's zombie films are bleak and often riddled with social commentary. This movie is horror/comedy. You know when a director has the balls to do something different from the popular stuff, this is that director.The story is basically a twist on NotLD where it was a real incident but Romero was told to fictionalize everything so the government wouldn't sue his ass. From this point on the film becomes a pretty good suspense and decent comedy. So the first half is comedy and suspense then BAM action/horror. That twist by itself works this film into the crack of genius.If this movie was made for zombie fans then it delivered since I am a huge zombie fan. I did have one beef and that is the sequel bait. I don't like sequel bait. Other than that it was great. "},{"Title":"Somebody get a flashlight over here....!","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Return Of The Living Dead, written and directed by Dan O'Bannon, and starring Clu Gulager, James Karen and Don Calfa performing at their over-the-top best, is one of the prime examples of the no-holds-barred camp zombie movies to date, with laughter-inducing imagery, lines such as Send...more...paramedics and They're rabid weasels to a soundtrack with tunes by legendary punk rock groups such as The Cramps. The supporting cast includes Scream Queen Linnea Quigley as Trash, a red-haired punker with a tendency to take her clothes off on a random and frequent basis and dance on the tombs in the local graveyard.The plot at the Uneeda Medical Supply (you have to love the name) warehouse in a small town in Kentucky, foreman Frank (Karen) decides to show the new employee, Freddy, some old military barrels that accidentally ended up in the basement. Containing the leftovers of the botched army experiment that inspired the classic Night of the Living Dead (1968), the gas inside the barrels sprays all over when Frank starts fiddling with the containers, putrid zombies break out, and the fun is just beginning as Frank phones his boss Burt (Gulager). Burt rushes over to try and help contain the problem, but of course matters only worsen (split dogs! headless cadavers running amok!), so the two enlist the help of his mortuary friend (Calfa).Freddy's teenage friends and his squeaky-voiced goody two-shoes girlfriend Tina show up at the supply house to pick him up when he gets off work, and become entangled in the havoc.The Return Of The Living Dead is a truly hilarious camp classic of zombie films, a must-see for first-timers and a must-see-again-and-again for all fans of zombie films. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this film. it's campy, but not in a cheesy way.... more in a enjoy the ride way. and who can resist the line, send more brains it's clever and funny, but not cheesy. what really impresses me is the balance between horror and humor. you have great horror make up effects, that are balanced with humor. it's just a fun ride, although followed up with pointless sequels that diminish the brand. stick with the original. it's interesting how this is a offshoot of the night of the living dead, and it's kinda interesting how they spun off two sequels, one with George Romero going the serious route, and then this variation where you have the fun route. "},{"Title":"Naked Punks, Rabid Weasels, and BRAAAAAAAAINS!!","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the beginning of the film (International Treaty. All skeletons have to come from India. I just wish I knew where they find all the skeletons with perfect teeth!) to the explosive end, this movie is one of the finest of the zombie genre. It is scary and disturbing and funny and has one of the best soundtracks in the universe, ever.Freddy (Thom Mathews) starts a job at the Uneeda Medical Products warehouse. On his first night, he is shown the ropes by warehouse manager Frank (James Karen). During the tour, Frank tells Freddy that the events in the zombie classic Night of the Living Dead were true -- the corpses were reanimated by an experimental military gas called 245 Trioxin, and after they were collected they were stuffed into barrels and sent to the Uneeda Warehouse by mistake. Frank shows the barrels to a skeptical Freddie. When Freddy asks if the barrels are secure, Frank smacks one on the side -- and the barrel erupts with a cloud of poison gas, knocking both of them out.Meanwhile, Freddy's girlfriend, Tina, has arrived to pick him up from work. She's accompanied by an oddly-assorted pack of friends, in a car driven by the large and scary Suicide, who wonders why the gang only calls him when they need a ride someplace (Because, one of the gang explains patiently, you are one spooky motherf*cker, man.) Although the punks are a fabulous addition to the film -- and Scream Queen Linnea Quigley, as the rapturously sleazy Trash, vaulted immediately into the boyhood mythos of every adolescent male who saw the film when she stripped off her clothes and pranced starkers on top of a tombstone -- they are also a jarring note. Freddy is a regular Joe in a trucker cap, and Tina is the type who wears jelly sandals that coordinate with her plastic hoop earrings; how is it that they hang out with people who talk about sex and death and smoke pot and dance naked in cemeteries?Freddy and Frank regain consciousness to discover that all of the dead things in the warehouse have come to life -- including the corpse in the freezer, which hurls itself angrily against the walls in an attempt to reach their brains. Frantic, they chop it to pieces but the pieces refuse to die (Well, it worked in the movie!). They call the warehouse owner, Burt (Clu Gulager) who, in a panic, asks his friend Ernie (Don Calfa) at the mortuary next door to cremate them for him.The three men bundle the dismembered corpse into a sack and carry it, thrashing and squealing, to mortician Ernie who, not unreasonably, wants to know what the hell they are asking him to burn (Burt, thinking on his feet, replies Uh...rabid weasels.) After Ernie refuses to cremate live weasels (Christ, Burt, they're alive! Even if the damn things are rabid, I can't burn them alive!), they break down and tell him the story; shown the wriggling body parts, a stunned Ernie agrees and puts the bag into the oven. As the smoke rises, a thunderstorm disperses the particles...and soaks them into the ground of the cemetery next door, where Tina and her punk friends are gamboling happily among the (currently quiet) dead. But not for long! From this point on, the movie becomes a startlingly intelligent gore-fest, featuring zombies who can run and think (and use a radio to order up cops and paramedics like Chinese food) and punctuated by the obvious deterioration of Frank and Freddy. Having inhaled the gas, the two of them are turning into Zombies before the astonished eyes of their friends (at least, the remaining friends who manage to reach the warehouse after zombies begin popping up like weeds in the cemetery; Trash is last seen shrieking her lungs out as zombies close in on her naked body). As Freddy slips from humanity into zombiehood, he serenades Tina with the most gruesome love soliloquy in the history of cinema -- I love you, and that's why you have to let me eat your braaaaaaaaaains!! Amid all of the blood and gore and screaming, Frank's death in the crematorium is the one scene I found almost unwatchable in its pathos. After Freddy loses his mind and starts screaming for brains, Frank realizes what is in store for him and sadly consigns himself to the flames, removing his wedding ring before he cranks the conveyor into oblivion.There are those who don't like the end of this movie and I can sympathize -- I think maybe the filmmaker took the cowards way out -- but I'm not sure it could have ended any other way. In any case, this is one of the greatest zombie movies ever made and I recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"It's not often you see must-see and horror-comedy in the same review, so that should definitely count for something","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dan O'Bannon's rollicking send-up of the genre he helped create is a rare horror-comedy that succeeds on both fronts. With a generous dispersement of splatter and some truly priceless sight gags, Return Of The Living Dead distinguishes itself as a must-see entry in the zombie canon and delivers a mirthful dose of gross, outrageous fun in the process.The excellent cast, which features a perpetually nude Linnea Quigley and Friday The 13th franchise alumni Thom Mathews and Miguel Nunez, is obviously having a great time with the material, and their infectious enthusiasm makes the film impossible to resist. It would be easy for Return to slip into clichés with a band of punk-rock teens at the forefront, but the characters largely eschew stereotypes and emerge as a likable group of protagonists who play out even the most blatantly comical elements with a straight face.Though not an official sequel to Night Of The Living Dead, the film (rather audaciously, actually) explains away the cause of the zombie outbreak in George Romero's 1968 classic, openly referring to it by name and shattering the fourth wall by telling us it was only a movie. However, according to ROTLD, the scenario in Night was based on real events, and when enthused listener Mathews excitedly consents to see proof of this, the trigger for this deliciously droll zombie uprising is set into motion.It's interesting to note that Romero's Day Of The Dead was released the same year as this ersatz entry in the series, if only because the tones of the two films are as diametrically opposed as Ace Ventura Pet Detective and Sophie's Choice. Return may not yield the intellectual rewards that Day aspires to, but it does infuse a healthy dose of levity that is completely absent from Romero's stark and misanthropic (but brilliant, don't get me wrong) entry.Clearly, the FX here can't compete with Tom Savini's indelibly amazing set-pieces in Day Of The Dead, but there are a few gore-drenched scenes in this film whose execution and facetious tone clearly forge part of the blueprint for Peter Jackson's early work. Even when we end up seeing patently unrealistic rubber puppets, the sometimes clunky effects actually serve the movie well, since they heighten the splat-stick sensibility that is the driving force in Return.Zombie purists may be a bit miffed that cardinal rules of the genre are broken, the most blatant deviation being that the ghouls in Return Of The Living Dead can talk. Yet, the classic send more paramedics line alone merits the acceptance of this alteration of the mythos, and since a good chunk of the humor is derived from the auditory skills of the prowling creatures, I will respectfully suggest that if this idea bothers you, you're more than welcome to skip this outing and watch Lucio Fulci's Zombie again instead.Certainly, the film is a tad lopsided and admittedly uses up its best stuff in the first half, but the humorously bleak and effective ending bookends the movie rather nicely. When the end result is a huge smile on your face while the credits roll, it doesn't seem useful to complain about how that smile got there.Return Of The Living Dead is a truly one-of-a-kind experience that earns every iota of its cult classic status. If you're a horror fan who also possesses a sense of humor, your life really isn't complete until you've seen this. Uneven, sure, but absolutely brilliant just the same. "},{"Title":"Ahem, more brains please!","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sadly, during the mid-80s, audiences lost interest in zombie movies. That's partly why I think Romero's DAY OF THE DEAD did so poorly at the box office. Sure Michael Jackson's THRILLER music video had come out a few years earlier (with some notably wonderful make-up, I might add), but by 1985, this little gem went virtually unnoticed in theaters. Happily, the home video market began to flourish and I think that's what helped RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD (or ROTLD for short) become the cult classic that it is today. The movie has us believe that everything that George Romero wrote in NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD was based on a true story. Then, the writers wisely take our concepts of slow-moving, mostly-stupid zombies and turns it on its head. Pre-dating Danny Boyle's wonderful 28 DAYS LATER by 15 years, this movie introduced audiences to the concept of faster, smarter zombies who can even talk. A host of veteran character actors bring to us a chilling tale of a government-made chemical getting loose and wreaking terror on a nearby cemetery. The punk rock music and its host of young punks gives this movie a grunge feel, while the zombie effects are astounding. Who doesn't find the appearance of Tarman absolutely terrifying? What ROTLD has going for it is an even mix of laughs and screams. Yes, it's that rarest of horror films known as the zombie comedy (or zomedy, for short.) Ultimately, ROTLD doesn't take itself too seriously, and neither should the audience! "},{"Title":"The 80's","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 80's has such great movies. These movies had mass appeal, great comedic dialogue, good scripts, decent acting and way zany plots.Return of the living dead is one such movie. Made by one of the writers of the Night of the Living Dead it takes a more a comedic tone than the former. Right from the moment they play the cheesy soundtrack when the Zombie or the Living Dead appears you know this is going to be one heck of a ride. Much like Evil Dead 2 it accomplishes and executes the Horror - Comedy part of it to perfection.A group of teenagers with nothing better to do hang out at a cemetery while all hell is breaking loose at a near by medical supply store that supplies cadavers. You can call this movie the first instance of the fast zombies. Zombies that ran instead of dragging their feet everywhere.As we progress we learn that the events of The Night of the Living Dead actually happened but the army hushed it up. Some chemical causes this to happen. The whole event turns out to be some army manufactured disaster that was kept quite for years but is returning to haunt everyone. The virus spreads and slowly the entire city is filled with the living dead as the teenagers and owner of the medical supply store battle it out and try to stay alive.Return of the Living dead is the perfect film to put in a good movie. You can watch it with friends over popcorn or you can watch it alone you will be laughing and having a great time. Return of the Living dead is the quintessential 80's movie and if you love 'em you gotta watch this one! "},{"Title":"Probably the best zombie movie","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first saw ROTLD I actually did not like it, I happened to turn it on during one of the brain munching scenes and was actually sort of grossed out! This is not easily accomplished as I am a horror fan but yep this film did it. I don't think brains are anyone's favorite organ to view at least not mine. This is probably one of the intentions of this movie- to up the ante on night of the living dead. This film accomplishes this in several ways which I discovered years later when I actually sat through the whole thing. The zombie's in this series are fast, harder to get rid of and can work together to get you! This film is funny, scary and gross all at the same time- a weird but very effective combo. It is now one of my favorite horror movies and I think it will stand the test of time. Just a note, the second movie was OK, the third was bad and started to veer away from o'bannon's new zombie rules. I will review those movies as well. "},{"Title":"A fun time for all","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" To this day, I can't believe Dan O'Bannon got away with using The Living Dead in his title. George Romero should have sued, and probably did. Nevertheless, this is a classic horror comedy straight out of the 1980s, with gruesome brain-devouring zombies running riot in a small town. Actually, due to the movie's modest budget, the zombies run around a small number series of sets, consisting of a warehouse, both inside and outside, a bridge and a mortuary, inside and outside. There also are a couple of shots dealing with Army personnel. An Abbott and Costello-type pair unleashes a government-developed gas that revives the dead. Even dead parts. A warehouse exec, a mortuary owner and several daffy young people end up in a fight for their lives, while a series of EMTs and police arriving on the scene are quickly dispatched by the ravenous zombies. The hammy acting is strictly from hunger, the dialog largely improvised, and the clumsy blocking and static photography (mostly medium shots) are like something from a 1932 talkie. But the zombie attacks are ferocious and go way beyond anything Romero attempted in Night. Also, zombies getting on the ambulance and police radios to order up more help in their sepulchral voices is beyond hilarious. You also have the ravishing Scream Queen of her day, Leanna Quigley, spending most of screen time nekkid. It also is a riot to see familiar grocery store hawker James Karen in a prominent role here. Plus, much has been said over the years about the individual hired to play the rotting basement zombie, and he is indeed absolutely marvelous. Good for a laugh, and great for trotting out every Halloween. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best zombie movie ever made","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a cult classic for a reason. Hands down one of the best ever made and incredibly enjoyable throughout. ALL of the teenagers are awesome, all of the main cast is likable and funny. Linnea Quigley has one of the most iconic roles as 'Trash', the incredibly sexy punk girl with scenes I've never seen topped. The music is amazing and featured through the movie you'll hear legends such as .45 Grave, The Damned, T.S.O.L.,etc. The dialogue is hilarious and the acting is phenomenal. All of it equals up to one of the best movie experiences you will ever have. I saw this movie as a child and it is one of the few that is just as much fun today as it was back then. If you have yet to see this movie, you're life is not complete! The first thing you should do is run and watch it. ICONIC! "}{"Title":"The livin' dead now baby, like I said now baby, do the dead.","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Writer-director Dan O'Bannon has done quite a lot for horror fans. The man wrote Dark Star, Alien and Dead & Buried. That's a great trio of movies. Then he put the cherry on top by giving us this film, a fantastic horror comedy that uses Romero's classic Night Of The Living Dead as a minor jumping off point before carving it's own niche in the zombie movie subgenre.When people discuss things like fast zombies (as in the Dawn Of The Dead remake) and/or zombies with brains to use tools and speak (as in Land Of The Dead) then it's worth remembering that The Return Of The Living Dead was one of the first to have it's rotting toe in those waters. Perhaps people didn't argue over how pure or impure a zombie movie it was because it was just so much fun.The plot sees warehouse workers Frank (James Karen) and Freddy (Thom Mathews) accidentally releasing a canister of the toxic gas, 2-4-5 trioxin. The gas reanimates dead tissue and soon leads to a zombie outbreak so things get tense as Frank and Freddy hide out in the nearby mortuary alongside the bossman Burt (Clu Gulager) and the mortician (Ernie, played by Don Calfa). Oh, and Freddy's friends are waiting to meet up with him after his work so they're killing time, no pun intended, in the cemetery.With it's cast of memorable characters, wealth of great detail (what fan of this movie can fail to laugh every time they see the eye chart in the background of the warehouse office?) and perfect balance of laughs and tension this remains one of the very best 80s horrors and puts itself forward with a strong case for consideration as an all-time great.The cast are all fun, and it contains yet another memorable moment featuring the wonderful Linnea Quigley, and the script is sharp as they come. Gorehounds won't be disappointed either as the effects are all fantastic and suitably messy.Another plus would have to be the great soundtrack, featuring Surfin' Dead by The Cramps, Dead Beat Dance by The Damned and Take A Walk by Tall Boys and, of course, Partytime by 45 Grave (one of the best songs to accompany an undead uprising moment ever). It's a little bit ironic that the great punk tunes are such a highlight when it's the fact that some of the punk characteristics displayed by the characters constitutes one of the few weaknesses, dating the movie almost as soon as it was released and still feeling a bit needlessly quirky nowadays. Still, the fact that it's not perfect just makes it feel that little bit more like the hugely entertaining black sheep of the unofficial zombie family tree.See this if you like Nightmare City, Braindead, Shaun Of The Dead. "},{"Title":"Brains!..............Oh Yeah!","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great Zombie Comedy motion picture. The effects for the zombies are great.....................well at times the zombies look bad, but for the most part they look pretty damn good. (Especially Tarman, he looks awesome.) Now the acting is also good. They are very, very, very, passable. Now what needs to be noted in this movie are the zombies. They are very similar yet different than the stereotypical zombie. For example they say the word brains a lot, which I see zombies doing a lot of in comedies. The differences are that, for one thing, THEY CAN TALK! Most zombies we see are very silent, but no these guys. Another thing is that they can run, sure thats common for zombies to run today but back then it wasn't. Finally, in this movie it is not as easy to kill the Zombies in this film as it is in others. Because here you have to destroy every single molecule in there body. So all in all RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD, is a great zombie movie. "},{"Title":"Before 'Shaun of the Dead'...","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Zombie movies have gone through an interesting metamorphosis since their beginning many years ago. In the 1930s in movies like 'White Zombie' audiences saw the dead rise and kill because of a ritual, then in the 1968 in the classic 'Night of the Living Dead' not only were the dead brought back by something else, but for the first time people got to see the zombies eating living flesh on the screen. This film in particular was a major influence on zombie movies to come, even spawning a few sequels. In recent years the sub-genre has gone through further changes, sometimes successful like with the remake of 'Dawn of the Dead,' and other times not like the remake of 'Day of the Dead' for example. No longer the slow, shambling corpses of yesterday, today's walking dead are fast and vicious. However, if you've seen this classic from 1985 then you know this actually isn't new. A very diverse group of people came together and made what is truly one of the all time greats of not only the zombie sub-genre, but of the Horror genre in general.Pros Fun performances from a great cast. Brilliant script and direction by the late O'Bannon. Moves at a lightening pace. Great sense of humor. Awesome score and soundtrack, the latter of which is worth picking up. Excellent special effects. Some good scares and chills. A lot of scenes and images that'll stay with you, including the final few moments. A real love letter to fans, obviously made with heart.Cons Not totally, but is seriously lacking in the gore department. This was the 80s and when you're making a movie about people being eaten they should show it all.Final thoughts This is a really special film, truly one of a kind. It's also held up beautifully and is as much fun to watch now as it was when I was a kid. Hollywood producers could learn a thing or two about making a great Horror film from movies like this.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"iconic, distanced goofiness","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Reagan-era Romero Lite, an inaugural directorial foray from a screenwriter-by-trade capable of such divergent product as Dark Star and Alien. This splits the difference between the wit and the gore while basically dispensing with terror altogether there's too much distanced goofiness to feel much. Instead, it's a punk-rock zombie party, and as such it rocks the house, with hilarious dialogue from humans and zombies alike and social commentary limited to general contempt for bosses, cops and nuclear weapons. The screaming and general chaos do get a bit static toward the finish line, but by then a great deal of good will has been generated with the multifarious sight gags. Naming them seems redundant, because they're so iconic - the half-dog, the headless yellow zombie, the 'rabid weasels', the re-animated butterfly board. And, of course, the greatest sight gag of them all, Linnea Quigley as the stripper-punk-zombie-icon, exactly the focal point the movie needed. "},{"Title":"Successful mix of horror and comedy","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Living Dead is a great low-budget zombie flick that's both scary and funny. It's more intelligent that most other horror spoofs out there, and more thought-out than many supposedly serious zombie movies. The bulk of the humor comes from fairly understated parody of horror clichés and from clever exploitation of the discomfort we feel in the face of a seemingly unsolvable crisis.The movie begins with the accidental leak of a toxic chemical in a medical supply warehouse. It appears at first to be a manageable screw-up, but the situation quickly spirals into a full-blown zombie epidemic. As the crisis gets progressively more out of control, Return of the Living Dead gets more frightening and humorous, at the same time. "},{"Title":"A zombie masterpiece!","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two bumbling workers named Freddy and Ernie (Don Calfa and Clu Gulager) who work for a abandoned army supply company discovers cans of experimental gas used by the military as they accidentally unleash the gas. It somehow causes the dead to rise up from their graves to become fast-moving and very intelligent zombies that begin to crave human brains and are unstoppable.From writer-director Dan O'Bannon has wrote and directed a genuinely clever and funny Sci-fi horror comedy spoof of George A. Romero's zombie movies. Linnea Quigley who is one of horror cinema's most sexiest female actresses gets nude as she does a seductive striptease for the audience and of course there's over the top humor with gory sequences and of course James Karen who does a nice performance as Bert. What also works for this movie is that it had one of the earliest fast zombies before Dawn of the Dead (2004) ever came and the brilliant make-up with zombie effects even to the unforgettable Tar-Man zombie.This is a must see zombie movie and one of my favorites! Also recommended Return of the Living Dead II, Return of the Living Dead 3, Night of the Living Dead (1968 and 1990), Dawn of the Dead (1978 and 2004), Day of the Dead (1985), Land of the Dead, Diary of the Dead, Phantasm, Redneck Zombies, The Zombie Diaries, Dead Heat (1988), Bride of Chucky, Scream Trilogy, From Dusk Till Dawn, Let Sleeping Corpses Lie (a.k.a. Living Dead at The Manchester Morgue), Cemetery Man (a.k.a. Dellamorte Dellamorte), The Stuff, Evil Dead 2, 28 Days Later, 28 Weeks Later, Cannibal Apocalypse, Nightmare City (a.k.a. City of the Walking Dead), Lifeforce, Shaun of the Dead, Undead, Burial Ground The Nights of Terror, Fright Night, Hell of the Living Dead (a.k.a. Night of the Zombies, Virus, Zombie Creeping Flesh), Bio-Zombie, Tokyo Zombie, Grindhouse, Heavy Metal, An American Werewolf in London, Resident Evil Trilogy, Resident Evil Degeneration, City of the Living Dead (a.k.a. Gates of Hell), Dead Alive (a.k.a. Braindead), Stacy, Versus, Night of the Comet, Re-Animator, Bride of Re-Animator, Beyond Re-Animator, Pet Sematary 1 & 2, and Fido. "},{"Title":"great horror flick","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" the coolest gang leader ever suicide. he's tough as nails and got all the good lines. you think this is a costume? it's a way of life! some naked honey is grinding all over him in a graveyard, he pushes her... not just a gentle push, he knocks her on her butt, and says, have some respect for the dead, will ya?! other than that, the movie still beats butt. the zombies cannot be killed, no matter what you do to them. they can run. they can talk, they're not stupid. and they eat brains. for once, these are zombies that could actually take over the world. i think good movies, especially good horror movies, are written by people who secretly hate humans. dan o'bannon is probably one of those boys. even though AVP sucked so bad. "},{"Title":"Rent it, watch it, buy it","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" These are the steps taken by everyone who has watched this movie. Excluding snobs and zombie haters. This movie is great. The actors all hit there mark and played their parts with real enthusiasm. Most horror films of this type you find the characters being played as if the whole situation is a joke and well, brain hungry zombies are no joke! Although presenting this situation as a joke to an audience is another thing. This is one of the best horror/comedies of all time and a must own. It can easily be watched over and over again. For some reason nobody had ever suggested this film to me and I luckily came across it on my very own. Oh, I almost forgot I love you Trash! "},{"Title":"Magical horror comedy classic, hugely entertaining throughout","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film for the second time fairly recently, having last watched it when I was a young teen and had an absolute whale of a time. In fact I'd say I enjoyed it even more than I did when I first saw it, now that I've viewed a huge amount of Eighties horror of every conceivable variation of quality. Also, I've seen far more zombie films now and this stands out in my opinion as one of the all time classics. The problem for any humorous zombie film, and indeed horror comedy in general is that the balance of scares and laughs is a tricky thing indeed and can often lead to a film coming across simply stupid, or muddled or just plain weak. Zombies in particular are not the best subject for humour because the idea of the deceased emerging, rotten and gnarly from the ground to feast upon the living is far more disturbing than comical. Also, killing zombies is, if you think about it not that good a source of humour because it is basically just the slaughter of people who are still human but through no fault of their own are now grisly fiends. Return of the Living Dead scores by having the zombie menace and the various attacks played frightening and having the humour arise from the characters and their reactions. Rather than just trying to be funny like say, the OK but grossly overrated Shaun of the Dead, Return of the Living Dead draws humour from deadpan absurdism, whilst never neglecting the nightmarish aspect of the situation. The performances help make this film great and a number deserve mention. Thom Matthews and James Karen are convincing in their terror and sympathetic in their plight as the luckless souls who unleash the dead raising chemical and their part in the film is rounded out by Clu Gallagher as Karen's boss and Don Calfa as a weird morgue owner. The partying youngsters who unwisely choose a graveyard to party in are all pretty ace, with Linnea Quigley standing out (and getting naked) in perhaps her best known role as the wild, death obsessed Trash. Mark Venturini also stands out as the foul mouthed but thoughtful punk, Suicide. I was a little surprised by the relatively minor gore, but then more grue would have probably tipped this into splatter comedy territory and a lot of those films offer mere spectacle as opposed to actual humour. Anyways, with the great writing, a lack of gore really doesn't matter too much. From reading these boards there are clearly a few people who hate this film, but I would highly recommend it. It is neither sick or tasteless, not if you enjoy dark humour or Eighties cult films and it certainly can't be described as merely childish for it actually has a lot of wit, pathos and cool ideas. Altogether, one of the greatest horror comedy picture of all time and a wondrous experience that I cannot recommend enough. "},{"Title":"Nice Balance","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has a nice balance of nudity, gore, plot and retching. Upon my first viewing, I had to ask (my teenage son), Is there too much retching in this movie or exactly enough?. We agreed that there was exactly enough. Most of it was done by the character Burt (Clu Gulager) who was exposed to the living dead chemical early on. In fact, there are more unsettling sounds in this movie than in your average Family Guy episode.Some people call this movie a comedy. It was probably meant as a comedy; however, the whole Braaaaaains! shtick has become a cultural icon. Outside of this superficial difference to the George Romero trilogy, the dead also talk...and explain themselves. Sometimes they even order brains as take-out food, as in one scene with the famous, Send more paramedics.This movie has few shocks and no real suspense; however, it is very enjoyable, with some good performances by some veteran actors and some energetic performances by some younger actors.Warning Due to a flesh-colored fig leaf used by Linnea Quigley during her nude dance, she WILL appear to have the genitals of a Barbie doll.8/10 "}{"Title":"THE modern zombie classic.","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Living Dead is without a doubt a classic. Say what you will about the acting and the dialog, it doesn't matter. There is a reason why this film has a relatively high rating on here. It's supremely entertaining and it has aged wonderfully.The group of punks that party in the cemetery, the girl who gets naked and dances on graves, Tar Man, the stiffs crawling out of the dirt...it's beautiful.Absolutely the best American zombie movie of the 1980's and definitely a great all around horror comedy. Recommended viewing if you haven't seen it yet.8 out of 10, kids. "},{"Title":"Still Awesome","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This came out about the same time as the official Night of the Living Dead sequel Day of the Dead. As much as I like George Romero, this film is way better than Day of the Dead. Much more action, a better story and scarier zombies make this a worthy effort. Not to mention, this film is FUN. Okay, I like horror films with a message, but it's nice to have a nice balance of humor and gore...something missing from contemporary films like Hostel and The Hills Have Eyes. After more than 20 years, it can hold its own against recent zombie efforts like the Dawn of the Dead remake, Resident Evil and Land of the Dead. Plus, the punk rock soundtrack adds a nice touch. Good performances from everyone involved, but the real star is the slithering zombie that emerges from the chemical vat...still creepy after all these years. "},{"Title":"A Fashionable Return","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is like punk rock meets American Graffiti meets Night of the Living Dead, when all mixed together you get Return of the Living Dead; probably one of the best zombie flicks that was not done by George A. Romero. Essentially this movie is about a group of people and young rebels who unwillingly, and accidentally, open a drum of chemicals that brings the dead back to life. This movie is very well made since it made numerous references to Night and the way in which the zombies act and attacked people. The acting, to say the least, was very over dramatic, there was some good scares and gore and I loved the punk rock theme that they had. This movie was just really well done and the only thing that I did not like about this movie was the overuse of the F word and the unnecessary nudity. Cursing is okay, but in small amounts, but should not be overused like in this movie.First off, the plot structure was vastly different from your typical zombie flick, in a good way. It plays on the fact that Night really happened and it was true that the dead coming to life. It provides a reasonable and logical explanation behind the walking dead. While everybody knows that to kill a zombie, you must take the head off or damage the brain; in this movie, this is not true, they are still living after you take the head off. You cannot kill what is already dead. What was so different about these zombies was that they were completely conscience of their actions, they can talk and not mumble and they provide, through dialogue, why they have the craving for brains. I find this approach very unique and very different. This movie even plays on the theme of individualism through the lead rebel of the rebellious gang. He explains that his clothes, which is nothing but black leather and chains, is an expression of his being, but never explains why. Therefore it provides to be a great quagmire. To some extent it shows the rebellious side of the 80s.The acting was very similar to that of The Toxic Avenger; it was so over-dramatic that it was good. Two the lead characters in the beginning of the movie, played by James Karen and John Philbin, did a great job playing a panicky role, but so overdone. Clu Gulager, the male lead actor, also did a great job of being optimistic and his friend did a great job of being a bit skeptical, played by Don Calfa. The roles and performances that deserve a big applause for Most Over-dramatic Performance should go to Mark Venturini, who lays Suicide, Linnea Quigley, who plays Trash the death enthusiast and Beverley Randolph, who is the love interest of Phipin's Chuck character. However, if not for these performances, this movie would not have the b-movie and cheesy feel that made this film so entertaining. When you think about it, it's the acting that makes it work.The blood and the gore is very limited when you compare it to some zombie flicks, however, it is very effective. The gore limits itself to zombie make-up and some eating scenes so that way they don't overpower the film with unnecessary blood and guts. There is a scene, that should be notable, that has a zombie melting and decomposing which I though was very well done for it's time like what American Werewolf did for werewolf transformation. Even at some points were directors would go crazy with blood and guts, they try not to embellish; this style is best shown through one of the zombies that just got acid thrown on its face, but there is not blood, just cauterized eyes and mouth. There weren't that many scenes that were jump out scary scenes, though it didn't phase me. Granted, it had good intentions and they had good ideas, but nothing. I guess for me there were more funny scenes that real scary scenes, but that's another thing that makes this movie work so much, the almost slapstick, tongue-in-cheek horror.The one thing that I really enjoyed about this film is the punk rock theme that was present through the entire film. As soon as the zombies bust out o the ground, hard rock and roll starts to blast through the speakers. It really brings the zombie genre to a whole new level of excellence. Even a majority of the main characters seem like they kind of guys that like rock and roll. It's just a fun theme to play with and works very well with the zombie genre; evidenced by the remake of Dawn of the Dead, when they played Get Down with the Sickness. Though for me, it really gave this movie that retro 80s theme that I love so much. Rock N' roll and horror mixed together, it's a good thing.Overall, this movie is just one great roller coaster with some great thrills, creature features, rock and roll, over-dramatic acting and a whole mess of zombies and action. I'm glad that this movie was made because it paves the road for a whole new outlook on the zombie genre and give a new style of viewing the living dead as well as destroy it. It's just a fun movie to watch and just really entertaining in horror sense. I would recommend this movie to any horror fan or beginning horror fan, but I would strongly recommend this movie for anybody who loves zombie flicks as well as Romero fans. For me, I love this movie way too much. "},{"Title":"Do You Want To Party.....It's Party Time!!!!!!","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1985, There Was A Gem Of A Zombie Movie That Made Audiences Flock To Movie Theaters. Not Since George A. Romero's NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD Had A Zombie Movie Made An Impact In The Horror Genre Like RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD. This Movie Is A Cult Classic That Mixes Humor, Gratuitous Nudity, Great Music, Zombies and of course BRAINS!!!!!! The Movie Starts Off With Two Guys Who Discover Some Old Military Containers With Some Corpses and Unleash The Chemicals From Within. The Chemicals Then Bring The Dead Back To Life and Turn The Living Into Zombies. A Group Of Friends Go Party It Up At The Local Cemetery and Encounter The Dead Retuning To Life and From There All Chaos Breaks Loose. In The End, The Military Find Out Where The Containers are Located and Bomb The City. This Movie Is Sure To Leave Any Horror Fan Satisfied and Levae You Wanting MORE BRAINS!!!!!!!! Personally, My Favorite Part Involves The Tar-Man Saying, MORE BRAINS!!!!!!! Though As A Horror Movie Fanatic I Love This Movie A Lot, But NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD Is Still King Of The Zombie Flicks. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Do you wanna party?","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Living Dead is a terrific tongue-in-cheek horror spoof that has developed a rabid and devoted cult following and with good reason. This is the most fun you will ever have with a horror film. It refuses to take itself too seriously yet the blood flows freely and the effects, considering the cheap budget this film was on, are very well done. It brags a wonderful cast that consists of James Karen, Clu Gulager, Don Calfa, and the legendary scream queen Linnea Quigley. It seems that two bumbling workers at a medical supply warehouse inadvertently open up a tank that wound up at their warehouse years earlier through government error. This tank releases a toxic chemical that starts a chain reaction that is impossible to end. Everything they do seems to make matters worse! The corpse inside the tank comes to life and when another corpse inside the warehouse comes to life panic begins to set in. It is soon discovered that these zombies, unlike those in the movies, cannot be killed with a mere blow to the brain. They also have an insatiable appetite themselves for human brains (apparently eating brains helps to stop the pain of being dead, who knew?). When the cadaver is cut into pieces, the pieces go after them! An attempt is made to burn the pieces and this sends fumes into the air which creates an acid rain storm. The rain seeps into the ground at a nearby cemetery and brings all of the corpses back to life. Lucky for the zombies there is a group of punk rock teenagers partying in the cemetery and paramedics and police are on their way to join the party! This movie is a lot of fun to watch and is the type of movie that can be watched over and over again. Avoid the hideous sequels though! "},{"Title":"world's funniest gory movie","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very, very good schlock job. Ingenious script (on a formula plot) by Dan O'Bannon. (What's in those bags? Rabid weasels, Ernie.) The tone is manic, and this movie has a motor running the pace is quick, the shock factor delivers (dismemberment, full frontal nudity, apocalyptic nihilism), and it's just really funny. Clu Gulager is so deft, such a pro, his timing so delicate, especially when negotiating with Don Calfa - their scene is a study in comic interplay; but Don Karen gets the juiciest monologue, and he performs at a level of sustained hilarity worthy of the Marx Brothers.The whole ensemble of genre-cliché characters plays its stereotypes straight, which prevents the movie from taking itself too seriously as a comedy. O'Bannon's direction is complex and helpful.Watch out for the split dogs. "},{"Title":"..but I don't care darling! Because I love you, and you gotta let me eat your BRAAAAAAAAAAAINS","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was one of my favorite zombie movies by far. I have seen Romero's of the Dead series and I loved all of them. Then I heard of Return of the Living Dead and thought Uhoh...a knock off and put off attempting to find it. One night, I was bored out of my mind. SO I went to the library and looked in the DVD section...I then remembered my DVD player was broken so I went to the VHS section. I saw Return of the Living dead there...it basically yelled for me to watch it. I took it home, popped it in expecting to be bored out of my mind....boy was I ever wrong! This movie was great! The characters were good and always funny, the zombies were goofy but in a good way. Some of my favorite characters were Suicide the angry 'punk rock' guy with piercings and chains all over, I don't know why but he was fun to watch, Im only sad that he was the first to go...... Trash The emo girl who was overly obsessed by death..... Scuz The punk rock looking guy with a mohawk and trench-coat, however, he just wasn't in the movie enough. Only always off to the side.... Spider he was always trying to take control, and had some funny angry lines.... Frank The manager at Uneeda Medical Supply, who was way too into his job and all that, and when he becomes infected he turns into a whiny coward, but its funny... Freddy Part of the gang of punk rockers and also the newest worker at Uneeda who pretty much hangs around with Frank the whole movie.... Tarman probably the main zombie, he comes from the 245 Trioxin barrel, probably the smartest zombie. Well, I'm done ranting FINALLY. If your looking for a good horror/comedy, this is the one for you. I'm only glad that a bunch of random events led to me watching this (Note The movie didn't come out on DVD until Sept 2007, about 5 months after I saw ROLD). "},{"Title":"excellent film, excellent soundtrack","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The greatest Friday night movie of all time!!!I have watched this film over 100 hundred times and it never becomes boring. Best enjoyed with all your mates, a buffet and lots of beverages of the alcoholic variety. do you want to party? its party time we got to party its party time. its party time we got to party its party time its party time. once seen never forgotten although the sequels were awful especially return of the living dead part 3 which surely is a contender for the worst film ever made, It makes plan 9 from outer space look like goodfellas. ROTLD 2 is not too bad as for the others the least said the better. "},{"Title":"The Return of the Living Dead is the funniest and best Comedy/Horror ever.","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Return of the Living Dead is one of the better Comedy/Horrors of the 80's and while this may be bagged by some people because it is not scary I thing is worth while just to watch the comedy side of Deliberate over acting, witty side jokes and stupid plot, it's a fun movie. The movie is about 2 men who work at a morgue where they spill a fluid from the army out and they unleash a smell of deadly gas which causes the dead to become undead. The movie is funny and the zombies look good for the 80's and the daggyness of the movie makes it a must watch for all fans of this sought of stuff. I also think the sequels are worth a watch as they are all pretty good but they can still never surpass this beaut. Overall this movie is a laugh every 2 minute Horror flick made more to laugh at the stupidness then to gasp at the horror. Must watch for everyone. I rate it 63%. "},{"Title":"Some hilarious bad acting in this !","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As i said its funny when all dead bodies come alive and they try to kill the one that eventually gets burnt and the guy really over acts this and ruins the scene because hes like, Oh my god, thats sick, uurrgghh and oh thats disgusting it shows where the director tries to make the scene more disgusting than it really is only though it doesn't.What is wrong with that crazy girl that gets naked and walks around the cemetery!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!But i like the music when the acid is seeping out of the casket and going into the air. its really cool! 6/10 "}{"Title":"&#133;But I don't care darling, because I love you, and you've got to let me eat your brains","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When two employees at a medical supply accidentally unleash a strange chemical into the atmosphere that supposedly brings the dead back to life. The rain begins to come down and the dead come back from the grave craving human brains.There will always only be one Return. It's not OF THE JEDI nor OF THE KING but OF THE LIVING DEAD!This is the unofficial sequel to Night Of The Living Dead penned and directed by Dan O'bannon of Alien fame. This movie isn't really a sequel at all but its own zombie movie. The only thing it has in common with Night is the fact that this is a zombie movie and Living Dead is in the title. The Zombies in this movie can run, speak, and bite through skull to eat BRAINS! The soundtrack to this movie is also great. I love The Cramps. This is also one of those movies that are just uber-entertaining. It is good ol' fashion turn off you brain fun. "},{"Title":"A Classic Of Horror-Comedy...","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD at least 10 times over the years - not really sure why I'm just now choosing to comment on it. I just saw it at a drive-in this past weekend, so I guess that spurred my renewed interest in the film. I will say, that RETURN is full of classic horror and comedic moments, and some completely shaven full-frontal from 80s scream-queen Linnea Quigley doesn't hurt either...Two idiotic workers at a scientific supply warehouse accidentally unleash a military-grade toxin that reanimates the dead. This causes big problems for the workers and their pals, and a group of punk-rock misfits, when the chemical leaks into a nearby graveyard and the dead come out to play...Truly hilarious one-liners, great (often cheezy) performances, excellent FX, and some pretty original concepts for a zombie film (ie, smart zombies...) make RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD a classic to most all horror fans. If you don't get a kick out of this one, you should probably give up on horror films altogether. A classic and one of the best of the zombie genre...9/10 "},{"Title":"Best zombie film ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a deadly chemical is accidentally released and brings a cadaver to life, three medical supply workers get help from a cremator to burn its remains but by doing so, the smoke from the ashes rises into the clouds and creates a rainstorm which spreads the chemical through the town and reanimates the dead in a local cemetery in which a group of punk-rockers are hanging out. These reanimated corpses are hungry, and they're not vegetarians! This is not only my favorite zombie film but is also one of my favorite horror films of all time. I don't think I've ever had as much fun with a movie ever! They sure don't make 'em like this anymore. This movie has everything you could want in a horror film a creepy setting, lots of blood and gore galore, scary looking zombies, interesting characters, and a great plot! This semi sequel to Night of the Living Dead should be a favorite of any horror movie goer and a must have for gorehounds like me. Forget that Resident Evil crap, this is how a real zombie movie should be made. Return of the Living Dead is the king of all zombie films! I actually watched it in a cemetery once. How cool is that? "},{"Title":"Hilarious, clever film.....ruined by terrible sequels","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like almost all decent horror comedies, this film was ruined by lame and watered down sequels. This original, however, was a blast. The sharp wit and clever satire hit the mark consistently, plus the soundtrack can be pretty rock in' (The Cramps anyone?). This was a rare horror gem, in a decade where horror had been reduced to garbage like Friday The 13th and Nightmare On Elm Street. Not to mention it managed to beat even the father of zombie films (George Romero) at the box office that year. I've recently heard that they are putting out 2 more sequels, what a drag, do these filmmakers have no shame? Some things are better left alone. "},{"Title":"Genius low budget horror flick!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I was 11 years old, and I didn't sleep well for six months. It was years before I stopped sizing up buildings for quick board-up jobs. Now that I'm almost 30, I can appreciate this movie for its humor and QUOTABILITY. The dialogue just crackles, and so does Linnea Quigley. Has anyone ever looked so good? Bottom line, I've never seen a movie switch gears like this one between horror and comedy without compromising ... except this one.I just wish there were decent sequels. Part II was a pure laffer, and the laughs weren't there. Part III didn't have ANY laughs, and it didn't really stick with the vibe. Plus, the TARMAN was all wrong. So stick with the original, ROTLD.  "},{"Title":"It's Party Time !","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best Zombie movies. Total respect for the genre without mockery or cynism. A pure fanboy film and a great moment of fun. No problem to see it a thousand times but beware the sequels, they are not the same in quality. "},{"Title":"I laughed myself silly","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILERS*My mom and I watched this one night after having nothing better to do. This movie is pretty funny. The plot is what you'd expect. A couple of morons let loose a chemical that turns people into zombies. They kill a zombie, and stick it into an oven, releasing smoke and creating a bunch of new zombies. The only part I didn't like was the ending where they *SPOILER* detonated a tactical nuclear warhead in the middle of the city *SPOILER*.This movie is funny. My mom and I spent the whole time laughing, and we still joke about BRAINSSSSSS to each other.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"BRRRRRAAAAAAAINS!!!!!!!","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is everything a zombie flick should be and is what started a great love of the sub-genre.  It's suspenseful and well put together.  But it's fun and cheesy as any B-grade horror flick should be.  These movies (the whole return of the living dead series) accomplish what they intend to do.  If you're looking for something intellectual, look somewhere else.. this flick is about brains, but not that kind! I could ramble on, but I won't... just friggin' rent it or buy it already! "},{"Title":"Excellent mesh of comedy and horror","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return is much like Evil Dead 2 in it's sense of purpose in both comedy and horror. The first half hour of the film is easily seen as a comedy, then things take a more serious turn once the zombies start showing up. The actors, most notably Clu Gulager (and occasionally Jewel Shepard) provide some solid comedic delivery while still showing the horror of being up against Return ZombiesT. Francis Haines' score is perfect and haunting, providing the right background element for the scenes it's used in, O'Bannon's direction works wonderfully (especially the following the smoke scenes), and lastly..the ending is one of the best in movie history. This flick is a real treat for any fan of zombies, horror or comedy films in general.  "},{"Title":"I really like this movie alot! It's cool!","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the best zombie movies I've ever seen! The plot is interesting, it has great special effects and thesoundtrack is perfect for this kind of flick. This movie was out ofcirculation for about 12 years before they re-released it on DVD. If you like funny, scary movies, then this is the one for you! peace! "}{"Title":"One of the Best!!","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'd have to say in all honesty that this is one of my favorite Horror movies of all time. It may be hard to believe, because of the cheesy acting. But this is one of the only movies that made me scared after the film. It got into my brain and the more I thought about the movie the more scared I got. Granted I was only ten years old at the time. Sorry to ruin the end if you haven't seen, but not being able to kill the zombies freaked me out. I don't know if anyone felt the same. "},{"Title":"Best Horror film.","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just so you know, Return of the Living Dead is not a sequel to Night of the Living Dead, although it may appear to be. It follows the efforts of the workers at a medical supplier, a mortician, and some punks as they fend off brain hungry zombies. This movie has a great soundtrack, good horror, good comedy, and the punks are the most diverse group of people I have seen in any movie. I must say Return of the Living Dead probably, along with Dawn of the Dead, is the best zombie film ever made. It might even be one of the best horror films ever. The whole cast superb. Clu Gulager as Burt, the take charge owner, James Karen as Frank, the whiny factory worker who's slowly turning into one of the dead. The entire cast of punks is good, despite their lacking of experience and very young age. Don Calfa also shines as the mortician across the street. See this film at all costs, you wont be dissappointed.  "},{"Title":"I hit the f*cking brain!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Classic one-liners such as the above mentioned flow like wine in Dan O'Bannon's punks vs. zombies splatterthon.  With an assortment of outrageous, colorful characters (given life through top-notch actors, James Karen comes to mind...), a blaring goth punk soundtrack, incredible make-up fx and a heightened level of manic, bullet-like pacing it's no wonder RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD has grown to become my all-time favorite horror film.   The dread and rising tension is unbelievable; the atmosphere gets me every time.  Sets from The Medical Supply Warehouse to the mortuary are absolute genius ~ they will be forever etched in my brain.   The mix of horror and subtle, yet extremely morbid humor is pure gold and it's results can never be matched.    Nary a dull moment, a class act from start to finish.  I'm hard pressed to think of any movie that comes close to ROTLD's timeless, wondrous achievements.   "},{"Title":"Awesome, simply awesome!!","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to be one of the greatest horror movies ever made. A great script, effects & perfect acting (some of the acting is B-quality, but perfect) make this film a must see. When 2 barrels at a medical research facility are found containing corpses from the original 'Night Of The Living Dead', they are accidently released. When a poisonous gas is released as well from the barrels, this causes reanimation of the dead in the building. The only way to get rid of them are to burn them at a nearby cremetorium, which is the worst idea...this caused the ashes to go in the air & create an acid-type rain which reanimates bodies at a nearby cemetery. Of course this causes the dead to arise & wreck havoc on everyone in the area. It is a fantastic movie. See this & have fun! "},{"Title":"My favorite horror film of all time...","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I will not go into a long description of what this movie is about.  All I have to say is that I was 11 years old when my parents took me to see this film.  They took me again four days later... There has been nothing like it before and nothing like it ever again.  When it finally made it's way to video I remember how expensive tapes were when I was a child.  I had a friend record me a copy.  I must have watched this movie over 100 times.  There are very few movies I would consider flawless. This is one of them. My words can never truly express the love and respect I have for The Return of the Living Dead.         "},{"Title":"Scary, funny AND successful!","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing this film when it was released in 1985. I was just twelve and didn't have the right to see it for viewers under thirteen were not allowed in. By chance the people who ran the movie theater didn't really care and I have to admit that I got really scared watching this awesome bunch of walking, rotting greasy corpses! From then on I watched this masterpiece so many times I can't even count them!Why do I like this film so much? Well, Return of The Living Dead is a 90-minute roller-coaster (no kidding!) driving fast through a rainy night. What I mean is that the rhythm never falls off and that the flick is both scary AND funny. Some scenes are really disturbing (e.g. the self-cremation scene or the zombie awakening in the cold room) and some other elements are nothing but pure laughing matter (you've got to like black humor, that's right, but I presume you do - otherwise you wouldn't be reading this!). Last but not least, the ending is both ironical and pessimistic. This is a so great quality for an horror film! "},{"Title":"Such a profound effect I got my email named after the stars!","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this for the first time when I was 13 in 1985 and it scared me half to death but at the same time I laughed so hard I nearly died! This movie is just great fun, bloody great fun at that. I used to love the old classic Hammer horror films (they used to put them on TV late night on a Friday) but in 1985 I had never seen anything like this, I mean they look like they really are eating guts!, they look as if they are really scared!, the split dog looks really ill! and they look like a bunch of kids I used to hang around with!  This rules, it changed my cinematic life and from time to time I quote the line send...more...paramedics just to see if anyone recognises it, but alas I fear the only people that would are all complimenting Return of the Living Dead on this web site. In case anybody in the UK is looking for a copy of this, it came out in a double box set about 6 years ago with the new version of Night of the Living Dead, and I have seen it in HMV and WHSmiths recently. It's also on Sky Movies regularly as well (usually at about 2am). An undoubted classic, 10 out of 10. A Friday night legend.PS. This should really get a 20 year aniversary edition like that little Spielberg movie E.T. has recently, how about it Dan O'Bannon? You've got 3 years to wangle it, starting from....NOW!!! "},{"Title":"one of the greatest 'horror' shows ever","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this show still kills me any time it comes on.  the acting is good, the action is great, and the effects are ok.  there are nits to be picked about reality, but this is a show about ZOMBIES!!  i suggest that anyone who wants to truly enjoy the movie should put all reasoning in the cupboard and howl with laughter!   "},{"Title":"Hail!","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've been putting off writing a review for this masterpiece ofmayhem simply because I know that anything a write will never dothis film any justice. It has comedy, it has horror, it has punkmusic, it has gore, it has story, it has three dimensional characterslike Linnea Quigley-scream queen supreme and it has ZOMBIES!In short, it has everything that a great B-movie should have andholds up to dozens upon dozens of viewings. For the sake ofhumanity see it today!A+ 4 stars (out of four-where the hell did that fifth star come fromanyway) 10 out of 10 100% Perfect! "},{"Title":"How I discovered the Cramps!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I adore this film, and wish it would get a grand re-release on DVD. I find it rewarding every time I see it, for the comedy, the great tag lines, the wonderful zombies, and the excellent sound track. When this released I lived in the town that the story takes place in, which makes it even more amusing. The whole thing is top notch, and while the rest of the series is okay, I think this one is solid gold. "}{"Title":"THE GREATEST HORROR MOVIE EVER MADE!!!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dan O'Bannon's satrical take on George A. Romero's cult-classic Night of the living dead is hands down the greatest horror movie ever made. Don't believe me? Then watch it yourself all alone in the dark and tell me what you think!! (if you can find it. This movie is also very rare and hard to find) ROTLD has it all, Horror, comedy, great 80's punk music, a great cast, an awesome plotline, and last but not least ZOMBIES! What makes it better is that these zombies are a lot better than the bumbling stiffs from Romero's dead series. These zombies are more entertaining to watch because they can run, talk, and well....eat brains. Unlike Romero's zombies which never spoke,were not scary at all, and could not run (nevermind run they could barely walk. ROTLD has more livlier zombies not to mention an entertaining cast (Thom Matthews, Clu Gallager, Don Calfa, and Linnea Quiqley)which is a lot better than the annoying characters from the dead series. The movie which takes place on July 3, 1984 starts off when uneeda medical supply employee Frank tells newcoming teen Freddie about a chemical called 245 trioxin (which reportedly caused the dead to come to life in Night of the Living Dead) which was accidently shipped to the very medical wearhouse the two are working at. Freddie, eager to see the cannisterd chemical goes down into the basement when Frank accidently causes the chemical to leak all over things with some comical results (ie the split dogs and the dead cadaver) After burning the contaminated things in the wearhouse the chemical is released into the air and as it starts to rain pours into a nearby graveyard which re-animates the dead. As a group of punks are trapped in the middle of it they must band together with the medical supply workers to fend off the fiends who are after fresh human brains. The story is dark and tense and the horror is nonstop in this classic. When i saw this movie for the first time when i was about 10 it scared the hell out of me. and even years later i still am afraid to watch this one alone. Out of all the zombie films ever made (night, dawn, and day of the dead, re-animator etc etc) Return of the Living Dead is the only film that manages to take pulse-pounding horror and special effects and mix it with dark humor and come out with a movie that you will never forget. This film is in my opinion not only the greatest horror movie ever made but close to the best film period ever made. 6 stars out of 5  "},{"Title":"Simply The Greatest","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return of the Living Dead is simply the greatest horror movie of all time. it has a great soundtrack to go along with it, i first saw this movie when i was four and i scared the living crap out of me. so i recommend this movie to anybody who can get there hands on it! "},{"Title":"Classic Horror Comedy action!","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A great unofficial sequel to Night of the Living Dead with references to the original throughout. It's a very eighties movie with all the normal characters you will be used to finding, it's quite Troma-esque. The sound-track is one of the best parts the songs are really cool especially 'Party Time', 'Burn the Flames' & 'Tonight' really kick ass music! the effects are wonderful, the humour is really dark and funny using the rules of the genre to the fullest while breaking them all at the same time. For example these zombies don't stop with a simple bullet to the head which makes them all the more terrifying! When the black zombie lunges shouting BRAINS you have to get a chill down your spine! Also Linnea Quigley displays her 'talents' once more in this film which is also quite fun ). It even manages to explain everything in the movie itself well and the characters can really be felt for and laughed at all at the same time. The ending was a bit of a cop out but silly enough to end the movie which had really painted itself into a corner and any other ending might have been just as much of a cop-out so really it couldn't have been done much better. Great thrills, great chills, great laughs, great plot, great fun, great film! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful zombie mayhem","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is really low budget and some of the special effects look quite fake, but then again not too fake. It just makes the movie more fun and cheesy.The plot is quite clever with some interesting twists. This movie's strength lies in the excellent script. Though the movie is quite funny, there are quite a few spooky dark moments. Many things happen in this movie, one great exciting moment after the other.I love zombie movies and this one is one of the best. "},{"Title":"Funny, gory and sometimes a bit scary","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a minor classic. It is so funny, and so ridiculously gory, that it must be seen by all horror fans. Usually I like zombie movies where the zombies are killed easily, but in this case, I liked these ones. The film also gave a good insight into the feelings of zombies (I loved the scene when the zombie talks to the mortician). I loved the beginning, when the dead animals come to life, and the bit when the zombies keep ordering cops to come and investigate the cemetery, so they can eat them. The only flaw was the ending, which wasn't in the tradition of a horror movie. Still, this is a great horror movie, and one of the best horror movies of the 80's. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"An affectionate spoof..","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a very funny and affectionate spoof of the George Romero movies, made a decade or two earlier. It's not particularly gory, in that the FX technologies at the time weren't that advanced. The movie rarely takes itself seriously, and is filled with obvious and probably intentional logic glitches. (IE a long dead corpse with a fresh pink tongue? Or a skeleton with eyeballs?) The magic gas 2-4-5 Trioxin works on anything that used to be alive, not just humans. Look closely and you'll see a collection of pinned butterflies flapping their wings! And the cinematic classic, the Split Dog. There are plentiful one-liners (What's that noise?? It's dead people screamin'!!) and a cutting glance at contemporary fads, fashions and trends.Unlike the lame sequels, this is a comedy-horror with....BRAAIINS! "},{"Title":"One of the best zombie films ever made!","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD! it is my favourite horror film ever!, although it's not all horror, it's a perfect mixed balance of sci-fi, comedy, action, drama & suspense as well! in fact, I even prefer this over any of the GEORGE ROMERO zombie movies, why? well I won't go on with plot details, because there's so much to include in the plot information, so instead I'll just focus on why I love the film so much & why I say it's better than the Romero films. The acting is just perfect here, each of the actors display great chemistry together on screen, they interact very well & as a result of their talent, they are able to make their well written characters all the more interesting, than what they could have been had they been played by other actors. The comedy is funny, which admittedly comes from how the characters deal with the situation & how their knowledge of killing zombies just won't work on these stiffs, in fact, RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD is to zombie films, as to what SCREAM is to slasher films, it's a self referential horror film, in which the characters know the rules in zombie films & how in other zombie movies, zombie films don't exist, so the characters don't know the rules on how to survive a zombie attack & have to work at figuring out how to stop a zombie, as they go on (usually by shooting them in the head) here however & this is what makes RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD so much fun, funny, interesting as well as original, is that zombie movies (especially Romero's zombie movies) do indeed exist, so the characters think they have the answer to stopping the zombie plague, only to discover the rules established by Romero don't work on these real world zombies! These things are indestructible, you can blow them up, chop them in pieces & they still live & still try to come after you! & while cremating them may get rid of the corpses, situations only worsen since hundred of thousands more will replace the one you cremated! About midway into the film, O' Bannon attempts to give a reason as to why the dead kill & eat brains, as the characters question a badly decomposing skeletal, female, half corpse, by tying it down on a gurney, where it explains that they need to eat brains to stop their horrible suffering of rotting away, as they can literally feel themselves rotting, it hurts to be dead, so in a way the zombies here can't really be construed as evil, anymore than a live person experiencing a certain sense of pain that uses drugs to numb the suffering they are going through, to the zombies the human brain is medicine that they desperately need to cure their pain, but this pain relief is only temporary...I found the theory very interesting, apart from a non talking, dumb zombie that just eats flesh for the sake of eating it. Since he started his career out as a screenwriter, O'Bannon knows how to construct & build a very interesting story, there are plenty of plot twists & turns in the script, interesting revelations, suspense, gore, horror, comedy, action & dramatic moments & a certain sense of comic bookishness, which coupled with the fantastic set design, soundtrack, direction & acting makes RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD the best zombie film ever made! Romero purists may bulk at such a statement, but I don't really care. O' Bannon's script just gets tighter & tighter as the film goes on, with the situation ever worsening to the point where the characters realize there never will be a way out of their horrible predicament, as they watch their friends turn on them, by becoming zombies, & even authority figure of all kinds are unable to help them. O' Bannon's script just builds & builds on the suspense & where some films would be able to balance some of the different genre's but lose footing on others, such is not the case with this movie, it's more than capable to maintain all of it's genres & balances them just perfectly. By the end, the group gets nuked by the army, an act that they think will end the zombie horror, but before the credits roll they will soon realize their method of taking care of the problem is anything truly effective, as more acid rain comes down, caused by the burning corpses, which will soon cause the dead from all over the world to rise, starting a zombie pandemic a million times worse, in the end unlike most films (& similar to the ending to NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD) there are no hero's to walk off in the sunset, no hero's left alive that was able to end the horror & save the world, in fact the world is over or is set to be over by the time the credits roll. Despite it's somewhat grim nature & ending, THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD is really a great time, a fun film to watch, especially with friends & despite it's repeated viewings, it never grows stale & just gets better & better after each viewing. The characters are great & one can't help but feel sad about their fates by the time the film ends. Highly recommended to all zombie fans, in fact don't dare call yourself a zombie fan unless you have seen this film! Great special effects (loved TARMAN, he's gross, slimy, scary & funny! & the half corpse looks awesome), soundtrack, acting, directing, set design & cinematography all of which make this a winner all around! Followed by four sequels, starting with RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD II**** stars "},{"Title":"Blackly humorous gore comedy","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD (1985) - Dan O' BannonThis spin-off of the Living Dead series came from sharing of copyright between George Romero and co-writer John Russo. While Romero went to continue the narrative with Dawn and Day of the Dead, both bleak social satire/horrors, Russo undertook a humorous and far more chaotic reprise of the original story.Writer/director Dan O' Bannon pulls out all the stops for a gut-busting entertainer. The story begins with a bang and from then on moves at a dizzying pace piled on by the minute with increasingly outrageous events. From a strip tease in a graveyard to a massive showdown between the zombies and the law, and a way-over-the-top climax, this movie is a pinnacle of pitch-black zany humor.Unlike Romero's zombies the ones in RoTLD move fast and can speak (they use police radios, like a takeout service, to call for more reinforcements). Head shots don't do them in any more, since even their severed body parts can move and grasp at prey. Thankfully they're not just good make-up effects, but also have distinct personalities that add tremendously to the film's fun value.The film is chock-full of good humor and tongue-in-cheek genre touches (like the graveyard being named as 'Resurrection Cemetry'). The people behind this movie seemed to have had a great time making it and I sure had a great time watching this one. If you have any liking for the horror genre, you owe it to yourself to get this one and keep a big box of popcorn handy.  "},{"Title":"So-so remake/spoof of George Ramero's classic","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember vaguely, seeing this one on cable as a kid...it scared the crap out of me.  Mainly, the scares were derived from the fact that the zombies in this film, unlike Romero's films, were very hard to kill.  After reading so many positive reviews on this site, I decided to check it out again, uncut, and over fifteen years later...unfortunately, unlike all of the die hard Romero fans out there, I was thoroughly disapointed.Now, I love the first two 'Dead' films by George Romero and think that Day of the Dead was not too bad, but this one, I am simply shocked at all of the positive reviews.  If this was a horror comedy, where was the comedy?  I can see, somewhat, the comedy in all of the 'lambs to the slaughter' deaths, but the rest of it, seems to me, as played as a pure horror flick.As a horror film, it is not bad.  Though, I did not like the fact that these zombies were apparently immune to hails of bullets and having their limbs chopped off, the movie itself was not a bad time waster.  Dan O'Bannon did a good job directing this film, especially with the origin of the zombies...yet, the film seems way too short, even for an 80's slasher flick. The first 50 minutes are spent showing how the zombies rise from the dead and how a group of 80's punks go about having a party in 'Resurrection Cemetary', a fitting name for an ironic end.  The last 40 minutes or so is a pure zombie chaos-athon...which is good and bad.  It was scary at first seeing zombies that could think and could move very fast, but after awhile it became comical.  Okay, the thinking behind seeing a movie where the dead rises from the grave is comical enough, but pushing aside the viewers with no sense of humor that would rate this movie badly based upon that, the fact that the humans did not stand even a chance against corpses that had been rotting for years and yet, had more than the average stamina of the average human being seemed incredibly far-fetched and utterly unenjoyable.  I mean, I love Dead Alive and The Evil Dead b\c of the humor/horror element, and also, most importantly, that the main character/characters towards the end of the films were kicking zombie butt.  Not true in this one.  The humans simply run, flail about a bit, swing a few hammers, but are utterly defeated by the menace.  Believe it or not though, I did kinda like the ending, but, considering the 84 minute running time, it came way too soon.  I felt there could have been so much more time devoted to suspense or the plot of the survivors, but no, just when it is getting interesting, the movie ends with an almost cop-out ironic twist that would have been 10 times better had the movie been just a little bit longer and more frightening.  That's right, the movie just ends all of a sudden, opening up for yet another sequel.  I appreciated the irony in it, but, that's not what I wanted from this one, I wanted to see more survival horror, not a pathetic excuse for comedy-horror.Overall, not bad.  Decent acting for an 80's flick, especially Thom Matthews of Friday the 13th Part 6 fame, and there were some nice zombie creatures, especially the one trapped in the basement (that was one of the best all-time zombie creatures that I have seen).  However, there is not nearly as much gore as other viewers put, but enough to satisfy the 'gore hounds' I'm sure.  Better than most 80's horror films, but yet, this one is lacking so much, namely substance.  Most viewers will be really unsatisfied with the ending, especially since O'Bannon spends more than 50% of the meager running time explaining the origin of the zombies and not having enough zombie menacing action, nor suspense for our characters to go through.  Overall, though, not a bad film, but, in my opinion, if the filmmaker's intent was to be a tribute to George A. Romero then it is simply sub-par, pound for pound. 6/10 stars.  One whole star is added for the acting, the always good Miguel A. Nunez (yeah, the same guy who played in the bomb, Juwanna Mann), the fully naked chick and the good musical score (which reminds me so much of John Carpenter's Ghosts of Mars, made 15 years later).  I would have rated this one higher if only it had been a bit longer, had more suspense and a slighly better plot to justify the quick and like I said, almost cop-out ending.  That is my story and I am sticking to it. "},{"Title":"Split Dogs","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man, I remember loving this film as a kid, I thought it was the funniest movie ever. Well I wasn't too sure if it still held up so I bought it and watched it. The first half of this film is friggin hilarious, from East Indian Skeleton farms to split dogs to rabid weasels I was in tears, well the weed helped but man it is still one funny film, the second half does have some great gore and one hilarious punch line at the end, actually its pretty funny through out. The best thing about the film is the different ways the characters react to what's going on around them. Nothing funnier than James Karen beating a split dog with a crutch or Clu Gulager uttering hilarious throw away lines, like, Great, it hurts to be dead and We lied those aren't rabid weasels. The more I think about it the funnier it gets. "}{"Title":"Zombiez, punk soundtrack n Linnea quigleys dance.","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Its directed by Dan O bannon ( writer of Alien n co writer of Total Recall ). The movie may sound silly and simple, but its a masterpiece with no slow parts. This movie is a perfect mix of Horror and Comedy. Its scary, its funny, its got a great punk soundtrack, and it has  Linnea Quigleys unforgettable nude scene that launched her career. The zombies are smart. They are fast. They talk. Clu Gulager may be the most interesting B-movie actor of all time. He was seen recently in Feast trilogy. It has James Karen (poltergeist n recently in superman returns n pursuit of happiness). He was nominated for a Saturn Award for his role in The Return of the Living Dead in 1985. The action is relentless with full on gore, and the grand finale is simply beautiful. This film re-invents the living dead, giving them even more life. Saw this on a rented VHS in the mid 80s. Its just a shame the sequels were not up to its standard. It spawned four sequels. I saw all of em. But the first is da best. The plot is interesting, it has great special effects and the soundtrack is perfect for this kind of flick. "},{"Title":"What's The Weirdest Thing You Have Seen In This Place?","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to admit the first time I watched this movie I hated it. I guess I was looking at it a more of a horror movie than a comedy. I watched it again last night, and got a different perspective. I actually thought it was funny. To me it wasn't scary at all, yes a little creepy; but more humorous than anything. I loved Tarman and the zombies wanting more paramedics and cops- yum. I love George Romero classics, especially Day Of The Dead. This is more of a parody to his work. I thought one of the scenes with the punks could have been cut. The one were Miss takes it all off in the graveyard was tasteless; but other than that it was O.K.. To sum it all up it was funny, and creepy in spots. The ending was kind of predictable, but it is a great comedy.THX, Kris L. CocKayne "},{"Title":"Brains...","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Return of the Living Dead is an entertaining movie even though it is a bit old. But it is one of the more important of movies in the zombie genre, and it did of course introduce Trioxin and the tar zombie to us zombie aficionados.It has a good story which is entertaining from beginning to end, and it is nicely paced. Sure, it is a predictable story to be fair, but it still delivered entertainment where it mattered.The characters in The Return of the Living Dead were colorful and memorable. And even with years passing between watching the movie you will still remember these characters. And what is not to enjoy with a cast ensemble that includes Clu Gulager, James Karen, Don Calfa, Thom Mathews and Miguel A. Núñez Jr.?The effects were quite good for its age, and still do hold their ground by todays standards. The Return of the Living Dead introduced zombies groaning brains... which is a detail that you will come to find amusing.The Return of the Living Dead is a movie that rightfully belongs in the movie collection of any zombie aficionado. "},{"Title":"A really impressive genre entry","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Working in a medical supply warehouse, the last ones left find the leftover government chemicals stored there have seeped free into a local cemetery during a party and forces them to team with the party survivors to stop the ravenous zombies on the loose.This here was quite the fun and extremely enjoyable zombie effort. Over of the most impressive aspects to this one is the really enjoyable time here due to the exciting pace on display, which comes there through the near-continuous action. As there's the gas-release here less than ten minutes into the film, there's already the rather fun action of the two trapped inside the warehouse with the reanimated props along the storage unites of the facility while also allowing for the big brawl with the nude cadaver running throughout where they're forced to dismember it in order to get him under control, which is all done in the first half hour here. Following the introduction of the chemical into the cemetery and their resurrection, it allows for the great chase in the mortuary with the reanimated tar-man, the graveyard chase where the graves spit out the dead to chase and swarm the group against the different of monuments and tombstones as well as the swarming scenes of the paramedics in the truck and forcing the really fun time here with the big assault on the church. From the barricading tactics against the grabbing hands attempting to break into the room, the attack in the storeroom where they're able to capture the live skeleton for questioning and the zombie attacks out in the graveyard and the adjacent streets, there's a ton of high-energy action in this section which features a ton to like with the violent antics, building suspense of the creatures getting in and the few nicely developed scenes of comedy here all make for a great time along with the great finale. This here is the film's highlight offering as the zombies running wild in the streets taking out the police reinforcements, holding traps for the police officers coming to check on the previous ventures into the cemetery and the ones breaking into the mortuary as they're trapped inside which has a lot more action, tons of zombies and fun all throughout here. Coupled with the outstanding gore, fantastic zombies and one of the genre's most iconic nude scenes, these here hold this off over a few minor flaws. The main issue here is the brief finale, which is quite sudden and doesn't really bring out all the great points of the story along the way. As well, there's the fact that this one goes along with some stupid ideas to make the story work, from staying in the room with the zombies despite all the evidence known that's proved to have them turn on her as well and the lame attempts at being stonewalled by the army, which are just pointless and goes nowhere here as the attempt to shoehorn them into the film the way it does here is pretty lame and not-well-thought-out. With the low-budget gore effects sometimes coming through obviously, these here are somewhat minor and insignificant problems against the positive points.Rated R Extreme Graphic Violence, Extreme Graphic Language, Full Nudity and drug use. "},{"Title":"The Living Dead SeriesPart 1.","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" During the IMDb Horror board October Challenge I got the chance to watch a number of excellent movies starring Scream Queen Linnea Quigley.Talking to a fellow IMDber,I got told about one of Quigley's most well-known titles that I had somehow overlooked,which led to me getting ready to see the living dead return.The plotSorting out human skeletons to be sent to medical schools,Frank tells new employee Freddy that the factory they are working in has a basement filled with military canisters which contain an army toxin that went wrong,which on the one time it was unleashed,inspired a group of film makers to shoot Night of the Living Dead.Going down to the basement,Frank & Freddy clean the drums up,and discover that the toxin is actually zombies.Moving the drums around,Frank accidentally opens one of them up,which leads to him and Freddy suddenly being knocked out.As Freddy lays KO'ed,his pals Tina,Spider,Suicide, Trash, Scuz, Casey and Chuck decide to drive down and pick Freddy up from work.Arriving early,the gang decide to wait round for Freddy by hanging out at a near by graveyard.Waking up,Frank and Freddy find the tin drums empty. Initially believing that the zombies have melted away,Frank and Freddy soon discover that along with unleashing the zombies,that they themselves will soon join the walking dead.View on the filmLooking like a prime piece of Pop-Art,Linnea Quigley (who also appears naked) gives a terrific performance as Trash,whose swinging dance moves and flaring red hair perfectly set the wonderfully strange atmosphere of the film.Joining Quigley, Miguel A. Núñez Jr. (who was homeless when he got the role) gives a whip-smart performance as Spider,whilst Don Calfa gives the movie a touch of the Mad Scientist as Ernie.Backed by a sinister score from Matt Clifford and roaring Punk Rock songs,co-writer/(along with Rudy Ricci/John A. Russo and Russell Streiner)director Dan O'Bannon & cinematographer Jules Brenner open up a stylised,blood-drenched Comic Book.Splashing the credits over the title in dripping red,O'Bannon and Brenner turn the movie into a dazzling living cartoon,thanks to Punk leathers,burning blood and slimy gore being drizzled across the screen.Along with the animated atmosphere,O'Bannon also digs his teeth into vicious horror,with O'Bannon giving each of the zombies unique,eye-gauging designs from half cut dog skeletons to a deformed bodybuilder-like super zombie.For the screenplay of the film,the writers smartly decide to make the characters well aware of what zombies are from movies,which leads to hilariously frantic chase scenes,as the surviving humans discover that all the guides that the films gave in how to defeat a zombie are completely useless in real life.Whilst the movie largely has a colourful mood,the writers hit the film with some sly satirical jabs,by having the army/government be completely disconnected to the terror taking place on the ground,and the device that they use to kill the zombies (complete with cartoon sound effects!)making the situation go from bad to worse,as the living dead return. "},{"Title":"Immensely enjoyable and by far the best in the series","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is saying a lot too, because to me this is the only film of the five Return of the Living Dead films to be above good standard. The sequels varied in quality, with 2 and 3 being acceptable enough though with their problems and 4 (Necropolis) and 5 (Rave to the Grave) being terrible, the latter being marginally worse and being one of the worst sequels ever made. The original however is an immensely enjoyable film, with its very few flaws barely noticeable amidst the huge amount of good.It is definitely the best-looking film in the series, it is stylishly shot and lit with a wonderful ominous atmosphere, complete with atmospheric sets, above average effects and some great make-up on the zombies. There is a killer 80s soundtrack that still sounds good and haunting rather than cheesy, and instead of the outdated quality it could have had the soundtrack makes one nostalgic for the 80s. As well as a hilarious and clever script that's never forced, doesn't get bogged down in too many explanations or too much exposition, and that is very quotable (which I don't think any of the sequels achieved and it was something that 4 and 5 could only dream of doing so), and a story that seemed tired in concept but felt very fresh in execution with so many funny moments and an equal number of highly disturbing and scary ones.Return of the Living Dead is directed with adroit class and a clear fondness for the genre by Dan O' Bannon, and while some of the punk teens are annoyingly and one-dimensionally written and acted with not much spark (the sole problems with the film, and they are not that major), the leads are written very likeably and Clu Gulager, James Karen, Thom Mathews and Beverly Randolph are charming and lots of fun (all of them at least knowing what sort of film they're in), Gulager and Karen are particularly good. Don Calfa is also suitably shady. The film also cleverly and wisely makes the zombies the stars and uses them brilliantly, furthermore these zombies actually are very menacing, a real threat, do a lot more than just shuffle and plod around and are wonderfully tongue-in-cheek, exuding real personality. The twist is deliciously ironic, adding to the freshness when it easily could have been tired or anti-climactic.All in all, immensely enjoyable and the best of the series by some margin, being the only one to be completely satisfying. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Return of the Living Dead","Date":"12 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first and probably the best of the 'Return' horror comedies depending on your opinion of course (although the second is pretty good). I think most would agree the special effects and makeup do look the best and the most stickiest in this first one. Plenty of murky atmosphere with misty dank graveyards, being trapped in a single building, the small town being slowly overrun and taken over plus a great twist ending with no survivors which is quite unique.This film unleashes the now classic notion of toxic gas or waste kick starting a zombie outbreak. The all too cheesy notion of some dumb punks messing with some dangerous looking canisters/drums that leak a weird gas/ooze that somehow awakens/reanimates the dead. This is also the film that gave birth to the classic notion of zombies lurching around hankering for brains to munch on, maybe even letting out the odd 'brains!' line. So yes this film is the original hokey zombie popcorn flick that inspired an entire modern pop culture.The main course of this silly film is the terrific makeup and puppetry on display throughout the film. The zombies are on top form as they stagger around with limbs and faces flopping off left right and centre. All are really played well by a large cast of extras who really put a lot of effect into their performances. If you think of 'Thriller' (1983) then you have a good sense of this film basically. Its an extended adult version of 'Thriller' but not quite as good in the makeup and effects department believe it or not. But its clear where the idea came from as a lot of the undead awakening sequences and overall visuals look very similar, a bit of a rip off really.Still this has some great chuckle moments mainly from Karen and Mathews with their little double acts, whilst Calfa actually brings a sense of realism and believable acting to the fold with his performance. His final scene at the very end is actually quite poignant. Definitely one of the best horror comedies of the 80's with a surprising bonus of good acting to boot.7/10 "},{"Title":"So dark and yet so funny","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Living Dead is considered, by some, to be the 'unofficial sequel' to George A Romero's classic zombie shocker Night of the Living Dead. It isn't, but the writer owned the rights to the 'living dead' part of the title (hence the reason all George's later offerings were simply '...of the Dead').But, studio politics aside, RotLD takes the modern zombie genre that George is often credited for creating and refreshes it. In fact, it refreshes it so much that, to this day, it still hasn't been beaten.It's about a group of punks who go partying in a graveyard one night, right next to a warehouse where a chemical leak resurrects the graveyard's sleeping occupants. There's nothing too original in the plot - in fact, it's pretty cheesy. However, it's the way the whole film is executed which sets it apart. There's so much right with it that what little bits that don't work are easily overlooked.The characters are believable and, almost all the time, do logical, sensible things. Also, it's the 'oldies' who steal the show. In a world where teenagers are normally the stars of horror films, it's the older, wiser characters that both get the better lines and come through as the heroes. It has some pretty interesting situations, where the zombies are 'explained,' plus they're well and truly 'pumped up' compared to George A Romero's 'shufflers.' These guys don't die from a head shot and some of them can even solve puzzles.Not only is the film littered with pokes at Night of the Living Dead, plus generally horror films, but there are also some genuinely humorous moments on their own. Not that this is just a strict comedy. The tone is overall very dark and depressing. The sheer strength and invulnerability of the zombies compared to the humans makes it an almost lost cause for our heroes to fight against.There are so many zombie movies flooding the DVD racks these days, you may be forgiven for thinking that an obscure one from the mid eighties with no stars in it has much place in the horror genre. I think you'll find you're wrong. If half the modern zombie offerings had even a fraction of the class and originality of RotLD, they'd actually get out of the Bargain Basement bins in DVD stores. "},{"Title":"Must-see zombie movie, one of my favorites.","Date":"16 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Return of the Living Dead is a rare film It's a horror comedy that actually works, with equal parts scary and funny. If you associate comedy with goofy-looking zombies and you're wary, don't be scared. One of my favourite thing about this movie is the variety of zombies. There are some terrific special effects at work here and they show off a multitude of reanimated corpses. We've got everything from rotting bodies that are all slimy and gooey, to skeleton with just enough muscle left on them to shamble around, to dismembered bodies and even animals brought back from the dead. These effects really stand the test of time and you won't believe this movie was made in 1985. To counteract the threats, we've got some likable human protagonists. In this case you cheer for them because they're in way over their heads. In some cases you know these guys don't have a chance because they're not very bright, but there are some smart people in this movie too that come up with decent strategies to combat the plague of zombies. That's all good, but for me, what really makes a movie not only good, but great are memorable scenes and quotable lines. There is no shortage of them here (my favourite line probably being a goth guy talking about his attire. You think this is a fashion statement? This is a way of LIFE!) As far as horror movies go, this one is incredibly influential because there are many horror (And particularly zombie) tropes that come straight out of this movie. You'll be watching the film and go Oh! That's where that came from! Just because this has inspired countless other films doesn't mean you'll find the typical clichés in here though, there is a lot of originality in this movie. It's one of those influential horror movies that's has countless homages and has inspired many others and you'll have a great time watching it, though if you're squeamish, it's quite gory so prepare yourself. (On DVD, September 26, 2012) "},{"Title":"A fun and sleazy 80's exploitation extravaganza.","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Halloween Horror Reviews #16)This film is so much fun. As a sequel to the original classic, it lacks most of the subtlety or weight of said original. However as its own creation, it is some of the most entertaining comedy-horror out there.Firstly, the film's actors are all charismatic and likable. Delivering the hilarious dialogue well and able to bring gravitas to the handful of more intense moments. More importantly here however is the sharp as a knife screenplay, filled with innumerable funny gags and clever moments. As a comedy the film is truly special, funny as anything you'll see using the horror genre as a skin. However RotLD does not simply use horror as a skin, it is a genuine entry within the genre, unlike some other satires. The zombie effects are genuinely great, and the atmosphere is solid. Both an amazing comedy, and a strong horror.The film also has a great plot, both for horror and comedy. Walking through numerous clichés and host to several great set pieces. In particular the first introduction of the zombie horde is great example of effects and scale. The film is joyfully drenched in sleaze and grindhouse charm (including a character who spends the majority of the film naked for no real reason).Overall, I loved this tasty ball of slime and dark humour. A true classic of the holidays in my opinion. "}{"Title":"Zombie movies don't come much funner","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (70%) There's no two ways about it, all fans of zombie horror need to have seen this at least once otherwise they're not a true fan, and they are only pretending. With Dawn of the dead in existence this isn't the best zombie movie ever made, but it is one of the most fun examples. The simple, almost comicbook style plot is very well told to maximum effect, the punk rock soundtrack is perfect, the comedy works, and the practical effects are some of the best of the decade. As puck themed zombie horror goes this is the very best bar no exception, and at just over 80 mins long it comes and goes like the fun party that it is. "},{"Title":"Acid Rain","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First off, the short little story told in this movie about the Darrow Chemical Company making Trioxin 2-4-5 is an allegory for the Dow Chemical Company in reality involved in the manufacture and testing of Dioxin 2-4-5, or Agent Orange, which was tested in Vietnam and Gagetown a small army base town in Eastern Canada. Most people don't notice this little detail.Anyway, the plot starts out with a redneck punk kid getting a new job at a medical supply warehouse in Kentucky. While in there his new co-worker Frank tells him the story of the fictional Darrow Chemical Company responsible for storing bodies laced with a deadly chemical into drums in the basement. Eager to show this off to the new employee, he leads him to the basement where the boy, Freddy, asks if the drums leak... no, they were made by the army!So of course, one leaks.And then we meet Freddy's teenage punk-goth friends, who decide to go pick up Freddy from work and party in the nearby cemetery to wait for his shift to finish. Meanwhile Frank and Freddy are dealing with a bunch of lab specimens being brought back to life, including a human body. Finally they call the company owner, a cheery guy named Bert who suggests they burn up the bodies. This introduces Ernie, the sullen but friendly mortician who by burning the bodes of the lab specimens accidentally releases more of the Trioxin chemical into the air over the graveyard where the punks are hanging out. Mayhem ensues as the buried bodies in the cemetery begin to rise and Frank and Freddy start getting sick. Bert befriends Scuz, one of the punks, and they team up to try and get the remaining in the group out to safety. Unknown to them, the army is planning a deadly surprise to end the toxic rainfall once and for all.The film is incredibly cheesy, but is supposed to be. It makes fun of films like Zombi, Hell of the Living Dead and Night of the Living Dead, and was also made at the time of the environmental pollution awareness when other films about exposure to toxic chemicals were coming out. The actors were a great choice, the plot was original and the music was pretty good. The punk-goth kids consist of a strange misfit groupTrash, who looks like the bride of Pennywise the Clown Tina, a typical bimbo cheerleader who manages to stick around 'till the end Scuz, a tough kid clad in khaki clothes who seems to be the smartest of the group Chuck, a pervy geek Casey, a girl with rainbow streaks in her hair who despises Chuck Suicide, the leader of the group Spider, a Gothic/emo punkFor a low-budget film it was surprisingly entertaining, and had some funny scenes like the one where a zombie police officer looking for food calls up the local hospital and asks for more paramedics to be sent. Definitely worth watching if you're a fan of zombie films. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love the scene where the guy from the medical supply company comes over to his friend, a mortician and tells him that he has a sack full of live rabid weasels and would like to use his crematorium to dispose of them. 'That's too cruel', says the mortician, 'Here, let me take them out in the parking lot and shoot 'em'. Not many mindless horror movies take the time for gems like that.Thinking that this was suppose to be a sequel or a follow-up I had settled in for a low-budget retread. Soon I was to find that ROTLD is a movie that has as many laughs as it does gross out moments. The movie has time for just as many cartoonish knuckleheaded characters as it does for the lumbering dead.The story Two guys from the medical supply warehouse are bored one night and the manager begins to tell his young assistant that 'Night of the Living Dead' wasn't just a horror movie. The dead were sealed in canisters by the Army and he knows where they are hidden - right down in the basement! Fooling around with the canister leads to the inevitable and the gas pours out into the local cemetery, raising the dead so they can wreak havoc on the cast of the living.Meanwhile a carload of punk rockers have come to pick up their friend but they have to wait several hours for him to get off work. They start fooling around in the cemetery just at the exact moment when the dead make their entrance. I love the various 'dead' things especially a med-school's 'split dog' that comes to life and begins wagging it's half-tail and barking.We know the rest. The dead pop out of the ground with a hunger for human brains and most of the cast gets picked off one by one.What we don't expect are funny scenes like the one where the two guys from the supply house have been sprayed with the gas and have no pulse and seem to be suffering from rigor mortis, but they are alive. This is the kind perfectly goofy moment that makes ROTLD one of my guilty pleasures.ROTLD is a typical barf-o-rama but is done with style and black comedy. It not great but when it's over you don't feel the need to take the screenwriter out in the parking lot and shoot him. "},{"Title":"Arguably one of the greatest horror/comedy films ever.","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Effectively blending a killer soundtrack, humorous dialogue, and excellent direction, Return Of The Living Dead reinvented ideas new conceived or done within the horror movie genre (primarily with zombie films). Zombies aren't stupid or slow this time around; they work together, puzzle solve, can talk, and run (you heard me!), making them truly menacing by nature albeit hilarious to watch. The gore effects and set pieces are top notch. The acting is borderline campy, but hilarious dialogue and over-the-top reactions grant black humor a chance to shine. The plot, unlike its zombie counterparts, is refreshing and smart, paving the way as a large influence on modern day horror. From beginning to the amazing ending, ROTLD is an engaging thriller recommended to all. "},{"Title":"Brainless with a heart","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Likable characters take believable actions after some typical army screw up escalates with a hunger.The story unfolds somewhat logically but deliciously absurd. All involved are in a way bored with life and irony demands this to change. It does so gloriously!You will learn to love Bert and his fellow condemned, Suicide with his group of dimwitted rascals, Ernie with his passion for the dead and of course Colonel Glover, who loves his job more than his spouses lamb chops. But that is not all, the atmosphere is unsettling, chilling and in some shots brilliantly eerie. It is also hilarious!There is a lot of talent at work here and accompanied by some great 80's sounds it is a great ride from start to finish. If you feel you are up to it, do not bother calling for paramedics half way in.This is my first review so feel free to comment on it. Thank you for reading! "},{"Title":"An Undead League of Its Own","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While watching Scream this summer, I spent a lot of time thinking about post-modern horror. Naturally, Kevin Williamson didn't do it first. Dan O'Bannon, a hugely successful and influential screenwriter that never got his due in his life time, beat him by a decade. Originally designed for horror-hack Tobe Hooper, O'Bannon injected the screenplay with his trademark inventiveness and quirky humor. Return of the Living Dead is textbook post-modern, referencing Night of the Living Dead explicitly. O'Bannon makes his intentions clear immediately with a sarcastic title card declaring the film to be a true story.Hardcore horror fans like myself hate on fast zombies while conveniently overlooking that this beloved cult classic has fast zombies in it. Unlike the inexplicable MTV zombies Zack Snyder inflicted on the world, Return's zombies have a reason for running. As Freddie and Frank's in-progress zombificaiton shows, Trioxin keeps the higher functions alive while causing the rest of the body to die, allowing for awesome, goopy zombies that run, talk, and use complex tools. The comic book tone prevents that from coming off as ridiculous, as it would in a more self-serious film. Zombies eating brains, a behavior this film popularized, is explained as curtailing the pain of rot. Of course, the brain contains dopamine and other tasty hormones. Makes perfect sense.The movie reinvented zombies in other ways. Romero always made an effort to give his ghouls personalities. Due to the microscopic budgets of his films, this usually didn't go beyond nurse outfits, clown wigs, or no clothes at all. Return, on the other hand, came right in the golden age of eighties creature effects. The Yellow Man bobs around with no head, a double amputee zombie waddles after his pray, and a skeletal corpse rattles a dangling spinal cord. The Tar Man stands in an undead league of his own. I seriously don't think there's a better example of what a zombie can be on-screen. Zombies are too frequently faceless hordes, an impulse this movie laughs at.Also unlike Romero's epics, Return is probably too much of a spit-take to examine from a sociological viewpoint. And yet&#x85; This movie set out to reinvent zombies for the eighties. Eighties, the cocaine decade. These zombies eat brains to dull the pain of death, like coke heads snort to dull the pain of life. When they've had their hit, the undead are hopped up, running and leaping all over the place. Freddie's slow death represents another type of drug abuse, a junkie fading to sedatives. Until, finally reaching rock bottom, he's not recognized by love ones, transformed into totally different creatures. Notably, these zombies don't pass their condition on through bites. It's born out of the air, out of the crowded, urban cemeteries they live in. The government's response to the pandemic? Nuke it from orbit. Reading too much in to it? Probably.Return is widely regarded as a hallmark punk movie. No doubt, when cast members wear tattered leather and have chains in their faces. But punk wasn't as homogeneous in 1985 as it is now. Suicide, Scuz, Spider, and Trash would fit in fine at a Circle Jerks concert but Chuck and Casey would probably be more comfortable in a new wave club. (This almost justifies squeaky-clean Tina hanging out with the bawdy punks. Almost.) The soundtrack isn't straight-ahead either. You'd be hard-pressed to hear psychobilly like Surfin' Dead or sleazy dance-pop like Tonight (We'll Make Love til We Die) on a punk station these days. The punk aesthetic was chosen to distinguish the cast from typical eighties slasher fodder. It succeeds in that regard, even if the teens aren't developed much. Mark Venturini's hilarious monologue about his punk bonafides and Miguel Nunez being the first black guy to make it to the end are the only time the kids truly shine. Linnea Quigley, decked out in a Ziggy Stardust wig and not much else, is either intentionally playing her character deadpan, a bad actress, or stoned out of her mind. Either way, she's hilarious. Her nearly feature-length nude scene is the stuff of eighties horror legend.The older cast members truly own this one. James Karen and Clu Gulager both get uproarious bits to themselves. Karen, when he goes from panicky to calm with just a sip of coffee. Gulager when he has to explain the rabid weasel situation. The film makes excellent use of both veteran character actors. Don Calfa's Ernie, who is almost definitely a Nazi, is maybe the stand-out, reacting calmly to the escalating situation, never loosing his hilarious, morbid matter-of-factness.While predominantly a pitch-black dark comedy, Return isn't without scares or pathos. A zombie leaping through a window, disposing of a pesky phone, is a great jump scare. Frank's final fate is weirdly sincere, as are the character's genuine panic over the increasingly bleak predicament. Yes, Return of the Living Dead is truly one of the best zombie movies ever made. Pretty much zero other films in the sub-genre matches its balance of wit, inventiveness, and sense of fun. Especially its' four sequels, all lackluster affairs. "},{"Title":"Interesting zombie B-movie","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Freddy is a new employee in a medical supply company. Old timer Frank tells Freddy how a chemical had brought the dead back to life. César Romero's movie was a cover up and the army had sealed the bodies in barrels. The two bumbling idiots accidentally breaks the seal releasing the chemicals and reanimating the dead.Dan O'Bannon tries to take a different look at the zombie genre. This movie tries to take the zombie idea seriously by making chemically induced. But then how this one starts is really ridiculous. It takes awhile to get the zombies going. The first zombie looks good but most of the rest are just too limited. Dan O'Bannon may not be up to directing more than a B-movie. And that's what we have here.The 'kids' are just too ridiculously 80's. The dialog has a few campy lines but nothing too earth shattering. The final ending isn't very original either. "},{"Title":"A favourite","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is up there as one of my favourite movies of all time. The idea of these zombies is second to none in any zombie movie I have seen. You have super zombies in the remake of Dawn of the Dead, and the infected in 28 Days Later, but even they are lacking in the range of qualities the zombies possess in this film.If you think about it; the are virtually indestructible, if you dismember them their pieces come after you, if you incinerate them the smoke poisons you and goes on to expose more corpses. They are intelligent; they seem a bit ditzy and have that impulsive single minded desire for brain, which can be exploited against them, but the living characters are not much different, so the zombies are on level footing anyway as they can speak and strategise. Then finally they are quite fast and strong, not super like the afore mentioned, but they are generally not slouches either.I love this film, I give it 10 from 10, its sequel is a little more disappointing but only for the fact that they find an effective way to stop the zombies with no real adverse effects. "},{"Title":"Return of the Living Dead doesn't make you Braindead","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is movie is very bold to say its source material in dialogue. The characters are all very diverse and very good, nothing less from the screen writer of Alien (1979). Is this movie ever that horrifying, no, but it is hilarious. The music is fits well and also makes it very comedic. The practical effects are astounding and just beautiful to look at. I've found that the 1980's really re-invented some of the classic horror characters, and as far as I've seen, this is the best zombie flick of the decade. With good characters, great effects, and a perfectly hilarious ending, I recommend this really clever movie any day. "},{"Title":"Return of the Walking Dead","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Probably a film that while it influenced many media, that many people who saw said media probably never heard of.It's very energetic and has likable characters - and, interestingly, the gang at one point threaten other people to get information, thus reminding us our protagonists/potential victims are, on a normal day, probably to be avoided themselves.Individual zombies have personality too, notable because many villains in films have no personality - and unfortunate convention, but often it seems a movie's villain only exists as an obstacle for the hero.Fortunately, there isn't much stupidity here as the threat is dangerous that the potential victims are pretty much fighting an uphill battle.The music is pretty amazing. "}{"Title":"One Of The Best Horror/Zombie Films Ever Made. A Classic Horror Comedy.","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Return Of The Living Dead is one of the best Horror and Zombie films ever made,a brilliant Horror film that mixes Horror,Comedy,Zombies and great special effects and soundtrack. All those combinations make The Return Of The Living Dead not only one of my favorite Horror and Zombie films,but one of my favorite films of all time and one of the great Horror Classics of the 1980s and of all time.Based on the novel of the same name by John Russo and set in Louisville,Kentucky,The Return Of The Living Dead tells the story of a young man named Freddy(Thom Matthews)who has just started his first day working at Uneeda Medical Supply Warehouse,working for his bosses Burt(Clu Gulager)and Frank(James Karen). While showing Freddy the ropes Frank tells Freddy that the Warehouse has Army tanks that contain zombies down in the basement. When Freddy and Frank look at the tanks,the two accidentally release a toxic gas that raises the dead from the grave. Meanwhile,Freddy's friends are waiting for Freddy and looking to party,but unfortunately Freddy,Frank,Burt and Freddy's friends have to deal with dead zombies want human brains and also want to party.One of the many reasons that The Return Of The Living Dead is Horror classic is because the film reinvented the zombie genre. Instead of making another zombie film where the zombies are walking slowly and dumb,the zombies in this film are smart,fast and talk. The zombies can get you anywhere and anytime in the film are the characters are not safe,you can run and run,but the zombies still catch up to you in heavy numbers. ROTLD also gives the zombies a different target for their eating,not flesh,but human brains. In someways ROTLD reverses the idea of killing zombies by hitting the brain instead this time the zombies are eating and killing humans by eating their brains and the zombies are just addicted to it. While many say 28 Days Later(which is a great movie as well)started the idea of fast Zombies,ROTLD did first and in ROTLD and deserves credit. ROTLD also succeeds as a great Horror-Comedy,because mixing the two great genres is never easy. I think the reason the Horror and Comedy works so well in ROTLD is because of the bizarre and over the top situations and the way the characters act and react to the things going on in the film whether it's dealing with the zombies or with each other and the situations are handled with Black Comedy and gore. The dialog and interactions between the characters add to the Comedy in the film and while it feels real,it's also over the top and insane. The Comedy works because the actors play the scenes straight forward and sometimes serious so that the film doesn't become a Spoof or Parody. While the film is a Black Comedy,the movie never forgets it's a Horror film and the film is very scary and filled with creepy atmosphere and keeps you on the edge of your seat with dread and well-placed scares,because like I said in this film no character in the film is safe. The characters in the film are likable and well-developed and when things go bad you definitely feel sorry for them and their reactions while at times over the top feel real and not forced or fake. The teenage characters and adult characters aren't Slasher film victims where you are waiting and hoping the characters to get killed off,but sympathetic enough to root for and are hoping for their survival. The violence and gore in the film are well-done and suit the film and while this film isn't as bloody or gory as other great zombie films like the Night Of The Living Dead,(which the characters make reference to)Dawn Of The Dead,Day Of The Dead or Re-Animator,(both of the latter films came out the same year in 1985)the film can be pretty bloody and gory at times. The ending of the film is great because it's unexpected,funny and adds to the film's greatness because it's tragic,bleak and darkly humorous and it's one of the reasons ROTLD is a classic.The cast does a great job in their roles. Clu Gulager is great as Burt,a man who takes charge and kicks zombie butt. Don Calfa is wonderful as Ernie,an embalmer who tries to help out Burt. James Karen and Thom Matthews are hilarious as Frank and Freddy and have great chemistry together. Miguel Nunez Jr. is great as Spider who's smart,tough and can handle himself. Linnea Quigley is wonderful and sexy as Trash,a girl who loves sex and death. Quigley's nude scene or scenes is one of the film's highlights. This film is one of the reasons Quigley became a scream queen and B-movie queen. Beverly Randolph does a fine job as Tina,Freddy's scared girlfriend. John Philbin and Jewel Shepard are wonderful as Chuck and Casey. Mark Venturini is funny as Suicide an angry punk. Brian Peck(Scuz),Jonathan Terry(Colonel Glover)and Cathleen Cordell(Colonel's wife)give good performances as well.The direction by Writer-Director Dan O'Bannon is excellent with O'Bannon using great angles,close-ups and bringing a great pace and energy to the film and does well in the scary scenes. Great direction,O'Bannon.The score by Matt Clifford is effective and creepy and matches the tone of the film. A well-done and memorable score. The film also has great songs on the soundtrack like The Trioxin Theme(Frances Haines),Nothing For You(T.S.O.L.),Dead Beat Dance(The Damned),Surfin'Dead(The Cramps),Tonight(We'll Make Love Until We Die)(SSQ),Partytime(45 Grave),Take A Walk(Tall Boys),Burn The Flames(Rory Erickson),Eyes Without A Face(The Flesh Eaters)and Love Under Will(The Jet Jack Berries). An awesome soundtrack that mixes Punk and Pop.The special make-up effects in the film are well-done and realistic and hold up really well.In final word,if you love Horror films,Comedies or Zombie films,I highly suggest you see The Return Of The Living Dead a true Horror classic that you can watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"It has a guy named suicide in it, Ironic to the end.","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have but one thing to say in response to this film- YES! DEAR GOD YES! One could argue that we in fact see more of this film in modern zombie and horror flicks than we do of Romero's classics. Of course no one would dare discredit the father of the zombie film, and Night of the Living Dead (1968) will always be THE film that changed it all, but if you look at the modern zombie, they embody just as much of this film as they do Romero, if not more. Running Zombies and a humorous post-modern deconstruction of the zombie sub-genre similar to that of a more contemporary example in Cabin of the Woods (2011), this film sets about breaking nearly every rule Romero creates about the Zombie. On top of all this, a hot chick gets naked for no real reason other than she can. Happy days. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Horror Film of All Time","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first thing I have to say is that cinema is about entertainment and fun, no matter what the hell you see on your screen.Well now specifically talking about the movie, this is obviously based on the George A. Romero's masterpiece Night of the Living Dead, but with slight changes on the zombies, they now run, they are intelligent, they only eat the brains and they cannot be killed. OK the running part may not be the main thing of the movie (in fact, it may be the worst fact in the movie).The plot A guy gets a job at a Medical Storage, and there is a guy who tells him that in the basement, there are some barrels with this acid that make dead bodies move around like they were alive, and in fact there are some barrels. They touch the barrels and the barrels get a leak, which makes the first zombie outbreak. Then a dead body that they have in the fridgerator comes to life, and they have to make it in pieces. They burned the body with the help of Ernie, and the fumes affected the clouds and the rain, making it acid rain, that when falls on the ground of the cemetery it makes the dead bodies come to life.I can say that the best part in the movie was the scene where the zombies come out of the ground, at the sound of the music It's Party Time. Man that's one of the most memorable scenes ever made in the 80s.The movie may sound silly and simple, but it's a masterpiece with no slow parts.Maybe one of the most entertaining films of all time. "},{"Title":"Living Dead Seek Snack","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Return of the Living Dead released in 1985, Freddie (Thom Mathews) and Frank (James Karen) both work at a medical supply warehouse that is located in Louisville, Kentucky. While showing Freddie around, Frank takes him to the basement and shows Freddie a canister that was accidentally delivered to the warehouse by the army. Accidentally Frank releases a toxic gas that knocks them out and re-animates a cadaver located in the store. In an effort to kill the re-animated dead they call Burt (Clu Gulager) the owner, who then calls in a favor owed to him by the town cremator. While the body burns, all the toxic fumes seep into a rain cloud, causing acid rain to seep into the ground and reanimate all of the dead. Freddie's friends who had been partying in the cemetery run and hide when the dead start to rise. They first run to the warehouse and discover it is not safe, then run to the crematorium where they cannot escape. The dead take out there only avenues of escape and in the end must call the army for help, in order to save themselves and the town. I think director Dan O' Bannon was trying to show that sometimes small things can lead to giant disasters. What I mean by that is a small leak in a canister caused untold panic that lead to cremation then to all the dead coming to life. I personally think he was pointing out that small problems, no matter what they are, can lead to massive consequences. There is a zombie in the basement of the medical supply store that absolutely scares the crud out of me. The character in and of himself does not have a huge part, but what little bit he is there is absolutely scary to me. He is called the tar zombie (Allan Trautman) and he says a total of four words and yet I still cannot watch that part without having the lights on. "},{"Title":"One of the quickest 90 minutes you'll ever experience","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the Uneeda Medical Supply warehouse, new employee Freddy (Thom Matthews) is shown the ropes by manager Frank (James Karen). In an attempt to impress the brainless but lovable punk, Frank takes him down to the basement where he claims lies the remains of the result of a zombie outbreak, stored by the military, that was the inspiration for the movie Night of the Living Dead (1968). The sealed drums that contain the zombies begin to leak, causing a gas to pour into the warehouse and awakening the dead. Owner Burt (Clu Gulager) arrives in disbelief at the awakened corpse stored in the freezer, and after an unsuccessful attempt at killing it, they take the butchered corpse to the local mortician Ernie (Don Calfa), who incinerates it, causing zombie smoke to leak into the city, and into the nearby cemetery.After the success of George A. Romero's Night of the Living Dead, co- writer John A. Russo and Romero agreed that Russo would obtain the right to any film with the title ...of the Living Dead in it, while Romero will continue his own zombie series. 18 years later, The Return of the Living Dead was made, a film that embraced Romero's 'rules', yet making certain tweaks to form an original zombie film in its own right. Here, the zombies can run, speak, think, and having a craving for brains. This film is also a comedy, and a very funny one at that, that both pokes fun at the genre and embraces its charm. While Romero's zombies drag their feet and gaze gormlessly in their eternal search for meat, here we have zombie 'characters' such as the Tar Man and the Half-Corpse - the latter of which manages to explain their longing for brains to the horrified Ernie.Such is the silliness of the film, and it's an aspect that makes this one of the funniest and most effortlessly enjoyable genre films of its type. There isn't the usual bunch of stock stereotypes that make up the gang you wait eagerly to be killed, but a gang of lovable throwaway characters performed by quality actors (especially Gulager, a former star in the 50's and 60's who took full advantage of the low-budget horror boom in the 1980's). It also has the sexiest zombie ever, not that I can think of any others. So if you like your horror with its tongue firmly in its cheek, and chocked full of clever set-pieces and darkly funny humour, as well as enough blood and guts to satisfy the casual gore-hound, then this is probably the best film ever. For most other people, this will be one of the quickest 90 minutes you'll ever experience.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Sure Zombies can be a hoot.","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One my favourite films, I first watched it by accident,because I don't like Zombie films..but this is something else again...It is so funny,whilst pretending to be serious. Clu Gulager was a great actor, and his repertoire was vast .,in this film the cast go together beautifully, and the humour comes fast and furious.The plot is simple, two simple guys work in a factory and downstairs they have an undelivered army experiment in a 45 gallon drum,which contains a zombie...they release it,and the rest of the film is devoted to getting rid of it, and their fight for survival as the plague spreads....this is not like George Romeros films though the writer was once involved with Romero. All in all this film is a great spoof on Zombie films,and although is funny, its as believable as any of the other Zombie films...very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"One of the best Zombie comedies","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you love gory films and comedies then you will Return of The Living Dead, the film makes an funny plot that Night of The Living Dead was based on a true story and George A. Romero was told to change it from what really happened. The real thing is some barrels containing a gas that Re-Animates the Dead, of course the two working at the place accidentally open the container releasing the gas so when they call the boss Bert about what happened he shows up to find that a corpse that they have on ice is alive and trying to get out. Using the idea from the films that destroying the brains kill them they let it out and pick axe it in the head but it's still alive. They then decapitate it but it still moves so they cut it up and go to a friend of Bert's, they then burn the body and while thinking it's over the ashes from the body pour from the chimney causing it to rain, suddenly the Dead awaken and cause chaos. This film is full of humour and gore to make this a classic. I also recommend you see Shaun of the Dead which is another great Zombie comedy. 10/10 "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A a child i always loved horror movies, this movie always been my favorite zombie movie! It's funny and scary at the same time. i love this movie so much that i got all kinds of stuff about it. I hope they come out with some more movies just like it. This movie will always be my number one movie. I can't believe zombies talk to them and all that's so funny since you would think zombie's were stupid and stuff. My favorite part was when the guy was talking to the 1/2 zombie on the table. All the return of the living dead movies are awesome. The director is a real master mind. Also I still don't get how the zombies from the night of the living dead came back?!? Thanks for all the zombie lovers sites like this wouldn't be around if it wasn't for you guys. you guys rock! "},{"Title":"Punk-rock 'Night of the Living Dead'.","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My Take An often disgusting, mostly hilarious zombie parody which works just as well as a horror movie. This horror flick is a really entertaining spoof. It was obviously parodying George A. Romero's horror classic The Night of the Living Dead, the film even proclaims that NOTLD was based on true events. The film is also has a rock music score.Grossly entertaining and darkly hilarious, it's like both a spoof and a punk-rock version of Romero's classic dead movies. Still effective (both in laughs and scares) even today. Little-known stars James Karen and Thom Matthews steal the show as two medical supply warehouse attendants. Rating ***1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Original Zom-Com","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While Shaun of the Dead is without a doubt the best Zombie Comedy ever made, The Return of the Living Dead was the first to put its mark in the genre and did so with a bang in the horror community. Often slighted by zombie fans because of the running talking zombies, it has been listed as one of the better 1980's horror films to come out in that era.Return part 1 started out as an official sequel to Romero's night of the Living Dead. Penned by John Russo and Russ Streiner whom were heavily involved with Night. After being picked up, Alien scribe Dan O'Bannon was tapped to turn this story into a feature film, but decided he didn't want to tread on Romero's territory so he developed his own zombie mythos and brought to the masses an intelligent, fun and scary dead flick for horror fans to embrace and enjoy years and years to come.if you are a zombie fan, and love a little dark humor mixed in with your Zombie films then this film is a must see for all zombie fans. "}{"Title":"Talk about BRAINS; this movie has some!","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dan O'Bannon, the scribe behind Alien (1979), once again returns to the horror firmament with The Return of the Living Dead, in which he is writer and director. George A. Romero (director of 1968's Night of the Living Dead) apparently wanted nothing to do with this project, so O'Bannon was going solo and for the most part, he flies on the straight & narrow.We know that in 1968 on the Pennsylvania countryside, the living dead descended on a farmhouse and terrorized the people trapped inside. Dawn of the Dead (1978), added humor and satire as the four leads resolved themselves to living like fat rats inside an abandoned shopping mall while hordes of zombies roamed the outside world. In Day of the Dead (1985), the action was moved to an underground missile silo where scientists and the military pondered what to do as zombies roamed the topside world.Now here we are at The Return of the Living Dead, released the same year as Day, a punk variation of the material with plenty of laughs, gore, and BRAINS!First things first, a toxic waste spill in rural Kentucky brings the permanent residents of a local cemetery back to life, hungry for human BRAINS. Don Calfa is Ernie Kaltenbrunner, a worker at the mortuary where his buddy Burt (Clu Gulager), two bumbling medical-supply warehouse workers (James Karen and Thom Mathews), and a group of punk rock teenagers must fend off the re-animated corpses of the living dead.But these are no ordinary zombies. O'Bannon's own personal stamp of approval on the material comes from the fact that these zombies can talk, think, run, and work together to dine on human BRAINS. (This is an out-of-this-world concept that James Gunn saw fit with his work on the 2004 remake of Dawn of the Dead.) Considering the reputation of zombie movies in recent years, I was glad to finally see this movie after putting it off for much of my adult life. I was also surprised to find this effort working from the very first moments. It has some laughs that are pretty well out-there, and special effects that are not only satisfying in the gore department, but are also pretty inventive.And speaking of BRAINS, O'Bannon's script is littered with it, literally and figuratively. But these are characters who aren't too intelligent (The Return of the Living Dead works on the premise that Romero's film DID happen and the military covered it up), so they sometimes, unwisely, look to that movie for answers. So what it boils down to is improvisation. And they do find some clever ways to try to survive, even though the movie still ends on a rather downbeat note. The punk soundtrack is also worthy of some mention, since it fires up during some of the most intense action.The Return of the Living Dead may not be as sophisticated as its source material, but there's no question that this movie has BRAINS.10/10P.S. Scream queen Linnea Quigley, put some clothes on! "},{"Title":"a must see people go do yourself  a huge favor","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK wow you have to go see this movie just go buy the thing, it will be under ten dollars money more then well spent. First, off its crazy 1985 styles mixed with crazier filming wow this is more then a classic. I was born in 1986 just saw this movie today 2007 and you know what i was happy the whole way threw you have to just see this very funny. You will love it half pair acting and the actors they couldn't be any better and there are even more things what will make you crack up def a feel good movie so go do yourself a fave and see this please i did love love love cant wait to see the rest of the films line up it will only get better and keep my happy so go do yourself this one favor then get hooked like me and right some crazy review with out commas or periods cause your just so full of words so yep yep yep love it do it like me thanks thats all i am saying "},{"Title":"the governments solution is to drop a nuclear bomb. This is only going to make things worse. . .","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very funny spoof of zombie movies including the granddaddy of them all George Romero's 1968 'Night of the Living Dead'. This comedy turned out to be the best zombie movie I think. More effective than even Romero's 1978 sequel 'Dawn of the Dead'.They capture one of the zombies and question it. Asking, what it wants? Brains Why brains? Because brains ease the pain of being dead. Of course the zombies chasing them now, are their friends from earlier in the movie. . . One of them pleading to his former girlfriend, If you love me. . . You'll let me eat your brains. . .Return of the Living Dead III, was made into - a love story. Honestly, I don't ordinarily like horror or zombie movies but Return of the Living Dead III is one of my favorite love stories! Melinda Clarke is just so hot in the movie.Return of the Living Dead tho is my favorite zombie movie. It's so funny! and tragic, at the same time. It the most plausible of the zombies movies - the zombies being caused by 'Trioxine', escaping from the defense department. At the end, the governments solution is to drop a nuclear bomb on the infected city. And of course, the audience is cued in to the fact; this is only going to make things worse. . . "},{"Title":"We want brains","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Apparently the goings on in Night of the Living Dead were all true apart from a few minor details the army forced the filmmakers to leave out. The chemical gas which resurrects the dead is stored in an army surplus store and two employees accidentally spill it out into the air. Oh, and there's a cemetery nearby.Wickedly funny zombie movie that makes fun of Romero's classic but completely stands on it's own. One of the things that's altered is that the zombies actually crave for brains and not the flesh. The violence is extreme and definitely not for kids but the overall tone is humorous. The makeup effects are great, some solid gore on display here.Highly recommended for horror/zombie fans. "},{"Title":"The funniest zombie movie ever?","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dan O'Bannon's Return Of The Living Dead sure has one heck of a history. It actually took this movie a decade to get made. It started out as a spec script by Night Of The Living Dead co-scripter John Russo. When George Romero put his own sequel into production Russo's script went into the drawer but was later taken out again and turned into a novel by the author. Then it became a script property again. Tobe Hooper was set to direct but he had to pull out due to prior commitments. Then Dan O'Bannon came aboard, did a script rewrite and took the reins of director. while it would have been interesting to see the film in its initial stages as a straight sequel to Night, it sure makes for one funny zombie flick as O'Bannon made it. Who by now doesn't know the immortal line of send more paramedics? You simply can't be a zombie fan if you haven't seen this film. There are a great many gags that will leave you chuckling from the two morons being told that they can't be sick cause they're already dead to a reanimated dog. This film is hilarious. If you haven't already seen it check it out. "},{"Title":"The movie has brains..and lots of it!","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" May Contain Spoilers James Karen and Bloodmatch's Thom Mathews work in a warehouse that receives all sorts of bodies used for scientific research and it's here that Karen explains to Mathews, that Night Of The Living Dead was actually a true story and that the government covered it up, due to the fact that they invested a gas that reanimates the dead. Karen also explains that he has a cannister of said gas and well suffice to say the gas is unleashed and it brings back the dead in a night where no brain is safe. Return Of The Living Dead is a great movie not because of it's sense of humor (which always helps) but because it is at times tragic. The way James Karen cremates himself after seeing what happens to Mathews is more sad than gruesome. Although that's not to say the movie is depressing, the movie is a full of black comedy and grisly good cheer. For instance there is no funnier moment in black comedy history then when the zombie answers a request by he hospital asking if they need more paramedics. Yeah send more paramedics! and it becomes a balancing act of humor, scares and sad moments. The ending in particular is a real downer and although it ends the only plausible way it could, the movie never chickens out and goes of it's way to prove itself as a classic. A classic in it's own right. But a classic nonetheless.**** out of 4-(Excellent, A Must See!) "},{"Title":"If you don't like this movie then YOU SUCK!!!!!","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is one of the best movies ever - its absolutely flawless. I think if you think its a horror and take it as a horror, then you STILL won't even be disappointed. It is not scary and it has NO connection to Romero's Living dead series as so many idiots think.This movie is just so good and you can't help but love the characters Clu Gulager and Don Calfa were great playing Burt and Ernie, and the punk kids were amazing, but the duo of James Karen and Thom Matthews was maybe just the funniest duo ever to hit the big screen. Perfect.The writing by the great Dan 'O Bannon (who also did a swell job as director) was flawless. No boring parts and no nonsense, just laugh out loud entertainment with zombies, blood and BRAINS.....Watch this movie and shut your mouth... its perfect and if you don't like it YOU SUCK!!!!! "},{"Title":"A pure delight.One of the funniest zombie films ever made.Maybe not that funny.","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Living Dead is a horror film.It's a comedy.But it should not be divided because both categories blend in together into one movie.That's the genius in this film.The film has a comic look to the film which reminds me of those graphic comic novels.Released in 1985,along with films such as Re-Animator and Day of the Dead,Return of the Living Dead appears to distant itself from the other two films,although,at the same time,it still qualifies as a zombie film.The movie can be silly at times but it seems to be worth the viewing experience.The special effects are simple,yet,not state of the art.This makes the film more enjoyable to watch.Director,Dan O'Bannon takes the zombie genre and simply turns it inside out.The film is unexpected,at times scary and at times,hilarious.Open your heads(joke)to this film.If you don't,you'll be missing a really good horror film.Put this on your DVD list.I'm going to. "},{"Title":"Black humor gets along with Zombies.","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Highly underrated 80's cult classic takes the zombie sub-genre into a new wicked direction. Zombies weren't as creative and black humored ever before.This movie is a perfect mix of Horror and Comedy and that's what makes it different from many other movies like these. Return Of The Living Dead has established memorable quotes in the genre and also is remembered for it's high gore standards.There isn't much to spoil about this movie. It's an unique watch because the whole movie is entertaining, gory, and funny. Not a straight Horror movie if you ask, but still deserves a watch for being one of the best Horror Comedies from the 80's. "},{"Title":"Good, but not true zombies.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I personally did not like this movie...i love zombies movie, but they don't talk. In this movie the zombies talk, know how to set up a plan to attack, and run? One thing give it is that it made me laugh. It id definitely worth renting though for zombie fans.Another thing that was good was that they brought up Night Of The Living Dead. But one thing is that the zombies are pretty much impossible to kill in this movie. In most zombie films, you destroy the brain, in this you have to burn them. Overrall it was an entertaining and laughing zombie flick. And if you like zombie films I definitely recommend this one. "}{"Title":"You mean the movie lied?!","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Plot in a nutshell - Local hunky guy Freddy (Thom Matthews) is at work where his supervisor Frank (James Karan) shows him a dead body and a bunch of misplaced army tanks, which Frank claims were connected to the real life story that inspired George A. Romero's Night of the Living Dead. When Frank bangs on one of the tanks to show its durability, he pops the thing open and a bunch of gas shoots out, overpowering both workers and resurrecting the dead body in their freezer area. Elsewhere, an army man is still on the hunt for those missing tanks. When Frank & Freddy wake up, they find the dead body's been resurrected and is on the loose, so they call their boss, Burt (Clu Galager), who shows up and with his nitwit workers tries to mutilate the yellow corpse thing, but it won't die. So they take the mutilated pieces to Ernie, the guy at the crematorium, and they try to resolve things by burning the monster, but in doing so they shoot the deadly gas upside into the sky, where it infects the clouds and creates an acid rain that spreads the vile stuff to the cemetery where a bunch of young people, among them Freddy's beautiful virgin girlfriend Tina (Beverly Randolph) are hanging out. The result - zombie resurrection and rampage! Even worse, Frank & Freddy are turning into zombies from breathing the gas! And there's nothing the cops can do! Can the army save the day?Engaging nonsense is at its best when its being funny. It's not hard to see why this became a cult object. "},{"Title":"Outstanding mix of comedy and horror","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dan O'Bannon, is probably more known for his work as a writer (he is the creator of Alien), but in 1985 he left his mark in the horror genre when he directed a small low-budget film that mixed horror and comedy in a satire that payed homage to George A. Romero's zombie movies. The Return of the Living Dead is a terrific comedy-horror film that perfectly balances the two genres and probably has been the most influential film of its kind since its release.The story begins with Freddy (Thom Mathews), a young man on the first day of his first job as an assistant in a warehouse. His uncle Frank (James Karen) is his new boss, and he shows Freddy the warehouse's most bizarre item a forgotten tank of a Government's special gas that can bring the dead back to life as zombies. By an accident, the tank is opened and the beginning of zombie mayhem occurs.The Return of the Living Dead is a perfectly well-written film that never loses steam and remains true to its original premise. O'Bannon makes good use of both genres and keeps an equilibrium where neither the horror nor the comedy are sacrificed for the benefit of the other. The film is also very smart and witty and doesn't rely on cheap tired jokes to be funny. Loosely based on John Russo's book, Dan O'Bannon takes the story to a new level with the added comedy and the political satire and keeps true to the zombie sub-genre.Overall the film has good rhythm, and it has fitting direction. O'Bannon always has been more a writer than a director (so far he has only directed two films), but his work here is really good for a debut. The film has a slick, rebel look that goes hand to hand with the punk characters that are main part of the film. Despite its low-budget, the film has terrific special effects and particularly the make-up, still looks better than most of the modern stuff of more recent films.The cast is superb, and it is one of the highlights of the film. Veterans Clu Gulager, James Karen and Don Calfa make wonders with their characters and demonstrate their experience. Newcomers Thom Mathews, Miguel A. Nuñez and Linnea Quigley shine in their roles as well as the rest of the punk gang, all very effective in their roles. Quigley has an unforgettable scene that launched her career and reinvented the term Scream Queen.The movie suffers from its low-budget, but it is never a noticeable problem (in fact, it adds to the entertainment). O'Bannon may not be a great director, but his proficient script and the great cast definitely make up for any mistake he may had committed. If a real flaw is to be found, it would be the fact that it has dated somewhat badly, although it has gained that nostalgic mystique that surrounds all those 80s horror classics.To summarize, while The Return of the Living Dead is not a perfect comedy/horror, it is definitely the most influential of all, and still holds up as one of the best horror movies of all time. To the world, Dan O'Bannon may be the creator of Alien, but to horror fans, he is the creator of The Return of the Living Dead. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Greatest genre movie ever!","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first movie I ever loved passionately. I saw it on a Tuesday, in a theater that didn't ask a 12 year old for id to a rated R film. Went back on Wednesday with a friend. Then back again on Friday with 5 more. Horror/comedy/gorefest which set the bar long before it's less subtle Scary Movie counterparts. Call it a highbrow lowbrow black comedy with enough gore for any slaher fan. Running, thinking, wisecracking zombies chase a group made up of punk rockers, middle aged working men, and any other living creature happening by. I find myself laughing out loud still, 21 years later, after probably over 100 viewings. Definitely has my favorite ending of all living dead films. You will find some lines stay in your head long after watching. Since the music has changed on the DVD version (at least in the states)I would also recommend a copy of the original soundtrack, with punk greats such as TSOL and Roky Erikson. "},{"Title":"They're smart... and they want more brains","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Back in the day, in late 60's when Romero's 'Night Of the Living Dead' re-created the zombies, the deaders were clumsy, stupid and blood thirsty. i think after that most people have seen walking cadavers like that.Be prepared for a surprise the remake of the 'Dawn of The Dead' isn't the first film to show running corpses, this parody of the Dead series has exact opposite of the deaders, expect of the hunger part, in it.The movie straits with a notice, that it all is based on a true story. We meet two employees in a medical supply warehouse.Then we are told, that the original 'Night of The Living Dead' was based on a true event. There was this chemical created by the army. One thing leads to another and we learn, that this chemical is stored in the basement of the warehouse. Guess what happens after that? The acting and dialog is mostly pretty wooden though I have a feeling it was meant to be that way. The makeup effects are pretty good and some of the zombies are actually pretty gruesome. The direction is actually rather good considering, that O'Bannion hasn't directed that much. A slight minus comes from the terrible use of synthesized music. But that's 80's for you.The humor is dark, but if you can stomach that you'll get a couple of laughs out of this film, I sure did. ROTLD is one of the funniest black comedies around. "},{"Title":"Zombie horror/comedy CULT CLASSIC","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Return of the living dead (1985) is a fantastic movie, a superb blend of horror/comedy, a true CLASSIC from the 80's, it's highly entertaining and far superior than any other movie of it's type, especially modern crap like 28 days later, Shaun of the Dead etc etc!!!This film has got it all, fast pacing, loads of great characters, superb plot and lots of gore and impressive special effects and an excellent soundtrack too!!!James Karen is superb as Frank, he's very fun to watch and his sidekick Freddie played by Thom Matthews is done perfectly and they make a great double act!! Other standout performances come from Linnea Quigley who plays Trash, a punk who loves to strip naked in graveyards!!! This movie launched Linnea's career and she soon became the most popular and well known Scream Queen. Another great performance comes from Don Calfa (Weekend at Bernies), he plays Ernie, and lets not forget Clu Gulager as Burt the factory boss, he's great fun and kicks ass!!!!!All in all this is a total gem of a movie, and rates as the best zombie movie ever made, i would say even better than the original Dawn of the dead, i would rate this the best because it's a timeless cult horror classic, and it's one of those rare movies that you can watch over and over again and never get bored with, if you're a fan of zombie movies and haven't seen this, then you need to see it NOW!!!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"More brains!!!","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can I say? Irate zombies feasting on teenage brains is fun, and Linnea Quigley running around nude for 20% of the film doesn't hurt. Directed by Dan O'Bannon of Alien fame, and co-written by Russell Streiner who helped pen the 1968 original, 1985's Return of the Living Dead takes Romero's zombies to a new comic high. More than a few gross-out scenes, like an old hag zombie tied to a table screaming for brains, and a naked bald guy getting chopped up with an ax, but mostly this movie is just funny and silly. The ending is something of a downer because everyone dies, but overall there's not must to disappoint here. Comedy, blood, brains, and Linnea. Need I say more? "},{"Title":"They Love you and want to eat your BRAINS!","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Return of the Living Dead could not have been any better, breathing some humor into the Zombie genre. and Tarman...He used to give me trouble sleeping in my early days. But now the only thing that gives me trouble is not seeing many good zombie films. Frank and Freddy are a great combo when there on the screen, and you know something silly yet serious is bound to happen with them two. So go check it out if you haven't seen it yet.other GREAT zombie films to check out and ARE NOT part of the Return Series.George Remero's- Night Of the Living Dead (1969) - Dawn Of the Dead (1978) - Day Of the Dead (1985) - Land Of the Dead (2005)Lucio Fulci's- Zombie(Zombi 2) (1979) Edgar Wright's- Shaun Of the Dead (2004) "},{"Title":"Great movie!!","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think that this movie was one of best zombie films. I say because it takes a different view on the zombies films. It has humor, which is good, and has the classics, gore and horror. If you like zombie films, you'd like this one. The cast is good, and proof that the government is up to something. This film shows what would happen if something like that did happen. I think I would act like cast in the movie. I mean, he dead just don't come to life very often. Since there are remake of the other zombie films, there should be a remake of this movie. I have the DVD and it's nice to get the commentary and making of. It also has sketches what the zombies would look like. Plus, a storyboard for the film. I wish there would be more stuff on the DVD like deleted scenes and things like that. But, in general I still think it's a ten on the scale. I really recommend you see this movie because it explains a lot. Well, that's all I have to say about this movie. Well one more thing, I guess. I love this movie!! "},{"Title":"you want to buy some gas idiot","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i don't even know where to start with this movie, i would be inclined to call this my favorite movie of all time, it has everything and then some, you cant pick out a favorite character because they all rock. I have seen this movie a million times and like fine wine it keeps getting better with age. I can watch this movie more than even Romero's masterpieces, believe me all the writers here nailed this one on the head if you haven't seen this one your missing a jewel. I love how this movie never gets dull like every other movie does it's a one of a kind, and I hop no one ever tries to remake it because they would fail miserably, and as I was just writing I think I know who my favorite might be, old Ernie Cultenbruener(the mortician) his actions and lines are frickin hilarious! No need to bother with the sequels because they don't hold this ones jock. A real must see for anyone, if you love horror movies or collect them as i do, don't hesitate to buy this one, its packed with so many one liners that are so funny you'll find yourself repeating them long after you watch them. GREAT ,GREAT FLICK!!!!! 10 STARS NO DOUBT!!!! "},{"Title":"Can the undead commit suicide?","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's hard to blend comedy and horror and pull them both off. Twenty years before Shawn of the Dead made a zombie invasion chilling and funny Return of the Living Dead set the blueprint. This film plays back and forth between comedy and horror as if watching a tennis match but without losing the audience or feeling formulaic. That there are already 20 pages of user comments for a low budget film which the studio almost aborted shows how beloved this film is. However it's more then just entertainment it's a character study of what it's like to be undead. Although the film paints the cast in fairly one dimensional terms it treats the zombies with care and respect. These zombies are high functioning, alert and amazingly spry. Yes, there's the famous scene where one zombie orders up more policemen on the radio. There's also a scene where the living hold a conversation with the upper torso of one of the zombies and we discover why they want brains. This scene is more then just slightly reminiscent of the one in Independence Day where the president talks with a dead alien. The most poignant scene comes when we find out if it's possible for a zombie to commit suicide. At every step of the way the characters have a chance to fix things but only end up making it worse. Only Frank with his trip to the oven truly redeems himself. His sacrifice coming after he's pronounced dead by the EMT's again underscores how much more enlightened the dead can be.Is this film art? You bet. It has foreshadowing, drama, genuine pathos and follows the Greek tragedy formula of taking place within one revolution of the sun. Is this film great? Again, yes. It really injected life into the horror genre with faster more cerebral zombies. Will this film change the world? No not really. Just sit back and enjoy. "}{"Title":"Naked, Punk, Zombie Fiesta.... O'lay!","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dan O'Bannon is a God... Admit it, we all love zombie movies, and why wouldn't we? They're rotting flesh, brain eating, maggot spewing, bundles of moaning joy, and this one has it all. 1985 was an important year for the punk and metal movements, combine that with a hysterical gore fest and we all jump for fist pounding jubilation. An Army experiment goes wrong and releases a deadly gas that turns the eternally resting into brain hungry zombies, and what could be funnier then that? Clu Gulager and James Karen should have become the next Laurell and Harty for their performances here, the perfect blend of comedy and gore. Now let's throw in a naked Linnea Quigley and we have a real party on our hands. Well written and acted from beginning to end, the effects and lighting produce an eerie backdrop for the well thought out punchlines. By far my favorite O'Bannon film, and a time capsule to the 80's. Any true horror fan will absolutely love this one... "},{"Title":"best horror/comedy film to ever watch","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is the best zombie film i have ever watched. it has everything you need in a film the horror and the humour in it. i remember one Saturday night a while back i was flicking through on sky and came across this film not knowing much about it like it was a horror/comedy zombie film i thought it was just a normal horror film then i came across the humour and i loved watching every last minute of this film.i think that the actors suited there characters very well and made them believable and how they all acted differently in the film for different things were fun to watch.this film is worth watching even to buy it. "},{"Title":"Horrifically Funny!","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This flick is definitely worth seeing at least once. It's great for a few laughs and doesn't fail to hold the viewer's attention for a moment. I believe it serves the original justice. Keep in mind that I developed this opinion based on viewing the movie shortly after it was released in 1985 when I was seven years old. Due to the graphic content I wouldn't advise or recommend allowing your seven year old viewing this movie. However, even an adult seeing this movie for the first time may also catch themselves peeking through a couple fingers from time to time. If you're a big fan of vintage horror flicks and and haven't seen this classic yet, you're missing out. In addition, you may get more out of Return of the Living Dead if you watch the originals; Night of the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead & Day of the Dead. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Brilliant Zombie Parody","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this movie at the theater.I was very pleasantly surprised that it was more of a comedy then anything.It has some straight-out scares in it,that will make you jump.Dan O'Bannon is the creative force behind this all time cult classic.The story is pretty straight forward..Two stupid warehouse employees accidentally spill toxic waste,and things start to come alive. Good fun...I have this DVD in my collection.It was one of the first titles I purchased for the new format.I've always loved this movie,with it's creepy feel ,and fun soundtrack.The movie delivers laughs,as well as chills.I have always loved the way the characters behave in this film.They are scared to pieces.How is someone supposed to react to the living dead anyway? I highly recommend this great film! "},{"Title":"Excellent Zombie Comedy flick.","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two Employees (James Karen & Thom Mathews) works at an army surplus store unwittingly releases nerve gas from secret u.s. military canister. That canister is unleashing an unbelievable terror. That nerve gas can re-animated the dead coming back to life with a ravenous urge of human brains. A group of teens punks (Beverly Hartley, Miguel A. Nenez Jr., John Philbin, Jewel Shepard, Brian Peck, Lienna Quigley and Mark Venturini) and two adults (Clu Gulager & Don Calfa) help each other to fight the living dead, which they seem impossible to kill.Directed by Dan O'Bannon (Screen-writer of Alien, Dark Star & Total Recall) made a clever horror comic spoof to Night of the Living Dead (1968). This film is from a story by Rudolph J. Ricci, John A. Russo & Russell Streiner. The three, who worked on the original-Night of the Living Dead. The standout of the cast is Karen, who gives an wonderful comic performance.DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) and an clean-Dolby Digital 2.0 Mono Sound. DVD has good extras, includingAn running commentary track by the filmmakers, a featurette, conceptual art, tons of t.v. spots and two theatrical trailers. This is a cult punk horror classic of the 80's. Nothing could top this film until Shaun of the Dead had it's different brand of humor. Return of the Living Dead is followed by four sequels! Do not miss this one, make it a double feature with Shaun of the Dead and you will have a really good time. (**** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"The Best Zombie Movie?","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" You could go ahead and make a case that this is the best zombie movie of all time. I wouldn't stop you. On any given night it very well could be. It isn't but it could be. It is a damn good movie in or out of the genre. And fun. I watched it 15 times on Showtime Beyond this year. I still need to get ahold of that Cramps song The Surfin Dead How about Linnea Quigley? Huh? Huh? I saw her in a recent scream queens special and she's hot as ever though a little weathered and apparently hanging out with some ding dong who handles props or something and hides in her bathroom while she's doing interviews. You'd do her, though. And so would I and all those old zombie guys in the movie are they fdoing her or eating her or maybe both. I don't know but I can't blame them. Check out your Vaultonburg at b+n.com "},{"Title":"An Apocalyptic Spoof   With the Living Deadas the Vehicle !!!","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dan O'Bannon's fun loving look at the Apocalypse, when misplaced military chemicals are unleashed, and a series of disastrous events domino out of control . Uneeda Medical Supply is the home of the misplaced military containers that are hidden in the storage basement. They contain contaminated cadavers from another event. Burt Wilson(Clu Gulager),owner of Uneeda Medical, and Frank(James Karen) are aware of the misplaced containers, but never contacted the military. Frank, when training a new warehouseman,Freddy(Thom Mathews),shows Freddy the hidden barrels. Due to structural failure, the chemical gas escapes from one,leaks into the air ducts, and eventually into the atmosphere,that is when the hilarious disastrous chain of events begins. This film connects different cultures , which are all impacted by the toxic chemicals, that kills the living, and then resurrects the dead. Memorable performances by Clu Gulager,who has entertained for over 6 decades, and James Karen drive this film to higher levels .You will never forget the Dance of the Tombstones by Linnea Quigley, which really brings life to the cemetery .One would hope that the lead Actors would be recognized by their peers for a lifetime Achievement Award. Which is overdue . Violence, nudity are all components of this film, and it is not recommended for the under 14 crowd.Be prepared for an Assault of the Senses and take a peek into the Future in The Return of the Living Dead .Great fun, Terrific acting by Gulager and Karen make this a very enjoyable film .Tag Line, I just want to Eat your BRAINS ! "},{"Title":"A real scream for chiller fans!!!      MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a pretty good horror film. It kept me entertained and the acting was good. But there wasn't enough violence. The goriest part in the film was where this biker looking dude gets his head chewed up. This film is a classic and is a decent horror movie. Starts out a little boring though. After the beginning of the film it starts to get better. This film is better than it's sequel Return of the living dead part 2. But this one doesn't top the third entry. The third one had all the over the top gore and good acting. This one is still pretty good though some missing violence. To most horror fans this would be considered a masterpiece. Well I recommend this film to any horror fan or chiller fan. I rate this film a 7/10. "},{"Title":"This won't be playing at the movies when your dead.","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is the movie that made Linnea Quigley famous which is odd considering that she is a minor character who dies early. There is however a rare scene of nudity by Linnea when she dances on a stone coffin. This is one of my favorite scenes of nudity of all time. The script by Dan O'Bannon gave us fast, smart zombies that talked for the first and only time that I know of. The soundtrack and sound effects are sturdy with three highlights for me Surfin' Dead, Burn The Flames(James), and Tonight We'll Make Love Till We Die(Linnea). Clu Gulager, James Karen, Don Calfa, Thom Mathews, and Miguel A. Nunez Jr. make up a good cast. The Tar Man rules, second to only Bub, in land of the dead. My favorite laugh is in the warehouse where James Karen whacks a re-animated, split dog with a crutch.*zombie Send more cops!* **half zombie The Pain! Ernie It hurts to be dead.** "},{"Title":"Expect a laugh more than a fright. (spoilers)","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Return of the Living Dead' is a great horror movie if you don't expect to take it seriously. And hell, with the zillions of zombie movies out there, why should you stick with just trying to pull the same thing? This one doesn't. The story involves two nutty corpse robbers (it is a modern day movie, by the way, just in case that 'corpse robbing' mess threw you off) who, amidst their greedy endeavors, release a toxic gas in the air that raises the dead. And now, a few brave members of town have a bit of fun getting chased around town by the lurking brain-lusting mutants. There's not a whole lot to the story. I guess, once you're zombie bait, you don't have time for much else.Nonetheless, if you love cheap horror movies that you can laugh at (not because it's so bad, but because the filmmakers were willing to have fun with the absurdity of the tale), then this movie is definitely for you. "}{"Title":"One of the coolest horror films ever made!","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Zombies, punk rockers, mortuary assistants, plenty of gore, a little nudity, a killer soundtrack, bad acting, what more could anyone want from a horror film?'The Return of the Living Dead' is easily one of my favourite horror films of all time. There is something about it that makes the film stand miles above many of the other horror films of the last 20 years. Maybe it's that it doesn't take itself too seriously, yet doesn't treat itself as a joke either. The perfect mix of horror and comedy, in my opinion.A killer sountrack featuring the likes of T.S.O.L, .45 Grave and of course The Cramps helps this film a lot as well. A killer film that seems to have been unfairly forgotten lately. "},{"Title":"Punks, soldiers, morticians and zombies!!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Return of the Living Dead (1985) was a spoof/homage to the zombie genre. A couple of workers in a medical supply warehouse are fooling around and accidentally open an old oil drum that was holding a nasty looking cadaver. After a mysterious toxic gas escapes from the the cheaply made container, the two workers become gravely ill from it's after effects. Meanwhile a car load of punks are coming by to pick up their friend who happens to work in the medical warehouse. The old container is one of the few that the army has been looking for since they lost it almost twenty years ago. One old soldier wont rest until he finds ever single one of them. Sadly he doesn't know that one of the eggs has just hatched. To complicate things further, the egg has hatched next to a cemetery. Now the fun begins. This film is one of my favorites of the genre. The punk/goth soundtrack is real good and is worth seeking out if you like T.S.O.L (the punk/goth version), The Cramps and The Damned. Sadly, I have never heard The Damned's Dead Beat Dance on any version of the film (video or DVD).I highly recommend this film. It has two of my favorites, Punk Rock and zombies!! The punks are severely stereotyped (the kind you only see in movies) but they're funny in their own quirky way and they have some of the best lines.Check it out!A "},{"Title":"The Return of the Living Dead","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Simply, this movie rocks! Any of you out there that took this movie seriously missed the point. Corny, scary, hilairious, GREAT! Seeing Linnea Quigley strip in a graveyard and walk around completely naked for the majority of the movie is reason enough to see it!WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? RENT IT! "},{"Title":"Possibly the best zombie film ever!","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS*Although I may be no expert on zombie films, I know one thing for sure. This film was much better than Night of the Living Dead, and is far more underrated.I heard about this film ages ago, but when at the video store I noticed the cover saying 'Soundtrack featuring songs by The Cramps, TSOL, .45 Grave etc.) which was what convinced me to hire it out.The film starts off with two middle-aged men and a young man (presumably a new employee) at a medical supply centre in a rural town.When the boss leaves Freddy (young man) asks Frank (middle-aged) what the strangest thing he's ever seen is. Frank responds by asking Freddy whether he's ever seen Night of the Living Dead. Freddy says yes, and then Frank starts to tell him that it was, in fact, based on a true story. A chemical made corpses come back to life and cause havok, so naturally the army ships the corpses away to a far away place, but the post office screwed up the orders and accidentely send them and the chemical to the medical supply centre.They go down into the basement and have a look at the corpses, but when the container explodes, they pass out, and when they wake up, they discover all the dead things are suddenly alive and are hungry for brains.While this is all happening, a group of young misfits are waiting in a graveyard for Freddy to finish working so they can go out and party.A fantastic film. "},{"Title":"Zombie Nutritionists Recommend All-Brain Diet","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One zombie movie, served with a side order of cheese.  Not a bad flick; something of a spoof of the Romero Dead trilogy, with the zombies being much more fearsome owing to the fact that they are virtually unkillable and move just as quickly as regular folks.  Oh yeah, and they aren't just interested in any bit of flesh, they specifically want to chow on human brrrrraaaaiiiinnnnns, as they often remind the characters in the movie.Above-average zombie entertainment, complete with gratuitous nude scene from B-movie queen Linnea Quigley, this tongue-in-cheek movie is good for a few laughs and even some decent gore effects.  Recommended for zombie movie fans who want their walking dead to come without the added depth of social commentary inherent in Romero's films.  But it doesn't touch Romero's work for sheer awesomeness.  And it doesn't go nearly as far in spoofing the zombie genre as Peter Jackson's ultra-gross-out, Dead Alive.  Still, not crap, either. "},{"Title":"Beats EVIL DEAD and BAD TASTE by far !!","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THEY'RE BACK FROM THE GRAVE AND READY TO PARTY!!  (laughs)Hey this Dan O'Bannon flick is almost as over-the-top as anything George Romero ever did.  Hell, I think it's even better than CREEPSHOW if ya wanna know the truth.  And the ending involving a nuclear-tipped artillery shell is so over-the-top ridiculous that even I can stand it.  Usually I hate dumb stuff like that, but not in this case.Some bodies that were mistakenly shipped by the Army to a medical supply firm, accidentally leaks toxic fumes and contaminate James Karen and Thom Mathews because they were near a canister of the stuff.  These bodies were contaminated by a toxic waste spill that leaked into the ground and brought the rotting corpses in nearby cemeteries back to life.Anyway, the gas leaks out and the first rotting corpse comes back to life, the incredible black-tar melting man.  It's the coolest special effect for the whole movie, imo.  Then the gas escapes into the vents and brings the 'yellow man' dead body in the freezer back to life while Karen and Mathews are slowly turning into the walking dead.In the meantime, some punk rocker friends of Mathews are hanging out in the cemetery next door waiting for him to get off work and as the escaped gas gets into the rainwater, it seeps underground and starts bringing all the dead corpses back to life.  This is happening while Linnea Quigley dances around in the cemetery all naked and all.The owner of the medical supply firm (Clu Gulager) comes back and freaks out over the mess that's taken place.  They wind up having to take the now chopped yellow man corpse over to the crematoria next door where the mortician (Don Calfa) is drawn in to their predicament.   Then all hell breaks loose around the mortuary/crematoria.Gore highlights include--The black tar melting man is incredible.  He yells braaaaains...    as he bites a hunk of skull out of one of the punk rocker dudes (Mark Venturini).--Two paramedics are attacked by the zombies and one of them gets his brains eaten out in a cool gore scene.  O'Bannon in the separate DVD audio track said the actor ate real calf brains.  Yeech...--A half-rotting female corpse is tied down on the embalming table and says that they need to eat brains in order to take away the pain.  This is right after she just took a hunk of skull out of another one of the punker dudes.The MGM DVD utilized a nice, widescreen anamorphic print, or you can flip it over view it in it's standard full-screen size.  The extras also contain lots of TV spots, movie trailers as well as a 13 minute commentary by director O'Bannon, this belongs in every collection of 80s horror film, imo.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved this movie ever since I saw it on television. Of course television doesn't show everything so I went out and rented it. And I loved it even more. Clu Gulager is bad-ass boss, James Karen and Thom Matthews are the very funny comic relief, and Don Calfa is just there to be Don Calfa (which is always good). And let's talk about those punks, Miguel Nunez and Brian Peck are great as 2 hard rockin' dudes. Mark Venturini doesn't have much of a part, but man can he act! And who doesn't want to see the luscious Linnea Quigley in a cemetary strip scene (love that short, red hair, among other things). Anyway, this movie is great, funny, and most likely the only movie where you'll hear Do You Wanna Party by 45 Grave while zombies are attacking. I highly recommend this spooky, funny, and quite sexy movie to horror fans of all ages. "},{"Title":"One of the best horror comedies!","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this zombie-spoof of George A. Romero's classic &#145;Night of the Living Dead' (1968) the employees, and eventually the owner, of a medical supplies company find themselves in big trouble after the accidental release into the atmosphere of a chemical that resurrects the dead. As hundreds of zombies rise from the grave it becomes apparent that they are only interested in one thing &#150; brains!&#145;Return of the Living Dead' is a horror comic masterpiece. Taking obvious influences from Romero's &#145;Dead' trilogy yet still remaining respectful to its inspiration this movie delivers some great special effects, an awesome soundtrack and some of the finest comedy to be found in horror. In a similar way to how &#145;Scream' (1996) parodied the horror genre so does &#145;ROTLD' but in a way more `in your face' than &#145;Scream. Not afraid to pick faults and exploit clichés (such as the girl who gets naked for no reason) &#145;ROTLD' stays far truer to the roots of the movies that influenced it at the time and that aids it in remaining enjoyable.Everything that makes good horror cheese so fun is featured in this movie from the hammy acting of stars Clu Gulager, Thom Matthews, Don Calfa and James Karen through to the respectable special effects and zombie make-up. Watching this movie and seeing a thousand zombies suddenly poor out of nowhere is an awe-inspiring sight in some respects.The movie has some problems, perhaps maybe a little too ludicrous for some and I must admit in places the story seems to drag but taking all the minor problems into consideration I recommend this movie to horror (comedy) fans and any fan of Romero's &#145;Dead' trilogy and similar zombie movies who fancy a good chuckle with those movies in mind. My rating for &#145;Return of the Living Dead' &#150; 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"A twisted horror comedy that pulls no punchs'.","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Teenage punk and all around dim bulb Freddie has just managed to land a job at a medical supply warehouse. Freddie's equally dimwitted supervisor Frank, lets him take a peek at a cannister of toxic gas meant to be used as a weapon by the millitary. The two accidently let loose the stuff in the cannister, and through a seires of comic mishaps raise the dead from their graves. Meanwhile Freddies freinds are in a nearby graveyard having a party, and you can pretty much guess what's gonna happen from there. Mean spirited horror/comedy from Dan O'Bannon who creates some likeable characters, and inspite of the slapstick still manages an atmosphere of dread. Some awesome zombie effects (the tar man is very scary)and crowd pleasing gore make this movie a must for zombie fans. The ending is exteremely down beat and cruel, it never fails to send a small chill down my spine. The soundtrack ain't to shabby either.Highly Recommended  "},{"Title":"Scary, funny and hip!","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **One Spoiler**I cannot believe I am writing a review of this movie.  Even though it came out almost 20 years ago, I saw it for the first time a few days ago on CABLE!  I was not so sure about this one and my hand was on the remote ready to change the channel...When the musical score started in the beginning, it really grabbed me.  I loved the music in this movie and judging from other comments, I'm not the only one.  The movie was the perfect balance of horror and comedy.  Not exactly an Academy Award winner, but who cares?  It scared me so bad that I had to sleep with the bathroom light on and that was with my husband there! )OK, we all know the men loved Linnea Quigley.  My favorite character in this movie was Freddy.  I thought Thom Matthews character was such a nice, sweet person in this movie, at least in the beginning! Although he was probably only around 19 or 20 years old in this one, he was cute, tall, with bright blue eyes (until they were cauterized by chemicals!) and he had a great body.  My favorite part was when Freddy was trying to get Tina to come down from the attic.  He had more energy and was more romantic as a zombie - haha!  I liked when he said 'I hurt myself again and I broke my hand completely off this time.  But I forgive you, darling'.  So, the guys liked Linnea and I liked Thom (and he kept his clothes on).I think I'm the last person to have finally seen this one.  But if you haven't seen it, rent it, and check in your braaaiiiins at the door because you won't be needing them! ) "}{"Title":"Do your thing punk rock girl!","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This may not be ground breaking cinema, but it is a lot of fun. Being a teen in the 80's keeps this one close to my heart. It's not taken overly seriously, but still manages to keep all the crucial elements intact. There is a little bit of black humor mixed in to keep it on the lighter side and overall it works really well.I love the scene where the first corpse is reanimated. It's one of the best scenes in any zombie movie. I also feel that I would be remiss in my duty if I didn't mention the incredibly hot punk rock girl who does the graveyard burlesque show (for a gratuitously long time).Just a fun one to watch.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Punk rocker Quigley dancing naked and lots of brain eating","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*A toxic gas escapes from a medical warehouse and infests a graveyard. Some punk rocker teens are partying down there when the dead start rising from the grave. It's brain eating time. There are two good reasons to see this flick. One is Linnea Quigley. She spends a good portion of the flick naked. One of the best scenes has her dancing naked on a tombstone. A stellar B-movie moment. The other reason to see it is the copious amount of brain eating. The zombies want nothing more to do with you than to eat your brain. I had a flashback to one of the Simpsons Halloween episodes when I was watching this flick. The zombies in that episode also wanted a brain to eat but of course Homer didn't have enough of one to bother with.Return of the Living Dead is a fun zombie flick. It has got Quigley's naked body and brain munching. You can't go wrong. I liked it.  "},{"Title":"Absolutelly great zombie movie!","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very good horror movie with lots of quick action and black humour. Story is not so fascinating, but every horror-fan will be enjoyed this good work. Funny jokes, tought-guys killing zombies, blood & gore. Real good film, I tell ya! "},{"Title":"Awesome Zombie Film.","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return of the Living Dead is great. There is a nude girl, violence, a midget looking zombie, and comedy. What more can you ask for in a film. Well this is how the story goes. The tank of gas that brings back the dead opens and well brings the dead alive. While a couple of teenagers party in the (Graveyard). So there basically fresh meat. While the people that opened it are trying to survive also. This is a grade A horror comedy. "},{"Title":"Repo Man with zombies","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return of the Living Dead is a strange amalgam of punk rock, 1950's B-movies (the film's major decision revolves around a grizzled Pentagon type), and George Romero's zombies.  It's revolting, gory, and frequently hilarious.  When two workers in a medical warehouse uncover the incubating cadavers in the basement, they let loose a poison gas that, through some ironic circumstances, mixes with the rain outside and causes the dead in the local cemetery to rise.  Like Dead Alive and Re-Animator, Return of the Living Dead has a lot of verbal and physical humor that complements the extremities of its gore.  While it's not a masterpiece along the lines of Dawn of the Dead or Re-Animator, this is offbeat enough to please fans of those movies.  One of the better zombie films of the 1980s.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Kool","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a brilliant campy zombie movie, the best bits have to be trash ( linea quigley ) dancing around naked on graves then later re amerging as a nude zombie. Its great fun and doesn't take its self seriously at all but it isnt one of those annoying too much comedy rather than horror types, its very balanced.If you like horror and zombies you'll love this one,trust me. "},{"Title":"i think","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK movie, linnea quigleys strip turned me on so badly i could hardly watch whithout drewling and rewinding that part over and over, otherwise it was pretty entertaining, but i wont see it again (except the you-know-what part D the best movie in this style ever is army of darkness it rocks.. well its not this style but you know what i mean. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I gave this one a bad review a while ago but now that I've seen it a few times since then, I love it!!  It's one of the best and most original zombie movies!  And zombie movies are of course the greatest horror subgenre there is!  Watch it! 10/10And for some reason, everyone hates the second film.  I thought it was hilarious and fun.  The third one sucked crap though.  I can't wait for Tobe Hooper to make the 4th and 5th!! "},{"Title":"Back in a time when hittin' the local drive-in was something everybody did on the weekends, The Return of the Living Dead was tailor made for such a crowd.","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Zombies... God love'em!Back in a time when hittin' the local drive-in was something everybody did on the weekends, The Return of the Living Dead was tailor made for such a crowd.  Most likely meant as a soft backdrop to the heavy-petting and backseat smoochin' done by most patrons of such places... for those of us who have actually taken the time to sit and watch the movie, it actually offers up a few nuggets of brilliance!Take for instance the zombies.  In most zombie flicks, you see the undead stroll the country-side slowly, arms up, looking like a half decomposed Frankenstein, moanin' their heads off in search of the ultimate snack, human flesh.  Not so here.  These zombies are truly unique as they can speak, feel, and run.  That's right, RUN!  These zombies move like the living, man! Talk about spooky.Of course, the acting, plot, and actual execution of the flick aren't that great; for a movie like this those things don't really apply.  The usual viewer of Return of the Living Dead isn't going to be your average movie goer, but your hardcore horror fan lookin' for a good time.With a unique take on zombies, and some interesting make-up effects, this is that good time.  It's cheeseball horror at its finest. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Within the minority of horror film fans, there is a sub-minority of zombie film fans. This film is really aimed at them.Writing is some of the best I've ever heard in a horror film, direction more than adequate (Dan tends to let it play out as opposed to showing off), good acting (and b-movie acting; saying ludicrous dialogue with a straight face) good special effects (though could be better in parts) and a good Punk soundtrack.  The film flows very quickly and is entertaining and exciting to stay in your head (Braaaaaains) with many classic moments. Once you've seen the graveyard scene you'll never forget it (an army of corpses rising form their graves to the sound of 45 Graves' PartyTime.It's like Evil Dead II in it's mix of horror comedy and is not so much a rip-off of George A. Romero's series of zombie films, as it is a homage. The film is a lot more entertaining assuming you've seen Night, Dawn and Day.All in all, a good enjoyable film. "}{"Title":"O'Bannon Uses BRAINS...Not Necessarily HIS!","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In classic Hollywood fashion, though Dan O'Bannon conceived and wrote the basic script for what became ALIEN, he attained mostly cult status as a 'known' writer, while the lion's share of the fame and fortune went to the producers, stars and the director, Ridley Scott. Afterward, O'Bannon continued to hire himself out as a script doctor, also slugging out more original work with writing partner Don Jakoby (BLUE THUNDER, TOTAL RECALL).Also in the classic sense, all O'Bannon wanted to do was direct. And like a lot of us who grew up with George Romero's seminal classic, NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD, when it came to his attention that certain rights to remake the property were now available, O'Bannon jumped at the chance.RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD is one of those movies that takes the deceptively basic principle of What if...? and runs amok with it, cackling with maniacal glee all the way. So, what if at the end of the events depicted in NOTLD, the Army took all the dirt and bodies and debris from the destroyed farmhouse, packed it up in hermetically-sealed drums, and in a typical bureaucratic screw-up, lost everything en-route to one of those secret storage locations, sending it all to a run-down medical supply house in Kentucky instead?The answer is provided in unique O'Bannon fashion, with gore aplenty, and a heapin' helpin' of the writer/director's twisted, black sense of humor.I was not heavily into either punk rock or zombie films at the time I saw this in its original release, and like a lot of audience members, it certainly helped to 'expand my horizons.' The sense of danger,urgency and slapdash gallows humor is magnified by great use of creative casting, as the movie is headlined by some of the best character actors in the business Clu Gulager, James Karen and Don Calfa. The punker teens who unwittingly offer themselves up as potential zombie treats are all seemingly stock characters, but some went on to varying degrees of career success, notably Thom Matthews, Miguel Nunez Jr., Jewel Shepard and Linnea Quigley appearing as death-obsessed slut Trash, who eventually used this appearance to build on her career as one of horror's leading Scream Queens.More than the mix of mirth and mayhem, or the obvious concoction of zombies and punk/pop meant to appeal to a younger demographic, ROTLD stands out especially for the way O'Bannon took the standards established by Romero, and put a brand new spin on them. Rather than the lumbering, lurching behemoths we recognized zombies to be in the past, these suckers can RUN, TALK and have distinctive individual personalities. And in an unusual twist that seems to magnify the horror more than when they resorted to basic cannibalism, all they want to eat  now is LIVE BRAINS.Quotable one-liners abound throughout the script, but one especially memorable setpiece among many involves the hysterical girlfriend of one of the punkers-turned-zombie, who cowers shrieking in the locked attic of a mortuary, as her former boyfriend croons menacingly to her from below, in a dark parody of a horny suitor trying to get to third base with his girlYou know I love you, Tina...That's why you've got to let me EAT...YOUR...BRRRAAAIIIIIN...Sharp, shocking and surprisingly funny in all the places where it needs to be, ROTLD is not high-brow horror by any means.  But for aficionados of horror films from the '80's, or just for those looking for a fun time at the flicks with a difference, this should more than fill the bill.  "},{"Title":"BRAINS..MORE BRAINS!!!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There are two things I absolutely love. Punk rock , and zombies. Wow a movie that combines both , even though the punks in this movie are a little too stereotyped it's still fun for a laugh. Return Of The Living Dead is great cause it was one of the first zombie movies to combine black comedy , and humor ..and also one of the rare zombie flicks to have references to Romero's movies and take on a twisted sense of reality from the zombie genre, plus  to have the zombies talk , and run , and have a personality. Also they cannot be killed , you can even burn them to ash and they still pose a threat. Finally out on DVD..this was once a very hard movie to purchase , even though the DVD changes a bit of the audio , and a TSOL song..it's still very cool to have..so pick up a copy10/10 "},{"Title":"A fun treat for ANY film fan","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Ebert once said that the whole point of going to the movies is to experience things and go to places that you can't in real life.  The tone of Return Of The Living Dead is a hard thing to explain to someone whose never seen it.  It's fun and silly, but it also has a sinister, blackly comic undertone that has never been seen elsewhere (its not simply a horror-comedy like Evil Dead 2 as some claim- its vibe is a little more distinct than that).  The performances are great- there are some great quotable B-movie cheese lines as well as some genuinely convincing moments.  Not just a modern horror classic, but a fun treat for ANY film fan.  Get a couple of friends who've never seen it together and get Ready To Party!!! "},{"Title":"Crazier Than A Circus Full Of Clowns","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return Of The Living Dead is absolutely crazy; in fact one of the best horror comedy films ever. The general advice I would give before watching this is SWITCH YOUR BRAIN OFF.Some gas is released into the air thanks to two buffoons and pretty soon the living dead have risen. What do they do? Do they look for their families? No. Do they stretch their arms and use a bit of mouthwash? No. Instead, they head for the human beings, anxious to get a bite of the human brains.In a way this film is scary but it's bloody crazy as well. In one scene a zombie is hacked into little pieces but is still alive. His parts are put into little black bin bags and taken to the furnace. The guys who take him to the furnace come up with some story about the bags being home to rabid weasels and the guy working at the furnace refuses to burn them so they have to tell him the truth.It's obvious inspiration was drawn from Night of the Living Dead by George A. Romero but they say immitation is the sincerest form of flattery.All in all, a crazy film full of blood, laughs and nudity. Check it out. "},{"Title":"I'll buss it in the damn head!!","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can one say about this flick that hasn't already been said?  Return of the Living Dead is a perfect horror/comedy.  It's scary, it's funny, it's got a great punk soundtrack, and Linnea Quigley doing full frontal.  What more could you possibly ask for?  Oh, you still want more.  Well, the entire cast is great (almost unbelievably so for a B movie).  Thom Mathews, James Karen, Clu Gulager, Don Kalfa, Miguel Nunez (Spider rules!!), and the rest of the punks, every last one of them are brilliant and believable (and hysterical).  Dan O'Bannon's script is very witty and the dialog speaks for itself.  Watch your tongue boy if you like this job.  Like this job!!  It's also set in my hometown of Louisville, so it doesn't get any better than that.  This film really used to scare me.  It has some of the best zombie action ever filmed.  It's very different than Romero's style.  These zombies run and talk.  It's very fast paced and claustrophobic.  The best scene is when the Tar Man (a great looking zombie) is first revealed and the Vertigo shot comes soon after.  Scary stuff.  Besides all that, I associate the title score with having the hell scared out of me.  Return of the Living Dead is another O'Bannon masterpiece and a true fan favorite.  Brainsssssssss!!! "},{"Title":"Not Brilliant, but still pretty good for a low-budget zombie movie","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well I have to admit I'm a huge fan of zombie movies, so I loved this one! I know the tag line is pretty dumb and all, but this movie is really cool and kinda scary too! I recommend to see this movie, if nobody wants to see it with you, that's better, 'cause I assure you, you are going to get scared at least 3 times!  "},{"Title":"It Scared me,It Shocked me,It made a big fan,It´s a Genere MUST SEE!!!!!!!","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All i can say right now about this movie isWow!That´s an expression that can kind of interpret what i fell about it.It´s funny how first of all i wanted to record this movie because it was coming out on T.V and i just wanted it to go on my horror movie collection aside the Romero Living Dead trilogy even if it sucked like it´s part 2 and horrendous part 3.I waited at least 8 to 10 hours,Loosing time to get to this midnight showcase and saw the whole thing without even blinking an eye,it was a thrill ride,oh yes.IT WAS WORTH IT! To me this movie is better than the original 60´s Night of the Living Dead and Day of the Dead,It stays on the side of Dawn of the dead and Evil dead,This movie is Funny and Sad and Scary all at the same time,it reminded me of the love that i have on horror movies and why do i love so much to see this films and what kind of films get to me,This one did,Im a grown 24 year old man and i was a little afraid to go downstairs in my home for a glass of water,i was really disturbed. The ending is so realistic that it takes this movie to a different place than the other zombie movies,the only one that can compare to such an ending is the original Zombie from Fulci.This movie takes place on Kentucky and some idiot guy spanks a drum filled with a zombie and a lethal gas that brings the dead to life and it blows some gas out,and before you can say Bloody zombie fest Hell breaks loose. See this movie please,it´s a crowd pleaser in Zombie Fan genere. I will give it a 10 out of 10 on Living Dead movies.  "},{"Title":"NOW ON DVD!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ROTLD is finally on DVD! Inexplicably, it is in widescreen even though I understand the film was not shot in widescreen. Feels a bit dated after all these years, and some sequences (like James Karen's transformation) go on a tad long. But it is still one of the best horror films of the 80s. Watched it with my two teenage daughters and some of their friends, and they laughed and shouted in all the right places -- even with the badly dated special effects and, for the most part, impersonal rabble of zombies. The fact that these zombies talk (sometimes too much) and run very fast after their victims impressed my brood. They are used to the shuffling, inarticulate zombies of NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD. They also really dug the line, Send more cops. A must-see if for no other reason than to see how far things could go in the mid-80s. "},{"Title":"Gina...","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I noticed a lot of reviewers had quotes from the movie for titles.  Anyway......I just saw this movie for the second time.  It still scars the be-jesus out of me.  I'm sorry, it wasn't half as scary as the first time I saw it.... it was the very first movie I deliberately rented out of the horror movie section of my video rental store.  (I owned and watched others but didn't know they were horror at the time).  For a 9 year old kid to watch ROLD is terrifying.  At 19, maybe it's just remembering how terrified I was.  Yet I usually don't watch movies about zombies and brains and stuff.  Vampires, sure.  But Vampires are sensual!  The second one I couldn't watch at all, just because of the memories, and the third one had little reminiscince to this movie, and was good but not terrifyingly scary.This is one of the greatest scary movies I've seen ...... although I haven't seen many of the 'classics'.  Most people tell me something is a classic and I think otherwise.  But I'll give them a chance too.Anyway this movie kicks butt! "},{"Title":"C'mon, let's have some fun!","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first watched this film in '85, on video, I ignored it because it wasn't up to the gore quotient of Dawn of the Dead but I have, over the years, come to regard this as smart, referential, and entertaining. Classic 'B' cinema!!!  "}{"Title":"*** out of ****","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Solid horror effort by Dan O'Banon is one of the best zombie movies ever made.  Referencing George Romero's masterpiece Night of the Living Dead, Return attempts to both lightly spoof it and unofficial continue the story, to a largely successful degree.  A few scenes seem misplaced and unnecessary, but the comic and horror elements both work well, with some very funny and some very frightening moments.  Regarded as a cult classic, it still carries lots of mainstream appeal. "},{"Title":"A comedy of terrors","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie does not take itself too seriously and as a result ends up being even scarier, than if it had.  A lot of horror in jokes and slap stick really hit home on the point of man's own indifference to the environment can come back and bite him on the ass (or in this case brains).Of course when things get out of hand, the government has the solution for everything--mushroom salad for everyone!This movie is serious laughter. "},{"Title":"An absolute laugh-riot","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't seen it in years but remember it as being one of the funniest movies I've ever seen it.  If you think it's stupid and don't laugh, you're completely missing the point and you're probably an uptight conservative.  I can't imagine anyone not digging this dopey, fun movie. Just thinking about it now makes me me want to see if I still have the copy I taped off HBO in the '80s.  The entirely punk soundtrack kicks ass, as well. You'll watch your tongue if you like this job!!LIKE THIS JOB?!?!?!? "},{"Title":"Not A Joke.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know why IMDB has this genre down for a comedy. I don't know why a lot of people call this a black comedy. This film is a dead serious & truly scary. The scene where people consider a comedy is when they fight a corpse in the warehouse. Their tone of voice not the lines may have you chuckling in shock but come on... this was not funny. It was scary & sad... all the way to the end.Romero may have been popular for the original living dead conscept but his films were no where as ruthless as Dan O'Bannon. Romero did Night of the Living Dead & Dawn of the Dead. Great films but he never, ever, explained the heck did they rise from the grave. Dan gives you a reason. Romero's zombies were slow in motion & stupid. As long as you are carrying a lot of guns & get rid of your fear you would find they don't stand a chance against humans. Dan's were scary. Those dead people could think, plan, & were impervious to all assaults & attacks. Romero's dead men had one weakness the brain. Strike & their down. Dan's you have to destroy everything including the bones to get rid of them. Plus they fast as humans but worst. Humans get tired from running. Since's the dead are dead they never get tired of running after you. Truly a horrific film.Keep in mind that this film has an alternate begining & end!!!! Perhaps when the DVD version comes out well will see it again. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The living dead raise yet again after a couple of warehouse employees accidently release a deadly chemical that was misshipped by the Army. However, these would be victims have seen Dawn & Night of the Living Dead and discover that isn't any help.First half funny send-up of the living dead sub-genre and second half a straightfoward bone chilling zombie pic with startling effects and memorable charcaters (especially Linnea Quigley) and situations. It doesn't always work, but the results are enjoyable enough and the film features plenty of style. Rated R; Extreme Graphic Violence, Nudity, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Great Black Comedy","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is more of a black comedy than a horror film though it does have its standard horror elements.I had the privilege of meeting Dan O'Bannon years ago; he was a bit of a gruff but lovable type, and he was very proud of ROTLD.On another note, I worked with James Karen on a short film a few years after the film came out and he, too, was fond of the film. The scenes between him, Clu Gulager and Thom Matthews are really sharp and funny.This movie was years ahead of its time in the way it played with and defied its own genre rules. It was much funnier than any of the Scream movies, and scarier, too.The only other film that ranks with this film is Re-Animator.  "},{"Title":"What more could you ask for? This rocks!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the coolest movies I've ever seen. After a mysterious chemical is released into the atmosphere and falls onto the world below in a stinging acid rain, it causes corpses to rise up from their graves and attack and eat the brains of the living. What follows is a fast-paced, hilarious, campy, yet very fun movie which is one of the best zombie movies out there. I love Linnea Quigley-her part is small but she's really good in it. Thom Mathews (Tommy in F13th Part 6) was pretty good in this although he didn't have much to do, if you want to see him in a good part watch Part 6 of the Friday the 13th series (another favorite of mine). Overall, this movie is a lot of fun, just relax and have a good time with it. I love stuff from the 80s, so all the big hair and clothes were really fun to watch, and the soundtrack is a great one. Don't miss this. "},{"Title":"Scared me the most!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie scared me more than any horror movie ever has.I saw it about 13 or so years ago when I was around 7.  It was late one night when I was the only one up in the house and it was on HBO.  I had never seen or even heard of a zombie before, so ofcourse it freaked me out when I saw dead people running around, talking, and eating peoples brains. To this day whenever I'm alone outside in the dark, I sometimes think of the zombies coming out of the ground and the sounds they made when chasing them people.  It usually makes me shiver and I might start looking around just to make sure none are around me.I have seen better horror films, but none scared me like Night of the Living Dead did, so I recommend it to anyone who loves a good zombie flick. "},{"Title":"way to go!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot basically tells of a group of zombies risen from the dead by a mysterious virus. This is caused by a team of men trying to protect a business by burning an infected Re-animated corpse, in a crematorian.Having seen part 2 & 3, I was disappointed when I saw the original. Keeping in mind the first part is always the best, not so in this case. The ending was a real let down, yet a typical military reaction. A black comedy, more so black. At times there were bits of humour seeping through the plot and if you have seen part 2, you will notice two cloned main characters.However, what the original lacked the second part made up for. The films music scores were interesting and the graphics were B-grade. But, if I saw a copy for sale I would buy it. A movie worthy of 6/10.  "},{"Title":"The Pain of Being (Brain)Dead!","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this on videotape a few weeks ago with a bunch of friends. This movie was, in one word, HILARIOUS. Some of the females in the group didn't seem to like the movie, but this was, in my opinion, an extremely funny film. I laughed until I felt stupid. The director had obviously seen all the old zombie movies and knew exactly what to do to make the differences in this one obvious and humorous. I read that someone else said on IMDB this movie was to be taken seriously, but my list of questions should show how it cannot be.You've read all the other synopses by now mistaken Army shipment, busted canister, re-animated dead, cremation, graveyard full of brain-starved zombies chasing punk rockers, zombie vs. human pitched battles, phone call, Army nuke, etc. But here are some questions I asked myself as I watched (SPOILER ALERT! SPOILER ALERT!)Where did the zombie in the basement come from? How did he get exposed to the chemical from the busted tank, if he was in ANOTHER tank? He couldn't have been the preserved corpse in the busted tank; that one melted during the opening credits! How did he say the words More Brains without lips? I try it, and it just comes out Nrorr Grains And if the corpses in the tanks had been previously re-animated with this 2,4,5 Trioxin chemical, what did the army do to subdue them and pack them away the first time? Why didn't they just come in and do the same thing this time?  How did the zombies KNOW they wanted brains? Was it a craving, like when a woman is pregnant? How did that skeleton sit up and open its mouth without jaw muscles (or ANY muscles!) and why did every piece of his flesh rot off except his eye lids and eyes? Was he craving brains, too? How would he have eaten them? How did Trash bite through that cop's riot helmet? How do ANY of the zombies crunch through the human skull, for that matter? Does the chemical make teeth extra hard? I chipped a tooth once eating a Fireball(tm)! Why wasn't the Civil War soldier more rotten? Embalming didn't become common practice until the 1920s! And how did he know how to use a CB radio?! How did the zombie they capture and interrogate know so much? Was she a union steward for the zombies or something? Embalming fluid dries into a kind of plastic/semi-solid in the muscles. How did the fresher zombies overcome this and walk, let alone RUN?  "}{"Title":"Can You Tell Me How to Get to Sesame Street!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is one of the funniest, goriest send-ups of zombie films ever made.  It is based on the premise that what happened in Night of the Living Dead actually happened in a hospital in/near Pittsburgh and bodies of these ravenous zombie brain-eaters were frozen and locked in air-tight containers by the army.  Naturally some of the bodies were shipped to the wrong place and our story opens with a new young employee being toured around a medical supply warehouse and home of some of these creatures in a dusty, damp basement for 17 odd some years.  Through some comic mishap, one of the canisters emits a deadly gas and dead things start to come to life.  The film is directed by Dan O'Bannon(Dead and Buried), and he directs with tongue firmly planted in cheek as one comic, deadly mishap leads to another bigger one and so on.  Eventually we have a group of punk kids, the two workers from the warehouse and their boss, and a mortician locked up in a funeral home fighting the zombies on the outside as well as some on the inside.  To give you an idea of O'Bannon's humour, the warehouse boss, played by Clu Gulager, is named Burt and his good friend of 25 odd years, the mortician wonderfully played by Don Calfa, is named Ernie.  We hear their names quite a bit in this dark, obvious homage to Sesame Street.  The film has lots of lunacy, incredibly well-photographed suspense scenes, solid acting from a cast of lesser actors, some provocative(albeit needless) nudity as one girl dances on a tomb in an open cemetery, and gobs of blood, gory scenes of mutilation, decapitation, etc....  While the film is very gory, it is not to the point of detracting from the overall effect of the film, which is two-fold in making us very frightened and amused.  Some great scenes in here as well, my favourite always being the James Karen farewell scene with the crematorium burner.  Surprisingly tender.  Karen, by the way, gives an amazing comic performance.  Lots of blood, guts, and laughs! "},{"Title":"A Cheesy, but excellent movie","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time about 2 years ago and loved it. The acting is nothing special, i admit, but there are some pretty cool death scenes. The movie takes place at a ware house in Kentucky, and 2 employes spill the chemical, seeping into the graveyard bringing thousands of corpses to life craving  brains . This movie is definitely more entertaining than  Night of the Living Dead , because for one thing, the zombies arent just regular people, most of them are rotting skeletons which is really cool. The characters are kind of annoying, considdering their a little bit too into the 80's but still, this movie another one of the many great 80's slashers. I recommend this to you if youre into low, budget, and somewhat rediculous horror films. 7/10. "},{"Title":"WHat a CLASSIC FILM! BUT WHY CAN'T I FIND IT ANYWHERE?","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Next to DAWN OF THE DEAD, this movie has got to be the greatest ZOMBIE movie of all time.  I still think DOTD is better because I like George Romero's direction, and the special effects were awesome. But RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD is gory, but totally HILARIOUS!  I would give anything to find it on DVD, or even on VHS, for that matter.  For some reason, I can't find it ANYWHERE.  If there is anyone out there that can help, please email me.  I would deeply appreciate it.  The copy I have was taped off of HBO years ago and i've played it to death! "},{"Title":"The Pulp Fiction Of Horror Movies!","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD is one of the most dynamic, well-made horror films in history. The story is great, the acting & dialogue are absolutely incredible, the special effects are disgustingly realistic, the music rocks, and it is extremely well-directed & edited. I am blown away every time I see it. It manages to create a truly horrifying atmosphere, which is beautifully off-set by humor that actually works. I know people that are so scared of this movie that just hearing the audio from it makes them shudder in fear. It is very creepy, action-packed, and highly effective with an audience. In my opinion, it is the absolute best of the Living Dead movies. Never mind that George Romero didn't make it.This having been said, I think it is a CRIME that this film has yet to be re-issued on DVD or even videotape! It's not like this is some obscure independent film. It is a true classic, adored by millions of horror fans worldwide. The video & laserdisc editions that were made have long since gone out of print, and the lack of a proper re-release only goes to further the idea that there is some type of conspiracy to keep this movie, for lack of a better term, BURIED. Somebody please get this movie to its fans, preferably in stereo. "},{"Title":"Right behind Day of the Dead as 2nd best zombie flick of all","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Intense zombie flick is only surpassed by Romero's 3rd Dead film as best zombie film. I actually used to consider this to be the 4th installment of that series until I heard about him working on Night of the Living Dead 4 and because of that I no longer do, but it's still a classic.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!Two Medical Supply Warehouse workers accidentilly release a toxic gas that releases the dead from their graves. They team up with a group of punk teens and baricade themselves in a funeral parlor. Is that enough to keep the flesheating terrors out?Exciting, great story, acting, effects, and soundtrack. ***** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Scary at the time, laughable now - great film!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this movie about 10 or 11 years ago on a night when my parents went out for the evening. I must say, at the time, this movie scared the crap out of me (course I was like 11 or 12).  Something about the dead rising from their graves to prey on the living is just plain unsettling. Anyway, I watched it again several years later and laughed my arse off. Older and wiser, I saw just how hoaky and formulaic it was.Still, this is a great horror flick.  For fans of the genre, a must-see! "},{"Title":"Good for a comedy/horror","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie blends well with the gruesome tradition of the walking dead films of the 70's and 80's.  The comedy style is not overpowering and fits well with the darkness of this type of movie.  I rate a few scenes among the funniest of the dark horror/splatter movie humor.  The movie goes a bit overboard toward the end - which prevented me from giving it my top rating, but a 9 isn't bad for a comedy/horror flick.                                   "},{"Title":"This was truly amazing!","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is truly amazing. I have always wanted to see a movie where the zombies or creatures of the dead were not stiff, and slow! These were not! They moved fast, killed quick, and could talk! They say this movie is true! What do you think? Did this really happen?The makeup effects were amazing espescially for 1985! The acting is very over dramatized, but hey its a good old horror movie to watch just to have fun.Be warned, this movie is truly great, but dont go into it expecting to be scared to death, go into it with the Evil Dead attitude and i assure you that you'll love it! "},{"Title":"TOM CRUISE'S DEBUT!!!!!!!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was so funny it was unbelievable.  The thing that made it so funny though was the uncanny similarity between John Philbin who plays Chuck, and a young version of Tom Cruise.  I just sat there laughing everytime he came into the picture.  Me and my friend even had a £20 bet on whether it was him, but it had to be abandoned due to the verdict being inconclusive.  I promise you, if you watch this film you will see the humour that is created by this lookalike, and it will be one of the funniest things you have ever seen in your life.  Quite why it is so funny, I cannot explain.  Maybe it's just the sheer ridiculousness of the whole idea of Tom Cruise starring in such a film, and playing such a nerd.  The funniest bit is where he is standing there by the basement door and the monster that looks like a man covered in treacle comes out and gets it's head whacked clean off with a baseball bat Watch this film, and I promise you, you will never look at Tom Cruise again without laughing.  I seriously think it was him, but he is acting under a pseudonym. "},{"Title":"Great spoof of dead movies","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A very fun loving popcorn B-Movie.  The makeup and effects were used very well.  The silly plot and bad acting make it very funny.The dead in this film are very powerful physically.  This makes the movie have some good horror.I suggest you see it if you like zombies.  Parts II and III were not worth it. "}{"Title":"This Movie Needs More Brains","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SOME SENTENCES MIGHT BE CONSIDERED SPOILERS  This movie wants you to believe that it is a sequel to the George Romero Cult Classic by having references to it, but there are so many differences that it just isn't possible. One, the zombies have gone from cannibals to brain eaters, and two, the logic is out the window. The brain is covered by the skull, and I don't see a single pair of nut-crackers laying around the cemetery. One bite is not going to do it, and besides, these bodies have to be in a state of decomposition the older that they are that they should be rattling apart with all the exercise they're doing. One of the creatures is called a tarman, where did that word come from and how would a street punk know it ? ( Tarmans I've later read are corpses recovered from English bogs; they wouldn't be found in an American cemetery.)And how are the dead getting out of the caskets with at least a ton of topsoil and maybe even the tombstone on top ? Even if they were digging out, they wouldn't have made it out until the next night. A undead Civil War Soldier somehow figures out how to use a C.B. Radio. The hard rock soundtrack also stinks; a funeral dirge would have been more appropriate, but this was made solely for horror fans and less for movie goers. There is a lot of wit and creativity rampant to make the movie enjoyable. The cemetery is named Resurrection Cemetery as a joke, but the real Resurrection Cemetery is in Justice,Illinois and it is haunted by a famous ghost called Resurrection Mary. There is an excellent cast with Don Calfa, Thom Matthews, Linnea Quigley (later of Night of the Demons), veteran actor James Karen and enjoyable Clu Gulager as the inept warehouse manager with the dumb ideas. Quigley does a dance naked on an above ground tomb in a sequence that makes this movie a cult classic and she stays naked as she herself becomes a zombie (another crony is so eaten away at he can't come back). Her appearance as one of the undead is very well done and excellently chilling.Largely edited on TV, this movie is best viewed on video. "},{"Title":"Terrific Fun","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As far as low budget horror movies go, Return Of The Living Dead is comparable only really with Evil Dead 2 for wit and sheer gruesome inventiveness. A sly, tongue in cheek attack on the zombie classics of George Romero, the film eschews the social comment of those films and replaces it with a lunatic sense of humour, and a fast moving plot that doesn't once stop for breath. Most importantly, the film is ludicrously entertaining, and like Evil Dead 2, is completely unique. You'll never see anything like it again. And in the horror genre, there is no higher praise.  "},{"Title":"Extremely well done horror-comedy","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horror and comedy make a great mix, and this film mixes them prettywell, although some of the transition between the two was a bit choppy. The film grabbed my attention from the start, with the bit where thesplit dog comes back to life.  Seeing half a dog trying to run andwhimpering is something that you have to see.  Also as scenes progressand the nervous warehouse supervisor realizes things are bad, the sweatpools under his arms and on his back get progressively bigger andbigger.  I guess between takes they were hitting the actor with a wetsponge.  Little jokes like these made the first part of the film one ofthe funniest sequences I have seen.The element of comedy is carried through the film, but in the secondhalf toned down and mixed with a much more horrific tone.  I felt letdown by something about the shift, like the movie changed pace and leftme behind for about twenty minutes.  I think that some of this may havebeen to make fun of the death obsessed punks getting a taste of whatthey were interested in.  Remember Trash's talk about death - prettyironic considering what happens to her later.  The fast paced comedicelement held through the film though, as each time some even morehorrible mistake was made wild music played.The title might suggest that this film is a parody of Night of theLiving Dead.  I have seen it represented as such, and I feel that itisn't a parody, but there way be some intentional connection.  Perhapsthe shift to serious violence and horror was part of working toward aconnection.  Both films follow a progression of increasing seriousness,with a slight relief then downer ending.  Intentional connection mayhave been part of what contributed to the choppy shift from comedy tohorror.  On the other hand Return of the Living Dead felt complete atthe end, so overall the pacing was good.I definitely recommend this movie to everyone.  The whole thing was verywell done.  This film plays up the kitsch value for parody effect, andunlike many comedies doesn't feel weak at the end. "},{"Title":"The fastest, most vicious zombie flick in town","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For anyone that loves the living dead, whether it's the films or just your pals at the local cemetery, then this is the ultimate film for you. The zombies are fast and furious all the way through. The action is relentless with full on gore, and the grand finale is simply beautiful. This film re-invents the living dead, giving them even more life. It's just a shame the sequels were not up to it's standard.   "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Classic horror/comedy. Two medical supply warehouse employees raise the dead, and now a group of teens must fight them. Okay, so the first half is funny, but the film then goes for pure horror after the nympho-girl is eaten. The laughs, however, stay with you after the movie. My favorite character was the zombie billed as Tar-Man.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A spoof with great effects","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is clearly a spoof of the original Zombie movies by George A. Romero. It happily admits that by referring to the original Night of the Living Dead in the first few minutes of dialogue. The movie's emphasis -especially in its first half hour- is on dark humor. It begins in a medicinal warehouse that sells skeletons with perfect teeth (The joke about a skeleton farm in India is simply hilarious, if not for all tastes), halved dogs and even dead humans to universities and the like. Hidden in the cellar are 3 containers with Zombies from a military experiment and the gas in those containers is accidentally released when one of the clerks proudly shows them to his young, punky apprentice (turning them both slowly into Zombies themselves as is learned later on).I'm not going to recount the entire plot here, except that it's fun -in a campy way- and what can be said against a movie in which two of the main characters are named Ernie and Bert?Dan O'Bannon, of Alien and Dark Star fame, delivers a tongue-in-cheek Zombie movie whose effects are on par with more serious entries of the same genre. If you like horror movie spoofs/comedies you'll like this one. I did. But be warned My girlfriend didn't enjoy the humor as much as I did because she was too scared by the gory effects. Diff'rent strokes... "},{"Title":"Very, very scary.","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Two medical supply warehouse workers accidently release a gas that starts to re-animate corpses. The best zombie flick in a long, long time. First half is very, very funny. but yet somewhat chilling and the second half is just about as scary as they get. When I saw this film for the first time in the mid 80's, it gave me nightmares for weeks. Direction is also good and so are the performances, even though some of the supporting cast lets them down.The best zombie picture between 1985 - and the present. 8 out 10. "},{"Title":"Do you wanna party!!!...","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"   Dan O'Bannon really outdid himself on this film. I loved every aspect of this film, including the block-rocking soundtrack, which made this film such a winner when I seen it in the theatre. We have a group of people who accidently crack open a drum belonging to the Military, containing a hazardous chemical, which reanimates the dead. Then the fun starts! We have one mishap after another, until we meet a group of punk rockers that happen to wanna party at the local graveyard. The occupants of the graveyard seem to wanna have some gory fun as well. I definitely agree that this film has held up against anything that George Romero has done yet, and is one of the top zombie films in the vast genre of the undead. This movie was meant for a large group, looking to have lots of fun, and get really scared. My recommendation Turn the lights off, the volume way up, and enjoy!!!  "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the negative comments","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't so much a commentary on the movie, as on some of the comments on ROTLD that appear here. Some people have panned the flick with simple whining about it being boring, ruined by bad music, etc.> Don't pay attention to those comments. The fact is, if you don't generally like horror movies, or you detest gore than YOU SHOULDN'T BOTHER WATCHING A MOVIE WITH THE NAME RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD IN THE FIRST PLACE!!!*ahem*Instead, I recommend you give special attention to the longer, detailed commentary from folks who actually *like* the genre and listen to what they have to say.As for myself, I'll say I saw the movie in the theatre and it kicked butt. I loved it and at the same time it disturbed me. There's a lot of humor in the movie that you won't get unless you've seen Romero's dead trilogy. And the movie never takes itself too seriously.And lastly, I'll just add that the sequel is *not* that bad. It's far more humorous and self-parodying, so it may not be a good choice for those who take their horror seriously. But if you *loved* the Evil Dead trilogy you'll probably at least get a chuckle out of ROTLD Part II. "},{"Title":"These zombies keep returning to life over an over again!","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    This is definitely one of the spookiest horror flicks of the '80s!  The gore-effects were a little corny, the acting was cool, but I was more than impressed with the storyline that was followed with this hit.  Two men accidentally pop open a tank that contains a corpse inside, preserved by a poisonous toxic chemical which has the ability to bring the dead back to life.  After the men are infected with the germ, they cause one hell of a thunderstorm of acid rain, bringing the bodies of a nearby cemetery back to life.  Now the nearly indestructible zombies are alive, hungry, and a little cranky and they're after everybody who has brains.  The creativity and witty punch-lines that were given to these characters along with one hell of a scary storyline equals a classic...Return of the Living Dead.  UnratedX     "}{"Title":"Best zombie flick since DAWN OF THE DEAD","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think when this one was first released, people did'nt know what to think of it. Well now that time has gone by, it's safe to call ROTLD a lost classic. I remember seeing this one in the theatres being pretty damned entertaining, in fact i thought it was the best horror flick i saw on the big screen (Including Fulci's BEYOND) .It's got its share of gore, mild scares, and suspense. But the best thing about ROTLD is that it never seems to slow, PLUS  the zombies are given a different treatment in this one. Instead of being slow,brainless-type mummies, these guys TALK and RUN!!! And besides from the zombies, we got some cool, colorful characters to deal with (If you had a thing for punkers back then that is). And while comedy in horror seems to bug me a bit. Believe me, It's welcomed on this flick! AND  what's also rare is that this movie had a kick a$$ soundtrack (Which was really rare in the 80's). AND FINALLY, The one and only Linnea Quigley (her best role?) is in here too.All i'm left wondering is when, or if, this flick is gonna be re-released.  ANYONE OUT THERE KNOW??P.S.  Don't EVEN see it's sequel  ROTLDpt.2 "},{"Title":"Midget zombies, tombstone dancin', rabid weasels... need I say more?","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Return of the Living Dead is truly one of the worst scripted, most poorly acted films I've ever seen... and I loved every damn minute of it!!!! You ask me what do I want on my tombstone? After seeing this movie my answer would have to be Linnea Quigley!!!! "},{"Title":"Scream, for the living dead genre...","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It all begins in a medical supply warehouse where Burt is training new recruit Freddy in the ways of running the business. Discussion eventually leads to Burt mentioning a few barrels being stored in the basement. According to Burt, they contain corpses that had at one time been reanimated. You see, Night Of The Living Dead was based on an actual event. Somehow a group of scientists accidentally created a gas that revives the dead. The military stored these corpses in cannisters and shipped them. Only problem is, they got shipped to the wrong place. Fortunately, these cannisters had an emergency phone number stenciled on them. Unfortunately, the owner of the warehouse never bothered to call it. Burt and Freddy decide to visit the basement and take a look. They end up puncturing one of the barrels, causing the body inside to melt, thereby releasing the gas. Well, this is a medical supply facility. What do you suppose they might be storing in that walk-in freezer upstairs? Oh, yes. That cadaver we were introduced to earlier.Alien writer Dan O'Bannon makes his directing debut with this hilarious, violent sendup of zombie flicks. Beginning with the above mentioned, isolated situation, whose solution creates an even larger problem, the film progresses until the entire town is overwhelmed by walking corpses. O'Bannon takes any number of elements from Romero's series and gives them a twist. The zombies are no longer stumbling into walls. In fact, they appear to be rather intelligent. When a woman escapes by hiding in a locker, this particular zombie attaches the door handles to a miniature crane and proceeds to rip the doors off. They're also smart enough to figure out how to use a CB to acquire more food. These are picky corpses, too. They don't want just any piece of human flesh, they want brains.As stated previously, this is a parody. While it does contain all the violence requisite to a horror film of this sort, it focuses on comedy. Realistic, if underdeveloped, characters make the profanity-laden dialogue genuinely funny. Other situations, such as Trash(Linnea Quigley) giving a short essay on the worst way to die which gives way to a striptease(all this taking place in a cemetery), are good moments of black comedy. Nevertheless, a love of black comedy is not required to enjoy this film. There are many other moments to laugh at. The only thing that might turn off some viewers is the level of violence. It's never excessive, but a few well placed effects will have the more squeamish viewers glancing at the floor. On the other hand, some of the violence is quite amusing. You have to admit, watching two guys restrain a formerly dead body while the third hits it in the head with a pickaxe(which has no effect, I might add) is downright hilarious.All in all, whether you like horror of comedy, you're going to like this. Those of you who don't like being scared needn't worry. Not even the most timid viewer will find anything to be afraid of here. "},{"Title":"Best Zombie Movie EVER MADE!!!","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think that this is the best zombie movie ever made.  It has everything a horror fan could want---blood, gore, sex, and LINNEA QUIGLEY! Just don't start watching this movie without an open-mind and a sense of humor.  This movie is not for everyone, but horror fans can't miss this classic horror gem.  Also, if you ever get the opportunity, buy the soundtrack it is well worth the price and an awesome collectible.  A+  "},{"Title":"Deathrock Horror Classic","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the one and only Deathrock movie ever made! Which makes it one of my favorites! It IS NOT a Rip-Off of NOTLD, I don't really think it's trying to be an homage to it either. I think It's essentially a NOTLD inspired, Deathrock (GothPunk, whatever) Zombie flic! I LOVE the character Scuz, (The guy in the trench with the bleached hawk) He is a total mid 80's punk (but not in the stereotypical sense. He looks really authentic. Oh and then the New Wave kid (Chuck), Spider (The Gratuitous African American Thug), and the two bimboish girls, as well as the Psycho Nympho Punk chick (Trash) and her Suicideal boything. The characters are great, even if the acting is downright terrible at times. Oh and nothing compares to the films Soundtrack with such classic Deathrock icons like 45 Grave, The Damned. Flesheaters, The Cramps, (and the now immposible to find Jet Black Berries. It's a must own for anyone who's a fan of Horror, Punk, Deathrock, or just plain campy silliness. Do You Wanna Party!!! oh and Send More Cops "},{"Title":"awesome movie...awesome soundtrack....awesome zombies","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This might have been known as a spin-off of zombie movies....but it's a great zombie movie in itself.  The actors in this movie are great, especially the punks.  The musical score is great, check out the soundtrack as well as the movie.  The plot of the movie was unlike any other zombie movie that I have seen before.  It's filled with brain eating, punk rocking action.  I really think you should pick this movie up and watch it.  You won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Grotesque not comedy","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've recently seen this movie after years. I was remembering a funny little film balancing between horror & comedy. I was wrong, it's not comedy. It's grotesque. Comedy laughs over fear to leave it behind. Grotesque push fear to the point it becomes unbearable or laughable. Or both of them. This film does the same.ROTLD has small and major flaws -elementary plot, the ending is too abrupt, the acting average- but brilliant dialogue & the ghouls are frightening the scene of the ambulance is one hell of a scene! This movie is basically a homage to G.A.Romero's Night of the Living Dead, and it's full of jokes and references to that and other films (Evil Dead, Precinct 13 or even The Alamo if you want). It is actually an unofficial sequel to Romero's masterpiece debut, effort fulfilled cleverly, given its low-budget limitations. Praise go to director and B-Movie legend Dan O'Bannon, who wrote the scripts for Alien & Carpenter's Dark Star(in which he acted too). Good vintage alternative music on the soundtrack hear the Flesheaters, 45 Grave & The Cramps howl Surfin'Dead.Good, chilling & humoral horror movie, with arty ambitions. "},{"Title":"If you liked Dawn of the Dead watch this one.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was the best. At first I didn't like it but after watching it a few times I loved it. This movie was action packed with a few funny scenes. The music is great and the gore is too.I give it 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember being in 8th grade and actually getting into this film during the first week of release.  Of course, being a kid I was thoroughly entertained by this film, but even after all these years, it's still a funny, gory ride. Clu Gulager, James Karen, and Don Calfa turn out brilliant, campy performances and help even out the ensemble of young actors.  The special effects are terrific with jokes and extreme cheesiness in abundant.  Dan O'Bannon proves his writing skills once again and shines in his directorial debut. As much as I love Mr. Romero, this has to be the best Zombie flick of all time. (If you want to see more from O'Bannon check out &#145;The Resurrected' starring Chris Sarandon (another take on H.P.Lovecraft), you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"An Homage To Romero, Not A Rip-Off Of Him.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I must say this is my favorite horror/comedy ever made.  The film manages to scare and make me laugh but without taking itself too seriously.  It really looks like these guys were having a hoot making it, and that makes me like it even more.  Miguel A. Nunez's performance as the punk Spider is absolutely hilarious.  I'm not sure if it's the dialogue or the way he delivers it, but it is hysterical.  The whole cast is perfect for their roles.This film was not meant to be a rip-off of Romero's Dead trilogy, but an homage.  It's a spoof and it is almost perfect.  It really delivers the goods.  I give it ***1/2 out of ****. "}{"Title":"I cannot express in words how much I love this film","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's quite simple, Return of the Living Dead is the best movie in the entire world.  A perfect blend of horror and comedy.  It's just too bad parts 2 and 3 are skippers.  This movie isn't as out-of-print or rare as it might seem.  A number of places on the web sell this movie.  I even found a copy of this movie in it's uncut form.  Which means more gore, added scenes, and a different ending!  You just have to look real hard.  "},{"Title":" A Great movie directed by the screenwriter of Alien!","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Gory, funny,and scary at the same time,Return Of The Living Dead is a great movie that proves a star cast does not have to be in a movie for it to be good.The story centers around a teenager and a man working at a medical supply center who mess around with the gas canister that  supposedly created the zombies from the original night of the living dead movie.There is also a cremater and a punk rock group involved but I don't want to ruin the plot.What really makes this movie work is lots of great black humor,gratuitous gore, and nudity. Overall, this movie is great to watch and provides tons of great scares without ruining the movie.A suggestion, watch the video(they cut out lots of the gore on television). My rating 3 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unlike any of the George Romero zombies these don't die when they get their heads blown off, they still walk around which is kinda funny.This movie is pretty funny and original with a unusual ending.If you're in the mood for something different then check this out. "},{"Title":"This Movie was cool","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was very good. I saw this horror great on television, so most of the gore was edited out, but it still had the effect. From the opening sequence where the gas leaks out into the morgue, I knew this was going to be one heck of a ride. It was funny and gory, and the punk music added to the experience. This movie should be watched by all horror movie buffs and people who like to watch zombies eating people's brains.I give it *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Maybe the best zombie movie ever made!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is very good. I have watched it  since 1988 or maybe 1987 one of the two. It  a very entertaining, and sometimes funny  horror movie. It's maybe the best zombie  movie ever made! I give this movie ***1/2  out of **** "},{"Title":"One of the best zombie movies.....","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is just great.  The storyline is excellent, the actors, even the Punk soundtrack is awesome.  It even adds a touch of comedy and you can't do that in a lot of horror films without ruining the mood, but this movie does it.  This is probably one of the best, if not the best, zombie movie I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"More Brains!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was my favorite movie when I was 14 years old. I wanted to become a mortuary worker after I saw this!  I still love it! It's one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, largely because of the crazy reanimating effects. The soundtrack,  featuring the Cramps' surfin' dead, is also really (80's post-punk) fun. More Brains!  "},{"Title":"This film is not part of Romero's ghoul trilogy","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found Return of the Living Dead to be a very funny and entertaining film. But there is a huge misconception out there that it was a continuation of George A. Romeros ghoul trilogy (Night of the Living Dead, Dawn and Day of the Dead). It was in no way a continuation of that series. In fact, George A. Romero sued Returns makers for plagarizing lines from Night and Dawn. Also, Romero would probaly not have a spoof of his ghoul films released the same year as Day of the Dead. And If it is part of the series, which it is not, Romero would have had his name on it somewhere. It was just trying to cash in. But I still thought it was a cool movie.  "},{"Title":"To the point!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie ROCKS (as does the soundtrack)! Anyone who is a fan of theLiving Dead movies must rank this one up there with the original.  The mediocre acting does not get in the way of the excellent story (the alive are trapped where the dead should be and the dead are roaming where the alive should be!!) and the most excellent make up and effects.  As you watch the movie you begin to pick a favorite character (mine is Spider) which is cool.  For its genre, this is one of the best and should be recognized as such.  "},{"Title":"An absolute classic","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD is an absolute classic of modern comedy/horror. It boasts just the right amount of comedy, while still being very scary -- at the same time it boasts just the right amount of horror while still containing some very funny lines.  Hell of a movie!  "}{"Title":"One of the best horror Movies Ever!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I totally love this movie! As I said, it's the one of the best horror movies ever. The cast is perfect (Karen, Gulager, Matthews, Calfa). Great sick jokes and ideas. Better than sequels and other gore movies. I like also other Dan O'Bannon's movie The Resurrected. "},{"Title":"Disappointing horror/comedy","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm quite a fan of the horror/comedy genre, but I found this film rather disappointing.  There are a few laughs, and the make-up effects are very impressive, but overall this just isn't nearly as entertaining as Evil Dead II, or (strangely enough) Return of the Living Dead II.  The film is not without merit, but it didn't seem to me to be the classic that so many claim it is. "},{"Title":"Gonzo gore-fest","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A wicked and original satire of Night of the Living Dead and every splatter movie that follow in its bloody footsteps.  Though loaded with shocks, it's the shocking black humor that makes it stand out.  And who would have guessed the George  Romero classic would have been based on a true story....! "},{"Title":"CLASSIC! THE ONLY ZOMBIE MOVIE WORTHY TO COMPETE WITH DAWN OF THE DEAD!","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  THE BEST ZOMBIE MOVIE! RIGHT UP THERE WITH DAWN OF THE DEADAND NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD. VERY SCARY AND VERY FUNNY. GREATMAKE UP EFFECTS! GREAT STORY!! "},{"Title":"Mildly scary, but really funny","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a mildly scary, but very funny (in a twisted way) take off of the Romero flicks. The in-jokes spoofing the preceding films are great, and there are plenty of classic one liners. If you like this type of film (funny/scary) check out the all time classic, Evil Dead 2. "},{"Title":"A gory classic!","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As far as zombie films go, they don't get much better than this! George Romero himself couldn't have made this film any better than it already is. Every aspect is perfect. The gory special effects, and event the Punk Rock soundtrack adds to the overall mood of the movie. If you want to be scared out of your wits, this is the film for you! "},{"Title":"Better than Romero","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dawn of the dead tried dark humor with a mall zombie pie-in-the face. Oh ha ha... what a riot. Not. This movie supercharges the zombie genre with some jolting humor throughout.You have to like a movie that features a re-animated split dog in a medical supply house. I have to give credit where it due this movie has better zombies than the prior movies. Tarman has to be the coolest zombie of all time. I remember the theater audience screaming and gasping when he pops out for the first time.This movie also was the first to amp up zombies. Anything and everything dead was re-animated by a toxic chemical (trioxin, which is bad stuff) from an old Army Corps of engineers drum. They are also fast and posses some basic intelligence. The zombies here were by far more menacing than in other movies because the can sprint after you, and will do so even if they are missing legs. The look of the zombies is terrific...bones with any meat on them could re-animate and pose a problem.The two principal leads have an excellent chemistry and play for good (dark) laughs along the way. This film is fully aware of a lot of zombie cliché's and does a great job of opening up the world of the undead past simple lumbering, dumb and slow zombies. This movie gives zombies a reason for what they do, which is eat the brains of the living.I enjoyed the way this movie balances tension, action and humor. It's very underrated, but a total blast for fans of the genre. You will also note that the final solution (which is an epic fail) is foreshadowed in an earlier scene. That toxic chemical is bad stuff that doesn't go away. Watch this on Halloween, you need to see tar man on a big screen with the volume cranked up. "},{"Title":"What a gas!","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was originally supposed to be a straight (if unofficial) sequel to Night of the Living Dead, but somewhere along the way it became one of the best comic horror films of the decade. The secret is that director O'Bannon never lets on that the material is supposed to be funny at times the movie almost resembles a seriously intended flick that would up accidentally amusing. The opening scene sets the tone perfectly, as Uneeda Medical Supply worker Frank (James Karen) instructs new worker Freddy (Thom Mathews) about the tricks of the trade before showing him some sealed canisters in the warehouse basement. In these canisters, Frank says, are the very corpses whose rampage inspired Romeros first Living Dead film, along with a gas that can give revive them and other dead things. Through circumstances too involved to describe here, the gas winds up escaping (along with the corpse) from the canister and gets into a nearby graveyard, awakening an army of zombies. They terrorize not only Frank and Freddy, but their boss, Burt (Clu Gulager), weird mortician Ernie (Don Calfa) and bunch of Freddys punk friends who have decided to party in the graveyard.The resulting goings-on alternate between shockingly gory and hilariously funny, and the film is also notable for a couple of horror landmarks.In the first genre film set in Louisville, Kentucky, and it was the firs film bring Linnea Quiqlley to prominence. "},{"Title":"A no-brainer of a film","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Employees of a medical supply warehouse accidentally release some gas that brings a corpse back to life. When they burned it, the ashes cover the nearby graveyard bringing back the dead.This is one really fun and entertaining movie and hailed as one of the great black comedies of the horror genre. Though it had its fair share of laughs, but I didn't find it that funny as its claimed to be&#133; enjoyable yeah, but really funny *hmm* it had its moments.The direction was good and the story is smartly well written by Dan O'Bannon (Alien, total recall), as its really just a parody of 'The Night of the Living Dead' film, but with changes added in like the zombies can talk, they run, can use equipment, only eating brains and can only be destroyed by being incinerated. Though in ROLD the story amusedly has that Romero's Night of the living dead film was actually based on fact.The acting is great and because of that the characters are pretty likable, Clu Gulager, James Karen, Don Calfa, Thom Mathews and Beverly Randolph bring a lot fun to their performances and you got another notable performance from Linnea Quigley running around the graveyard wearing only leg-warmers! There is a lot of humour and gore in this trendy film, with a slow opening that picks up the pace and thrills when the zombies hit the screen. The special effects and make-up look really splendid, with the zombies having their own personalities and traits. The backdrop and setting of the graveyard, mortuary and warehouse are generally murky and creepy.Nothing but pure fun.3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Good, not great, cult classic","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've always enjoyed RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD, though I do not hold such reverence for it as many other horror/gore/zombie fans.  I think parts of it are great, but others simply don't work.The opening scenes are terrific, as we are introduced to the bumbling, goofy characters before the gas escapes that will eventually turn everyone into brain-eating zombies.  James Karen and Tom Mathews make a great comic team, and vets Clu Gulager and Don Calfa turn in terrific, low-key performances.The first two-thirds of the movie pretty much rocks, with screwball comedy mixed in with horror fairly seamlessly.  There's good use of punk and rock music, and generous helpings of nudity, courtesy of the fantastic Linnea Quigley (who has the cutest buns of all the Scream Queens).But somewhere around the hour mark, something strange happens.  The movie loses its sense of humor, and instead becomes unpleasant and grim.  Once the humor is gone, so is the fun, and the rest of the movie plays it straight and never quite regains its momentum.But, overall, it's a good horror-comedy and has developed one of the most vigorous cult followings in horror cinema. "}{"Title":"***","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  D Dan O'Bannon S Clu Gulager, James Karen, Don Calfa.(Spoilers Ahead) This is one of my personal favorite zombie flicks. It starts out sort of spoofing the Night of the Living Dead trilogy. One day, two workers Frank and Freddy (Karen and Thom Matthews) are just about to pack up at a medical storage factory, when Frank gets a bright idea to tell Freddy about the stored bodies that sit in the basement in tanks. Frank goes on and on about how there was a chemical spill in a hospital re-animating the dead bodies in the morgue, and how George Romero took that story and twisted it and molded it into his own movie. So Frank decides to take Freddy down and open up one of the tanks, releasing a deadly chemical that turns Freddy and Frank into Zombies, but that happens over the coarse of the movie. So what do they do now? They call the boss Burt (Gulager) to come and take care of everything. Now Burt get's a bright idea to take one of the bodies that escaped to the crematorium across the street and burn the body, now the smoke ejecting from the place goes over the cemetary across the way, which has a bunch of junkies fooling around in there, with a girl dancing naked for no apparent reason, leave that to Linnea Quigley, and so the smoke starts to re-animate the corpses in the cemetary.Overall, I give this one an A-, there were some minor flaws, for instance when the spoof takes a turn into the darkside, but ignore it. Other than that and the talking skeleton, it always bothered me how she could say her P's and B's with no lips.Co-Starring Thom Matthews, Miguel Nunez, Jewel Sheperd, Mark Venturini, Linnea Quigley. "},{"Title":"Not bad but why all the yelling?","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!One of the reasons I find Night of the Living Dead so annoying to watch is due to the fact that almost every line is delivered by a yelling actor.  Once the zombie's arrive, Return of the Living Dead, isn't much different.  Granted if the dead were to come back to life I would probably be pretty tense and yell alot but that's not about to happen.  If I can suspend my disbelief that the dead are coming back to life then I can suspend my disbelief that the characters could act a bit more calmly, perhaps starting out really freaked but gathering their wits a little once they get used to the fact they are surrounded my zombies.I had high hopes for this movie after reading several positive reviews on this and other websites.  I had heard that Return part 1 is much better then Parts II and III and after seeing those two movies I thought heck, how could it be worse? and thankfully it isn't.  The movie is well put together.  I only wish more suspense had been used.  The zombies, in my opinion, are too fast.  Any scenes that have a hope of being suspenseful are over too quickly as the humans are quickly overtaken by the zombies.  Instead of having a good build up to a scare, the viewer is given a few quick shocks and then the action is over.  The best scene in the movie takes place in the basement of the army surplus store when Tina goes down there to look for Freddy.  Good suspense and an excellent, scary looking zombie.  If only more of the movie had been like that.I have never been a fan of zombie movies where the zombie can't be killed and I'm still not.  I think this fact really hurts the movie.  If the zombies can't be killed how do you end it?  The ending of the movie feels like the film makers didn't know how to end it so they just ended it. Overall Return of the Living dead is okay.  But 1 really good zombie and 2 other interesting ones just isn't enough for me.  The acting is quite good when the actors aren't yelling and the characters, even though they are punks, are quite smart and do what they should do to survive.  Also Dan O'Bannon at least takes some time to try and explain why the zombies do what they do.  The best of the series but still only a 5 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"People are dumb","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***    ***SPOILERS*** I can't believe that I read all those good comments for such a horrible awful crappy piece of utter crap movie.  It's supposedly a spoof or a unofficial sequel, but whichever one it is, the director couldn't have possibly seen the actual movie if that's what this is.  First of all, all the effects are absolutely terrible looking, the parts that are supposed to be funny are lame as hell, the ending is utterly dumb and predictable, etc etc.  How could anyone possibly be scared by this movie EVER???  The zombies aren't even zombies, they are mostly skeletons.  And a lot of this movie is drama, like how your supposed to feel sorry for the zombies, and Freddy and the old guy turning into zombies and everyone's sad.  It's so horrible. Ignore everyone else's praises of this movie.  Want a good comedy/horror/zombie movie?  Watch DeadAlive.  I think the only reason people are giving this praise is because Romero fans are so die-hard that anything that has slightly anything to do with him, they will like.  But this movie plain sucks.  Terrible awful crap that I couldn't even sit through, and you really don't have to because the dialogue is totally unimportant and you can tell what's going on anyways without it.  I knew how it was going to end as soon as they killed the first zombie, I even knew that they were going to do the acid rain thing at the end.  My God that is so scary!! (sarcasm)  I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone, as I think it lowered my IQ just watching it.  I'm sorry to all you die-hard Romero fans, but this is NOT a good tribute to him at all. And just because someone's name that you like is mentioned in a movie, doesn't mean that you have to like the movie.Also, there is no gore, but everyone seems to think there is!  And on the movie cover it says that there is lots of gore!  Damn you liars!I will admit though, at first I thought it was going to be good.  The first 20 minutes are good, but it just keeps getting worse and worse and worse, and the ending is pure grade f crap.Good horror/comedies Evil Dead Dead Alive Bad Taste Toxic Avenger Mulva Zombie Ass Kicker ParentsAwful ones This load of crap Anything that has to do with this load of crap I can't think of any other horror/comedies that are as absolutely awful as this "},{"Title":"the best bad movie ever","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not for everyone, but the ones that like zombie movies will surely get a kick out of this one which is better than most of 'em but not the best.  It was also the first movie where the zombies could actually think rationally and crave brrrainnsss. When two medical supply factory workers accidentally open a canister containing a zombie from a government project.  All hell breaks loose. (Plot was never a thing that zombie movies need anyway) While it may not be the classic that Romero's Night of the Living Dead is it works in a different way.  Going for the outrageous and outlandish more than the scary.  What do you expect from a horror movie with two friends named Burt and Ernie(in a zombie movie more or less). Like I said not for everyone but it is entertaining, funny, offensive, crude, and even has a couple of suspenseful moments.  Watching James Karen try to kill a re-animated split dog with a crutch and after dispatching two paramedics the zombies get on their CB asking to send more paramedics was just too funny for me.  Also has a great sound track featuring two of my favorite bands(The Cramps & The Damned).  Just turn your brain off for a good hour and a half and have fun. "},{"Title":"brains","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  there's nothin at the movies when your dead, there's nothin on the tv when you're dead, the surfin dead... behind romero's trilogy the greatest zombie flick of all time. well, children should play with dead things is close. but i have one complaint and it goes against the positive comments others have made. zombies are slow because they're dead, and also because it heightens tension to be pursued by a inexorably shambling undead creature...to speed them up and make them more agile like they are in this film kind of works against the genre and is my only real bone to pick with this movie. if a zombie moves at basically the same speed you do then you negate the whole human to undead absurdity ratio. i think romero satirizes this ratio poignantly in the mall scene of DOTD where the bikers basically toy around with the zombies because they're slow moving. if zombies move at human speed they might as weel be vampires or wolfmen. "},{"Title":"Another Zombie movie, Hell yes!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has got to be the best of all the zombie movies. Zombies coming back from the dead after a shower of toxic rain is a pretty thin plot but the action makes up for it. The characters are great as well as the acting and the humour is kept at a really fun level. For gore hounds it does have gore and for others it has everything you could ask for......... Good guys to root for Linnea Quigley stripping Lethal Zombies Creepy graveyard Black humour A lot of actionIt really is the best zombie movie ever made! "},{"Title":"THIS FILM IS THE GOD OF MOVIES!!!","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Return of the Living Dead is one of the finest movies ever made.  Anyway, read my last review to hear more of that.  No, I'm here now to tell you that I'm a little confused.  People have commented that ONE OF MY FAVORITES is A JOKE.  Am I correct?  In response to this, I say that IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN A FILM BEFORE AND YOU STAY UP LATE TO WATCH IT ON TV TO SEE IT BATTERED AND EDITED- WHY BOTHER?  I happened to tape the TNT Version, and saw that it had been EDITED EVEN WORSE than back on MONSTER VISION MAY 1999.  I thought it looked terrible!  But then again, most films are HEAVILY EDITED ON TV!  I suggest you go out and rent or (IF YOU'RE LUCKY) BUY THE THING!  THEN WATCH IT AND COMMENT ON IT!!More To Note (Possible Spoilers)Tarman was covered in more than black smudge.  It actually took a lot of work to make Tarman Tarman!  Scuz was not turned into a zombie after being bitten by the Legless Corpse because there was not enough Trioxin left to resurrect him!  And don't be so sure he didn't come back to life.  I mean, the camera never flashed back to that room afterwards!  And, if you look closely.  The 1/2 Woman Corpse WAS A WHOLE WOMAN when she bit Scuz, but was chopped into a half-woman by Burt(Clu Gulager) when she was still outside!  Trash and the dead police officer turned into zombies because the majority of the Trioxin Chemical was out there.  The whole cemetery and surrounding areas were covered with it by the acid rain.  As for her speaking, she might have had a piece of vocal cord left!  IT ISN'T THAT HARD TO BELIEVE!!BUT I SUPPOSE AS MY FRIEND SAYS WHEREVER YOU GO, THERE WILL ALWAYS BE SOMEONE WHO DISLIKES YOUR FILM.  IT'S JUST THE WAY THE WORLD WORKS! THIS IS TRUE!!      THE MOVIE IS NEVER THE SAME ON TV.  IT'S ALWAYS SLICED AND DICED BY THE TV PEOPLE.  THE ORIGINAL INGENUITY IS ALWAYS REMOVED AND I CAN'T BELIEVE PEOPLE WOULD STAND FOR IT!!  PAY ATTENTION TO THE LONGER, MORE POSITIVELY DETAILED COMMENTS AND DON'T COMPLAIN ABOUT IT!!****out of**** TRULY!  "},{"Title":"Meh...","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After reading that this remake/spoof was written by John Russo with being a sequel to Night Of The Living Dead in mind, I cannot say I am entirely surprised at its mediocrity. Director Dan O'Bannon had enough sense to decide he didn't want to end up with unfavourable comparisons to George Romero's timeless classic. So he rewrote this script idea as a sort of satire. Which is rather novel when you consider that the zombie horror concept is, at heart, a satire of consumerist social ideas. What makes this satire work is how irreverently it plays out. What counts against it is that it never seems to make up its mind whether it wants the audience to laugh or scream.Another moment in the film's favour is when one of the young punk women, played with aplomb by Linnea Quigley, strips down to her birthday suit and dances about. Not only is she very pleasant to look at this way, she remains in this state throughout the rest of the film. Even when she becomes a zombie. But that was one of the fun things about Hollywood in the mid-1980s. Women could get their clothes off without people making such a big drama about it. It would have been nice if more of the feminine part of the cast could have taken their clothes off, but this particular woman was pleasant enough to carry the show on her own.The rest of the cast do a decent job of playing the required parts, but there are no standout parts. Scratch that. The story and characters do have enough potential for memorable performances, but the actors seem utterly lost as to how to take advantage. Those who have watched enough B films will recognise a few familiar faces here and there, Thom Mathews and Miguel A. Núñez Jr. being two examples that spring to mind, but one will be hard-pressed to remember the characters' names. The real stars of this show, other than the aforementioned stripper, are the makeup effects.The majority of the zombies, in contrast to the more cerebral works of George Romero, really look like they're dead. Unfortunately, they also seem to follow that fast-zombie pattern. In fact, this could well be where the origin of the fast-zombie idea may be traced back to. The ending seems more like a cop-out than a wrap-up. Given how the rest of the film makes the zombies seem invulnerable, I suppose this was inevitable, but it also has that faint odour of poor planning. When all is said and done, John Russo appears to have been doing some serious coattail riding with his connection to Night Of The Living Dead.I gave Return Of The Living Dead a five out of ten. It is amusing enough to pass ninety minutes with, but I wouldn't want to take it with me to a desert island. It is worth a rental. "},{"Title":"A Little Problem","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" On 03 July 1984, in Louisville, Kentucky, the supervisor Frank (James Karen) is explaining the new employee Freddy (Thom Matthews) his function of his first day working in the Uneeda Medical Supply. Frank shows the skeletons, cadaver and every sort of supplies provided by their warehouse to medical schools. Then he tells that Night of the Living Dead (1968) was based on a true event with 245 Trioxin and he shows canisters in the basement with dead bodies inside delivered by mistake by the army twenty-five years ago. When Freddy asks if the containers are safe, Frank hits one of them and a gas is released through a breach. The breath the chemical and faint; when they wake-up, they discover that the corpse in the refrigerated chamber has been reanimated. Frank calls the owner of the business Burt (Clu Gulager) telling that they have a little problem and he decides to saw the body. However the parts remain alive and Burt asks his neighbor Ernie (Don Calfa), who is the mortician of the Resurrection Cemetery, to burn the parts in the crematorium. However, a heavy rain soaks the smoke with ashes in the cemetery soil reanimating the buried corpses that need to eat human brains to relief their pain. Meanwhile, Freddy's girlfriend Casey (Jewel Shepard) and their punk friends are waiting for Freddy, partying in the cemetery. The zombies put the morgue with the survivors under siege. When the army is informed of the situation, they brilliantly use their contingency plan to resolve the problem with minor casualties.The Return of the Living Dead is a hilarious combination of horror and comedy with potential of cult-movie. The story is a great joke with the trilogy of George A. Romero and makes references to other zombie movies. The special effects and make-up are also excellent. I have watched this movie many times, now on DVD, and I still like it very much. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Volta dos Mortos-Vivos (The Return of the Living Dead) "},{"Title":"I expected a lot more from this movie.","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" First time watch.I heard a lot of good comments about this movie and I expected a lot more from this movie then I got.First of all, i did not the group of teens at all, they just annoyed,, I could not wait for them to get killed, I was a little disappointing that, not all of them were killed by the end. This movie did have some funny moment that did make me laugh a little, some of death were really good and bloody and a little funny as well and make up effects were decent.I didn't the like the ending of the movie at all, I thought it was really rubbish way to end this movie, The acting from some of the cast were really poor, other cast members did decent Job on this movie. . (I just wanted fun Watching this, like when I first saw Braindead Aka Dead Alive, (Which As become my FAV movie if all time) that movie was hell of a lot of fun.) 5 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Great 80's Horror!","Date":"26 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Clu Gulager, James Karen, Don Calfa and Thom Mathews star in this 1985 horror film. Two medical supply workers accidentally unleash a gas chemical waking the dead. Freddy (Mathews) is a teen starting his new job as a medical supply worker and his boss, Frank (Karen) reveals to him that the events in the film, Night of the Living Dead are true, but the Army covered it all up. Frank shows Freddy the containers the corpses are in and accidentally unleashes a gas chemical, Trioxin that wakes the dead. Frank and Freddy pass out, but soon wake up discovering one of the corpses are alive. They dismember and trap it, but it won't die. Frank seeks help from his friend, Burt (Gulager) who takes them to a mortician, Ernie (Calfa) helping them cremate the body. When they do, the gas goes into the air and rains into the cemetery waking the dead. Meanwhile, a group of teen punks who are Freddy's friends are having a party in the cemetery, but get more than they bargain for when the zombies start craving brains to survive. Frank and Freddy also start getting sick and become undead. This is a great 80's horror flick with a touch of humor and Tar Man is so creepy. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Zombie purists may be a bit miffed that cardinal rules","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though not an official sequel to Night Of The Living Dead, the film (rather audaciously, actually) explains away the cause of the zombie outbreak in George Romero's 1968 classic, openly referring to it by name and shattering the fourth wall by telling us it was only a movie. However, according to ROTLD, the scenario in Night was based on real events, and when enthused listener Mathews excitedly consents to see proof of this, the trigger for this deliciously droll zombie uprising is set into motion.It's interesting to note that Romero's Day Of The Dead was released the same year as this ersatz entry in the series, if only because the tones of the two films are as diametrically opposed as Ace Ventura Pet Detective and Sophie's Choice. Return may not yield the intellectual rewards that Day aspires to, but it does infuse a healthy dose of levity that is completely absent from Romero's stark and misanthropic (but brilliant, don't get me wrong) entry.Clearly, the FX here can't compete with Tom Savini's indelibly amazing set-pieces in Day Of The Dead, but there are a few gore-drenched scenes in this film whose execution and facetious tone clearly forge part of the blueprint for Peter Jackson's early work. Even when we end up seeing patently unrealistic rubber puppets, the sometimes clunky effects actually serve the movie well, since they heighten the splat-stick sensibility that is the driving force in Return.Zombie purists may be a bit miffed that cardinal rules of the genre are broken, the most blatant deviation being that the ghouls in Return Of The Living Dead can talk. Yet, the classic send more paramedics line alone merits the acceptance of this alteration of the mythos, and since a good chunk of the humor is derived from the auditory skills of the prowling creatures, I will respectfully suggest that if this idea bothers you, you're more than welcome to skip this outing and watch Lucio Fulci's Zombie again instead.Certainly, the film is a tad lopsided and admittedly uses up its best stuff in the first half, but the humorously bleak and effective ending bookends the movie rather nicely. When the end result is a huge smile on your face while the credits roll, it doesn't seem useful to complain about how that smile got there. "},{"Title":"Brains!!!","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Exemplary horror comedy, a kind of quasi-sequel to Night of the Living Dead. Two bumbling lab workers open a secret military tube containing a corpse. The tube releases gas that causes the dead to come back to life. When they, their boss and the mortuary director next door try to cover up the situation, they make it infinitely worse by raising all the dead in the adjacent graveyard. Some punks, the friends of one of the lab workers, also become involved. Horror icon Linnea Quigley is one of the punks, appropriately named Trash, and she gets naked (with really obvious flesh-toned pantyhose covering her nethers most of the time). This movie is most famous for introducing the concept of the brain loving zombie. Brains are apparently the only thing that take away the pain of being dead. "},{"Title":"I love you, and that's why you have to let me EAT YOUR BRAAAAAAAAAAAIIIIIIIIIIIINS!","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Return of the Living Dead, scripted and directed by Dan O'Bannon, is one of precious few horror comedies that really work. The whole movie is ridiculous fun, the screenplay is loaded with hilarious dialogue and situations, the tone is handled well, and although it gets a little too chaotic towards the end it is, for the most part, absolutely hysterical.The movie's visuals are good as well, I love the design on pretty much all the zombies, and whenever the word BRAAAAAAAAAAAAIIIIINS! is used in a sentence one just has to laugh. Dan O'Bannon's debut as director is pretty confident and solid, but ultimately it's all in the hilarious and clever script. One of the reasons I always liked Evil Dead II and Army of Darkness more than the first film in that series is that I didn't care for the characters in the first one other than Ash. Return of the Living Dead is a superior horror/comedy because it has a solid mix of characters and knows exactly how to use them to mock the typical, boring horror films we see far too often.The dialogue is unabashedly morbid and hysterically fun (although it gets predictable in the last half hour and works best before there's an all-out zombie invasion, because O'Bannon is forced to be creative, I love the opening scene), but the physical comedy isn't lacking either, with some hysterical slapstick moments adding to the humor. I love the idea of having these nihilistic punk kids as the inevitable teenage characters. It's absolute demented lunacy and I love it. Just see the movie, there's nothing to add. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Probably the Best Zombie Film of the 1980s","Date":"24 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Years after Night of the Living Dead, the zombies return. They had been stored in the basement of a medical supply store, but the tanks could not hold them forever. Burt, Frank and a bunch of punk kids take on the undead. But what do you do when you cannot kill your enemy? Can you trust the police? Can you trust the army? Due to some sort of joint rights, Night of the Living Dead was split between John Russo (who is an incredibly nice guy) and George Romero (also a nice guy). Romero took the straight horror route and followed up the film with Dawn and Day of the Dead. Russo took a more light-hearted approach, which personally I happen to appreciate a bit more. Is it cheesy? Yes. It it not nearly as scary? Sure. But it is a lot more entertaining and really brings out the 1980s, which is something I wish films today could do again.The film is a classic, and should be. Scream queen Linnea Quigley (as punk girl Trash) does her memorable strip scene, one character commits suicide in a sad but heroic manner. And there are split dogs. You know you need a movie with split dogs.I cannot think of what more to say just now, but suffice it to say you must view this movie. Can I place it in the top 100 horror films ever made? For me, personally, I probably can. I have seen it multiple times on VHS, DVD, and on the silver screen, and it never gets old. Pick up a copy and make your own decision. "},{"Title":"Night Of The Living Dead parody","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Return of the Living Dead is not a serious horror film. It's a parody of the classic Night of the Living Dead. In this film the dead are reanimated by some green gas that is being stored in the basement of the Uneeda Medical Supply warehouse.The main characters are James Karen as the manager of the supply house, Clu Gulager as his boss and Don Calfa as a mortician. There is also a gang of 7 Gothic punks named Tina, Chuck, Casey, Spider, Scuz, Trash (Linnea Quigley) & the gang's leader, Suicide. They decide to have a party in a cemetery which is nearby the supply house and you can guess what happens next. Linnea Quigley plays almost the entire film nude and launched her career as a Scream Queen in lots of cheesy horror films.Everyone in this film overacts, so much so that Jim Carrey looks tame by comparison.The zombies are played for laughs but they're not very funny. The effects are cheesy to the max. As for gore, the zombies are disposed of by the usual saws, axes and baseball bats.Written & directed by Dan O'Bannon of Alien fame.I thought Shaun of the Dead was a much better satirical zombie film than this movie. "},{"Title":"I Saw This Movie In A House Surrounded By Graves","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was 15, it was my last year at secondary school (high school). A friend's father was the head of the Department For Parks and Recreation Grounds, which also covered the maintenance of grave yards. When my friend suggested that we view the film at his house, I jumped at the idea as he lived in a detached Victorian villa which had been built just inside the perimeter fence of the grave yard.We waited until after dark, and we watched the film in his front room and whilst the plot was unravelling, we started talking about what we'd do if everything on the screen was really happening outside. After the movie, we dared each other to go out for a walk amongst the tombstones, but neither of us could summon the courage. To this day, some twenty years later, I still ask myself whether I should have taken him up on the dare, but I think the answer would still be a big 'no way'.The film is excellent, and is guaranteed to freak you out. There are some really original ideas that still seem quite brilliant even to this day. The best idea of the film centres upon the sense of isolation that surrounds the concept of being trapped in a siege situation. When the characters take refuge in the mortuary and then board themselves in, it is like Precinct 13 but with zombies! There are some really good touches to look out for (the split-dogs is one that springs to mind).In many ways this is a better film than Night of The Living Dead. There are more zombies for a start and the effects are state of the art 80's stuff. It is a brilliant touch for the film maker to indicate at the start of the film that the events are real. At the time I saw the movie, I actually believed that everything had really happened (well, I was only 15).I would recommend this film to any fan of the genre. Oh by the way, watch out for Trash's dance in the graveyard. Please note that all of my comments relate to Return Of The Living Dead (Part 1)and not to the second film in the series. I got mixed up between the two. I'm just that kind of guy! "},{"Title":"The best zombie movie ever!!!!   ALL time Classic.","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The return of the living dead (1985) is a true horror/comedy classic from the 80's, it's so very entertaining and far superior to modern crap such as 28 days later, the remake of dawn of the dead etc etc!! Dan O Bannon deserves praise here, because this film has great actors, a good plot and lots of fun, gory and impressive special effects.James Karen is superb as Frank, very fun and his sidekick Thom Matthews plays Freddie perfectly, they are a very funny double act, other good performances comes from Linnea Quigley, a famous and popular scream queen, and also Don Calfa is a hoot playing Ernie!!! All in all this is a gem of a movie and rates as the best zombie movie ever made, just ahead of the original Dawn of the dead from 1978, i would say this one is better because it's very fast paced, has superb gore and wonderful characters, it's one of those rare movies that you can just watch and watch and watch and will never get boring!!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"SEE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not going to try to write a full review, but will instead provide some bullets as to why you should see this- this was the FIRST zombie movie with fast zombies.  _28_Days_ has nothing on the bad boys in this flick.- the soundtrack for this movie is chock full of great punk bands.- production values are high.- this movie is hilarious.  Watch for the nazi MD ).- this movie features the first onscreen appearance of the 1950's Atomic Cannon )- this movie features Linnea Quigley with full frontal nudity ). "},{"Title":"true parable for the pollution of our planet","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe Dan O´Bannon has never thought about it, but this movie is a perfect parable for pollution and the way mankind is handling this. Oh we gut some garbage here - let´s burn it. Even harsher pollution is released into the atmosphere and causes more damage. When he sees this commentary he´s going nuts that there is one diehard fan who realizes the true spirit of his critical masterpiece. On the other hand Dan, this is a freaky, trashy, 80´s movie, funny enough to be remembered in the new millennium. Maybe just for splatterfans above  their 30´s, but these are plenty. Whoever is responsible for the rights of this movie - PUT OUT A DVD!!!Send more cops! "}{"Title":"You don't need a brain to view this movie","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return on the living dead in the very pinnacle of a bad movie.The acting was horrible, the special effects were laughable, the plot sophomoric ... All and all ... Good stuff when you are looking for a laugh.This is the movie that you can watch very drunk but still will be able to follow  along because it doesn't take much *braaaaaaaiiiinnnsss* to view it (har, har)7/10 as bad movies go. "},{"Title":"Sans George Romero, lacks artistic integrity and movie reality","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why would someone expect reality in a zombie movie?  Well, first of all, in George Romero's classic Night of the Living Dead the zombies could not run.  They lacked coordination, because they were the living dead.  It's more fun that way...  Who wants to see a thousand zombies running, it takes away the element of fear that what if they surround the living.  Some people actually consider this a classic horror movie, but I don't see why.  This movie is not horrible, it has a little humor and enough gore not to complain.  If it's on late go ahead and watch it but don't expect too much.  It does have Tommy from Friday the 13th part VI and Linnea Quigley(scream queen/soft porn star).  Go rent the director's cut of Dawn of the Dead which is a classic or the remake of Night of the Living Dead which Romero actually had something to do with. "},{"Title":"Great Zombie fun!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Though it is responsible for the demise of the dawn of the dead type zombie and movies it is still one of my favorite zombie flicks.  Thanks in part to great performances by Clu Gulager and James Karen, the other guy with Karen at the beginning and the embalmer Ernie.  The rest though are the typical teenagers you would expect in a horror movie.  The zombies in this one are released thanks to two idiots who reanimate everything that was once alive in a medical supply house including a cadaver.  Well Burt decides to ask his friend to burn the body in a crematorium.  He goes along with it, but the chemical that caused the bodies to come alive in the first place disperses in the air and when it rains on the cemetery the dead come to life looking for the one thing that eases their pain...human brains!  Some funny moments and horrifying moments are found in the flick, though I wish there was a bit more humor near the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Not the  greatest","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"      *MINOR SPOILERS*    Why does everyone say that this is the greatest zombie/cult classic of all time? After reading comments posted on this site, I expected a night of brutal good fun when I snatched this movie off the shelf at the local video store. To say I was dissappointed would be an understatement. The gore is almost non-existant, and the viewer doesn't connect with the characters at all, I wanted them to die. Couple this with the gayest ending I have ever seen, and you have one bad movie. I don't recommend it, but if you're bored and have nothing else to do on a Saturday night, I say try it. You might like it. Emphasis on the might.                    5/10 stars-JESSE BEDELL  "},{"Title":"Midgets with no balance","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you haven't seen this by now and you love gore flicks, get up and go rent it right now. No, you don't understand, this movie is absolutely hilarious. There's stuff in this movie that still makes me chuckle even though I haven't seen it in a while. Gory enough for the horror enthusiast, yet funny enough for the comedy lover in most of us. People get slapped here when they freak out. Legless zombies try to chase their prey but can't keep their balance. Naked zombie woman with a hot body comes out of the fog with interesting results. Watch this when you have extra viewing time because you will rewind certain scenes multiple times. ****1/2 out of ***** (and we're talking camp value) "},{"Title":"RENT THIS NOW!!!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my personal top 10 and I can't wait for it to be on DVD. This film is one of the first to effectively blend humor with very memorable special effects. I love the way that Return of the Living Dead pokes fun at other zombie movies. This is a movie that helped get me into horror flicks. This was THE movie to see in 7th grade, and now stands as an unrecognized classic. After seeing this movie literally hundreds of times, I still love it. "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made!!","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As far as ANY film goes, The Return of the Living Dead goes farther!  Clu Gulager, as Burt, is brilliant.  It's funny to watch his mood swing back from totally hilarious to totally insane to totally...  He is a veteran actor that comes out in full glory here.  James Karen is also truly fun to watch.  I hope I have a job with someone like him as my boss!  He can make you laugh and cry in the same scene!  Don Calfa, as Ernie, has never been better.  As for guys who work in funeral homes, he comes out on top!  He is smart, as well as serious, as well as funny!  Linnea Quigley is gorgeous, even with the make up.  She proves to be an even better scream queen than Jamie Lee Curtis, or anyone else for that matter!  She is a great actress and in this film it truly shows in her portrayal of Trash.  Thom Mathews is great!  Him and James Karen (Frank and Freddy) truly are great together if their talents are used properly(which sadly didn't continue in ROTLD 2). Thom Mathews is a great actor, this was his first film and he did everything correctly.  Jewel Shepard and John Philbin were a PAIR!  They played Casey and Chuck, two members of the punk group.  They were great together, and it seemed to me that Casey did have an inner love for Chuck.  Miguel Nunez played Spider, one of the smarter punks.  He helped everyone out a lot using his talents.  Beverly Randolph played Tina, Freddy's girlfriend.  She was smart, but a shy girl who wasn't brave.  She seemed to be an outcast punk, who only joined the group because of Freddy was a member.  And the saying I'll love you to death certainly came true in her case.  Her love for Freddy was not teenage love, but real love.  Mark Venturi played Suicide, the leader of the punks whenever they need a ride.  He is the object of Trash's love, although even when she isn't fully dressed, he'd rather show respect for the dead!  Brian Peck played Scuz, an insecure punk who gave the other punks the idea to check out the cemetary over there. Resurrection Cemetary was a clever and funny name, I think.  Jonathan Terry and the late Cathleen Cordell were accordingly 'couple of the month' in my book.  Mrs. Glover is quiet and patient.  Colonel Horace Glover is a anxious Army colonel waiting for the Night of the Living Dead tanks to show up. And he will continue to use the equipment in his house even if it does bother his wife's oven.  Anyway, the make up zombie effects were great. They were better THAN ANY GEORGE ROMERO FILM!!  The extras, the paramedics, the cops, etc. were played well and complete.  The soundtrack, available on Enigma, features songs from The Cramps, 45 Grave, The Jet Black Berries, the Flesheaters, etc.  The theme song didn't make it to the soundtrack (?), but the other songs are perfect and add rhythm and culture to the film. Even little scenes like the late Derrick Brice as a gunnary sargeant and the Burt and Ernie Sesame Street connection were incredibly funny!  Dan O'Bannon, who wrote the screenplay for Alien and Total Recall, wrote the screenplay for ROTLD as well as make his directing debut.  Stanzi Strokes, who did the casting for SILENT NIGHT, DEADLY NIGHT, returned to do the casting here.  This is the best casting EVER!!  Another note George Romero sued Dan O'Bannon for the use of living dead in the title.  George Romero lost (HA! HA!) and the courts ruled in favor of O'Bannon.  I also heard that Tobe Hooper and George Romero were supposed to direct ROTLD together. However, Laurel Entertainment told Romero not to get involved with ROTLD because it might be confused with one of his garbage zombie films.  Then they informed him to sue...  Anyway, ROTLD was released by Orion under Cinema '84, A Greenburg Brothers Partnership and was a Hemdale Pictures/ Fox Films Corporation picture.  ROTLD is out of print and rare and very expensive to buy online, though sometimes you can get a break and find it on Amazon. Com's Zshops.  I was lucky to buy ROTLD on Amazon's Zshops for a low price and it is in excellent working condition.  The soundtrack I bought as well and it is in great working condition.  You have to be patient.  Any critic who has given ROTLD a bad review, needs to see it again or hates exceptional movies.  Also avoid ROTLD 2 and ROTLD 3 as they are cheap and relentlessly pay homage to ROTLD.  (And they don't make any sense at all!) Horror7777 Review ****out of ****    "},{"Title":"How can I be objective about this film?","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've been crazy about this film for a long time.  I've always been a horror buff, but I require some originality, creativity and quirkiness to keep me interested.  This film has all of those things, along with the things everybody else has already mentioned (great 80's soundtrack -- especially the Cramps' Surfin' Dead! -- great 80's clothes, and referential in-jokes up the wazoo).  If you like creepy movies with a lot of wit, intelligence, and gore thrown in...and if you like the kind of movie that poses a lot of questions, and leaves it up to you to fill in the broader picture...then don't hesitate to see this.Kudos, as well, to Dan O'Bannon, whose work has always been of high quality and who has never gotten the recognition he deserves (likewise Fred Dekker, another superior director who lost out because he did something a little different).  When I first saw this movie, I was amazed at the chances O'Bannon takes...scenes that actually build suspense (ala Alien), cryptic comments made by some of the characters which give you a sense that these are real people (they weren't just created for the movie), a relentlessly downbeat yet funny theme, and, most importantlyThe zombies are smart.  They're fast.  They talk.  Freddy taunting Tina in the attic of the mortuary has to be one of the creepiest scenes in any horror film.Do I sound like a fanatic?  I am.  I can't see this movie enough (and if you get a chance to see the 2 1/2 hour rough cut, DO IT, there's loads of extra dialogue, extended scenes, and hints of subplots etc.)  I think it's a testament to everybody involved with this film that it has retained such a loyal fan base, but has never turned into a commercialized & mass marketed cult phenomenon. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Horror Movie I have ever seen!!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was great. I rented not really wanting to watch it, but right when the gas got loose, I thought from that moment on it would be great. And it was. I haven't seen the sequels yet but I am sure they are good.Return of the Living Dead was the best horror movie I have ever seen. Why? I don't know. I just loved it. If you are a horror movie fan, you will not be disappointed at all. Go rent it if you have not yet seen it. Rated R for nudity, violence and language. 8/10 Also recommended Night of the Living Dead "},{"Title":"Let's be blunt- this outing is better than ANY of Romero's.","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A homage to an overrated horror classic that, though unofficial, makes a far better sequel than the edit-deprived Dawn of the Dead and the acting-deprived Day of the Dead. Return works as a horror film, a comedy (it's frequently funny as hell) and a little slice of '80s fashion that most of us want to forget. Watch this one right after Romero's original and I GUARANTEE that you'll enjoy this film more. But do yourself a favor- avoid the sequels. They make Day of the Dead look like Schindler's List. "}{"Title":"So this is Louisville...","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, so this is a zombie movie. As we all know, that means lots and lots of gore. And in The Return of the Living Dead, they play it to real cool effect. The plot of course has a pair of chemical plant employees accidentally opening a container, and a series of events brings all the cemetery residents back to life, meaning that Louisville, Kentucky, is overrun by brain-eaters.As with Army of Darkness, you can't (in fact, shouldn't) take this movie seriously; it's intended as a joke. I remember when Joe Bob Briggs' show Monstervision showed this movie, he actually had Linnea Quigley as a guest (she plays Trash, the girl who strips in the cemetery). All in all, one cool movie. Clu Gulager may be the most interesting B-movie actor of all time. "},{"Title":"A funny?","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this film is just so Funny!! how many times do you get to see a naked bald white guy running around getting smacked in the head with a hammer ??? not Very often!!! hahaha but in this film you do! hee heethis film is campy fun....no Night of the living dead..but fun "},{"Title":"A True Gem of the Genre","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Return of the Living Dead (1985) *** 1/2 (out of 4) A couple warehouse workers accidentally free some chemical gas, which eventually leaks into the ground and brings the dead back to life and seeking brains to eat. A group of punk rockers who are partying in the cemetery come under attack.THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD is a rather incredible little gem that has a fine line to walk as it wants to go for mainly laughs but also some gory violence. Writer-director Dan O'Bannon had already put his name on the horror genre thanks to films like ALIEN but here he went to a whole new level and really delivered one of the most memorable and entertaining horror films of the decade. When you think about this picture, really, everything should have gone wrong but somehow everything ended up going right and you're left with something extremely fun and rather special.I think the greatest thing about this movie is the screenplay by O'Bannon and the performances that the cast are able to bring. The movie is just so cleverly written and all the characters are so much fun that you can't help but cheer them through their situations, have fun with them and root for them to survive. James Karen and Thom Matthews are simply great together and their comic timing off of one another is terrific. Clu Gulager perfectly brings a more serious tone to the picture with Don Calfa wonderfully zany. Then you've got the cast playing the punk rockers and they too are simply great in their roles. Plus, you've got Linnea Quigley doing her nude tombstone dance and who doesn't love hot women doing nude dances on tombstones? The zombies in the film are pretty simple, although they have a couple excellent ones that stand of. There's the memorable half woman and of course Tarman who easily steals the picture. There's so much comedy throughout the film but it never becomes a spoof of the genre. I think that's what makes the film work so well is that the comedy comes from the drama and terror of the situation. The comedy isn't in your face or over-the-top but instead it just human nature that funny stuff can be brought out of horror. THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD is a true gem of the genre and while there have been many imitators, none of captured its magic. "},{"Title":"Brains!","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now this was the funniest, craziest movie I have seen with Linnea Quigley dancing naked in a run down cemetery, while Burt (Clu Gulager), Ernie (Don Calfa), Frank (James Karen), and Freddy (Thom Mathews) figure out what to do with a reanimated corpse.Too late! The shite has hit the fan and now there are hundreds of zombies. Even Linnea Quigley got her dying wish. Freddy is after Tina (Beverly Randolph), and cops and paramedics are dropping as soon as they arrive. It is utter chaos. Is there no one that can save the day? That's it. Call in the Army. They'll know what to do. And, Linnea is OK, guys. There she is running around still naked.What a hoot! "},{"Title":"Needs to be returned?...Maybe","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Since this was a horror comedy hybrid, I won't bash a lot of the movie for being plain stupid. It also explains why there wasn't really any scary moments. It is a spoof on zombie movies. So if you're expecting a true horror movie, you are not going to get it here.I really appreciated the special effects. There were graphic shots of people eating brains and chewing into skulls. This is really the only the reason why I gave this movie any points. That and Clu Gulager who played Burt Wilson. His sloppy speech and Member's Only jacket were the only things that were really funny.As for the zombies, there were retarded and lame. I really didn't laugh or chuckle at them. My reaction was more nonchalant than anything else.The acting is abysmal. I don't want to be too hard on Linnea Quigley, but her acting can best be described as completely awful. Her role, like every role she's ever had, is to run around naked. Did I mention this was one of the reasons why I gave this movie points? If I didn't, I should have.The ending was perhaps one of the worst I can think of. The special effects on the shot was laughable. Not funny, just stupid.Overall this movie is OK. For 80's zombie flicks, it has to be considered and acknowledged for what it was. A lighthearted zombie flick with good special effects, bad story, bad acting and Linnea Quigley running around naked. "},{"Title":"Not bad Zombie flick","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" * * out of four.Good zombie effects, overall good direction from Dan O'Bannon and a wonderful comic performance from James Karen are the main reasons to check out this Zombie fest. His exchanges with Thom Mathews are good.Unfortunately, the movie starts out well and pretty much establishes its stance as a spoof rather than another entry in Romero's films. Then about mid-way through, the tone turns serious and very dark and that hinders it some. They should have kept with the light camp/humor feel to it.It's easy to see why there's a huge fan base for this and that it spawned 2 soon to be 4 sequels, or re-workings since no storyline really continues on and that could be because of the great zombie effects.Horror fans and zombie fans should check it out though. And if you're a fan of James Karen....Well, let's just say that his performance alone is worth the price of admission. * * "},{"Title":"A different and well done zombie movie","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Return of the Living Dead may not be as good as Dawn of the Dead, I still liked it and thought it aught have got more credit than it got. The zombies were changed in this film though which made it better (the excuse is that Night of the Living dead was based on a true story).  Instead of meat eaters in general, these zombies only ate brains (the zombies also can talk), for reasons unknown.  It is cool though to see how a group of people try to protect themselves from the zombies in a morgue of a all places.  Another thing that makes this film good is that it slips in some sick humor in the mix and it works.  Scary, funny and shocking, this film may not be classy, but hey, how can you get classy with brain eating zombies. "},{"Title":"Not the worst, an enjoyable bad horror movie","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I give this my personal highest rating for bad horror movies 4 out of 10 stars. There are many movies worse than this (titanic for example), this was directed decently, I must say. Some of the actors I really hated, a lot, but Linnea Quigley who is naked for most of the movie is pretty funny. This movie is not scary at all, and some of the zombies are just, well too campy and stupid, especially the yellow one. Oh! And if you call the 1800 # they show on the barrell that contains that posion military gas that turns people into the zombies, its a phone sex number! The zombies calling for more paramedics and cops to eat was pretty funny. "},{"Title":"It's Party Time! Classic Zombie Film That Still Holds Up Well Today, With Great Characters!","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a classic zombie film, that still holds up well today, with great characters!. It's very well made, and i dug almost all of the characters, except Tina (she annoyed me), and the effects were great, plus everyone's comic timing was impeccable!. The effects are great, and there is some cool zombie mayhem, plus, James Karen and Thom Matthews are brilliant in this and have wonderful chemistry together. The dialog is great, and the opening is brilliant and one of the best i have seen (In my opinion). This is a Classiz Zombie film, that everyone needs to see, although it took me a few viewings, for me to fully appreciate it, it's a damn fine zombie flick and i say it's a must see!. The Direction is great!.Dan O'Bannon does a great job here, with adding creepy mood once in a while, some great slow mo shots, lots of creative shots, good camera angles, and he kept the film, at a very fast pace!. We get a bit of gore. We get nasty melting corpses,Axe in the head,head sawed off,some blood,chomped off head, brain smacking,severed head,zombie split in half,2 decapitations,ripped off head,split dogs,flesh chomping,and some severed limbs Decent. The Acting is fantastic!.Clu Gulager is excellent here, as the main lead, he is very likable, on top of things, and had some good comic timing as well!. James Karen is awesome here as Frank, he is very witty likable, and had some classic expressions on his face!, and had wonderful chemistry with Thom Matthews!. Thom Mathews is also awesome here, he is hilarious, very likable, had cool dialog, and had wonderful chemistry with James Karen, i can't wait to see,more of this guy, where is he now?. Don Calfa, is great as the embalmer, and quite funny as well, i really liked him. Beverly Randolph annoyed the crap out of, she whined too much, and was rather unlikable in my opinion. Miguel A. Núñez Jr. is fantastic here, as one of the Punks, i loved his dialog, and really dig him overall as an actor! (Miguel Rules!). John Philbin and Jewel Shepard, do what they have to do well. Linnea Quigley is way hot, and is excellent here, loved her dialog, and her death fetish was very amusing. Mark Venturini was hilarious as the always P OED punk!. Overall this is classic, and a must see! for all horror fans. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Entertaining in a laughable way, but certainly not a horror film","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a truly bad film, full of bad dialogue and bad 80's costumes, but it's not so horrible that it isn't enjoyable to some extent.  Rather than be horrified when dozens of zombies jump on the unsuspecting, I found it to be pretty hilarious.  The factors that made this film even remotely credible were the halfway decent effects and makeup.  The guy that a friend of mine and I referred to as `The Party Zombie' for no particular reason whatsoever pretty much makes the film, although we couldn't really understand how this zombie with no skin could have such a perfect tongue. Anyway, this is a tough review to write because it was a film that was both a comedy and a horror film, but ultimately it does not pretend to take itself seriously, which is a plus in this situation.--Shelly  "}{"Title":"Amusing Horror With Its Tongue Firmly In Its Cheek","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two workers at a medical supplies warehouse accidentally release a gas that reanimates a cadaver . Trying to kill it by smashing its brain they dismember the corpse and incinerate at a nearby crematorium . Since the zombie is contaminated the smoke mixes with the rain and the chemical solution settles in the ground of the nearby graveyard causing the dead to reawaken and crave brains of the living This is a slightly weird post modernist horror film almost a meta-sequel to George A Romero's 1968 living dead film which is explicitly referred to as being based on fact . Within its own reality this is slightly nonsensical but ROTLD is so much fun this doesn't really matter because it's a horror film that does manage to mix and intertwine the rather difficult task of twinning horror with tongue in cheek humour While probably not being on a par with John Landis's 1981 black comedy about an American student on holiday in England becoming a Werewolf it's better than the Simon Pegg movie SHAUN OF THE DEAD probably because it's more streamlined and doesn't concern itself with meandering romance . It's also a film that contains some very grotesque make up and prosthetics and these zombies are scary simply because they're so slimy and hideous Where ROTLD may fall down slightly is a rather dated feel and the 1980s wasn't exactly the greatest decade for either fashion or music and like so many other films from the period which were perhaps influenced by APOCALYPSE NOW the soundtrack is a little bit too prominent for its own good . It's also a bit confusing that a very decomposed corpse with little muscle remaining would be able to move so rapidly but it goes without saying that you have to suspend all disbelief to enjoy a movie like this and it is relatively enjoyable "},{"Title":"The Return of the Living Dead","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like a lot of my horror generation, I watched Return of the Living Dead a lot around the late 80s/early 90s during the heyday of HBO and VHS, so the movie, overrated or not depending on your feelings for the film, left a definite impression and the nostalgia factor alone endears it to me. Sure there's a ton of screaming, bickering, and profanity, not to mention, obnoxious characters who have a tendency to get on your nerves because they aren't exactly (or some of them, anyway) the most likable bunch.The situation itself, a fight for survival after the dead rise from their graves with a desperate hunger for brains to ease their never ending suffering (it is painful when you are dead and brains help to stave off the suffering as told to us by an upper torso zombie tied to a gurney when questioned), is, I think, the main appeal for this movie. Many zombie films have that sense of apocalyptic doom, but I think Dan O'Bannon's horror comedy gets that just right, in a tongue-in-cheek manner. Does the acting get a wee bit over-the-top? I'll just say that nothing holds James Karen back&#x97;he lets it all hang out with a performance steeped in campy theatrics. One thing, from this most recent viewing, I got a great sense of was the agony of dying yet remaining alive enough to feel the change in how Karen and Thom Matthews present to us the unending torture such suffering seems to be.The punks of the film (such as Miguel A. Núñez Jr., Brain Peck, and Mark Venturini) aren't exactly the most sympathetic bunch, the way they spout non-stop obscenities, rarely offering anything remotely attainable to an audience to care about their plight. Linnea Quigley's striptease and dance on the crypt in Resurrection Cemetery (what a cool and wickedly genius name for the cemetery!) is definitely one of those highlights perfectly etched in my memory since I saw it at an age when the beauty of a naked woman started to gain importance in my mind and libido (kudos to the actress for going all the way and remaining pretty much topless throughout her entire screen time). With a supporting cast like Clu Galagher (as the owner of the medical supply warehouse housing the canisters containing corpses with a chemical that awoke them from their dead sleep), James Karen (as the warehouse operator who spins tales to his young protégé, Freddy (Thom Mathews, who wide-eyed naiveté is perfect bait for an aging storyteller who loves to spook those willing to believe his stories), and Don Calfa (as the German Mortician who explains in detail the process of rigor mortis, carries on his person a German luger, and has a crematorium that seems like the ideal tool to get rid of moving dangerous zombie body parts), The Return of the Living Dead was certain to maintain a cult following because it is hard to keep a straight face with such absurd subject matter without the kind of actors who could sell scenes like the pick ax head stabbing and eventual hacksaw decapitation of a run-amok corpse kept in a freezer for college campuses to study, or a split dog used in veterinarian schools that is barking. With memorable moments feeding lines like Send more paramedics or Send more cops from zombies to headquarters to get more fresh brains for their disposal, where the undead attack helpless police and paramedics called to the cemetery, unknowingly walking into their gruesome demise, it is not hard to understand why this movie has had a lasting impact over several decades. The practical effects, particularly the memorable zombies like Tarman and the female skeletal upper torso that bites a chunk out of the skull of character Scuz, are the real stars of this film, if you ask me. The movement of Tarman is neat and the scene where the female upper torso is questioned by Calfa on why zombies need brains is actually rather tragic and sad (as is Karen's decision to use the crematorium to end it all) is movie magic at its finest. The punk soundtrack and warped black comedy, the grisly violence and ever-present vulgarity will be certain to appeal and alienate depending on what kind of audience you are. This movie has endured&#x97;it is a zombie genre staple that continues to remain a favorite among many who grew up with it. I was so glad that there was a special edition provided for this film before O'Bannon's death, with audio commentary tracks and documentary specials that give us insight into the film's making and how it somehow remains a classic to many of us. "},{"Title":"Didn't like it much (little spoilers)","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I read so many good reviews of this movie, I thought I'd love it for sure. But when I watched it, I found it very boring, except for a few really great touches (especially the panting bisected dog, and when the paramedic is tackled). It could have been really scary, but was played too much for laughs.  "},{"Title":"One of the finest horror/comedies ever made.","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When Frank (James Karen) and Freddy (Thom Mathews), employees working the weekend at the Uneeda Medical Supply warehouse, check out a canister stored in their work's basement, they accidentally release a toxic gas which not only causes the guys to suffer from some alarming symptoms (coldness, stiff joints, no heartbeat) but also makes dead bodies rise up and become brain-eating zombies.An un-official sequel (of sorts) to George Romero's Night of the Living Dead (1968), Dan O'Bannon's directorial debut, Return of the Living Dead, delivers a decidedly different take on the undead genre, packing in as much black humour as it does blood-red gore.Opening with the claim that the events portrayed in this film are all true and the names are real names of real people and real organizations, O'Bannon quickly establishes the movie's outrageous tone. Although this was a horror/comedy, it was never going to be a parody that mocked the genre. Rather, it would be respectful of its horror roots, both acknowledging and deriving its humour from the absurdity of the premise.The razor-sharp script delivers the goods in both the horror and comedy departments, succeeding in blending these genres where many others have failed. Much of the film's success can be attributed to its anarchic approach. There is an overall pervading atmosphere of hopelessness, nihilism and chaos, which is accentuated further by the marvellous punk rock soundtrack. O'Bannon also dispenses with the established rules of the genre, presenting viewers with a refreshing new take on the zombie mythos.In O'Bannon's movie, corpses don't walk&#151;they run! Not only that, but they can think and talk too, making escape from the dead much harder than in Romero's zombie-verse. (Gone are the days when you could throw a custard pie in the face of a zombie and walk away laughing!). Furthermore, a bullet in the brain doesn't seem to stop these critters&#151;only total dismemberment or incineration will do.The top notch undead/gore effects are well handled and the movie delivers two of the greatest cinematic zombies of all time in the form of the gloopy Tar Man, who escapes from the breached canister, and the chatty half-corpse, who informs the survivors that it eats brains to relieve the pain of being dead.The cast is generally excellent, with 80s scream queen Linnea Quigley particularly memorable as Trash, a death-obsessed punk hottie who loves nothing more than to take her clothes off. Spending much of the film starkers, she is definitely one of the film's highlights.Dan O'Bannon has only directed one other film since his zombie masterpiece of '85, but even if he never returns to the director's chair, the sheer magnificence of Return of the Living Dead is enough to guarantee him an enduring place in the hearts of horror fans worldwide. "},{"Title":"If you insist on watching a DEAD movie, then make it this one","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" No pun intended, but the brain-eating zombie genre has been beaten to death. After the seminal film NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD appeared in 1968, there was a long hiatus until remakes (of sorts) and sequels began appearing in the 1980s and beyond. The problem is, just how many cannibal zombie movies do we need? If you ask some die-hard and rabid fans, they'll insist you can never have enough, though a more discriminating viewer might agree that the genre has been gasping for air for some time. Apart from SHAUN OF THE DEAD, the films are pretty much the same old same old and that is why I feel it's a public service to tell you that you really only need to see one of them and repeated viewing of the genre will probably result in massive death in brain cells. While this could be a positive thing in case of a zombie attack (after all, who wants an atrophied brain--even zombies have their standards), I would hope people would have a better use for their time than just watching one brain-eating movie after another. So, if you want to try just one zombie film, try watching THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD. That's because like SHAUN OF THE DEAD, it is indeed a comedy (something this deadly serious genre needs) but unlike SHAUN, it has a cheesiness and cheapness about it that make it fun. The bottom line is that zombie films should NEVER have big budgets--it's everything that the original NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD was not! Cheap, silly fun--see THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD and then try turning off the TV and reading a book if the urge to watch more zombie films arises. "},{"Title":"Headache-inducing.","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an uneven and uncomfortable mix of comedy and gore. It never really finds the right balance - the comic scenes are the weakest. It's sometimes fun to watch, but it's also loud and headache-inducing, mostly because of that constant (and annoyingly out-of-place) rock music. And the zombies are admirably fast and smart!  "},{"Title":"It's rather silly...","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After writing the script for Alien, Dan O'Bannon would go on to direct this rigorously silly spoof of George A. Romero's zombie films. The plot follows the 'true story' behind Romero's Night of the Living Dead. The story leads us to believe that the army, after creating a toxin that has the power to bring corpses back to life, had a spill which resulted in them having to put several of the re-animated corpses into metal cans. However, due to a military mix-up, the cans were delivered to a medical supply facility somewhere in Louisiana. The same facility where 'cool kid'; Freddy, has just got himself a job. Naturally, the cans get breached which leads to lots of zombies rising up from the ground to feast on the living.This zombie comedy successfully (usually) manages to simultaneously poke fun at the genre, along the way exposing many clichés, and also be a horror movie at the same time. Although predominantly a comedy, without a doubt, the movie does find a lot of time for extreme gore and horrifying sequences such as a group of zombies munching on brains, or the part where two of our hero's make an agonising transition from being living to being zombies. The film does also feature a lot of ingenious scenes that are really quite original, such as the part where a zombie talks about how it feels to be dead and why they like to feed on brains, and also the part where rigor-mortis starts to set in on some of our less fortunate hero's. For a lot of the movie, however, it's tribute territory, with a lot of the sequences echoing the zombie classics to which this film owes itself.Aside from spoofing the zombie genre, the film also finds time to take a swipe at youth culture, most notably the leather-wearing, hair-dying, new-age teenybopper types (of which feature heavily in this film). The best example of this is when the leader of the party makes a speech about how misunderstood and under-spoken he is, and how what he wears is a way of life and not just a costume. It doesn't add anything to the film, but it is funny. The other characters in the movie are mostly young kids, but there are also three older people, which make the film a bit more varied in terms of characters.Return of the Living Dead became an instant cult classic upon release, and still more than holds up to most of the newer zombie films today. It's unique in that it has heavy comedy themes that most zombie films don't have. I recommend this movie to any fan of the horror genre, and I also recommend it's third sequel, which is the best of the series. Skip part 2, it's just more of the same except not as good. "},{"Title":"I absolutely HATE this movie!!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't stand horror/comedy, and the enormously overrated turkey 'Return Of The Living Dead' is as good as an example as anything just why. It's isn't funny. At all. And it isn't scary. Not one bit. It's one of the most tedious movies I've ever watched, and I'm baffled how anybody over the age of fifteen can find anything remotely entertaining or amusing about it. This is one totally lame-brained and stupid exercise, and how Dan O'Bannon could write such garbage is beyond me. Watching this I felt utter embarrassment for all concerned, but especially seeing Clu Gulager ('The Killers', 'The Last Picture Show') caught up in such worthless crap was depressing. I know the guy's gotta pay his bills but surely you have to draw the line somewhere?! I absolutely loathe and despise this movie. "},{"Title":"I can't believe people liked this movie!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a complete rip off of the all-time great, Night of the Living Dead.  There were no real great actors in it, and the parts were played like a cheap B movie.  The zombies were given too much intelligence, acting more like people than decayed zombies.  This movie was a complete waste of the money I spent to rent it.    "},{"Title":"It worked in the movies. Highly enjoyable horror laced with humour.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Return of the Living Dead begins with a paragraph of text that informs us 'The events portrayed in this film are all true. The names are real names of real people and real organizations.' The film then cuts to the front of a warehouse & a sign that reads 'Uneeda Medical Supply' whose motto is 'You Need It---We Got It'. Yet more text appears that informs us that it's 'July 3, 1984 530 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time' where Frank (James Karen) & Freddy (Thom Mathews) are preparing to shut up for the 4th July weekend. Frank starts to tell Freddy about some army barrels in the basement that contain zombies & were sent to the warehouse by accident, Freddy is obviously sceptical so Frank shows him the barrels. One of the barrels starts to leak & releases a cloud of green gas & a slimy zombie, nicknamed Tarman (Allan Trautman). The green gas also re-animates a cadaver (Terrence Houlihan), Frank & Freddy don't know what to do so Frank phones the boss Bert Wilson (Clu Gulager) who says they must destroy all evidence of what's happened for fear of what the authorities will do to the business. Bert decides to ask his friend Ernie Kaltenbrunner (Don Calfa) for a favour, since Ernie is a mortician he has access to a furnace which he lets Bert use to cremate the cadaver. However, this has the unfortunate side-effect of sending a cloud of green gas contaminated smoke & ashes out of the furnace chimney, into the atmosphere & when it begins to rain & soak into the soil of a nearby cemetery the dead start to rise. A gang of seven punks including Freddy's girlfriend Tina (Beverly Randolph), Chuck (John Philbin), Casey (Jewel Shepard), Spider (Miguel A. Nunez Jr.), Scuz (Brian Peck), Trash (Linnea Quigley) & the gang's leader who affectionately calls himself Suicide (Mark Venturini) happen to be partying in the cemetery & quickly learn that the living dead eat brains, human brains...Written & directed by Dan O'Bannon The Return of the Living Dead is one of the best zombie films ever made. The script is both humorous & horrific. It never descends into farce or slapstick unlike it's sequel Return of the Living Dead Part II (1988) but there are some funny moments here, it doesn't forget the horror elements either with plenty of creepy moments. It moves along at a very nice pace & is never boring or dull, the characters are surprisingly very likable except Frank who is just annoying but thankfully less so than he is in the sequel. I found the ending a little rushed & lazy & I don't understand why the zombies didn't disappear into the town looking for brains instead of sticking around the isolated cemetery in one big group but nothings perfect I suppose. One area where the film stands out from the crowd is that the zombies in The Return of the Living Dead are a little different than usual, these zombies can talk & have intelligence, they are fast moving & strong & are almost invincible. It still seems fresh & original now after 20 odd years, it has also definitely kept it's ability to entertain which it does in style. Director O'Bannon creates a horror film with plenty of atmosphere & maintains a ominous foreboding throughout. The blood & gore is so-so & a little spare when all said & done, there is a bitten open head with it's contents running out & some blood spurting but most of the violence in The Return of the Living Dead is against the zombies as they have pick-axe's buried in their heads, sawed into pieces, cut in half & have their heads knocked off with baseball bats. The special effects are pretty good even now & I just love that slimy zombie that comes out of the barrel! The acting is good, except James Karen who is highly annoying as Frank. Gulager as Bert & Calfa as Ernie in particular give good performances, do you get the cute Sesame Street gag? Technically the film is solid, nice cinematography, good locations & sets, great choice & usage of music & generally well above average production values for a relatively low-budget horror film. Overall I think The Return of the Living Dead is a top zombie film, not as good as Romero's Dawn of the Dead (1978) but not too far behind. Of the two sequels I think Part II is worth a watch while I love Return of the Living Dead 3 (1993) which I think is as good as this, if not a bit better. An absolute must for all horror fans & anyone interested in a few laughs with their scares. "}{"Title":"Feast your brains !!!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is horror comedy at his best ! SPOILERS Coming up........... Return of the living dead handles about the same topic as the horror movie milestone by George A. Romero. The movie claims that the whole zombie experiment did really happen but that is was covered up. Due to a typical military-fault the infected corpse got lost. It's hidden in a basement in Louisville, Kentucky and of course...it comes to life !! This is only the beginning of the story....what follows is a fun movie with good make-up effects, lots of gore and several hilarious moments. The chemical that causes the dead to come to live again is getting spread through the air and because of heavy raining, it drips to the ground of an old burial ground. Corpses in a heavily state of decomposition rise again to hunt the living. They're only after them in order to eat their brains...it makes their pain go away !  Compared to the more traditional zombies, these puppies can talk and even run !! Above all that, you can't just simply destroy them by smashing their brains. END SPOILERS !!Return of the Living dead probably won't ever reach the status of Romero's films but that's ok. It does stand for one of the funniest and most creative movies coming from the 80's. It ain't very easy to make both a good horror movie and a comedy at the same time. Many directors try it but most of them fail...Sam Raimi can do it ( Evil Dead 2, Army of Darkness ) and Dan O'Bannon can do it too now. By the way, this isn't just some small director !! He co-writed all-time classics like Dark Star, Alien and Total Recall. Return of the Living Dead was his debut in directing and I think he did a pretty good job.  A terrific make-up department delivers us some of the nastiest looking zombies I've ever seen. And although this movie contains a lot of blood and gore, it never becomes hard to look at or disturbing. Cheesy, yes !! But we love that, don't we ? The acting performances are quite good considering it's an 80's horror movie and the character of this guy called Suicide is really original ! One troubled young man, that is. It all ends in a typically American way so everybody is happy !! Recommended to fans of (comedy)horror... "},{"Title":"More like, Return Of The Living Jokes!","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After watching this garbage late at night on TNT, I wonder how movies like this ever garnered theatrical release in its day. Sure, I've seen my share of zombie flicks and I love 80's horror... but this movie takes the cake for 'Simply Awful Movies'!The movie seemed to hold all the right elements for the perfect 80's horror trash. Bad acting... bad hairstyles... bad clothes (the off-the-shoulder dress and the loose belt around the waist is a riot!) and the theme song which appeared to have been recorded directly off a synthesizer! But what I thought was a real scream was the hilarious 'so-called' special effects. Did anyone see that zombie that escaped from that toxic drum that was covered in what appeared to be black sludge? Was that the creature from the black lagoon? Where was Adrienne Barbeau when this clunker came out?And don't get me wrong here. I've seen Dawn Of The Dead (which was a total classic), but why didn't that guy turn into a zombie after getting his skull bitten into by that 'half-skeleton' woman. And while I'm on that subject - how did she manage to get around if she was only half a skeleton? Let alone standing outside a window and gaining the ability to pull a human being outside long enough to take a big meaty chomp out of his head. I mean, I did see one of the dead police officers returning to life as a zombie. And how could she talk if she had no vocal chords? I guess I can accept the in-the-flesh zombie speaking into the CV radio scene... but what about her?Overall, the best part was when the nuke gets fired into the city. Too bad Jason Robards and Steve Guttenberg weren't in this movie. They could have taken advantage of the early 80's 'nuclear war' scare and turned this movie into something more controversial than a fully-forced laugh! The Day Of The Dead After perhaps?0/10 "},{"Title":"The Stupidest Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first watched Return of the Living Dead I had already seen the sequels and I wasn't really expecting a lot of this one. When I got done watching it I realized I just lost an hour and a half of my life. Then I got mad. First of all, the actors sucked. I thought they were just stupid no talented morons. Second there was the fact it was a slap in the face to the zombie master George A. Romero (Night of the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead, Day of the Dead, Land of the Dead) Zombies are supposed to die when they get their head or brain destroyed and in this they completely destroyed this zombie, cut his head off, caught him on fire and he still came back. Then there was the fact they could think and make decisions and talk. That was stupid. I said this to a friend once and he said it ignored the Romero classics because it had nothing to do with them. THEN WHY IS IT CALLED RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD??? It's just a cheap spin off to get some fast cash. As a horror movie wasn't scary at all, and as a comedy it wasn't funny at all. The only thing funny or scary about this movie is the idiot who would spend good money on it. Forget this. If you want to rent a zombie movie, rent a Romero movie or Resident Evil. "},{"Title":"This movie really isn't well balanced.","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a rather weak and lame that tries to combine comedy with gory zombie-horror. Problem is that the balance between these two different genres isn't very good, meaning that the movie doesn't work out the way it was supposed to.The idea was pretty good, the execution of it however really wasn't. The movie can be seen as on 'unofficial' sequel to the George A. Romero movie Night of the Living Dead and its sequels. Those movies of course already had a healthy dose of comedy in them and this movie tried to take its comedy one step further. The comedy is however to lame to consider it funny really, which is also due to its fairly poor production values and poor actors involved.The movie is rather cheap looking and there really isn't enough gore or good make-up involved to please any zombie movie/gore fan. It has a bit of a B-movie feel and look over it, which of course gets also strengthened by its silly script and comedy.The character are often more annoying then likable enough which, again, is due mostly to its weak writing and lame comedy. Seriously, this movie features the type of jokes and dialog that seems to be written by an 10-year old, in just one afternoon.I like horror and I like cult-horror perhaps even better. This movie however really doesn't deserve to become a cult-horror classic. It's far too lame and weakly made for that.If you want to see a good and above all effective cross of comedy and zombies just stick to Shaun of the Dead.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"This would have been good if it wasn't so bad...","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, uh, didn't like it...  I like my movies with a plot. Plots should be more interesting than seeing bodies coming after people saying I want to eat your brains. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cannot understand how anybody could like this movie. Really. From the moment you learn the zombies are invincible, all the suspense is killed. What's the point? It's not scary, and certainly not funny, not even entertaining, and the ending is ridiculous. Well... a stupid ending to a stupid movie, you can't expect more. "},{"Title":"Avoid it","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Every human being faces eventual dissolution.  Our most monumental curse is that we know it in a way, that say, a dog does not.  The funerary practices of our own civilization can be seen as attempts to build a cocoon around the dead to shield them from the living.  Even when we get to see the corpses they are coyly painted, drained, and stuffed.  They bear as much resemblance to the living person we knew as one of those serving suggestions on the carton of a prepared dinner bears to the actual contents.  The corpse lies there, quietly, soberly, as if deep in thought.  It does not sweat.  It does not have dandruff or bad breath.  And maybe that's the way we should remember the living.  Some commentors have found the scenes near the beginning of this film, in which the dead and buried, claw their rotting way out of the ground, to be haunting and beautiful.  I can't imagine why. This Romero clone is even more loathesome than the originals.  Zombies stagger about, banging on doors, falling to pieces, contaminating spaces with foul odors, offending the sight.  The supposedly amusing lines -- It HURTS to be dead!, This isn't just a punk outfit, it's a way of life!, and the German-accented embalmer listening to Wagner while he plies his trade -- are not in fact amusing.  You know who would find movies like this enjoyable? Those with perhaps the bodies and certainly the minds of twelve-year-olds. It's difficult to imagine an audience of mature people who have had any contact with dead bodies before they were prettied up finding anything to hoot and clap about.  Films about ghosts can be funny if embroidered with anything like elegant wit.  Films about rotting corpses doing their best to devour the living are kind of depressing, despite the wisecracks.  The final gag is the best.  The military, not knowing how to deal with this irruption of zombies in the small town, drop an atomic bomb and destroy the entire community.  There's a real knee slapper for you. "}]