[{"Title":"When I say Who's the master? - you say... Sho Nuff!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"48 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is in Julius Carry's 'Sho Nuff' character that The Last Dragon finds its biggest laughs. Here is a towering, mean, cartoon character come to life. Better yet is the fact that Carry, spouting lines that would make even the most jaded comedy fan laugh, plays the material 100% straight, as do the rest of the cast in their respective parts.The Last Dragon is an action/kung fu/comedy film that knows it's a farce but at the same time has the characters play everything dead straight. This works because we laugh at the outlandish plot and characters who, behind the fourth wall, would probably get along well with inmates at an insane asylum.Tiamak stars as Leroy Bruce Leroy Green, a quiet, timid martial artist obsessed with Bruce Lee pictures and obtaining a special level called The Glow, where his spirit takes over the mind's job, in turn creating an awesome force to be reckoned with. But Leroy believes not in using his martial arts for fighting, but for inner peace and strength. And then there's Sho Nuff, the self-proclaimed Shogun of Harlem, who towers over nearly everyone at about 6 feet 5 inches, has wild, afro-like hair, and wears ungodly clothing one might find if MC Hammer invaded a sports store.Sho Nuff's favorite past times are wandering into packed movie theatres and challenging people to deadly duels because, well, he is just a weird guy, who has an even weirder posse to back him up and to lick his boots at every other step.Naturally, Sho Nuff has wanted to fight Leroy for some time, and there are several moments in the film where he attempts to gain a rise out of the young martial artist but with no luck. Throw into this mix a night club VJ, a crooked mafia-type with Cyndi Lauper's cousin for a girlfriend, and you've got the makings of an `80s classic.I love this movie. Tiamak is perfect in the lead as Leroy because he always looks as if he's about to break into a fit of child-like giggles. Vanity is Vanity. Blah. And Leroy's friend, Johnny Yu (Glen Eaton), nearly steals the movie as a martial arts student whose theory of fighting has to be heard for a laugh. But alas, it's Sho Nuff who steals the entire movie. When he's on screen, you can't help but laugh, despite the character playing EVERYTHING straight, and you gaze forth in wonderment - thinking to yourself that maybe beneath that hulking, cartoonish exterior, Carry was laughing inside but never let it show on the outside. Good acting there.It's silly, over-the-top, jam-packed with `80s nostalgia, and is, above all, very entertaining, with an exciting climax and a wonderful showdown between Sho Nuff and Leroy...Do I recommend the movie? Sho Nuff! "},{"Title":"Flashy Kung Fu 80's Flick","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's so easy to dismiss a movie from another time-line as pure trash. Why, if I just pick up any car-chase movie from the 70's, or some old spy movie from the 60's WITHOUT considering the era & what was in it, I'd be lost.The 80's introduced a pop culture focused in music, thanks to MTV. Break-dancing was the norm. Synthesized keyboards backing up great, and some not so great singers were all over. Also, movies in the 80's carried over what Bruce Lee & others had brought from the 70's martial arts. Lots of movies with the word 'ninja' in it, and of course 'Karate Kid' made a big impact in 1984.If you were already into the hip-hop scene, & you liked the American dance pop music that was playing all over New York, then going to see 'The Last Dragon' would have been a natural extension for your weekend experience at the movies.The story is simple- Young kung-fu master Leroy Green (Taimak) must seek his inner-self by obtaining what is called 'the glow', and is faced with wrath of a great, cheesy bad guy called Sho'nuff, along with his gang. Along the way he will learn about his family, himself, and even find love. There's plenty of side stories that include our hero, who, by the ways, eats popcorn with chopsticks. He's a modest, gentle young man who is faced with other challenges you wouldn't expect, like, for example, how to be 'black', and the fact that he's a virgin. There is some hilarious lines, and I remember the entire theater in a riot with some of theseSho'nuff Now, when I say, Who's da mastah? you say, Sho'nuff! Who's the Master? Gang Sho'nuff!Leroy Green The truth will be revealed only to eyes unclouded by desire. Sho'nuff It's mumbo jumbo like that & skinny little lizards like you thinking' they the Last Dragon that gives kung-fu a bad name.Those who really watch Kung Fu films are in for a treat, as this one really lays on the Bruce Lee references. The villain, Sho'nuff, is a just oozing with the typical kung-fu bad guy look & sound. There are some good fighting scenes, as Taimak is really an expert in martial arts (there were some karate how to videos he did), but there is one little kid in this movie who really kicks butt. You have to see him in action to believe it.Nope. There are no Oscar winners in here. You won't see an outstanding story line. No expensive SFX. Just a moderately low budget, flashy movie filled with that decade's influence- like bright colored clothes, neon lights, & music. It's the right blend of kung-fu, fantasy, romance and comedy together with 80's clicks and buzzes that really make this movie. If you like kung-fu, forget the nay-sayers and watch this, you won't regret.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One long music video with chop socky thrown in","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lest we forget, this is BERRY GORDY's The Last Dragon. He was the head of Motown Records. It has the look of a music video for a good reason, it was produced and directed by music video people. Made to sell soundtracks like almost every Robert Stigwood movie of the 1970s.Tiamak play Leroy, often called Bruce LeeRoy in this movie(ouch). It's amazing that he didnt do more in Hollywood than he did, maybe it was a personal choice of his, it certainly does not seem to be because of any lack of talent. He could have been an action hero on the level of a Van Damme in my opinion (with a little acting talent added in...).Vanity is beautiful, as usual, as the host of a TV video show, remember them? She is very easy on the eyes and the role does not require too much in the way of her acting, so she does very well.The story line is silly and improbable. All this action and no police ever show up? The movie makers and Tiamak seem to obviously love Bruce Lee movies, and for Lee fans this was a nice way of seeing Bruce back on the big screen after 12 years or so of nothing after his death. The scene where Vanity presents Leroy with a video compilation of some of Bruce's greatest moves is a highlight of this movie.Worth seeing. Be in a light, silly mood and you will get the most out of it. Be sarcastic and critical and you will have a miserable time. Remember, your children will laugh at your favorite movies as well. "},{"Title":"This movie inspired me.","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Forget the campiness. Who cares about the less-than-Oscar-nomination acting. I never watched The Last Dragon for these reasons. I watched it because I loved the feeling and spirit. Oh, and Vanity. This movie became such a huge influence in my life that I pursued martial arts lessons so that I could be just like LeRoy Green. Now, nineteen years later, I am nearly ready for my Masters rank in the martial arts. This movie was all about basic things in life good triumphing over evil, the importance of love, family ties, loyalty and plain, old good fun. I find it interesting that LeRoy could reach the Final Level ONLY after he had found someone else to help; i.e. Laura Charles. Rather like life should be, eh?! Love is truly the ingredient for a rich, fulfilled life. Of course, some serious kung fu adds some spice to life. Just one thing how did LeRoy practice catching a bullet in his teeth? Did his old master train him by throwing bullets to him? Forget the hoakiness. Just enjoy this awesome (and rather poignant)film.  "},{"Title":"A classic, hands down.","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is like a guilty pleasure- nobody really talks about it, but every time it comes up in a crowd, within seconds people are using classic lines like Who's the master? and Hey my man, what it look like? and laughing like maniacs.This was my favorite movie as a teenager and I've probably seen it 100 times.  From the hilarious over-the-top performances to the hybrid karate/comedy/musical genre, it's a movie that kept me laughing the whole way through.If you like classic movies, then don't waste your time- you'd be better off watching The Sound of Music for the 800th time.  But if you didn't like this movie, odds are you tried not to.  "},{"Title":"Does this movie rock? Sho'NUFF!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you occasionally get nostalgic for break dancing, too much hairspray, De Barge, and Cyndi Lauper-style hair extensions, then this movie will give you an awesome blast from the past! I watched it on a Saturday morning and it made me feel like a kid again.As many of the naysayers have already posted here, this ain't no bona fide martial arts flick. But it does make Tarantino-esque allusions to kung-fu pop culture- namely, Bruce Lee's films- that will be appreciated by 'true' kung-fu fans. And the fight scenes were co-choreographed by Ernie Reyes, Sr., so that gives them some credence.In my opinion, the worst parts of this movie are actually the best because of their kitsch value Prince protégé Vanity performs a ridiculously bad song and dance number; Leroy finds his inner glow; Sho'Nuff and his gang interrupt a screening of ENTER THE DRAGON; the list goes on. I think I'll watch it again next Saturday! "},{"Title":"The absolute best martial arts flick ever!","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Alright, I acknowledge that there are cheezy scenes.  I also realize that the bad singer is a Cindy Lauper clone, and that Vanity was a protege of Prince.  All that aside, I think the filming was great.  The scenes were well shot, the music did a terrific job of matching the scenes and setting the mood, and even the comedy helped to keep the show from being too much of a fight flick - in other words it was more real than most shows.  The script was easy to follow (alright, predictable) but it's necessary to reach a broad audience.  The fight coreography was well done, and Leroy's struggle to believe what everyone is trying to tell him about himself is the real jem of the show - who among us doesn't struggle with such problems at times? "},{"Title":"Shonuff!","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why have this movie got so long a rating? It is a clear 10/10. Probably the most funky martial arts movie ever made. An absolute 80s masterpiece. Full of honour for Bruce Lee and that period as well as containing the spirit of Van Damme and the 80s - and afro-american funk as well as saterday night fever dance movies. This movie definitely got the glow! "},{"Title":"Kung Fu classic","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Last Dragon had everything a kung fu classic should have. As a chlid this was one of my favorite films. Tamiak surpisply never did another movie but it's still  a lot of fun. Soon I'll own the DVD. Check this movie out for a good time.    "},{"Title":"Must see","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you like stupid and fun movies, this is for you. Fun action, retarded yet comical performances by the cast, and a stupid but enjoyable plot.  The fxs in the movie are so 80s it is insane,  the costumes fall along those lines as well.  If you don't like stupid fun movies (example Evil Dead), then do not bother, but if you do like I said before, The Last Dragon is for you. "}{"Title":"Very good camp classic of the 80's","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is definitely an unrecognized classic of the eighties, which should deserve to be better known. The Last Dragon is certainly a cheesecake of a movie, a highly amusing pastiche and collage of the film and music genres popular in the early 80's, such as the Kung-Fu movie, the Breakdance movie, the video clip (references to Cyndi Lauper and Prince &#150; watch the hilarious video clip à la Cyndi Lauper) &#150;there's even a touch of fantasy. It's a Friday night guilty pleasure (in fact when I watched it) for all those who have been through the 80s.Unlike Flashdance, it doesn't take itself too seriously yes, it's (very) cheesy , undiluted 80s, but it's more stylish than you would think at first. Whereas of Flashdance you laugh of the movie, here you find yourself unexpectedly laughing with the movie. The whole cast is evidently taking a pleasure in this film &#150;in particular Julius Carry &#150; the Shogun of Harlem- and this pleasure passes on to us spectators. This movie is closer to camp movies such as The Big Meater Eater, The Rocky Horror Picture Show and further back in time Jack the Giant Killer and The Son of Sinbad, rather than other 80's classics, because once again it doesn't take itself too seriously and yet has more qualities than many of the films of its time (don't mention Highlander). There's lots of action in this movie, but also singing and dancing as well as some romance. This film shows, irradiates much joy and pleasure, that you wonder why some refer to the 80s as the decade that everyone wants to forget...This movie is hysterically funny from the beginning to the end, but underlying the humour it also touches on serious themes, such as cultural identity which reminds the excellent Ghost Dog by Jim Jarmusch. The main character in the Last Dragon, an African-American Kung Fu master follows cultural models from the East, while some of the Asian characters are strongly influenced by Soul, Funk and African-American culture. Both The Last Dragon and Ghost Dog show that cultural identity is not something which is fixed, but is fluid, exchangeable, undetermined &#150; both movies show characters that adopt, appropriate and are appropriated by other cultures.... Don't get me wrong the Last Dragon is unabashedly commercial, but it touches on themes normally reserved to high art (whereas Ghost Dog does it the other way around ;-) ), while remaining consistent with the slapstick tone and humour of the film.Overall this movie is highly enjoyable. William Macy even makes a short, but very amusing appearance. You gotta see this movie! "},{"Title":"An awesome movie","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is more then a Kung-Fu flick. Its the only good African-American inspired martial arts movie I have ever seen (Sorry Jim Kelly, its true).The plot is a standard Kung-Fu movie style. Student seeks final knowledge or skill so must quest for a new teacher, student has good friends that need his help and family problems, a brother he cannot relate to and a life that walks against the grain of the place he is from (in this case, NYC of all places) and his family (they own a pizza shop, yes that is part of the comedy of the movie, an African-American family that owns and operates a pizzeria) , student encounters bad guy and bad guy's equally evil cohorts, student falls in love with woman, she is in danger. She gets in trouble, so does his family, He sets out to saves his love interest.Kung Fu fighting ensues. However, it is the crossover elements of the movie that really pull it all together. The break dancing/Hip-Hop element of the film REALLY works. Its done amazingly well. The Hip-Hop doesn't seem tacked on and it actually fits into the plot of the movie. The younger brother (and the central Hip-Hop character) played by Leo O'Brien does shine as the flub for his older brother's straight man routine. You gotta remember that this film was made during the peak of the early Hip-Hop era (think, right around the time Beat Street was made) and as a result the dancing, music, style and attitude still comes off as fresh and not watered down or overdone like it is today. The love interest (Vanity) is the host of a Soul Train like show, and the elements of the plot tie nicely into the hip-hop/80's pop music theme of the whole film. Sure, the bad guys are comical and over the top, but that's what I expect from a Kung Fu movie. Think of this film as a blending of the serious Bruce Lee themes of justice and revenge with the Jackie Chan/Stepeh Chow over the top comedy approach. Its probably one of the myriad of movies Tarantino watched to put together Kill Bill, and probably the reason he went for a hip-hop inspired soundtrack to the film. I won't give away the ending, but I will say this, its worth the 12 dollars you'll spend on the DVD. Of all the movies in my collection, this is the one most people pick up, read the back and say lets watch this. A good lazy evening movie. "},{"Title":"The Last Dragon............","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It all started with Bruce Lee, which initiated the mass popularity of martial art cinema in the US. That soon followed the Hong Kong imports i.e. Shaw Brothers and Jackie Chan to name a few. Soon after Hollywood decided to try and emulate this genre with few results. With the likes of Chuck Norris, and the Cannon Group ninja movies, there hasn't been a clear cut film at that time that signified brilliance in Hong Kong Cinema.This film was a result of just that....the writer Louis Venosta inspired by Bruce Lee and the style of kung fu films started the seed to which many know as the last dragon...or most known as Berry Gordy's The Last Dragon. Motown mogul Berry Gordy decided to take this on as a marketing tool to promote his new musical acts at the time and to make co-stars Vanity, and Taimak a stars.The story in all its glory is most easy and simple to follow....a young shy, unassuming man in his early 20s Leroy Green or more known as Bruce Leroy because of his devotion to Bruce Lee and the martial arts has reached the final level in the martial arts.We learn that in order to reach the final level one must obtain the glow.....since Leroy isn't ready he asks for someone to guide him. His master sends him on a quest to find the master who will guide him to the final level.Simple, right?Wrong...of course he has many obstacles along the way in his quest. Leroy somehow gets involved with a local VJ Laura Charles (Vanity) who's being harassed by sleazy producer Eddie Arkadian (Christopher Murney). Apparently Arkadian wants to use Laura to showcase his music through her show as an opportunity to sell records.The main villain in this film goes by the name, Sho'nuff the Shogun of Harlem.He's the bad ass of Harlem and to complete and honor his ego he sees Leroy as a threat to his domain and must defeat him. Leroy refuses to fight but we know because of the story structure their paths will meet again.Leroy is so focused on the martial arts that he is so closed in to everything else in his life. He dresses like a Chinese disciple, doesn't have many friends and is clueless in interacting with the ladies. The humor sets in when his young brother Richie (Leo O'Brien) is more adept at talking to the ladies than Leroy. In a funny scene Richie goes on to teach Leroy the art of making moves to a lady. He's not looking to fall into the arms of Laura and her problem. He did what he thought was right in defending her, and at the same time begins to fall in love with her. What to do? Fighting Sho'nuff is not in his ethics and dishonors the martial code.Is this Oscar worthy? No In its simplicity the last dragon shows us that with love, family, and inner strength can overcome your inner demons thus becoming the master. It's a basic tale that reaches to young people and it has remained a staple of my life. That's the quirkiness of it all this film just has heart! It reaches to young people and they gravitate to it. The fighting even for it's time is not bad, but what makes it shine is the cast ie Taimak who plays the character with such heart that most young audiences feel they can identify with....a character who's simple, shy, has the goods just needs to confidence, and through your inner quest we all can overcome the Sho'nuff's of our life!The direction by Michael Schultz is on point...nice concept of making it like a live cartoon...if you let your guard down and accept the world it's in you can enjoy the Last Dragon.... "},{"Title":"I can't help but...","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...Comment on Motown Records' own Berry Gordy's The Last Dragon, the 1985 martial arts action-comedy featuring one-name action hero Taimak in the lead role as a Bruce Lee enthusiast named Leroy Green (a.k.a. Bruce Leroy), who idolizes the Master in late-night Harlem grind-house outings along with other young movie-goers and at one point dons a yellow tracksuit a la Bruce in Game of Death (1978).IT'S KUNG-FU WITH SOUL!!! ENTER THE LAST DRAGON!!!Leroy's trained for years attempting to achieve the mysterious glow, a desired power force that can only be obtained when one has mastered himself. Leroy has mastered his physical abilities, but true to these sorts of movies, has not mastered his own being. He can't even talk to the pretty VJ Laura Charles (Prince protégé Vanity) without stumbling over himself (gee, and I thought I had problems with the ladies in that respect, and I'm no kung-fu master).Directed by Michael Schultz, Berry Gordy's The Last Dragon is pure, cheesy fun with a supporting cast that knows their roles very well and run with it, including Julius J. Carry III in a deliciously over-the-top villain role as Sho'nuff, the Shogun of Harlem, and Chris Murney as psycho music promoter Eddie Arkadian. The special effects are pure '80s, nothing to really be excited about (but of course, were top-of-the-line back then). The fights are great too, but not spectacular; the final confrontation between Leroy and Sho'nuff is pretty sweet.What I liked about Berry Gordy's The Last Dragon is its timely vibe - pure cheese. The '80s were the decade of cheese and for a B-grade blaxploitation/Bruceploitation flick, this movie has that and more, but it's watchable cheese, with a truly one-shot action hero in Taimak, who exercises some formidable gong-fu moves of his own, and is almost shameless in his Bruce-like mannerisms. The film seems oddly in sync with the blaxploitation-era flicks that inspired it; the only thing missing is Jim Kelly with an Afro. Taimak does have one really cool demonstration scene where he chops an arrow in half in mid-flight (which, from what I understand, was filmed as is).As a fan of martial arts movies, I'd definitely recommend checking out Berry Gordy's The Last Dragon if one is truly a fan of martial arts cinema. If you like Motown Records, definitely check out the soundtrack.P.S. For all you Bruce Lee loyalists out there, be on the lookout for a sequence featuring clips of the Master in action from Fists of Fury (1971), The Chinese Connection (1972), and Enter the Dragon (1973).Exit... the Last Dragon.10/10 "},{"Title":"u r the last dragon","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" best martial arts movie ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Some one needs to make a sequel. or a awesome video game true to the movie. and no remakes not directed by the same guy as King Kong like a real martial arts expert or (BRuce) Leeroy him self but beside that someone really needs to make something else out of this movie it was the greatest martial arts movie of the 1980's plus the movie was hilarious in some parts. the only thing that needs to be changed was the funny but stupid glow effects and like a old Shownuff training a new evil guy and some white kid who gets picked on in school go to find Leeroy and have him train him to achieve the glow with some of the original music from the original movie in the new movie because it would be awesome!!!! "},{"Title":"Taimak and Leo O'Brien","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  They are my favorite actors in the movie , it would had been nice if was The Last Dragon 2. I think that movie should have had some credit to it and I wish that we had more black actors on a widescreen TV. Just like Will Smith and Denzel Washington. But would like to seen more of Taimak starring in more movies and also Leo O'Brien.  "},{"Title":"Vanity, Sho Nuf', DeBarge's Rhythm of the Night, and Bruce LeRoy... what more could you ask for?","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great quotes, kung fu, a whole lot of Vanity and a little old-school break dancing.  This is an 80s classic.  What a great movie!For those who claim that Bruce LeRoy is gay, the movie is stupid or that the directors were misguided in their efforts making this movie clearly did not get it.  This movie is exactly what they wanted it to be - and it works.The Final Level's glow, the ridiculous Sho Nuf gang's outfits (Who's the master?!?!?), and the Cyndi Lauper-on-crack Angela and her tits with headlights from Q Gardens.  I don't think those were a mistake.  This movie was meant to be entertaining.  It had it all, classic 80s music and even some quality fight scenes at the end that had guys cheering for Bruce Leroy almost as loud as they did for Rudy at the end of his movie.  Who's the Master?  I AM!!This movie was exactly what it was meant to be - a great flic.  If you don't think so, you need to pause, take a minute and put your 80s hat back on. If you don't have one or have lost your connection with the decade of the parachute pants and the boom box, then this movie may never be as entertaining as it once was for us.  Enjoy.A few people to notice int he background William H Macy as Laura's make-up artist, Cockroach from the Cosby Show in the pizza parlor when the gang vandalize it, and Ernie Reyes Sr in the fight scene.  Nice early work. "},{"Title":"I can't get enough of this movie!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen the movie about 37 times, and I can recite just about every word in the film, but for some reason, I just can't get enough of it!For those of you who haven't had the privilege to see the movie yet, imagine a blaxploitation movie mixed with a martial arts movie mixed with a Motown soundtrack.  There's 'The Last Dragon' for ya, and there is my favorite movie of all time.The movie is full of some of the wildest characters, including a very uptight producer, a terrible singer who is so good she's bad, a beautiful dance show host, and one of the most memorable villains ever.The soundtrack is Motown...'Nuff said.For the serious moviegoer, 'The Last Dragon' may not be your cup of tea. However, if you're willing to drop your guard for a minute, and just have a bit of campy fun, then 'The Last Dragon' is definitely for you. "},{"Title":"Sho'Nuff!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I recently saw this movie for the first time, and I actually liked it.I think I enjoyed this movie so much because it was like a time capsule of the 1980s.  I remember all those songs on the soundtrack, and I remember how popular Vanity was during that time.  Mostly though, I remember the b-boys. *swoon* I can totally see this movie being a hit with kids back in the day because they'd look up to Taimak's character, and breakdancing was the BOMB...  I'm sure he was all the rage then.  But it's kind of a positive role model type thing for the kids too, and I can see parents really digging that, thinking that this movie is a selection that'll keep the youngstaz outta trouble for an hour and forty-five minutes or whatever.> This is an action packed movie.  There is never a dull minute from the time we see the opening scene of the Tae Kwon Do exercises, to the final battle between good and evil, there's something keeping you there and interested. I think Bruce Leroy's little brother almost steals the show, because he's such a scam artist.  He's like a very young wisecracking Chris Tucker-type or somebody.  That kid is hilarious.  He's obviously hip, and aware of what's cool during that time.  He's also got a crush on Laura (Vanity)... Who wouldn't?  He's a red-blooded American boy!The most meaningful part of this movie for me was the thing with the brothers...  The bridging of the gap between the brothers.  That was really special, because Bruce Leroy Green in all his naivete really was very different from his little bro...  Like, there's a cultural GAP between them or something!I'd recommend this movie to anyone who has a passion for the roots of hip-hop, graffiti (and there is a BUNCH to be seen around the sets) or urban culture, martial arts, or just a well told funny story.  It is a comedy--it's even a comedy from the eighties, so get ready to see some multi-colored, checkerboard, neon green, and bright orange patterned madness--but know that this movie has its message too.  I kinda think movies like this are quite rare.  It isn't often you get to see a young man become a hero of his own accord.But, you know...  I couldn't be sure if the Sho'Nuff character wasn't really Busta' Rhymes or somebody...  =P "},{"Title":"Fun 80s afro-fu","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The legendary Berry Gordy of Motown Records fame produced this action comedy that revisits classic kung fu movie images and archetypes and places them in an 80s ghetto American setting. The result is definitely messy and at times unintentionally funny, but for the most part I was impressed with the way that the film's light comic touch and equally light social commentary carried the movie with a goofy spirit of fun and freedom.It was a fun movie to kick back with some friends and drink a few beers with. You've got this guy Bruce Leroy (Taimak) who's on a spiritual quest to become a kung fu master, and then the villain is this guy who looks like Bootsy Collins with football shoulder pads, Sho'nuff (Julius Carry). There's also the requisite white corporate type bad guy who's trying to make a big deal out of his talentless girlfriend by strong arming a popular local television video DJ (Vanity). We were surprised to see William H. Macy pop up for about 20 seconds in a bit part as a toady trying to convince Vanity to play the horrible video that the girlfriend made. I've never seen him so young or in such an unrewarding part.I guess the most important thing to judge in this movie is the quality of the kung fu; I've seen quite a few kung fu movies even though I would never consider myself an expert and I would say the quality was pretty good and it was all done in a way that looked great on screen. There's some special effects involved in some of the later parts that looks pretty dated I guess but you expect that in 80s kung fu movies from what I've seen. In fact the whole thing has at least a little bit of the appeal and style of John Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China. Musically I think the movie is very weak but I have to admit I'm not a fan of 80s music. When you think about the name Berry Gordy you definitely tend to think of superior music to anything that we heard in this movie.What I enjoyed most was the way that Bruce Leroy Green was less black than just about anyone else in the movie; it provides a lot of humor and is an interesting counterpoint to the kind of macho Afro-American posturing that you see in a lot of Jim Kelly movies and so forth. There's a funny scene where a group of Asian break dancers show more blackness than Leroy could possibly be capable of. I thought Taimak was a very charismatic actor and had a unique combination of fighting skills and humility. He wasn't the type of action hero that you saw on the screen in the 1980s, which might be part of why this movie didn't do well. I would have liked to have seen more of him in movies but this was the first time I've seen him. I guess if this movie had been a hit he would have been a big star, he could have been 5 years ahead of Wesley Snipes, and in my opinion a more convincing martial artist as well.It's no masterpiece but worse movies made more money at the time. "}{"Title":"Agreeable nonsense, but wears out its welcome after a while.","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In this 1980s favourite, the likable Taimak stars as Bruce Leroy, a very earnest martial arts student. His goal in life is to find a character known as The Master and attain the highest level of martial arts wizardry, otherwise known as The Glow. Along the way, he becomes smitten with a stunning VJ named Laura Charles (Vanity), and is forced to confront villains such as loudmouth gangster Eddie Arkadian (Christopher Murney) and the overbearing Shogun of Harlem, also known as Sho'nuff (Julius Carry), who travels with a flamboyant entourage.It's true enough that The Last Dragon would have the most appeal for kids, or people who saw this as kids. It ultimately goes on a little too long and does get pretty tiresome at times; Johnny Yu (Glen Eaton) is a particularly annoying character. But this feature length combination of MA and music video stylings gets by on amiability. A series of showdowns can boast some good action, plus it's a fair deal of fun when levels of cheese get higher as Leroy does battle with Mr. Sho'nuff.The cast gives it some value. Taimak is a decent action hero, and the lovely Ms. Vanity is ideal as his object of affection. Leo O'Brien goes to town on the scenery playing Leroy's lively brother, who is himself strongly yearning to be with the leading lady. Both Murney and Carry are completely over the top as the villains. Faith Prince does alright as Eddies' air headed girlfriend who has ambitions of pop stardom. Also appearing are Mike Starr, Jim Moody, Ernie Reyes Jr., Keshia Knight Pulliam, and William H. Macy. Keep an eye out for Chazz Palminteri, in his film debut, as a mustachioed thug.The non-stop soundtrack is reasonably catchy, and the filmmaking (led by director Michael Schultz) is overall fairly colourful and amusing.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Art? No. Entertaining? Sho-nuff!","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Needless to say, this movie is incredibly cheesy. But it's also deceptively clever at times, and if you just go with it, it's a lot of fun.Leads Taimak and Vanity (yes, they each have only one name) are surrounded by a talented and colorful supporting cast, allowing them to do what they do best; look good (and in the case of Taimak) kick a lot of butt.It's sort of a mash-up of two of the most prominent b-movie genres of the 70s; Blaxploitation and Kung-Fu. But it's the 80s, so there's pop music and it has a happy ending. "},{"Title":"Kiss my Converse.......","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" a young man, who is obsessed with Martial Arts and chopping arrows in half, searches for the master to obtain the final level of martial arts mastery known as the glow. But firstly, he must fight an evil martial arts expert , who influenced Busta Rhymes, and rescue a beautiful singer from an obsessed music promoter......This could have been a fun, video game style romp, but due to the deplorable acting from Taimak, and arguably, all of the cast, it turns into an ordeal, very, very quickly.In some ways, it's trying to be a camp 'blaxploitation' movie, but the characters are so typecast and one dimensional, it fails hugely.Like the other unique Martial Arts movie released around the same time 'Gymkata' it tries to be too ahead of its time, but the outfits and the admittedly brilliant soundtrack hinder it from the word go.It goes for comedy, but instead of making it a spoof of martial arts and Blaxploitation films ala I'm Gonna Git You Sucka, it goes for straight comedy, and when you have characters like Sho'Nuff, it just doesn't work.All in all, its a bad movie, but I can understand the love for it. Because the cast must have loving families.At least DeBarge are good. "},{"Title":"80s Era Kung-Fu Comedy","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Do you remember the days of being a youth and seeing your favorite martial arts movie and attempting to perform the moves displayed by the actors. Well this classic movie from 1985 is somewhere on the same basis as that feeling of wanting to be a martial artist. The movie revolves around the main character 'Bruce' Leroy Green, a young man who trains to become a master much like his idol Bruce Lee. The story for this movie is pretty much non-existent there are plot areas in which you'll find yourself wondering what the hell just happened but you'll soon forget and realize that you really don't care that there isn't much of a story to be told with this movie. The plot of the movie is the main antagonist of the movie Eddie Arcadian wants to get rid of Leroy for ruining his ultimate plan of having his girlfriends video to be played on the Teen/Adult video dance show at 7th Heaven. 7th Heaven is the spot where the Video Jockey Ms Laura Charles (future Leroy love interest) works and hosts a show. After her refusal to play the video, Eddie Arcadian decides to get rough and kidnap the VJ. Leroy sees the damsel in distress and proceeds to kick everyones ass, then he disappears. This would go on to happen once more and again he kicks their asses. From here furiously Eddie decides to hire fighters, murderers, just all out bad people to get rid of Leroy. After hiring the only person capable of beating Leroy in Sho'nuff the rival so to speak of Leroy, as they are the two baddest dudes in Harlem. Sho'nuff wants to fight Leroy based on the fact that he is the only threat to him running the town and feels that he's a weakling due to his non-violent nature. Eddie now kidnaps Laura once again this time with Leroy's brother Ritchie, this infuriates Leroy and he accepts the challenge from Eddie and fights all of his hired henchmen before becoming overwhelmed when his students come to his rescue allowing him to give chase to Eddie and meeting Sho'nuff for the final battle.This is a nostalgic movie as it's pretty much the 80s as best I can remember it. Bright colors, weird outfits, cheesy acting, good music, and martial arts. This movie would never be considered one of the greatest movies or stories ever told but for someone like me who was born in the 80s this movie is pretty damn good. I would recommend watching the movie if you're just watching for a laugh, something to keep you entertained or if you're just a big fan. As you're watching just remember when you were a kid and watching either Bruce Lee, Jackie Chan, Sammo Hung or whomever from your younger years and those memories of wanting to be those guys translates perfectly into this movie. "},{"Title":"one of my all time favorites","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have loved this movie since it came out when I was a kid! It is so over the top, such a B movie, and doesn't pretend to be anything else. Yet, it is fun, has a great message (Who's The Master?), and a lot of heart. Plus, Taimak is seriously hot! Sho'Nuff is hilarious! I laughed every time he came on the screen. The music video with clips of Bruce Lee is a must see for all Bruce Lee fans! I highly recommend it for anyone who is looking for a feel good movie without being heady. It is also good for little black kids because we don't have a lot of super heroes. I could (and have)watched it over and over again. "},{"Title":"great for entertaining action.","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is so full of classic quotes Who is the Master?, and classic 80's cliché' moments, I don't know how anybody could give it anything but a ten! I look at one thing when I'm giving a movie a rating.... how much did it it entertain me..... and on that scale... 10! It's true that this movie doesn't have all or any for that matter of the ingredients it takes to make a classic film, but I originally saw the last dragon when I was about ten years old, have seen it more times than I can count and it's still entertaining. Not only that, It leaves an impression on anyone who watches it, I mean if you don't like action flicks or corny 80's moments/music.... then by all means don't waste your time on this movie.... but if you can stomache it and have a good laugh, then watch it, enjoy yourself. If you go into a movie called the last dragon and it's from the eighties and you expect to see a great, well written movie like the godfather, then you deserve to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Completely '80's greatness? Sho'nuff","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Failed attempt to jump-start Taimak's career, but a great cheesy 80's flick none the less, has Taimak playing Leroy Green, a martial arts student, who's looking for the fabled elusive 'glow' which will complete his training. Standing in his way is his arch-rival and self-proclaimed supreme bad-ass, Sho'Nuff (Julius Carry, perhaps best known for his stint as Lord Bowler in the superb but sadly canceled before it's time masterpiece that was Brisco County Jr.). Will Leroy be able to prevail against such a bad mofo while finding love with Laura(Vanity of Prince fame)? Well you'll have to watch the movie to find out, but if you haven't seen this classic before, man oh man are you in for a treat. Not to say that it's perfect. Some of the music is pretty darn bad. Vanity can't really act. But the greatness of this film transcends all of that. Highly quotable and very highly re-watchable. Suffice it to say Michael Schultz had a pretty damn good year in 1985' which saw not one, but two distinctly 80's films that stood the test of time this and the just as great Krush Groove.My Grade B+ DVD Extras Director's commentary; Filmographies; and trailers for Jackie Chan's Who Am I?, Gen-X Cops, & Maximum Risk "},{"Title":"A classic, silly blaxploitation flick. Sorta.","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was six years old the first time I saw this movie. Shortly thereafter i enrolled in Judo class. This movie had a huuuge impact on me. Not only did it spark an interest in the martial arts, but it even shaped my taste in music. But i digress...TaiMak plays Leroy Green, a.k.a. Bruce Leroy, the only harlemite that stands between Shonuff(the Shogun of Harlem)and total supremacy. Shonuff might be the coolest bad guy in any movie, ever. And he fakes the martial art stuff quite well. But don't expect any fight scenes on the level of say, Bruce Lee or Jackie Chan. The only actor in this movie with any skills to speak of is TaiMak. And he's only like nineteen years old here, not really experienced enough to rock any martial-art buff's world. Pity he never did any other work of this sort. But he did play the part of Dalton in the off-Broadway adaptation of Road House. Even wore a blonde mullet. Anyway...Vanity plays the female lead, that get's in trouble and needs Bruce Leroys help. Vanity is easily the hottest chick the eighties had to offer. This movie is worth seeing just for her. She even does some singing and dancing. Hot stuff.In a way this movie is about wiggers. Leroy desperately wants to be Chinese, and some Chinese he runs into wanna be black. I never got that as a kid, but now it makes me think about what other hidden messages are contained in this fantastic movie! Watch this movie for a fun, cheesy highly entertaining time.Also, look out for John Leguizamo and William H. Macy in some of their finest work.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"The Last Dragon 1985","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie, The Last Dragon is about a boy name Bruce Leroy Green who wants to be like Bruce Lee.The characters in this movie are too funny. For example, 'ShoNuff', wearing all red clothes plus his converse. ShoNuff is the bad guy who wants to fight Bruce. Like always, just to wants to start trouble.there's more to this movie The mafia are in this film. Eddie is the mafia king who his girlfriend's music video to air on a soul train music show. The host, Vanity says no and Eddie starts to do a little kidnapping. that is pathetic.Also in this film, you will see some old clips of Bruce Lee in action. More like a paid tribute.In the beginning of the film, The character Bruce does his training. They show camera shots of him close up, kicking, punching, and jumping. I don't know what's up with the chopsticks. Why because, you want to make a weapon with chopsticks? this movie is great. Oh yeah I got more things to say. "},{"Title":"A Solid '80s Kung-Fu Hit","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Last Dragon has been a favorite of mine since childhood. It is not a blockbuster, it is not star packed, or even action packed, but it is a solid movie. Most martial arts movies I saw til that point and since then are dubbed or subtitled kung-fu movies set in China. This movie gave a different flavor to the traditional martial arts movies by having a young black man (Leroy) be the devoted martial arts student while trying to apply his teachings on the mean streets of Harlem.There were a lot of lively characters that held my interest, such as Sho'nuff (Julius Carry), and Leroy's younger brother, Richie (Leo O'Brien). The fight scenes were just as enthralling as the characters due to actors enthusiasm and the good choreography. The Last Dragon also made sure not to limit itself by being for one type of movie watcher. There was comedy, romance, and of course plenty of kung-fu. As I stated earlier, it was a solid movie. "}{"Title":"80's Classic","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just finish watching this movie again and introduced or reintroduced it to some of the guys here in the barracks, it was well liked. Every time I look at this movie, I focus in on the sound track and how great it is for it's time and it brings back great memories of that time, after all it is Berry Gordy's and he's the man. It had a little of everything and still does brings out the emotion of its audience... the hope of him scoring with Laura Charles, the wanting of a butt whipping of Sho'nuff and so forth. Great movie in general and a greater movie for inspiring the black community into the world of Martial Arts. It was this movie that started my brother and I into martial arts. "},{"Title":"Plain old kung fu fun!","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just watched it again today after many years and realised that although the show is slightly outdated, it combines many elements from romance to action to comedy. A simple fun-filled movie for anyone on any day! ) "},{"Title":"Martial Arts, Comedy, Action, Music and Vanity?","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Another one of those corny messes that somehow stays entertaining and almost becomes one of the strangest, if not the strangest, winners of the 1980s. A teenage African-American boy (Taimak) in New York starts a fevered search for a martial arts master who can give him something only known as glow (obvious special powers). Taimak is a martial arts wizard, but he may not be the only karate expert around the large neighborhood. Along the way he dodges all sorts of bad guys, tries to protect his family and falls in love with music diva Vanity (who gets kidnapped by an evil music promoter). A mesh of odd-ball situations and a lack coherency makes The Last Dragon another strange picture from the mid-1980s. The movie has lots of ideas (most kind of silly) and just throws them all together in a stew of stupidity. With all this said, the movie is still a somewhat fun experience. The comedy is intense and the action is crazed. The soundtrack has a beat and Vanity was not a bad performer in her day. Average sugar-coated fare. 2.5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Fun and actually a nice lesson for kids","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you're the kind of movie watcher that takes all movies too serioiusly then skip this one.  I liked it in 1985 and liked it all over again last weekend when it came on over satellite.  But even without taking this movie seriously it reminded me of how as a long time amateur boxer I had to often refuse street fights, dope and other garbage.  Kids of today are waaaay too into fighting to show how tough you are.  I see it all the time...today's rap is all about not letting someone be better than you and that you gotta do dirt to get respect.  What I love about The Last Dragon is that it might be pure fun but it actually teaches that even if you know you can tear someones head off you should fight only as a last resort and only to protect the innocent and those you love (family, partner, etc).  In one scene he is the sensei for some kids and he has them chant God help me if I ever have to use my ART.  Great message.  He then models the behavior when the villain shows up.  Great Stuff! "},{"Title":"Just plain fun!","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this film as a youngster and it was my favorite martial arts film for a long time. I think it was great mainly because it wasn't something that was supposed to be taken so seriously. It was basically a moving comic book with some great displays of martial arts.In my opinion, this movie also transcended most racial boundaries. It still had racial stereotypes in it, but it made fun of them moreso than take them seriously. Also, I, as a whiter than white white boy, really looked up to the character of Bruce Leroy for a time while I was really into the martial arts.It would be nice to see a sequel as I have seen mentioned before around here and there. I just hope it keeps the same tone as the original. This is a great Saturday afternoon rental! "},{"Title":"Yeeeaaaaaaaaaaahhhhh...the sho-gun of Harlem","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just plain awesome. One thing I like about movies from the eighties, is there straight forward approach. Right off the bat you know you are in for a kung-fu comedy. So all you have to do is sit down and enjoy. The characters are kind of odd almost surreal, but very entertaining. Like all good movies there are some great quotable quotes. A must see. "},{"Title":"sooooo 80s","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was way cool when it came out in 1985. It was part of the whole MTV generation thing, where movies had to have soundtracks with two or three killer MTV videos to hit it big. Unfortunately like most of the 80s it hasn't dated terribly well. The special effects used to produce the glow during the kung-fu scenes is laughably bad now. Still it's undeniably cute and a harmless entertainment. When the 80s becomes retro cool again this will probably be a big hit on DVD. "},{"Title":"A great 80's casual comedy, kung-fu movie, super soundtrack","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have watched this movie a dozens of times, and I just finished watching the DVD version, which was absolutely great. But I must warn you that I am affected by the nostalgia because I was crazy about martial arts movies when I was a kid (more than I am now anyways!)It's a very laid back comedy with some fun references to Bruce Lee, who is the main actors idol.. He is called Leroy Green, but his friends call him Bruce Leeroy ;) this movie should not be taken serious in any way, and should be watched when in the mood for a relaxed adventure action movie, and lot's of 80's feeling ;)The conclusion must be that if you like 80's movies, and not too serious kung-fu fighting movies then you should watch this movie, no doubt.. ;) "},{"Title":"Somewhat enjoyable kung foolery","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A couple of years before he decided to sell Motown, take the money and run, Berry Gordy produced this simplistic flick, a transparent attempt to promote some of his latest acts. Why else would it involve a music video show? The only self-serving thing he didn't do was set it in the Motor City. Instead, it's set in New York, although it never feels like more than a soundstage despite things like a reference to Kew Gardens, an obscure neighborhood in Queens. To top it off, it's not a good action movie, with fight scenes few and far between, which lack the melodramatic camera angles and hyperkinetic editing of contemporary action movies. But accept it as it was intended, targeted at the teen and younger set, and it really wasn't so bad. You could easily do worse with any given chop-socky film produced in Hong Kong in the 70s and 80s.Taimak took a worse drubbing from film critics than from Sho'nuff. That's not entirely fair, for while he wasn't Oscar material, he was  really no worse an actor than Steven Seagal or Jean-Claude Van Damme . His lack of success on the silver screen is more likely due to the unfortunate fact that the American public wasn't ready for a black action star at the time and this rather kiddie-oriented film made for an inauspicious debut. Had he started a few years later in a slicker, better-produced film, say, Passenger 57, he might have been more successful than Wesley Snipes. Snipes, with his limited talents, can't pull off a relaxed nice guy, which limits his roles and his appeal. He seems to be the angry brooder in most, if not all, of his movies. On top of that, his martial arts skills are obviously inferior to Taimak's. Finally, Taimak was still more convincing than Vanity, who was seemingly cast purely for her looks and debatable musical talents.It's easy to knock Faith Prince, who played ditzy, squeaky-voiced Angela. But that's ignoring the fact that she's playing a thinly written role. In point of fact, the multi-talented Ms. Prince is nothing like Angela and would have the last laugh by winning a 1992 Tony Award for her performance in Guys and Dolls and by being nominated again this year for Bells Are Ringing. Likewise, Julius J. Carry III didn't have much to work with as Sho'nuff, save a vicious glower and passable fighting skills. He was much better as the lower-key Abe in the occasionally hilarious Matt Frewer show, Doctor, Doctor.Also generally overlooked is Glen Eaton as martial artist wannabe Johnny Yu, who stole the scenes he appeared in. He was a welcome comic relief and counterbalanced the embarrassing Ernie Reyes, Jr., your basic overrated cute kid.Typical of home video releases, no music videos were included in any video edition of this movie because of problems with ownership and rights. As it is, most of the songs were eminently forgettable anyway, with the only standout being DeBarge's bouncy hit Rhythm of the Night. Alas, the group fell on hard times soon after with El departing for a solo career and two others arrested for drug offenses.By the way, despite its quasi-Chinese sound, if you want to know the meaning of Sum Dum Goy, ask a Jewish friend. I suppose it was either that, or Me Shu Gah. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good.","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I never heard of this movie in 1985, but recently saw it on cable. In a 2001 context, this movie is a hilarious spoof on martial arts movies, '80s music and everything else in it. I couldn't stop watching it.While some of it is in-your-face funny - the bad Cyndi Lauper clone, the the DJ/Heroine who stepped right out of a Prince movie, (literally) and the Shogun of Harlem and his gang - some of it was more subtle. The irony of a black hero who talked and acted like an oriental confronting the three oriental guys at the fortune cookie factory who acted like a bunch of bad black rappers was a riot.The plot was as predictable as any Kung-Fu movie, the villains were caricatures, but despite it all the movie was a hoot. Check your brain at the door and enjoy!  "}{"Title":"The best karate film of all times.","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Taimak burst on the scence as Leroy a man on a quest for greatness trying to reach the final level of his training.  He squares off against the evil sho-nuff a villain bent on proving to the people of Harlem that he is the one and only Harlem.  Leroy laters finds himself tangled up in a web with a bald headed villain (Eddie Arcadian) bent on getting his girlfriend's horrible video played on a hit show hosted by the lovely Laura Charles (played by Vanity.)  When Laura turns down the offer for Eddie to play his video on the show, he kidnaps Laura but right in front of Leroy.  This brings Leroy into a battle with not only Arcadian, but also a group of violent villians, and his arch rival sho-nuff all to save his love Laura.  I won't spoil the move, but I'll just tell you that the execution of the fight scenes and everything from the comedy to the music is well picture perfect. If you get a chance check this movie.  I'm sure it'll be coming on hbo some time in the near future. "},{"Title":"A Classic Movie","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an outstanding film. A great movie in which martial arts and music made a great impact. I could watch this movie everyday. It is that beautiful. I often seem to think about the good times of break dancing and fun when watching this movie. This movie has a great soundtrack with a variety of artists who keeps the attention of the audience. The story line is great because of its correlation to the character of Leroy and his journey to meet the master. You can see the many aspects of his character as he develops boldness and courage while finding the master within himself. It was a great feeling for me to see Leroy saying I Am The Master. I would suggest for anyone to watch this movie and enjoy the music and the master. "},{"Title":"Pure Unadulterated CHEESE","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is movie is SOOOOOOO funny. It's cheese on a level that befits it as one of the quintessential 80s Power Cheese movies. It has DeBarge for crying out loud in it. Definitely worth a watch when you need a good laugh.If you don't appreciate the silly and absurd, don't watch this. By far not a technical masterpiece, nor is there anyone with any acting chops in this film (except for the bit parts by William H. Macy and Chazz Palmenteri).The only thing that kinda of annoyed is the clear lack of a defined Big Bad (sorry for the Whedonesque reference). It's never clearly defined (then again does it have to be?) if it's Show Nuff or Arkadian. I guess just throw together whatever enemies ya need and throw it all at Bruce LeRoy. "},{"Title":"80's corny, but I love it anyway!","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I like what Tfrizzell saidAnother one of those corny messes that somehow stays entertaining andalmost becomes one of the strangest, if not the strangest, winners of the 1980sExactly right.  I really love this movie, despite a few embarrassing scenes, and  its overall 80's-kitsch feel.Highly recommended, just don't expect Saving Private Ryan.- - "},{"Title":"The Best Martial Arts movie ever!!!!","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Man I just love this movie! It is definitely an old favourite!! I have watched this over and over since I was a kid and I never get sick of it!!! Its awesome!!! Thinking back to the 80s days!!! Corny and all but thats the joy of it! The music back then was GREAT! And the soundtrack is GREAT!!! Rhythym of the night by Debarge brings back so many memories of the fun 80s - that song just makes you get up and shake your thang!!!THE LAST DRAGON is awesome in that it has all the things that make up a great movie ,It is funny, sad, dramatic and packed with great martial arts action!  The actors were all great and that TAIMAK is one hell of a HONEY!!! Vanity is also beautiful and was well suited to the part and her and TAIMAK make a great couple! Why didnt he do anymore movies???? He would've been a superstar! mmmm mmmm he is fine!!! I crack up at Leroys friend Johnny yu and his lil brother Richie - both were hilarious! But to those who don't like the movie Dont take it seriouslyITS A GREAT MOVIE, AN OLD FAVOURITE!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Cheesy 80's at it's best!","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  *Not Quite Spoilers-More like look what you can look forward to  )*I can't tell you how much i love this movie. Sure Taimak is a horrible actor and Vanity is a horrible singer but together they create enough eye-candy for everyone (U just Gotta love Bruce Leroy all glowin' without his shirt on - he's so darn cute!)The Last Dragon is a *the power was inside of you all along* movie with a cheesy 80's video twist. Many Black & Asian actors found work in this film plus there are 'before-they-were-stars' cameos a'plenty  (look for Chazz Palminteri, William H. Macy and yes our very own Rudy Huxtable aka Keshia Knight Pulliam).Some may say 'Hey! it's no Crouching Tiger,Hidden Dragon', but did 'Crouching Tiger,Hidden Dragon' have The Master Sho'Nuff? I think not. On a guilty pleasure cheesy 80's movie rating scale this movie gets a 9! For those of you who still doubt who's the master, who would you rather see doing martial arts Ralph Machio or Ernie Reyes Jr... i rest my case! "},{"Title":"THE WHITE KARATE KID","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Good movie, just tends to use stereotypes to produce an urban version of Karate Kid. Vanity is a goddess but nowadays she has fallen off. I think Shonuff provides an outstanding antagonist approach to this movie. I can watch it many many times and not get tired of it. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's The eighties personified.","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Last Dragon (1985) was a cheesy action/romance film that was produced by Motown big wig Berry Gordy. The film was meant to be a starring vehicle for kung-fu performer Taimak and pop singer Vanity. Sadly Taimk never became a big star and Vanity's acting was ten times better than her singer (woof). Even though they never became stars this movie captures their only chance at the brass ring of super stardom.Taimak stars as Bruce Le Roy, a kung-fu student who's also a huge Bruce Lee fan. In his spare time he teaches kung-fu and works at the family pizzeria. One day he saves a local V.J. (Vanity) from being assaulted by a gang of hired goons. It's love at first sight for the two. Meanwhile a guy who proclaims himself to be the shogun of Harlem named Sho'nuff (who is his master?) is looking to fight Bruce Le Roy to find out who's fighting skills are the baddest. He wont take no for an answer and proceeds to make his life miserable. To make matters worse, a wanna be record producer is forcing the V.J. to market his new star (and lover). The problem is that she has no real talent and he wont take no for an answer either. Problems in the 'hood. Will Le Roy find true love and defend his family's honor by fighting Sho'nuff? Can Vanity depend on Le Roy to protect her against the crazy record producer. Will anyone care? Watch The Last Dragon to find out all the answers and more!The movie was also made to capitalize on the resurgence of Bruce Lee nostalgia. Seens from all of his movies are shown in the movie as well as many references. Even though it does a good job of trying to bottle some of Bruce's old magic the film fails as a whole. Taimak became a fight trainer and Vanity appeared in many exploitive and soft-core fair before becoming a reborn again Christian.Recommended for fans of eighties films. "},{"Title":"The Last Dragon -- Thank God there's no more!!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is obviously a campy martial arts flick from the '80s. I was too young to see it when it first came out, but I did remember hearing a lot of hype about it. I finally saw it a few years back, and like all '80s movies, it ages badly. The music is standard 80s, and so is the utterly insipid storyline. But, taken for what it is, it's a pretty enjoyable film.Unfortunately, the filmmakers make one too many mistakes 1) the long length (clocking in somewhere around 2 hrs); 2) the full music videos during the club scenes (I felt like I was watching VH1's '80s-retro day instead of a movie); 3) the bad acting and uninspired direction. Compared to many of its 80s-compatriots, the acting and direction isn't anything new. It's just, well, too '80s, a period in which good movies were as rare as a politican who told the absolute truth.The good I did enjoy some of the music, if not just for the sheer retro feel of it. The big hair was a riot; and some of the fights were pretty good, even in comparison to the more technically and creatively superb fights of today's cinema. This is Charlie's Angels for the '80s. It's camp, it's dumb, but maybe that's what the makers intended. Maybe. "},{"Title":"A total blast from the kitschy 80's past","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mild-mannered martial arts student Leroy Green (likable Taimak) yearns to obtain an all-powerful force known as The Glow. Leroy faces opposition from evil king-fu warrior Sho'nuff (broadly played with fire-breathing fearsome brio by Julius Carry) and has to rescue beautiful singer Laura Charles (Vanity at her most radiant, appealing, and flat-out gorgeous) from the vile clutches of unscrupulous two-bit record producer Eddie Arkadian (a gloriously hammy portrayal by Chris Murney).Director Michael Schultz maintains an engaging lighthearted tone throughout, stages the chopsocky fights with considerable aplomb, and keeps the entertaining story zipping along at a brisk pace. The game cast gleefully go to town on the blithely inane material Faith Prince brings a sweetly ditsy charm to her role as bubbly airhead Angela Viracco, Mike Starr snarls it up nicely as brutish goon Rock, Leo O'Brien provides plenty of swagger as Leroy's jive-talking' little brother Richie, Ernie Reyes Jr. busts some impressive karate moves as fierce little squirt Tai, and Glen Eaton contributes an amusing turn as smartaleck Johnny Yu. William H. Macy and Chazz Palimenteri pop up in nifty small parts. James M. Contner's glittery cinematography gives this film a sparkling neon look. Both Misha Segal's funky score and the soulful rockin' soundtrack hit the right-on groovy spot. Best of all, this movie totally eats up the 80's We've got hopelessly dated slang (heavy dude), cheesy rap singing, break dancing, massive hair, outrageously tacky clothes, ridiculous song and dance numbers, and even an ugly transvestite. Good goofy fun. "}{"Title":"What you seek is not written on the floor.","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ah...Bruce Leroy and Sho'nuff, the Shogun of Harlem. Classic '80s greatness. An unforgettable movie for anybody who's seen it. Memorable lines, colorful characters, and cool music. Taimak (who?) has his one big role here. He has an easygoing and likable screen presence. It's somewhat surprising he didn't get another good leading role. '80s goddess Vanity plays the love interest (You sure look like a master to me). Great support from Chris Murney as the villain Arkadian, Faith Prince as his girlfriend, Leo O'Brian as Leroy's brother, and Ernie Reyes, Jr. as Tai, the littlest kick-ass. The rest of the cast is fun, as well. But the true star of the show is Julius Carry in the role he was born to play -- Sho'nuff. Carry steals every scene he's in with a wonderfully comic performance as the blowhard kung-fu villain (Playtime's over, boy). He's so cheesy but so much fun! It's really a great movie, not just for children of the '80s, but for everybody. It's a fantastic martial arts flick with humor, comedy, romance, and awesome music. "},{"Title":"Revels in its cheesiness","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is probably one of the campiest, corniest, cheesiest movies I have ever seen in my life... but the movie is extremely aware of that fact, and LOVES it. It is at the same time a spoof of kung-fu films, a direct homage to them, an 80s cheese-fest, and a self-referential comedy all in one.You don't just give a guy giant shoulder pads, sunglasses with mini-blinds instead of dark lenses, and call him The Shogun of Harlem without being a little tongue-in-cheek about it.This movie is hilarious when viewed as a parody film that pretends to take itself seriously. It's brilliant satire and cashes in on nearly every 1980s cliché I can think of. But if you're looking for a serious martial arts action flick, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Kung-fu in the ghetto.","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"   Music videos,villians,the fight for respect,and the journey to find oneself is all wrapped up into this Berry Gordy's urban drama. A man named Leroy is determined to find the true master of his culture. What a lost soul. But little that he realized that he is the true master. He prove that by being a hero to a beautiful video jockey who's life is in danger by an evil video jockey. During an outbreak in a local movie theater he is challenged by the menacing Shogun and his gang all because a young boy says he is a better fighter. The mild-mannered Leroy also known as Bruce Leroy didn't want to get into  any confrontation with Shogun and tried to avoid him throughout most of the movie. Till the day when his back was against the wall as Shogun threatened his family and cut a deal with the bad video jockey to kill Leroy. This movie prove that Leroy was the master by rescuing his brother who at one time thought he was wierd because of his mannerism and civilized behavior. Becoming the object of desire to the video jockey by saving her from villians,and finally stood up to Shogun who wanted Leroy to confess that he was the master. Most of all he got the respect from his brother and captured the glow. "},{"Title":"Who's badder than the Shogun? Bruce Leeroy, that's who!","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great fun film, with some great moments. It's got a fab soundtrack, lots of bright colours and a script that makes you laugh out loud. On top of that, it's a great action movie, with some of the best fights ever made in the USA at that time! SEE IT NOW! I've mastered the art of fighting, without knowing how to fight! "},{"Title":"Vanity should have done Purple Rain, instead.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a kung fu movie fan.  Ernie Reyes, Jr. as the mouthy, sassy kid makes an excellent argument for abortion, or at least corporal punishment.  Taimak was likable in the film, and the female and gay audience may enjoy his glistening muscles.  Vanity was originally cast to do the female lead in Purple Rain.  Instead she did this.  I know she was kicking herself afterwards.  As video VJ Laura Charles,  she's never looked more perfect and lovely.  She's graceful, likeable, sexy.  I highly recommend that the Vanity fan out there buy this movie for your collection, it's a must have.  Faith Prince provides the laugh out loud comedy spark in this film.  She spoofs the double entendre, sex over substance novelty singing group Vanity is famous for. (80's group 'Vanity 6'- one hit wonder Nasty Girl)  This Kung Fu action movie is geared for kids, specifically boys age 9 through 12.  The Sho'Nuff character provides a couple heh-heh's, but I wouldn't give a full Ha ha!  It's pure cheese.            "},{"Title":"Karate movie at it's best!!!!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This Movie will always be a classic in my opinion. The movie is so 80's too. It can't be more 80's than this. This movie starts well by showing some moves with Bruce. He begins a journey with himself with no master helping him. This movie is great because it has very good music and good fighting scenes. Especially in the end when he meets the bad guy. There are a few slow scenes in the end. And that's really cool. The bad guy gets his power and with the time Bruce gets also power. I don't think that's silly, instead very cool. Because the director makes in some way an atmosphere that you just can't laugh at. In fact, you start shivering. And if you do that you know it is a good movie. No doubt about that. Bruce Lee Roy acts really good in this movie. This is definite 5 of the best fighting movies i have seen and it will be. I think the music fit in perfectly too. Because, in the main-song they sing something about the title. In this movie for example they sing The last dragon just like the name of the movie. This movie have also nothing wrong, if you don't count the song Laura sings. That was a bad scene actually. But that don't make the movie bad. It's the way you create the movie that is most important. It's got to be interesting in some way.  "},{"Title":"Who is the Master?","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ok, this isn't Bruce Lee or Chuck Norris but who cares? The best thing this movie has going for it is the sound track. My favorite song is the opening scene. This movie is loud and boisterous. The Shogun of Harlem has the biggest mouth I've seen. He didn't need a microphone in the movie theature-because he's so loud. He's bad-and doesn't try to hide it. Bruce LeRoy on the other hand is more concerned with achieving the final level called The Glow than he is about fighting the Shogun of Harlem He is recitent about using his martial Arts for fighting other than self defense or rescuing his girlfriend from a group of thugs hired by a Mafia type boss.It's unutterable however, sooner or later Leroy will have to face the Shogun of Harlem The final showdown between these two is the best part of this movie.Let's go back a bit, the fight scene in the TV Studio is also very good. Did anyone notice Ernie Reyes, Jr.? He's the little one who does the high flying moves at the TV studio scene. He trained in Gymnastics for 4 years and it shows.Is this movie silly? you bet! Is it badly written? certainly! Is it badly acted? Definitely Yet in spite of all this, they manage to make a good film. How do they do it?  "},{"Title":"80's at its best","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best 80's films ever made. Music , action , storyline everything you would want and expect in a movie during the 80's. This isn't a epic big budget blockbuster extravaganza yet a simple but extremely well done action/comedy movie. Alot of people will probably see this movie now and think what a stupid movie, but its suppose to be that way, its not ment to be taken seriously.The film starts out as young Leroy who meets the end of his training martial arts. He is then set off in a quest to find the master and achieve the final level and find the power known as the glow. During his quest to find the master (Sum Dum Goy) he battles his arch rival Sho'nuff The Shogun of Harlem as well as trying to protect a beautiful young woman who runs a hit show (kind of like Mtv's TRL) that ends up being kidnapped by Eddie Arcanium as he tries to force her play to play horrible music videos by the music artist he is agent for.The music is great, storyline well done , acting brilliant. Everything was put together so well in this movie and despite its sillyness , it does the one thing of importance, to entertain and become enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Plain and simple this movie rules","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The combination of music and martial arts was a genius idea once again proving that Berry Gordie was a true visionary. Most of the fight scenes were very well choreographed and seemed authentic. The final fight scene is extremely well done. Taimak is a very talented Martial Artist and a decent enough actor to pull of both the Dramatic as well as the action scenes. Show'Nuff is easily one of the most eccentric and entertaining villains I have ever seen. He is the perfect example of having a LOVE/HATE relationship with a character. Other than the Bruce lee imitations that were recommended for all the actors in the fight scenes I would highly recommend this movie to any martial arts movie fan. "},{"Title":"When I say who's the master, you saySHO'NUFF!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first seen this movie when i was eleven years old and i was never the same after that.  I joined karate and instantly thought of my self as Bruce Leroy.  What can i say, I think this movie is the BOMB! It is currently out of print but i hear that it will be re-released on VHS and DVD on July 3rd 2001.  So if you are like me, I bet you'll be the first in line to own this martial arts gem.  "}{"Title":"Great 80's Flick","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie, surely a cult movie for myself i have probably seen it 20 times.... I read recently that it will be produced on DVD which i am extatic about!I too agree it is too bad the soundtrack is out of print,I hoped all along it would make it to CD. And what about Taimak? This man has amazing skills,good looks and can surely act. I am so surpised he has not been a big name actor..A movie not to be missed! SHO NUFF!!! "},{"Title":"Undiscovered masterpiece","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Along with Big Trouble in Little China, this is one of my favorite comedy action films and one I loved sharing with my teenage son. A very funny spoof on martial arts films -- as long as you don't take any of it seriously. And, you know, it has Vanity in it and just watching her is worth the price of admission anytime. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Movie of All-Time","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The ultimate karate flick, this movie really packs a punch. In 1985 the world had no idea that a movie of such epic proportions could have been made by Motown. This movie not only raised the bar for every movie following it, it set the standard! When Berry Gordy, the genius hit maker that he is, set off to make his mark on the film industry, the first thing he did was get two of the biggest names in Hollywood, Taimak and Vanity. These two did more than light up the big screen they burned that mother down. This movie is a time-less classic, a definite must see. I give this box office smash 10 stars and consider it to be The Greatest Movie of All-Time! "},{"Title":"It's Got The Glow","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has it all great martial arts action, great music (well -- most of it, anyway), humor, romance, great lines, great philosophy. I was so engrossed I nearly jumped out of my seat with excitement when Leroy. ..well, I won't spoil the ending if you haven't seen it. Awesome. Fifteen years later, this is still one I watch over and over. I've always been disappointed that there weren't more like this. I'd love to see Taimak and Julius Carry work together again. "},{"Title":"What an amazing film !","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember when I was 15, I had no interest in the martial arts what so ever. My brother hired this film from the shop and as I had nothing better to do I sat and watched. I started as a great sceptic and ended up being a great fan, I started Kung Fu and followed this with many years in martial arts. The film is basic by todays standards but it is awe inspiring in its delivery and even the tacky script make it so interesting to watch. I hope it is released on DVD as I will be the first to buy it. Go get it yourself, you might be surprised.  "},{"Title":"Berry Gordys, The Last Dragon is the movie, and you know this man!","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am huge fan of Bruce Lee and, obviously so are the creators.  This movie has power, nobility, morals, and sexual overtones.  Taimak the star of the movie has mad skills and if Bruce was phisically alive today he would have enjoyed this movie very much.  It gives him the respect he deserves. Taimak has uncomparable moves not easy to duplicate.  And I know he had to slow down for the movie ,because I seen him action before and he is super quick. I wonder what happen to him?  And man please Vanity, a.k.a. Reverand Denise Katrina Matthews, is so fine.  She might not want to talk about her past anymore, probally out of guilt, but one thing she will admit she has it going on. Unfortunately she has not married me yet, but give it time, her husband will fiqure out she should have married me lol ).Too Smooth Go with GOD be safe from evil. "},{"Title":"Decent plot - Cartoon bad guys","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An enjoyable martial arts fun movie, and Taimak and Vanity make a cute couple.  Unfortunately, the comic book main villains (the mafia types - Julius Carry is a hoot as Sho'Nuff) and the presence of Ernie Reyes Jr. as Cute Martial Artist Kid (ugghh) bring it down a notch or two.  There's also some decent music, although DeBarge must be the most androgynous singer this side of Michael Jackson. "},{"Title":"Good fun and VANITY!","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this about 4 or 5 times when it first came out.Good production, plot, dialog, acting, choreography, music and the luscious Vanity!Has worn well with time. "},{"Title":"Black Belt Jones of the eighties.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Silly story, silly music, silly clothes and kung-fu fighting. This is the Black Belt Jones of the eighties with just a splash of the supernatural of Big trouble of Little China or the Golden Child. The movie is fun to watch but I wouldn't say it's good. The main villain, named Sho'nuff looks like a klingon with a bad forehead-day (Klingons can't have bad hairdays...). If you want a good kung-fu movie with lots of fighting and stunts look for any Jackie Chan movie, but if you just want a fun, easy-to-watch, silly movie rent Last Dragon. (I still don't know what's in the fish tank...) "},{"Title":"Best of the 80's","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, what can I say? It's one of my top ten movies I prefer to watch. You can see it over and over again. This is why I loved the 80's. The movies are fun, happy and nobody dies. The music inspires you and whoa is Vanity hot or what?  "}{"Title":"a pretty good fighting movie","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the last dragon was pretty good. it had some good fighting in it. the last fight was cool at the end. also i liked the music in this movie. but never takes off big but it does take off just not enougb.i give it **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"80's drama/karate movie","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Innovative movie of its time.  Loved this movie and I've seen it  at least 16 times.  The idea of good and humble against evil appealed to me.  My cousin and myself have used lines from this movie for the past decade of our lives.  At parties, and of course talking to women.I would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"A combination of martial arts Masters and 80's rock.  A Must See!","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Indeed, it is one of the best martial arts movies of all times.  Jim Kelly has nothing on Taimak.  Bruce Lee, make way for Bruce Leeroy! "},{"Title":"Another Classic Of The 80's!","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Taimak, Vanity, Julius Carry, Christopher Murney, Mike Starr and Faith Prince star in this 1985 action film. This tells the story of young martial artist, Leroy Green (Taimak) who seeks a master to obtain the final level, The Glow. On his quest, he faces a fighter, Sho'Nuff (Carry) known as the Showgun of Harlem and his thugs. Leroy also finds romance with a beautiful music DJ, Laura Charles (Vanity) and also faces ruthless businessman, Eddie Arkadian (Murney) after saving her from him. Starr plays Arkadian's right-hand man, Rock, Prince plays Arkadian's former girlfriend & singer, Angela and real-life martial artist, Ernie Reyes, Jr. is also featured as Tai. I grew up watching this film and always liked it. It's got a great cast, especially Carry and Murney and it's another classic of the 80's I recommend. "},{"Title":"Julius Carry alone is enough to watch this 80's martial arts gem.","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie, along with one or two more on this list, fall into a category that will only be appreciated by certain people. I'll be blunt, if you like martial arts movies, like myself, you'll definitely like this movie. If you have an affinity for Bruce Lee, like myself, you'll love this movie. Taimak plays a kung fu student searching for the final level to become a master while also falling for a popular singer and having to save her life. Simple enough but there's so much to this movie that brings you in. Like I said, if you understand and appreciate martial arts and know some of the Chinese culture on it, this movie does it justice in an 80's urban kind of way. Kung fu is seen in a different light with street familiarity and a hip hop vibe. Its ridiculousness somehow fits into the world of martial arts and main stream urban hip hop simultaneously and has to be nothing short of appreciated by anyone that enjoys movies of the genre. I mean, being tied from head to toe and getting out by break dancing can only work in this movie. Two guys glowing a la Dragonball Z while fighting works beautifully in this movie. Taimak, a black adolescent with a normal black family who dresses and acts like a China man can only work in this movie. The fighting scenes are great and the bad guys look like they popped out of a video game reminiscent of Mortal Kombat. A great, great watch that makes you wonder what happened to Julius Carry, I mean, before he died in 2008? "},{"Title":"Lord Bowler as the Shogun of Harlem!","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" For some dumb reason or another I never watched this flick. Not only that, I never even heard of it. I guess you are what you watch, really. My friends, my family, they were all Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle, Mortal Kombat, Van Damme fans, so I'm guessing saturating ourselves in that action was enough for us to keep a blind eye towards any other films on the video racks. But the sweet thing, it gave me a chance. And now I'm the baddest! But not as bad as the Harlem Shogun. No way.'Bruce' Leroy Green is a student of the martial arts variety. But his arch nemesis, Sho'nuff, is a student the badass variety! And he's also the self-proclaimed Shogun of Harlem! If I was Leroy I would've packed suit and got the hell outta Dodge! Dodge-Harlem, that is. Anyways, Leroy's got more testicular fortitude than your boy, so he continues on his self-improving journey, which unfortunately gets his family in trouble along the way. And to make matters worse, some flirty, eye-lash batting, cutey-pants, TV singing, dancer star is having problems with some greedy, evil bigwig! And of course, it's only up to Bruce Leroy to put an end to that as well. But can he? He can't glow if he can't find Sum Dumb Gai. If you're a little confused about what I'm trying to tell you...you should be. You should also be ashamed in yourself that you haven't seen this movie yet. Sho'nuff!! The Last Dragon is absolutely, without a doubt, sho'nuff, a classic 80's flick. It's got the cheese, which is almost carried entirely by our lead actor who plays Bruce Leroy Green. It's got the martial arts action, the dazzling dance moves, the bodacious beats, and of course, ya got the Shogun of Harlem himself being the baddest mofo around! If you have a difficult time finding the entertainment in this flick, you're a fool! A damn fool! Sho'nuff!! "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is cheesy, it's very kiddy-like, but it's also fairly innocent (a lead character who is a true hero, not the current anti-hero) and it also happens to be great. They rarely make movies like this anymore and if they do they don't get rented or watched because there isn't T and A or a bunch of foul language etc..Bruce Leroy and ShoNuff are classic immortal characters. They both went on to do some more acting but it's kind of a pity they didn't get more mainstream lead roles or make a sequel to this movie. The action sequences in this movie were great for there time and for their target audience of probably a slightly younger aged person. The buildup to the final fight is one of the great things about the movie. The training and the fact that the lead character, Bruce Leroy is a huge Bruce Lee fan and trains constantly and watches old Kung Fu to make him better really add to the movie. It isn't the best martial arts action ever but something about it just meshes perfectly with the story and the overall feel of the movie. I would rate the overall action scenes combined with a great final fighting scene as a 8 of 10.The acting for the movie is pretty decent for all the fairly young kids that are acting. The lead villain, ShoNuff is fantastically over the top in this movie. It hurts my eyes just trying to squint like he did for 30 seconds to give him that look that he did the entire movie. The acting was far better than a lot of younger actors I've seen in movies and TV (such as Power Rangers) in this genre. The lead female in the movie was adequate in her acting, and the hero, Bruce Leroy was just slightly good, but there are lots of supporting actors that add a comic element to this movie, sometimes it's ridiculous but it's still hilarious. Bruce Leroy's little brother cracks me up. As for the lead actress, Vanity (AKA Denise Katrina Matthews) she was adequate in her role as far as acting but she is one of the most gorgeous women I've seen. I mean she has rare classic beauty and it's a shame she didn't get more roles, or at least that I've seen her in.The story is really good. Maybe not so much the story but just how the overall acting went perfectly with the story and the action and for the audience the movie targeted. I was around 11 or 12 when the movie came out and maybe I'm having a little nostalgia but I can still watch this movie to day and enjoy the heck out of it. Really fun, cute story with a hilarious over the top villain.Action 8Acting for its genre 8Acting for all genres 6Story 9Overall I gave this a 10 In closing, I may have an overall ranking that is too high, but I think that right now the 6.2 is too low and want to help bring it up. This movie is an action movie with violence yet it has an innocence about it, yet it's still fun and thrilling. The ending fight scene and the classic lines at the end and just how it all carries out in the movie still almost gives me goose bumps, it's like Superman taking on General Zodd and those guys, just an epic battle. I think it may be sort of a cult classic but I think I could recommend this to anyone and not feel guilty about it. If more movies were made like this today with today's technology then we could maybe let our kids see what good viewing really was. I say just buy this movie if you find it for a good deal anywhere. If you haven't saw it buy it for you and your kids, it's a great family movie to watch with kids who like stuff like power rangers and things, probably from 8 to 12 years old or so, and all adults.Worth a rental For dang sure! Buy it full price I would Buy it on DVD for under $10 ShoNUFF!! "},{"Title":"Kung fu classic","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this film, and although I haven't seen it in years it is one of my all time favourites. Sho'nuff was great and Leroy outstanding, both delivering tongue in cheek performances that make this movie what it is, a comedy kung fu classic! I will watch the remake if they do actually go ahead with it, I will enjoy it of that I am sure, but re-makes rarely capture the essence of the original, maybe because of flashy modern effects that the original didn't rely on or big stars who want to put their own stamp on the role. Hopefully they are after re-making it for other reasons than just making money from a loyal fan base. PS Is anyone else just a little gutted that Sho'nuff actor Julius Carry has passed away!! "},{"Title":"Is this movie great? Sho'nuff!","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First, to all those out there who think this movie is bad - I say if you're looking for great acting, brilliant writing and Oscar worthy direction - this is not that movie; and for those that have dissed this movie in their comments - you just don't get it.This movie is a prime example of film-making just for fun. It clearly is intended to be campy and never takes itself too seriously. If at times it has the look and feel of a music video, it's because it was made by music video makers and intended to help sell the great 80's soundtrack and artists featured in the film.A lot of the haters of this film point to the campy dialogue and bad acting. Well, as Jack-Luminous commentated here already on this - that's because the cast plays the material 100% straight and that's done quite INTENTIONALLY. And for this film it works brilliantly! The ridiculous dialogue being delivered in a straightforward manner by the cast elicits more unintentional and intentional laughs than most straightforward comedies.The film is also intended clearly as an homage to the kung fu and blaxploitation flick craze of the 1970's. Yet it turns the typical characterizations on its head in recognition of the changing times of the 1980's. (e.g. The hero is a black man who dresses up in traditional Asian garb, eats with chopsticks and acts very decidedly un-black.)This is not done just for effect as the film is aware of the globalization and diversification that is taking place in America and around the world at the time and where would it take place more so than in New York City? The film may be dated for those who didn't grow up in the 80's or don't like the music of that era. Otherwise, it is an incredibly enjoyable film that delivers a lot of laughs while having at it's core a nice hero story that promotes good values with quite a bit of social commentary and observations about the time thrown in also.I've seen this film countless times and every time I see it on TV, I can't help but watch and laugh. The Last Dragon is one of those campy films that you wouldn't think you'd see more than once, but find yourself watching over and over.---I hear they're making a remake of this. Clearly it's not gonna work without major revamping of the script as much of this film is contextualized with the 1980's. Let's hope they come up with something good.RIP Julius Carry - you'll always be the Shogun of Harlem to us! "},{"Title":"Sho'nuff, it's kickin' it old school!","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This martial arts movie is a true gem of the 80's. Lot's of magic, moves, and music to go along in the movie. The 70's was big with blaxportation. If you think Black Belt Jones was bad, you haven't seen anything, yet. In the movie The Last Dragon, Bruce Leroy Green(Taimak) was a real bad cat. He idolizes Bruce Lee aka The Dragon. He is so into his art that he pays little attention to the world. He would later help out a DJ named Laura Charles(Vanity) whom his brother has a thing for her. The one thing getting in his way of find the glow is a bully black belt named Sho'nuff(Julius Carry, 1952-2008). This martial artist is all bully and brawn and very little brain. He thinks he's all bad. But he's really all mouth! Another problem is is this shady promoter named Eddie Arkadian(Christopher Murney). He likes to give people opportunity, but the real deal is himself. The fight scenes are cool, the dancing everyone does is hot, and the videos are something else DeBarge's Rhythm of the Night is tops. Great movie, great plot, Berry Gordy's film is a real gem! 4 out of 5 stars! "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just watched this movie for the first time since I was a kid almost 20 years ago and I have to say what a great little movie it is. There is action from the beginning and whilst this will never win any prizes for originality it will keep most lovers of this genre entertained. And yes the dialect is quite cheesy at times but this goes well with the directors decision to add some comedy into the mix. I found the movie baddie to be more annoying than actually threatening and I had to laugh at his typically 80s shoulder pads!! This is one of those movies where no concentration is required to follow the plot so just switch your brain off, invite a few friends over and enjoy 100 minutes of Kung Fu, Shaft Style!! "},{"Title":"This movie is funny and cheesy with some martial arts","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A lot of this movie can't be taken seriously. Once the viewer gets that through their head, then they will be okay. This movie will have almost anybody dying laughing, from the sheer it's absurdity. Spoilers The part with Sho'Nuff and his gang, in the movie theater was funny as hell. In fact, it was the character Sho'Nuff who had me rolling. The other person who was funny in the movie was the kid brother of Bruce Leroy. When he dogged out Bruce Leroy about letting Sho'Nuff bully him in his own Martial Arts class, I just couldn't contain myself. But the scene that really did it, was when Bruce Leroy and Sho'Nuff had their final showdown, and someone shot a bullet at Leroy. The man caught it in between his teeth. I laughed so hard my stomach started to ache. I give this movie a 6/10. I give it this rating because some of the other characters were irritating. For example, the mob boss, his girlfriend, and other stupid characters. The writers could of just left them out of the story. Their antics weren't funny at all. Vanity was okay, and so was the guy who played Bruce Leroy. The movie is trash, but it's good trash.    "},{"Title":"Just move along now-nothing here to see.","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is from 1985 and should stay there. Way back in time before any good music videos were made or vevo or Youtube..oh wait! it's not a music video movie? it's a martial arts movie? dedications to Bruce Lee? what an insult. A bunch of morons crash into a theater and start acting out and beating people up on the screen stage, are you kidding me.There is not one once of realism in this whole lousy film.All about a era we would much rather forget only because we can't deny because its recorded on film like this one.Classic is Bruce Lee and good old Godzilla made with effort to please audiences even if they only had plastic toy dinosaurs and a gift for action.Skip this guys video of his 14th birthday party and watch the Discovery Channel or something with some intelligence and meaning. No wounder UFO's wont land on Earth. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" You have to love this movie, classic isn't even a word to use. If you were ever in middle school and stayed home sick and watch Leroy get his butt kicked by Sho Nuff about 8x (times) a day then you know what I'm talking about. This movie is one of the best in its time and is even fun to watch today! Get Your Hands Off My WOMAN, if you really watched the movie you know what I'm talking bout! This movie is in a realm by itself. You don't have to be a fan of Karate to enjoy it. Baby Please, Leroy catches bullets with his teeth? If I can find this movie I would watch it over and over again just like when I was younger. Hands down this movie stands out. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  sho'nuff should be considered one of the best villains of all time, in fact he was so good in this movie i wanted to get up in the movie theater and start fighting people. i can't catch a bullet with my teeth but i am glad that i caught this movie. no actor has been able to light up the movie screen, with the exception of the rock in the scorpion king, like sho'nuff. i have patterned my life after this movie and sometimes in the evening i can see a light glow around me. i am becoming the master and the last dragon is the master of all karate movies every made. if you only see one movie in your life see the scorpion king but if you are able to watch two then watch the scorpion king again. but if you can see three make sure the third is the last dragon  "},{"Title":"Michael Schultz directs another classic","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Director Michael Schultz who along with a phone book size list of television credits and the man behind the cult classic SCAVENGER HUNT brings us the LAST DRAGON...An fond memory of 80's film fun...like most cult movies people who saw this in 1985 still remember the fun it created rather than flaws reviewers may point out...Big hair, eighties clothes, and a then top 40 soundtrack throughout....nothing objectionable and the good guy wins...A young Kung fu master must find his true calling, save the girl, and defeat his sworn enemey...look for familiar faces like William Macy in a small role...this film is very dated but does that really matter...serve yourself a big slice of eighties nostalgia and enjoy the show...and thanks to Michael Schultz who always gives the audience what they want. "},{"Title":"That's Entertainment!","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Last Dragon may be the quintessential example of a movie made purely to entertain.  The dialogue is simple enough to appeal to a younger crowd and the plot is very predictable, but only because it aims so squarely to please.  In short, what you want to happen happens. Producer Berry Gordy ensured that music was also a large part of the movie. The songs are very fun 80's fare, but the final fight song fairly unique and very good.  For the benefit of the kids, there is very little subtlety in the acting, but it is by no means poor.The story centers on young man Leroy Green, a serious martial artist in the unlikely setting of Harlem.  Although ridiculed by his younger brother and almost everyone else for his sinophilia, Leroy has completed all the training his kung-fu teacher can offer.  His teacher tells him that to reach the final level and achieve The Glow he must first find The Master.  Leroy begins his quest but faces difficulties after he rescues the beautiful Video DJ Laura Charles who is being harassed by the crazed Eddie Arcadian.  There's also another very entertaining adversary Sho Nuff, the self proclaimed Shogun of Harlem.  They have one of those classic My Karate is better than your Kung-Fu things going on.  From there the plot thickens.  I wouldn't say there are many surprises, but the movie has more than its share of enjoyable moments.  So if you're looking for an action/adventure/martial-arts/comedy that is suitable for all ages, or just a really fun movie, The Last Dragon is it. "},{"Title":"Classic Karate movie","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree with the last comment posted. I also have watched this movie time and time again as a kid, and I really enjoyed it. It is just one of those movies you can see again and again without getting bored of it. The acting and directing were good, and the special effects also added a nice touch to the movie, and everything just seemed good in this movie with your typical Good Guy V.S. Bad Guy storyline plot. If you are a fan of martial arts karate or just wan't to see a kick ass movie go buy The Last Dragon you won't be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"100% Karate-mania!","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not much to be said, this is truly the greatest Karate-flick ever released. I'm sorry Mr. Lee, you are out of the races, you do not possess the glow )Now availible on DVD as well, what more can someone want in life?PS. Cool 80's soundtrack too! DS. "},{"Title":"Dancing With The 1980s !","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Welcome to the 1980s. The 7th Heaven for the adolescent's ingenuous dreams. Some hate the 1980s; maybe because it has nothing to do with them nostalgically, or because the lost relationship between them and the *dreamer adolescent* inside them. For me, dancing with the 1980s is forever my hobby, my fun. Whatever the date is, I must enjoy something. Always romantic or meaningful. Its fever is still sweet and electrifying. This time, you may feel that the dancing floor has a beauty queen. Beautiful ? For sure, queen ? Not that sure ! This time, (The Karate Kid) meets the very noisy kids from (The Goonies), meets the honorable MTV ! Actually, the case wasn't that bad at all. You have some charismatic young martial arts fighter, some real dashing girl with charming, too sexy, presence; look at her eyes and her smile.. Pure magic (Taimak, Vanity.. Where are both of them now ?!), some shadows of comedy and action. Plus the fantasy factor. The formula looks nice, it has elements of a world I love. But OH MY GOD, some movies aren't meant to be made !The 1980s was overweight with too many fantasy adventures. For instance, at the same year of 1985 there were  (Red Sonja), (The Black Cauldron), (Ladyhawke), and (Legend). Though (The Last Dragon) didn't even have the opportunity to challenge them or else. But at least it's not the negative version of many innocent dreams that filled the era. It's like a rapid reverie among them.It was the right ambition in the wrong hands, or in the wrong way. While trying to achieve the ambition of one fantasy / musical / romance / comedy / action movie; serious hastiness seriously interrupted, to end up with a campy version of that ambition instead. It's the quick little of everything; knowing that it was so poor as well. In fact, the low budget transformed it into cheap comic-book.Let alone, few provocative elements  The storyline of the bad singer, the idiot characterization of the evil man, the savage presence of that 11 years kid who was screaming so faithfully and unbearably too Take your hands off my woman !! To tell you the truth, I hoped that the evil man cooks him and eats him fast enough ! I hated his acting, his role, or even his existence in life. Basically the role must have been for OLDER boy, but if we just bring up the subject of what was necessary to be here and wasn't, I think I'll exceed the limited space of reviewing movies on the IMDb ! Sorrowfully, the final result was bizarre mix of modern fairytale which has gone destitute, and one musical which has been miscarried.Still some moments, or echoes from the original ambition, are available. On the top of course is the great First Time on a Ferris Wheel by Smokey Robinson and Syreeta at the finale. Look at the way it's done with pausing the frame and all, WAW it's the best end for a movie I didn't watch. All in all, this dancing was modest. But despite being not one of the 1980s' best performances, it has some of its loveliest ambitions. So look at the remnants  the atmosphere, the soundtrack, Taimak, Vanity, the nostalgia,&#x85; Well, still a beauty, like a possible runner-up. And still at heart, as an adolescent dream, yet done adolescently too.I'm nearly whispering  Enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Taimak is awesome!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie!  Even after the 30th time. Taimak is so awesome!!!  As well as the rest of the cast. I just watched it again and it brought back good memories of the 80's.The fight scenes are very well choreographed.  Taimak is hot! "},{"Title":"The Last Dragon","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched The Last Dragon for the first time in 1986 and thought it was one of the best movies ever.My how things change,I recently watched it again in 2005 and thought it was the most ridiculous movie I'd seen in a long time.The acting was weak,the plot ludicrous,and the villains by todays standards were laughable,and pretty tame.I had to laugh when our hero Leoroy reaches the so called final level(The Last Dragon)and catches a bullet with his teeth,I'd like to see him try that with a machine gun!.However I still enjoyed the music videos,they were pretty cool,but then again I am a huge fan of 80's music.I'd say only watch this movie when you are drunk,stoned,or if you are a huge fan of Bruce Lee movies,or 80's music. "},{"Title":"Another Lame Attempt By Berry Gordy","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is just another example of Berry Gordy's futile attempts to become a movie mogul. The ironic thing about it is that it came out several years after many of Motown's top artists had already left the company and the company was not the influential record label that it had been. The only reason I ever saw it in the first place is the fact that my buddies and I were forced into it. All I can say is that this was pretty much a waste of my time. The only reason my buddies and I wanted to see it was because Vanity was in it and she pretty much was just the typical damsel in distress. The plot was lame and you would definitely get a lot better fight sequences looking at the films this one tries to emulate. The acting is marginal at best and the story is not all that great either. Also, the songs were the typical pop fluff that was released at the time. Sorry that my opinion runs contrary to most of the opinions on the film, but this had to be one of the worst films of the 1980's. "},{"Title":"So bad it's BAD","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hadn't thought about this movie in years and recently caught it on TV. It hasn't aged well and back in the day it was probably one of the worst movies ever made, nothing has changed. Bad acting,direction and plot make this still one of the worst flicks ever put to film. Don't know why people on IMDb think it's good but everyone's entitled to their opinion even when they are wrong. As an action movie its about as exciting as watching a bingo game. If it was supposed to be a comedy it failed miserably. As a matter of fact there is nothing worth-while in the whole film. Nostalgia is one thing but, nostalgia for this kind of garbage is a total waste of time and effort. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie..must be one of the worst ones i ever saw.Things are more mixed up than a milkshake, since when does a shogun come from china ? Other details are incorrect as well, dojo not a Chinese term.Fighting parts of the movie are not that special..still wondering when the glow will come to me ;)In my opinion a master would never let his ass kicked in his own 'dojo' and refrain from fighting to give an example to his students.A less than generic 80's Kung Fu ripoff.  "},{"Title":"Is this a kungfu movie ?","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This must be the worst martial arts movie i ever saw.Even Jacky Chan's Fantasy mission force is more amusing.Was this supposed to be an American version of a Chinese kungfu movie ?At first things are more mixed up than a milkshake.Shogun is a Japanese title, not Chinese! Also the master looks quite Japanese to me. I did not even see one Chinese guy in the whole movie.Learning to fight and not willing to use it is more Japanese habit than Chinese. No Chinese master would let him to be insulted in his own courtyard, he would beat the crap out of this shogun to give an example to his students of refusing to fight and kissing his feet. This is called losing face.OK, the acting is a bit better than the average kungfu movie but that's not where you are watching it for.. In the whole movie maybe 10 minutes of real fighting instead of at least 1 hour in an average Chinese flick from those days.I'm missing the long-bearded master, flying monks etc..Boring..I actually fell asleep. My rating 2  "},{"Title":"The last movie from Berry Gordy...","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Leroy Green(Played not too bad by Taimak) is a hopeless nerd who also is a martial arts master, he uses his proficient skills to protect a D.J named Laura Charles (Vanity) from mobsters and The Sho'Nuff (Played also well by Julius Carry) much hijinks ensue. The Last Dragon is a very silly effort that would have turned out better with a better director. Schultz directed the disastrous Sgt Pepper's Lonely Heart's Club Band and well the thought of him doing a martial arts and dance mix combo had one skeptical. Of course when one sees the final product of this, one can't help but expect exactly what we got here. The Last Dragon is indeed a terrible movie and this comes from a fan of the genre. However I do want to point out that there were some redeeming factors. Taimak was quite good in his role, capturing a sense of quirky weirdness that would be better served to a better movie. Indeed when one considers all the Lorenzo Lamas and Oliver Gruners in the sweepstakes of martial arts flicks, one is truly surprised he didn't try and pursue a career in the lower end of the market. Vanity is also pretty decent in her role and lastly so is Julius Carry who gives a campy performance. So what makes this movie so bad is just how messy all of it is put together. The movie exists solely to basically advertise new music videos and the whole blend of kung fu and Bruce Lee worship makes a very unconvincing combo. Okay this movie has it's fans especially in the genre that I quite enjoy but I just couldn't get past the overall cheese-ball antics and lack of engaging story that stops dead with each new music segment. Also the movie has a retro 80's look which basically dates the movie horribly. Streets Of Fire did this type of material to perfection and that was because of Walter Hill. Walter Hill is a genuinely gifted director, Michael Schultz on the other hand (As I have seen only this and Sgt Pepper's Lonely Heart's Club Band) is clueless on how to combine two elements which never go together. After all martial arts has never gone well with MTV style. It didn't then and it doesn't now. In the end we are stuck with an incredibly lame martial arts movie meant to sell records.*1/2 out of 4-(Poor) "},{"Title":"Dumb.  Just dumb.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some well-presented pyrotechnics and an exciting score cannot camoflauge the utter dumbness of this whole escapade.  Amateurishly directed and acted, even for a martial arts film, and oh so very overlong.  Take a long pass on this utter piece of tripe.  Watch something intellectual instead, like Five Fingers of Death. "},{"Title":"Hilarious attempt at film-making","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one movie that sums up everything bad about movies from the eighties. There's two lead actors who really don't know how to act, we have a mafia-type villain who's over the top and of course there's outrageous clothing in almost every scene. Especially when it comes to the gang of bad boys led by the notorious 'Sho Nuff'. They deserve a movie of their own. Other than that we also get a funny performance from actress Faith Prince (perhaps more known as Claudia in Spin City) portraying a Cindy Lauper-like singer.Last Dragon uses every cliché in the book and fails at every step of the way. It is poorly directed and even worse written. But I still recommend it for those film buffs who likes to laugh at c-rated movies. The really only memorable thing is perhaps the catch phrase Who's da master? Sho Nuff!! "},{"Title":"This is a crap movie","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sorry folks, I can understand the nostalgic part but don't tell people to buy this movie. Just saw it on TV and this movie really suck. I have no previous viewings of this movie so if you haven't seen it before and have a childhood/nostalgic attachment to it, don't buy it. If it runs on TV or whatever then fine but don't spend money.It sucks because1.Martial Arts - You can see 1000 times better action from e.g. Jet Li 2.Music - Can't remember that the music during the 80's was that bad. 3.Story - Well if the character is called Bruce Leroy...you get the point.In other words... "}{"Title":"The Last Dragon","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Awful film with a Karate / Dance Fever kick to it. Embarassing for people like Broadway star Prince and character actor Murney who were more than likely forced at gunpoint to do this.  "},{"Title":"A very entertaining movie...if you're 12.","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a movie I LOVED as a kid. I probably watched my VHS copy twenty or thirty times and have very fond memories. However, it's one of those movies that when you watch it as an adult, you wonder what the hell did I like about this? Vanity is still super-hot in this, but everything else is worse than I remember. IMDb says $10m budget, so the film loses a lot of points for that. It's a B-movie with a studio budget and that's unforgivable. At a million bucks, I'd give the film a 7 or 8 our out of ten. The gags aren't funny, the writing is silly in parts and the characters are over the top (by design, I would suspect), but maybe the teen set was the only audience really targeted and they probably would still have fun with it. "},{"Title":"I thought it was a comedy.","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How can anyone take this movie seriously? I actually thought it was an old Wayans film like I'm Gonna Git You Sucka. It didn't suck, but I think it would do better as a comedy, because it was quite silly.Then again, the 80s was pretty silly... "},{"Title":"Crouching Vanity, Hidden Breakdancer","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Bottom Line on this movie is that unless you have some DVD commentary that we don't have, or know the director, it's really impossible to tell if it was intended as a Serious film when it was made, or if the director/producers purposely camped it up. Was the bad guy purposely a snarling idiot with delusions of Drag Queen? Was the good guy really an inner-city youth transformed into a Yoda-like virgin with asexual tendencies? Did the big-haired love interest REALLY have such limited options that she had to seduce the local martial arts expert, by showing him video of a sweaty, half-naked Bruce Lee?These are not questions so easily answered. More likely, the movie (itself produced by music producer Berry Gordy) was a platform for a handful of acts he was trying to plug at the time. Like any other movie soundtrack where a producer thinks he knows what's hot, the music sequences are garbage today and all that's left is the film.Which is solid B-movie entertainment with the occasional unexpected bursts of actual acting. Just fast forward through the dancing. "},{"Title":"So incredibly bad it's good","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe anyone would take this trash seriously.  Don't get me wrong, the movie is fun, but only because it is so incredibly bad.  One feels sorry for Vanity, who has done a lot better trash than this turkey.  One must also thank the producers for showing some daring by hiring a lead action man who is also obviously gay.  And Julius is once again wonderfully over-the-top as he was in 'Brisco County'.  Definitely not a waste of time as so many bad movies are.  This one is definitely a 'kick', but one wonders if the producers and director had been kicked in the head. "},{"Title":"Remake not happening, more of a sequel and new direction","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like many of you, the original film, which was made in 1985, is a classic and it shouldn't be touched. However, so many of us have questions about what happens once the film ends.If I could describe this film to someone who has never seen it, I'd say that this film is the essence of the 80s. The original script was written by Louis Venosta. I met with Venosta myself, and asked if I could write the sequel. This was back in 2006, long before the RZA was involved or even mentioned a remake.If you have access to Youtube, please check out THE LAST DRAGON fan commentary, which was created by myself and a writing partner.Venosta did not intend for Leroy to be such a sensitive character. He envisioned more of a serious fighter. Berry Gordy is the person who is actually responsible for the humor, and the sensitive character that is possessed by the protagonist, Bruce Leroy.The actor who played Leroy, Taimak, has his own unique story, which is compelling and you'll understand why he deserved the role. You can read it on Kung Fu Cinema, google THERE IS ONLY ONE BRUCE LEROY and you'll find my interview with him.As I mentioned, I sent a script to the RZA in California, back in 2007. I wrote a separate story about a modern day protagonist based in New York City. The title of the story is MASTERNEVER AND THE FLOW OF DEATH. I mentioned in my letter that the Last Dragon had been one of my influences. I'm not saying that the RZA did not already want to remake the movie, but he has never mentioned it over the years.After I met with Louis Venosta, I realized that a new story needed to be made.Reason being is that the LAST DRAGON, is a metaphor for the 80s. A time when people would really loose themselves in alternate personalities. Hip Hop was still in its infancy and there was a mixture of rock, rap, r&b and pop. Back then, more people wanted to be like Micheal Jackson, then Kanye West.So now, the remake has been announced and Samuel Jackson has been asked to play the role of Sho'nuff. Although he has agreed, he has mentioned that he has never seen a script. I've heard that in Hollywood, once you announce a film and if nothing happens in a year, the project is dead.Having that been said, I would encourage everyone to please read my book. I've placed the book and soundtrack online. You can find it by googling MASTERNEVER AND THE FLOW OF DEATH.When I met with Taimak, he intimated that he had a role in the upcoming film, but would not say what it was. So the film is more of a sequel and not really a remake. Most of us want closure and hopefully this is what we will get in the remake. As I mentioned, I don't think a remake is necessary. Elements of the film, will be impossible to reintroduce. For one, the music supervision is excellent. The 80s soundtrack is timeless and that kind of music does not exist now.It is fitting that I mention The Last Dragon soundtrack because, while I was on this very message board four years ago, I began my journey to write the sequel.We're ready for a new story. "},{"Title":"I would have given this a higher rating, had I done this when it first came out.","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":" All right, I'll admit it! I used to like movies like this, but I guess it's a sign that you're getting older when you can name all the Brady Bunch kids, but don't know any names of the Backstreet Boys.But, then again, I hear from the younger generation how cheesy they feel movies like this actually are, and, by today standards, Cheddar is better! Taimak was an unknown, his first film and he's the lead. But Gordy is known for making moves like that. Vanity always was a doll, but dolls can't speak for a reason...because they CAN'T ACT! And this doll can't either. The only thing I found genuine in her was the blushing smile she would portray when her character would look at the lead (but then, that's maybe because I'm like every other man who wants someone to smile at them like that).Julius Carry as Sho'nuf, the Shogun of Harlem. Well, by the end of the film, I sho'nuf had it with him. Big, overbearing, brutish, and another can't-act that I never heard of from that day on.As for the film, the special effects were something of its time, but its time is over and even a basic CGI programmer could probably do a better job of it than some of the fight scenes. I really feel that 4 out of 10 stars is a gift to this film. "},{"Title":"Obey Your Master.","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Berry Gordy's THE LAST DRAGON is not quite as successful as it seems.  The movie is actually another plain-old ordinary kung fu flick.  Taimak stars as a would-be karate master who is sent to New York, where he faces a shogun and falls for a deejay who's the target of a greedy manager.  If there is one good thing that came out of this movie, it's the Bruce Lee flashbacks. Everything else is typcal 80's and typical kung fu, and the most worthy kung fu movies are the ones starring Bruce Lee himself.  Only fans of this kind of genre will find anything interesting here.2 out of 5 "}]