[{"Title":"Total gem","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is something so magical about this film and how it captures a fleeting moment in every young man's life. It's sentimental in the best way, harking back to lost youth and that transitional moment into adult responsibility. Kevin Costner has never been more charming (indeed I don't think he has ever tried) and director Kevin Reynolds imbuse this with such a touching sensibility and bravura filming style it really pulls at my heart. I discovered it on TV a decade ago and have always treasured the copy I managed to make of it. Why not available on DVD? Every other piece of s**t is. Wonderful. Not for everyone, not perfect but wonderful. The final frame I even used as a background on my PC for a while and the credits song...perfect. Have a nice life.  "},{"Title":"Great guy flick...and more.","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I hate to sound like a broken record, but this is my favorite movie of all time. I lost track a long time ago as to how many times I have seen this movie on tape. What a GREAT MOVIE. Kevin Reynolds clearly has this nailed down. Fandango is a movie about 5 fraternity brothers in the early 1970's who call themselves the 'Groovers', who decide to take off on a 'fairwell fandango' as a college graduation right of passage. We learn that they did the same 'fandango' earlier in their collegiate years, and in part, the purpose of this trip is to dig up a relic of that first adventure as the way to close out this chapter of their lives. Along the way, they take part in some wild adventures, deal with being drafted into the war in Vietnam, and meet some unique characters, all of which become the subject of the movie.I love this movie for a number of reasons. #1, it takes me back to my collegiate days, and the craziness that seemed to define them.  #2, it allows me to appreciate the people that populated each and every moment of college, as the characters in Fandango are eerily reminiscent of the fraternity brothers, classmates and band members that I spent 4 years of my life with. #3, it makes me realize that life is fairly short, and if we do it right...we'll be the better because of it.The music in the movie seems tailored for every scene, even though there are cuts from great artists like Blind Faith, Elton John and Pat Metheney.  In particular, the Metheney works in the film stand out.  I cannot help but think of the wedding and final scenes when I am listening to Metheney's cuts from his 'Wichita Falls' and 'Works' tapes.I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to strip off the baggage in life for an hour and a half one weekend, flip the pages back a few years(or more) to the days that were more innocent and raw, and think about the people that were so important to you as you grew up into adulthood. And if you happen to like the shape of Texas like I do, you'll appreciate this movie even more.(see the movie and you'll know what I am talking about) Go ahead....take this wild ride for all its worth.  You will not regret it!! "},{"Title":"Fantastic coming-of-age road movie","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five friends (the self-named groovers) go on one final fandango before graduating college and going on to life, war, marriage, etc. Their destination is the Texas desert where they plan to dig up Dom, the friend they buried on the night their group was formed.The film is a wonderful mix of poignant life lessons and slapstick hilarity. The crew consists of slacker Gardner, life-troubled kenneth, weenie extraordinaire Phil, overweight divinity student Dorman, and unconscious Lester (the fifth groover). As they wind their way through the Texas scrub on their last adventure, each of them faces the approaching life after college in his own way, reacting to his fears and the failings of his friends in the draft years of the Vietnam War.An unknown Kevin Costner pulls off the role of Gardner Barnes with an easy perfection that would convince you there must be something of Gardner in him. He's utterly convincing as the footloose rascal on a mission to evade life.The other performances are respectable, including that of Judd Nelson in the role of uptight ROTC cadet Phil Hicks who despises the moral ambiguity of the other characters while starving for their affection.Though this movie is not a well-known blockbuster, it holds up well against others of the same genre. Definitely worth the price of a rental, and with the February 2005 DVD release, a good addition to your collection. Good music, good humor, and great fun. "},{"Title":"SPOILER A Stirring Valediction To Youth","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the best Road Movie of the 80s. By that I mean better than Midnight Run, Wild at Heart, Planes, Trains and Automobiles, Rain Man and all the other films that belong to that quintessential 80s genre. I love it - Spielberg financed it on the strength of Kevin Reynolds' first feature, Proof, but apparently he was disappointed with the results. Maybe that is because in Fandango there is a lack of Spielbergian sentimentality that has dominated everything he has made post-Jaws. Here, Reynolds counters every up with a down. From the explosive opening in which the group hit the road in Phil's cadillac for a day of revelry in the arid Texas outback (which is perfectly set to Elton John's Saturday Night's Alright For Fighting) I was hooked. The rest of the film is a hangover by comparison, sure, because the opening is so powerful. But the opening is misleading - Fandango is a downbeat film. Reynold's captures the perfect tone for his work by using the dead Texas scenery that is so reminiscent of Malick's Badlands and Hooper's Chainsaw Massacre. In Fandango, which is set in the early 70s, the ghost Vietnam is never far away. Reynolds refuses to let the group forget about War - there is always a sense of the 'last chance' about their odyssey. Everything from the massacre site they visit to the dilapitated set used for the filming of the James Dean classic 'Giant' that they sleep in speaks of death and decay. See the brilliant scene in the Cemetery where they shoot fireworks at each other for further evidence of this. In this respect, Reynolds pays homage to another film I love - The Deer Hunter. This is most obvious in the group's name - The Groovers - which is also shared by the Pennsylvanian Steel Workers of Hunter. Both films have a similar theme - friends who are torn apart by Vietnam. Fandango is an underrated classic - I urge you to see this film - if only to prove Spielberg wrong.  "},{"Title":"Ebullient Moptops","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Spielberg disowned his involvement in this (read 'funding')...it's not hard to see why.-- Spielberg's camera is a lifeless automaton, it simply records stories. His camera has nothing to do with the story itself... Reynolds' camera is self-aware, acknowledged, and is part of the *visual narrative* an active participant in the art.-- Spielberg's only concern is telling stories...this has no real 'story'. Nothing 'happens' it's all about a state of mind.-- Spielberg deliberately tells everything in the manner of a simpleton's comic book, as neatly laid out storyboards that a mental 10-year old can effortlessly digest...Fandango cannot be described in comic book terms; it is based on the indecipherable chalkboard scrawls of a stoner.Here we meet the Groovers (the Fab Four), plus one inert member (the 'fifth Beatle') who undertake a journey through moviedom, including Giant, Ten Commandments, Badlands, etc. There's no goal -- the 'goal' ends up being a chance to wink at the audience -- other than the journey itself. It's all about living in the moment, the consequences are never encountered. This is everything that Stand By Me is and so much more.It is visually rooted in constructed memories...note the photographs as bookends. Along the way, Reynolds 'constructs' the war with fireworks and tombstones. This is cinematic eloquence.It is also self-referential; the 'construction' of the wedding banquet is carried out in precisely the same way as the movie itself was made with a little help from Reynolds' friends.The capper is the ceremony and reception dance. The dance is a fandango, but the musical platform is not, it is the gifted Metheny's It's For You. All of the movie's emotions *visually* swirl and coalesce around the song/dance amalgam and eventually resolve within it...this is beyond mere movie soundtracks this is a magic carpet ride for the soul. For one minute, a world disappears, and another world constructed just for two takes its place -- a entire world of emotion expressed through the physical action of lovers (a dance, a kiss that almost was, a facial expression of realization), instead of through words. Is the construction 'real', or is it the stuff of dreams? Reynolds lets us decide.It's a shame the boys went on to give us the execrable Robin Hood and the pointlessly outsized Waterworld. But for one brief instant, they got it oh so right. "},{"Title":"Still one of the best","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A very underrated and under-seen film - thanks to the clods at Amblin (presumably because no one in the cast resembled an alien). Great acting, writing, and directing (from Kevin Reynolds). One of the only films Costner has ever acted in where he didn't resemble a stick of wood. I love this movie through and through. The sky diving scene (which is apparently what the film is built around, Reynolds' student film 'Proof') is fantastically funny from beginning to end. Marvin J. McIntyre is a true hero. GREAT soundtrack from beginning to end. The opening credits alone are worth the price of the rental. And the climax scene at Waggner's wedding is one of the most romantic and sensitive wedding scenes ever committed to film.Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"About to leave your 18th year and your friends behind you, riding an old 50ies beauty to nowhere and learning to fly...","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It starts looking cool enough, I thought, although not overwhelmingly original under a blue, blue sky, four young guys, as different as can be, drive to seemingly nowhere in a beautiful car from the roaring fifties. Singing, drinking, screaming. It looks like they're having a lot of fun, which of course will prove to be a doomed mood their lives are suspended between youth and whatever comes next, just like them driving in the middle of Texas' desert landscapes with the unlikely goal of attending one of the mates' wedding... Everything is on the verge of changing for them; their friendship, the way they lead their lives, the way they consider the future.What Kevin Reynolds achieves here masterfully is making the whole thing look, at first, like just another buddy-movie. Yet I think there is a lot more to it. Fun, slapstick, grotesque situations, and still, every time or so, we're given a hint that those people have no idea where they're going, that they try to ignore the (real) world that's waiting for them.The one most representative of that borderline state and who remains, by default, the big brother telling the others where to go next, is Gardner Barnes, played by Kevin Costner. Very young-looking (to whoever, like me, hasn't seen him in a picture made 16 years ago), he radiates a kind of natural quality, telling us he may just be the most frightened and unsure one of those four mostly-losers. Anyone who has apreciated Costner in at least one movie should definitely have a look at this one.There'll never be anything even remotely tragic in this story, nor any solid insight into any of those old kids. Not even into Gardner, the one with a haunting love on his mind, who claims he's never token a woman seriously. Some moments might strike you as either clichee, heavy or childish... Yet, after the finale, Reynolds has gotten us where we're supposed to be feeling the dry cut apart from the time where our dreams where, to ourselves, a solid option for what our future might look like. The loss of what kept the world together until this very moment.I should add that, having listened precisely in my beginning twenties to the Pat Metheny Group like mad, I was totally taken away when the whole wedding scene appeared to be choreographed around two of his magic compositions.This movie has something fresh, universal, sincere. It's full of ideas and benefits from a truly inventive photography as well as a from a perfectly well-tuned rythm.Anyone on a day where he feels up to re-live those cheers AND nostalgia, in the company of a bunch of excellent actors, would do himself a favor by taking a while to watch it. And, maybe, reconciliate with that little mix of sadness and joy we think we should have left behind us. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the genre; fantastic yet oddly underrated","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I stumbled across this movie years ago while flipping thru the channels late one night, and instantly fell in love with it.  It's easily one of the best movies of the genre; there's an emotional resonance here that's hard to come by in any movie, let alone one that *appears* to be a standard coming-of-age/buddy/road-trip flick.It's also (in my humble opinion) probably Kevin Costner's finest piece of work next to 'Dances With Wolves'.  Costner's role as Gardner is one that seems perfectly suited to him; I can imagine anyone else being able to pull it off.The soundtrack is *perfect*, especially the wedding sequence - besides being a great flick, this movie turned me on to Pat Metheny!  The soundtrack, unfortunately, was never released, although I liked the movie enough to assemble the tracks individually.This is one of those rare movies that leaves one with a nice afterglow, even after many viewings....much like 'Diner' or 'American Graffiti'.  I've seen 'Fandango' way too many times to count, and am on my second or third VHS copy - I'm hoping this comes out on DVD sometime soon....  "},{"Title":"A genuinely thoughtful film with a cool soundtrack","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw Fandango in 1990 on BBC2 by chance and as I knew I  would be out part of the night I also recorded it. In the end I never went out but it was fate that I got to see and also record one of my favorite films of all time. How this film has never made it to DVD or video release is beyond  me, but hey who am I. I'm not American and I never went to Vietnam but this film really hit a cord with me especially at a time when the world was going to war with Iraq and people genuinely thought that if it turned into a holy war we would eventually get drafted. I thought this was by far one of Kevin costners best roles as the cocky Gardner Barns who genuinely cared about his friends and what might happen to them, so before they go off to war they go and find a bottle of champagne who they have christened DOM which is their last link with youth and the good times they shared. It is a very subtle and poignant film and the characterization is played superbly. There are some extremely funny moments in this film especially the sky diving scene together mixed with very thoughtful and endearing moments one in particular when Phil shakes Doormans hand and they say goodbye to each other for the last time. All this along with a wonderful sound track by Pat Matheny and Lyle Mays made this a film I cannot speak highly enough of. Go and see it and also by all Pat Mathenys work which I have. Incidentally everyone who I have ever shown this film to have thoroughly enjoyed it and asked where they can get it, alas I could not help with their request.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful.  Absolutely Wonderful.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Love it - Even tho it's hard to say exactly WHY...It might be the fantastic soundtrack, the great shots, the skydiving scene, the wedding scene that makes me cry, the use of 'Can't Find My Way Home by Blind Faith (one of my favorite songs) -- but this film is in my top 5 of all time.Occasionally you have to suspend your disbelief to the point of it being painful, but the honesty, the great acting, and the unpretentious feeling of the film and the actors completely draws me in every time.Go rent or buy it. Now. If you ever wanted to throw away all of the pressures and responsibilities of life, only to find yourself choosing to go back to them, you'll love this movie. "}{"Title":"Really good and evidently underrated","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie as a young, nine or ten year-old impressionable kid, so there are some sentimental attachments to this. This movie is very clever. As a comedy, it's amazing; some of the ideas (the parachute scene, for example) are absolutely genius. On top of all this is an amazing soundtrack, in which each song fits each scene eerily beautifully. When I first saw this movie I had just started guitar lessons and was leaning toward hard rock. This movie turned me on to some other heavy, tear-jerker type songs in It's too late (Carole King) and Can't find my way home by Blind Faith. Beautiful stuff. One of the few Elton John songs I like, Saturday night's alright as well as Spooky are perfectly placed. But nothing is placed as perfect as Pat Metheney's It's for you. Now, I was a hard rocker and had only heard of Metheney when I saw this. This tune is so beautiful and haunting on it's own, and where it is in the movie, I almost dare you not to cry. Someone I know thought the movie was also sad, so it'ts unique. I would still classify it as a comedy more than anything. Funny stuff. "},{"Title":"Unknown and underrated classic","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fandango is set in 1971, at the height of the Vietnam War. Four friends are about to graduate college, and they decide to go off on one last adolescent adventure to celebrate their years of friendship. Led by the charismatic Gardner Barnes (Kevin Costner, in probably his best performance ever), they zig-zag across Texas, slowly heading for the Mexican border. Along for the ride is uptight ROTC nerd Phil Hicks (Judd Nelson, also terrific), Kenneth Waggener (Sam Robards), the mostly silent giant Dorman (Chuck Bush), and the fifth Groover (as the boys call themselves), Lester Griffin (Brian Cesak) who spends the entire film passed out.In watching the film last night for probably the twentieth time, I began to see why it's had such a hold on me since I first saw it nearly twenty years ago. Reynolds here (he wrote and directed) is a master of the defied expectation, the set up with the unexpected punchline. When the boys run out of gas in the middle of nowhere (pretty much literally), Gardner comes up with the hare-brained scheme of trying to lasso the car onto a moving train. Only at the very last second, with the tension mounting, the steel tow cable pulling taut, does Gardner turn to the others and say. How are we gonna stop? I won't ruin the joke (the end result is hysterical), but it's moments like this &#150; as if the greatest concern in barreling down the tracks tethered to a train is stopping &#150; that help make Fandango the gem that it is.But on top of a funny story, Reynolds knows how to hit the emotional notes too. The guys are on a last lark, but they know it; they know their lives will change forever (mainly because they're all going off to war, except Dorman) and they're utterly aware of that fact. Reynolds uses this set up not only to comment on the bonds of friendship but also on the war itself; one particularly chilling scene, again, a trick twist, has the guys shooting off fireworks in a cemetery with a few local girls. Hilarity ensues until Gardner and Waggener fall over a fresh grave, a nineteen-year-old soldier who just lost his life in Vietnam. Looking back over their shoulders, the pall of smoke and flashes of explosives now no longer stand for merriment, but obviously as a metaphor for the war. I don't think I can do it, Waggener admits. Then don't, Gardner advises.The characters are exceptionally well defined. Gardner, whom Phil rightly calls 'Peter Pan' is self-centered, charming, and funny, but rather than shallow, Reynolds imbues him with a sadness and a depth that jokester characters don't often get. Costner plays the role with the perfect light touch, never allowing Gardner to get sentimental or emotional, except once, when circumstances absolutely demand it. Nelson's Phil Hicks is, as the others assert, an uptight weenie, but he wears his patriotism and responsibility proudly. The movie could have easily been all anti-war, and it largely is, but Phil provides an alternate view on the main subtext of the film, enriching both the story and the other characters. Waggener is cast in a sketchier relief than the two poles that tug on him in the film; he wants to follow Gardener's admittedly selfish ways, but the demands of society weigh on him too, and Phil knows it. Dorman, who says maybe ten words in the film, is nonetheless well rounded, and Bush does a great deal with very little.No film I love this much would be complete without a romance, and this one is told with such economy and such deftness that it's almost too subtle. The Girl (she's never named in the film, played by Suzy Amis), as we see, was once Gardener's, but something, it's not important what, happened, and how she's with Waggener. This backstory is presented in two quick dream sequences, both Gardener's, and we are told almost nothing, and yet we know exactly what happened. This plot comes to fruition in a powerful way at Waggener's wedding, which Gardner helps stage in a comical fashion, when finally Waggener forces Gardener and The Girl to dance. This happens in the final few minutes of the film in a brilliant marriage of sound and visuals. Set to Pat Metheny's It's For You, all of Gardener's regret and longing come pouring out as they dance. Indeed, the last few minutes of the film have no dialogue at all; we see the entire wedding and the bittersweet dance to nothing but music, and while Gardener is dancing, the rest of the crowd fades away until it is just he and The Girl. Only when their dance is over, and Gardener watches her retreat, do the crowd noises filter in again. It's a masterful, subtle, but very emotionally powerful piece of film-making.I've rambled on long enough about this movie. Even watching it last night I saw a few new things in the film that I had never noticed before. Not tiny little details now that it's blessedly on widescreen (for years I suffered with a full-screen VHS copy), but emotional turns and even a plot motivation (which was probably always obvious to everyone else, but I can be thick sometimes). Fandango is an incredibly deft piece of film-making, and it deserves to be far better known than it is. Subtle, funny, touching, even poignant, this is a road trip you really ought to take. "},{"Title":"Great find!","Date":"16 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I actually was one of the dozen or so people that saw this film at the theater. I was a senior in high school so the timing was perfect to appreciate this movie. I have probably seen the film 40 times and still enjoying letting it run n the background when I am working at home on the weekends. It is truly a guy flick but even can appreciate the interaction between the characters. With most of the boys in the film slated to be shipped to Vietnam they are looking for one last Hoorah before there push into adulthood and possible demise. If I could change one thing about the film it would be the very last 5 seconds of the film. You have to see it to understand.Definitely Costner's best performance. This was back in the day when he was still hungry and not so caught up in the business. In the film he is reckless and short-sighted and carries the movie to the very end. Judd Nelson plays the friend in the group you always wanted to punch in the nose. But his constant negativity and whining are a perfect foil to Costner and the friction between the two is great.The soundtrack is fantastic. The scenery shot in south Texas is beautiful (I am a Texan born and bred so I am partial).I think it is an amazing early film for the director and I was quite surprised to read that Spielberg wanted nothing to do with the finished product.I actually bumped into Brian Cesak, who played the comatose Lester Griffin in the film, one night at a bar. Unfortunately for him I was drunk and I cornered him with about 50 questions about the film. He is now a successful Chiropractor here in Dallas. Nicest guy you'd ever want meetHis total script went Well, listen, l'm gonna try and catch a ride with somebody. lt's been real. Call me sometime. Arthur Andersen in Dallas.For those of you that really love the film you should check out the Script online - script-o-rama.com. If you have seen the film as many times as I have you can hear the songs start at just the right point in the script (e.g Costner - How bout a Fandango?)As with all movies some will love this one and others will hate it. But if you have not seen it check it out for yourself.Another hard to find but cult classic film you should check out is The 9th Configuration with Stacy Keach. Good luck finding it. "},{"Title":"Gardener Barnes-champion of youth!","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In one of the great performances of all time Kevin Costner stars as the doomed,James Dean obsessed gardener Barnes.His future all but void as he finishes(not graduates)the university of Texas,Mr.Burns(as Truman Sparks calls him)assembles his crew of groovers for the last best road trip of their lives.The movie's loaded with suspension of disbelief flaws and overdone,kinda hackneyed symbolism.Take for instance,the skydiving sequence as an example of both.Or the fireworks shootout at the graveyard as an example of the latter.Or the impromptu wedding ceremony that closes the film...actually no.Completely unforgettable,that scene.When Gardener realizes his best friend really is marrying his one true love,that he really is past the best days of his life,wow.The unflappable Gardener tells Phil(Judd Nelson) at one prior point that all love mostly is,is thoughts.He'll never grow old enough to realize how wrong he is.what an amazing character,that you love with all his flaws.Just like this movie. "},{"Title":"A diamond in the rough!","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only people I know who have seen the great fun flick are skydivers. (You know what I am talking about!) Other then that I only get funny looks when I bring up great movies that nobody has seen.NOT A CHICK FLICK! It's a buddy-road-coming of age movie. Great character development with actors who seem to play themselves they are so convincing.Just rent it. Watch it by yourself with a 6 pack, preferably. Laugh yourself silly during the Truman Sparks detour. Feel the regret of the characters when they go their separate ways. Know that you have found the secret pleasure of having seen a great unknown movie. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated films of all times.","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Brilliantly acted road trip movie that uses understated humor to showcase the youth of the characters, while tackling the issue of the Vietnam draft. In this highly underrated film, five college friends set off on a road trip through Texas in the early 1970's. Two of them just received their draft letters and one of them has already enlisted. With only a few bucks, they decide to drive to Mexico to dig up a bottle of wine called Dom. Along the way they run out of money and must depend on the kindness of strangers, resulting in some of the funniest and most moving scenes of the movie. These five friends come to the realization that they they can't be carefree forever.Although the trip was meant as a way to run from their responsibility, they ultimately end up facing and embracing it. This one of Judd Nelson's best performances and also not typical of the roles he later was cast in. One of Kevin Costner's early films, and one of his best. The only unfortunate fact about this film is that it is severely under-appreciated. "},{"Title":"Fandango's Fantastic!!","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is probably my favorite movie of all time. Kevin Costner's roll of Gardner as a carefree rebel pays homage to legends such as Marlon Brando and James Dean of past. Judd Nelson is brilliant as a young ROTC student dying to become a soldier of war. My favorite part is when they arrive at the parachute jumping school. Truman is a such a great character that adds great comedy to the film. And who can forget the drunk they drag along with them. What, he might have 2 lines in the entire movie!? Awesome! It all comes to the beautiful wedding they conjure up out of nothing down in Mexico somewhere. If you have never seen this movie, you must see it! It is more of a guy flick, but I think females would still enjoy it also. It is a great road trip movie! Magnifico!!!!!! "},{"Title":"This movie has moments that really make it worth watching","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not a great movie, but a month after watching it you will recall about six scenes that you'll remember as outstanding. There is a reason for this that makes sense. The writer and director, Kevin Reynolds, originally produced it as a short film. Steven Spielberg loved it, and financed much of this movie to be a full length feature film. Problem is that the writer/director didn't have enough good ideas to last 90 minutes, and this is what we get. The same writer director never really worked out in Hollywood, after creating such un-memorable films such as Robin Hood, Prince of Thieves and Waterworld. Neither used Kevin Costner the way he was used in this film, and this film really suites him to a tee. Judd Nelson is also watchable as the ROTC Weenie. He plays a dork much better than the cool guy he tried to be later in his career.Again, not the best 90 minutes of your life..BUT...still worth it for the 30 minutes that are priceless. The film ends at a celebration that you'll know could only have been pulled off in Texas, especially if you are a native small town Texan. Looks like we gotta go dig up Dom.. "},{"Title":"The trip","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fandango is one of those hard films to review and rate. Half part of the footage is funny and entertaining, but the other half is just boring and pointless. How to analyze a film like that?When you're going to watch a movie involving single guys traveling around, you'd expect it to have lots of fun-- and probably parties with girls. But here things don't happen that well. The only enjoyable things these guys did was trying to get a ride from a train in movement-- which didn't work, but happened to be a funny scene-- and a parachute jump out. These, along with the car discussion scene, are the only moments that I felt entertained and interested in the story. The rest of the time I could barely pay attention to what was happening, since the plot was quite weak. There's one guy of the group of friends that doesn't even talk; her job is only drink and toast beer-- and show his big paunch. However, we have a feel good ending which reminded me of some friends I haven't seen in a while-- but that's another story. "},{"Title":"A Surprising Gem","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In 1985, the movie FANDANGO was released. It was headlined by a then- unknown Kevin Costner in his break-out role as the leader of a group of young Texan college graduates in 1971 when the U.S. was still in the war in Viet Nam. This is a road-trip movie and while I usually role my eyes at this genre (few are any good at all), I was pleasantly surprised by not only its winning outrageousness (involving parachutes and stoner pilots, among other things), but by its solid character development and deceptive wisdom. You can enjoy it on two levels a prototype for later extreme experience movies like THE HANGOVER and SIDEWAYS, or as a poignant ensemble piece that slowly pulls you into the somber predicament of these young men.As you can see, at the Internet Movie Database this movie has quite a cult following from film aficionados and those who were lucky enough to catch it in theaters when it was originally released. Unfortunately, the movie is not available on DVD, but some kind soul was nice enough to upload the entire work in 9 installments on Youtube. I strongly recommend going there and finding it by searching Fandango Kevin Costner.So sit back, grab a couple beers and some popcorn, and enjoy.Enjoy.P.S. -- Kevin Costner is at his best when he plays the mischievous jock in comedies (e.g., Tin Cup and Bull Durham). FANDANGO is no exception. "}{"Title":"Entertaining and moving road-picture on the end of youth","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There's nothing wrong with going nowhere, son. It's a privilege of youth I think this quote may best summarize Fandango, which gives much to think about, also in comparison to what is considered the first of all road pictures, Easy rider. The myth and the out of time fashion of these road trips along US highways, still today pulsing with sense of liberty, is an element of attraction for the public of every time, mainly if accompanied by some good and emotionally powerful music. Easy rider was set in the 60's, when the myth of liberty was at its height, it was the celebration of the hippie era, of an ideology and watching it after 40 years, conveys a sense of tenderness towards the ingenuity of these bikers going nowhere, believing in freedom from all constrictions but unconscious of what they were really looking for. Fandango is set in 1971 but shot in 1985, US and universal history have taught a lot of things, and what is evident there, mainly in contrast with Easy rider, is the deep consciousness of these mates, they perfectly know what they are looking for, they want to escape from what is hanging over their future lives, knowing that the myth of life on the road has lost all credibility. It is more a celebration of youth, of an age when you think that friendship and fun will last for ever, but you know that time must come to an end, and you need to do something, in this case an unforgettable road-trip, in order to postpone that end and escape from the forthcoming adulthood. Fandango, although extremely funny, almost irreverent, in situations and dialogues, leaves traces of deep nostalgia, and melancholia, pervaded as it is by such fear about life, in terms of responsibility, burdens, troubles. The skydiving adventure meant as the most extreme searching for life, and a desperate way to exorcise the coming of adulthood, is the most effective moment of the movie. Fandango shows some clichés, which however are part of this kind of movies, it is deeply American in the passionate way it celebrates life, freedom and the feeling of being born to be wild, through a strong visual impact. However, it is undoubtedly entertaining, moving, thought-provoking, and emotionally engaging really worth seeing, at least only for the wonderful locations, which frame very good performances, mainly a young and deserving Kevin Costner. "},{"Title":"And to think that it was directed by the man behind Waterworld...","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" On one level, Fandango may just seem like another nostalgia piece - in this case focusing on some college students in 1971 Texas. But it certainly has its moments. Kevin Costner and Judd Nelson make the most of their roles. If the movie has any problem, it's that it paved the way for director Kevin Reynolds to direct Kevin Costner in the brainless Waterworld (which itself paved the way for - gulp - The Postman).But one can ignore those and just bask in the fun here. You just may want to experience what the movie portrays. Also starring Sam Robards and Glenne Headly.So, Scaramouche, Scaramouche, will you watch this Fandango? "},{"Title":"Not great but for some reason I watch it over and over.","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Many memorable scenes but what keeps me coming back to watch this is the mood created by the director. Terrific opening shot scored to a Stones tune really captures the celebratory mood of a graduating class. I imagine that because I watched the movie when I was graduating that I felt more in tune with the characters than most people.Judd Nelson is perfectly cast as the nerdy but likable smart guy and Costner's spin as the Quixotic leader is endearing. The best scene in the movie is when they arrange a wedding in a small town and have a huge bash without any money at all. Costner simply places a chair in a courtyard and tells three old men that he's setting up for a wedding reception and they offer to bring him a couple more chairs. Then an old lady has some lights - all of a sudden there's a band, a bar and and a priest. A beautiful and timeless scene that wraps up a simple and beautiful little movie. "},{"Title":"We gotta go dig up Dom.","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I recommend this film to everyone. Although the idea is simple, the film is very deep with sub plots and even hints of sub themes. I don't want to be scene specific, but each segment could have been its own movie and yet it all flows smoothly. I've gone on a few road trips recently and this film is ever present in my mind- though I don't have quite the trip that the Groovers had (and I wouldn't expect to). This is an amazing first feature for director Kevin Reynolds. Reynolds is, in my opinion, our most stylish director. A glimpse of Reynolds' style that would dominate his later work is sprinkled on and after many screenings, I don't think I've caught everything. And that is exciting. The stylish - stop/go loud/and then quiet again - aspect of Waterworld, the loyalty and conflict among friends theme from The Count of Monte Cristo, and the camera that won't stop moving in Robin Hood Prince of Thieves have roots to some degree in Fandango. After years of waiting for it to come out on DVD, I'm glad that it finally has, and that it will reach a wider audience. "},{"Title":"The wedding scene along is worth it...","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've heard this called a comedy or a college buddy movie, and maybe there's elements of both, but at the same time, Fandango is full of wistfulness and emptiness, and genuine moments that rarely appear in hollywood flicks.The last part of the movie, where Costner's character bluffs an entire city into staging a wedding for his ex girlfriend and her fiance is worth the price of admission.Magical is all I can say.  Best acting Costner's ever done, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Coming of Age Film (spoilers)","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand why Warner Bros hasn't released this film on DVD. What are they waiting for? I sure there will be spoilers in this so beware. I remember renting this movie back in 1985 because the video store clerk said it was like BREAKING AWAY so I grabbed it with my other rentals not knowing what a gem I'd found. Let me tell you, it's much better than BREAKING AWAY and I love that movie too.FANDANGO is a Vietnam Conflict-era film that isn't about Vietnam. The war is foremost on the characters' minds. The Groovers, as the small circle of University of Texas friends call themselves, venture off on one last road trip to Mexican border -- to rendezvous with a long lost friend. Barnes is probably the only Groover that realizes the tribe will probably part ways after this adventure and possibly never see each other again.Of course back then I never read opening or closing credits of movies and I thought that the antihero Gardner Barnes was played by Dennis Quaid, who starred in BREAKING AWAY. I'd soon discover that Kevin Costner played that cowardly streetwise rascal and played him well. With a friend like Barnes, who needs enemies? You should hate Barnes but you won't. At the end of the movie he puts aside his self-centeredness and does the right thing in one aspect. Whether he fights for his country remains to be seen.This movie has is all. It's a comedy. It's a drama. It's a romance. It's action and adventure movie. And it's mostly definitely a coming of age movie. When I hear my female friends or coworkers say, I'll never understand men's lack of commitment. And I tell them, You need to watch FANDANGO. It may help you.Kevin Reynolds wrote and directed a real classic with real classic characters, 1971 was a great year to be alive. A time oozing with history, music and adventure. I loved the Stone Soup scam the Groovers pull off in the end. And going nowhere is the privilege of youth -- but only in the good ol' U.S.A. "},{"Title":"Personal Nostalgia POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A Handshake, a wide-shot of a small town, a toast and a Freeze-FrameThese are basically the last few moments of Fandango. A movie that was brought to my attention when a British magazine listed it as Quentin Tarantino's favorite coming-of-age picture. Up until then I never heard of it, and I was curious about another of Costner's pre-No-Way-Out pre-Untouchables outings.So I watched the movie sometime in the mid-nineties, and it really stuck with me. I even bought the laserdisc, meaning there's a definite attachment to the flick on my part, and the above mentioned final moments of the movie kind of capture the essence of what nostalgia means (at least to me).Something about heartfelt human-interactions, at a place where time moves a lot slower, a grateful toast to things past and the ultimate dream of capturing those moments forever, combined with the harsh reality that it is impossible to do so (i.e. the freeze-frame).Almost as impossible as creating all those elements in the space of a few shots, but this movie did it. I tip my hat Mr. Reynolds. "},{"Title":"I thought I was the only one that loved this movie","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of my top 5 movies of all time.  I caught it on cable late one night about 10 years ago and fell in love with it.  I just watched it again this weekend after not seeing it for a while (even though I have it on tape).  This movie was both haunting (the graveyard fireworks/Vietnam premonition) scene, touching (the daydreams of Gardner and his lost love), and funny (of course the Truman scenes). I had worked on a computer implementation scenario at work for a recruiting project.  I named by recruiter Gardner Barnes (of course no one got it).  Even though I was born in 1970 some of favorite songs now are Spooky, Too Late & Can't Find My Way Home (and the 15 Pat Metheny CDs that I have). And to close with one of the best movie lines ever - What happened to your car?  You're drinking it! "},{"Title":"Fandango - a slow to quick dance in 3/4 time.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is hands-down the BEST road trip movie ever.  Judd Nelson does a great job along with the rest of the cast.  This movie is about 5 college friends (The groovers) from Austin, Texas who after graduation in 1971 embark on a road trip to see their friend Dom.  There have been a lot of really good 'road trip' movies, but this tops even Thelma and Louise. "},{"Title":"Best thing TBS ever played...","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The first time i saw this movie was like 3 years ago on a rainy afternoon. I was scanning some channels and it was on TBS (which usually plays really bad movies.. ie. Olsen Twins..Three men and a little baby) that i saw this amazing movie about some college kids in Texas. The movie has some really memorable and sobering scenes that remind me of my last summer days before college. If you have the time and the 3 bucks to rent it.. i guarantee you'll like it. "}{"Title":"A film that sticks with you","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fandango is one of my all-time favorites.  Probably because it has stuck in memory after fifteen years.  I first watched this film when I was still in college and it 'clicked' with the way I felt about graduation and entering the real world (although I did not have to worry about the Vietnam draft). This film has that humor that is dry or subtle at times and, then, silly at other times.  It is one of those 'sleeper' films that did not make it into a lot of theaters but was picked up by the newly emerging Amblin (Steven Spielberg).  I believe it started out as a college thesis film and further developed into a mass-market movie.  It is unadulterated by the big buck movie industry which is why it is so refreshing, especially for a comedy. Give it a try...if you can find it. "},{"Title":"Simply my favorite movie of all time...","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fandango is, for me, the perfect movie.  Kevin Costner and Sam Robards are incredible as former Texas college students about to head to Viet Nam, both in love with the same woman.  This movie is about their last road trip to Mexico before heading to boot camp, and the many serious and hilarious life decisions that must be made.  I've found that people who see this film for the first time either completely love it or are indifferent to it.  I think it totally depends on the connection the viewer makes with Barnes and/or Waggener, and whether you faced similar crossroads in your own life, like winning or losing at love, facing your fears or running, or getting the gang back together for one final round of margaritas at Chata Ortegas. "},{"Title":"What a great great movie!!","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie rocks.  It's as good today as when I first saw it in the mid eighties.  A great road-movie with heart.  If you watch the whole movie and you aren't touched by it at some point, then I feel sorry for you, because you must have missed out on something in your life.  A must see for anyone who has had close friends, who has been in love, or who feels occasional pangs for the frivolity of youth. You only live once... make it worthwhile.... "},{"Title":"Fantastic!  Fantastic!  Fantastic!","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Never written a review on a movie before, but Fandango definitely breaks the mold. The characters, music, scenery, locations, and plot are absolutely spectacular.In a nutshell, Fandango is story of friendship, camaraderie, loyalty, lost love, overcoming fears, taking responsibility, growing up, and saying goodbye.I never get tired of seeing this movie, it contains life lessons applicable to all of us. Buy the DVD and share it with others - they will thank you for it.Also, sometime in your life I highly recommend you take a road trip through West Texas (Midland/Odessa, Monahans, Pyote, Marfa, Alpine, Marathon, San Elizario, El Paso, and Big Bend National Park) - you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"An undiscovered gem... BUY ONE!","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just a couple of days ago, I made the truly wonderful discovery that one of my all time favourite movies had finally been given a DVD release.My immediate reaction? About Bloody Time!!! (even if the release wasn't in the UK - time to get importing from the US...) I can't describe to you the impact that this film had on me the first time I saw it, when it was broadcast by BBC2 in the UK way back in 1989.Others here have covered the basic premise in depth, so I won't recover old ground. I'll just cover a few points which might tell you what this film has meant to me over the years.1. I have never seen a film which reflects so well the realisation that hits you when you realise that your life is about to change forever, and there's nothing you can do about it 2. The way in which Fandango portrays the breaking up of a group of friends who think that their camaraderie is indestructible has never been bettered.3. As an indictment of the horror and futility of war, Fandango does a better job than many films which have addressed the subject directly. Fandango's message will stay with you long after you have ejected the DVD.4. Neither Kevin Costner or director Kevin Reynolds have ever been better (Robin Hood Prince Of Thieves? No way!) 5. Few films have the ability to make me laugh and cry in equal measures like this one does.6. There are very few films which stand up to repeated viewing for me. The DVD release of Fandango couldn't have come at a better time as my 16 year old recorded copy is definitely on its last legs.7. It has the best soundtrack of any film to have not had a soundtrack album.8. It had an indescribable something which I can't put my finger on which keeps me coming back for more.9. Judd Nelson shows why he is one of the most underutilised talents of the last 20 years.My only caveat with the DVD release is a lack of extras. I would have loved to have seen Kevin Reynold's student film Proof, which provided the template for Fandango... However, just to have a copy of this underrated film on shiny disc at last has really made my day! "},{"Title":"A Desert Fellowship?","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Despite what a previous viewer had written, even women can enjoy Fandango. I'm one of them.The story is set in 1971, during that despicable Vietnam war. Five college buddies (one of whom you never see much of as he is passed out for nearly all of the journey) known as the Groovers, most of whom are a bunch of pretty wild, carefree guys, are ready for just one final adventure before the group disbands and goes their separate ways. They're off to the desert to dig up 'Dom,' which symbolizes the beginning and end of the Groovers. Their adventure into the desert forces some pretty tough realizations about themselves and their futures. Kevin Costner is the leader of the group, Gardner Barnes. And for him, life is just a party. Judd Nelson is Phil Hick's, a real nerd and a nagger as he is the group's overactive superego. Sam Robards is Kenneth Wagner, a quiet indecisive guy who makes a habit out of avoiding responsibility. Chuck Bush, my favorite Groover, is Dorman, a large quiet guy with a great sense of humor. And, lastly, there is Lester (Brian Cesak) who appears mostly as the guy dozing on the backseat dash.The Groover's desert adventures/life's lessons are pretty zany and make the movie absolutely hilarious. And that goes triple for the scene where the Groovers bet Phil Hicks, straight-laced rule abider, to jump out of a plane and prove that he is not a giant Weenie. His pilot is one of the funniest characters in the whole movie -- a sincere pothead named Truman Sparks, who is the parachute school teacher. I think it's the best sequence in the whole movie. All the while, the Groovers know this is going to be their last chance at pure fun as two have been drafted (Gardner and Ken) and one enlisted (Phil) into that damned deathtrap, the Vietnam War, which appears to be a constant reminder every step of the way of the Groover's adventures.It was a funny movie the second time I saw this movie. I never liked it much the first time around because I don't really like Kevin Costner movies. I thought he did a fine job here as charming Gardner Barnes. "},{"Title":"More than a mere film.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Quite simply the best film I've ever seen and as someone mentioned earlier, the `perfect' film.  I've never known a film to captivate me to such a degree, and by the time Kevin Costner holds aloft his farewell beer at the end, you feel as though you're saying goodbye to a lifelong friend.  There are so many scenes throughout which seem so uncannily familiar that its almost eerie, yet so comforting to watch. In those final few minutes, you're treated to some of the most beautiful scores that you could possibly wish to hear, a handshake that could tell a thousand words, and a stunning landscape which is the final destination for a group of friends who make the perfect combination.  This will always be more than just a film to me.  It's a key to unlock all those wondrous emotions that you once experienced many moons ago.   "},{"Title":"Pretty good...","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I never heard of this film until my college roommate told me to check it out. I didn't find the movie overly hilarious in its humor department or overly dramatic in its drama sections BUT I really enjoyed this movie. It's entertaining enough where I didn't feel robbed watching it and it will definitely be a movie I will watch again.The story is fun and interesting, Kevin Costner is great in his role and, for a directorial debut, it's pretty damn fantastic.The movie has its obvious problems but I never found them to be to distracting from the heart of the story that involved some friends trying to escape the reality of being drafted into a war that will forever be remembered as the one where Lt. Dan lost his legs.Despite some issues, the movie is fairly decent and even has some pretty cool airplane stunts in it that would, in today's age, probably be achieved with computer effects. Overall, I enjoyed this one. "},{"Title":"Here's to us and the privileges of youth!","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Touching, funny and bittersweet like those good memories of a time we know it'll never come back, Fandango is one of those small films who greater in experience and in creating delightful and enjoyable moments, rewards us with valuable lessons and fun sequences together. A movie with all those virtues should be more known. Even if the path traveled by writer and director Kevin Reynolds isn't one so original and very reminder of memorable classics from the 1970's (there's so much of The Deer Hunter and American Graffiti in this), it's still a great film to be seen time and time again.In 1971, a bunch of good friends is trying to have one last blast before going to Vietnam and deal with the unknown that surrounds their lives, not only when it comes to go to a war but also with their relationships, their friendship, and the hardest transition of growing up, leave college and the crazy days of parties behind, facing responsibilities and set a goal for themselves. Led by the wild and rebellion Gardner (Kevin Costner, in one his earliest leading roles), the group - composed with the serious Philip (Judd Nelson), Kenneth (Sam Robards), Dorman (Chuck Bush) and the stoned/practically absent Lester (Brian Cesak) - heads down to Mexico where it was decided that at least two of them will desert from their military duties. While they don't get there, it's time for having fun, doing stupid things (as evidenced by the title right at the beginning, Fandango not only is a Spanish dance but also a foolish act) or thinking about the haunting future that awaits for them. Above all enjoying, as they say, the privileges of youth. One of the craziest ideas revolves on a proof of courage where Philip, the most whining and frightened member of the group, will have to participate, which is skydiving, supported by an airhead pilot (Marvin J. McIntyre). Not only this part is the most thrilling and the most unforgettable of the whole film but it's also was the one that took this project way up high when it was presented on a short film directed by Reynolds in 1980, seen by Steven Spielberg, who green-lit and expanded the idea for a feature film. Genial move but too bad he wasn't patient enough to see what the film would become (Spielberg, for whatever reasons, asked to have his name removed from the film). I think this has a heart and soul that overcomes its problems, its heavily clichéd moments, managing to be one great and beautiful project. Similar contemporary films don't have the touch this had in presenting all of its analyzed themes. They're too loud, ridiculous and overworked. Reynolds and his team of actors seem to be offering little but that's not the case; it's small things that become greater, rich and expansive in our hearts and minds. More than just one view is recommended, trust me, you'll get different reactions and sensations while seeing this. A tiny and somewhat pointless complaint of mine is that Fandango should go a little longer, developing a bit further the relationship between Kenneth's girl (Suzy Amis) with Gardner (seen through flashbacks or dreams, it's not quite clear that). A special mention must be made to the fantastic soundtrack, both Alan Silvestri themes and the selection played throughout the boys adventures with classics from Cream, Carole King, Elton John (Saturday Night's Alright For Fighting in the opening titles when the group starts their trip - though it suits well the scene it's quite a goof this music inclusion in it), Steppenwolf and Blind Faith, just to mention a few. Memorably impressionable, a true underrated gem from the 1980's that must be seen. This is special. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Journey To Adulthood","Date":"5 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five Texas college dudes head out in 1971 for the deserts of Mexico in an old Cadillac. The guys call themselves the groovers.Fandango offers the Baby-Boomer generation a bit of nostalgia toward their own college days, reflections about Vietnam, and the attendant cultural turbulence so characteristic of that era. As such, the film's tone trends sentimental and melancholy, despite the overt ruckus the guys kick up.Their road adventure is a metaphor for an unknowable and scary passage through life. Their Mexican destination symbolizes their expectation of success, American style. The first ten minutes remind us of the chaos and high-jinx in Animal House (1978). After that, it's off into the wilds for one last joyride.Though the underlying premise is deeply thematic, the characters are not especially likable. They exhibit a lot of stupidity; their personalities are irritating; and the actors who play these guys overact.The desert landscape renders pleasing visuals. And the group's adventure at a rundown, tacky-looking parachute school out in the middle of nowhere is moderately funny. Here, they become students once again, but this time they are under the dubious tutelage of a flighty hippie instructor named Truman, who explains to them how to jump, using inane technical jargon while writing gibberish on a makeshift chalkboard.I wish the characters had been more likable, and their adventure a little more realistic. Still, the story and accompanying themes are intense and valid. And if you're in the proper nostalgic mood, Fandango can be quite a trip. "}{"Title":"Awkward Dancing.","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Five University of Texas fraternity brothers (led by Kevin Costner, Judd Nelson, and Sam Robards) hit the road in 1971 to deep West Texas for one last fling before their college careers end and for some possible combat in the Vietnam War looms. Muddled and somewhat confusing effort from a very young Kevin Reynolds as Fandango stumbles around awkwardly from its opening scenes and all but collapses with forced attempts at humor and drama ala George Lucas' American Graffiti. The performers seem as lost as those behind the camera with Costner doing all he can to salvage the final product. A late jolt of energy nearly saves the movie, but even the final resolution seems a bit disjointed and really does not fit in well with what was seen to get to that point. Only for die-hard Costner fans, others are advised to stay away. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Fundango","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a gem I accidentally caught on cable one night. Well, sort of. I tuned in at about 20-30 minutes into 'Fandango' and watched about 15 minutes of it, enough to rent from net-flix and of course, watched the entire movie. I'm amazed on how little it made (per boxofficemojo.com ) as it really was a good movie. A very pre-'Thelma & Louise' (note road trip, on way to Mexico, running from something, and of course the car and location &#x96; Texas) and pre-'The Hangover' (note guys who don't want to grow up, drinking, getting into trouble, seeking adventure and 1 member out for nearly the length of the film), 'Fandango' follows 5 boys/men for a weekend getaway (almost literally) in Texas, after some being drafted to Vietnam in the early 1970s. Each with their unique personalities, everyone did a great job of acting and showing depth. The one impractical stand out was Costner and as young as he looked in this film (1985), it reminded me of the film coming out later in the year &#x96; 'Back to the Future' with Michael J Fox certainly not looking the age they're portraying. But aside from that, it was interesting enough learning about these young men, wants, needs and growth. The best and most humorous of the bunch, was Bush's barely-a-word-spoken character Dorman who seemed just along for the ride. For about 90% of the film, you really feel you're with them for the ride. (Spoilers) The only unfortunate downfall of the film was the highly unrealistic closing involving a Carrot-Top flight/chase scene and an entire town involved in a surprise wedding. Also, regardless of the time it was set/produced, it thoroughly all but encourages drinking and driving, or even smoking pot while flying. Humorous, perhaps, but still not a good advertisement. "},{"Title":"Nice film...","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you liked Kevin Costner in Tin Cup and (to a degree) Bull Durham, this movie is where those characters were born. It's a raw buddy film that nicely shows the desperation of young men who can see the ending of an era rapidly approaching. They are forced to decide if their college persona will define them for the rest of their lives. While you have to like Gardner (Costner) and get caught up in his charms, you clearly see his tragic flaw. He is Peter Pan and the other Groovers are the Darling children. He can't grow up and is consequently headed for a life much harder than his obvious intellect and natural leadership qualities could otherwise offer him. There are some funny scenes, some painful scenes, and several extremely poignant scenes. In the end, choices are made and the era comes to a somewhat unceremonious end. By the way, toward the end, some of the music from Pat Metheny's album, As Falls Wichita, So Falls Wichita Falls makes a perfect cameo.Finally, if you watch this film, and you're under 40, you better not be much under 40&#133; "},{"Title":"A great film starring Kevin Costner.  No, really!","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A group of friends on the threshold between college and their careers take one last road trip before saying goodbye.  On the way, there a few thrills and spills, some great slapstick gags and some genuinely touching life lessons.The highlight for me has to be the encounter between the car and the train.  An all-time great comedy moment, as a result of which I more or less missed the rest of the film, I was laughing so hard.Far from earth-shattering, but a pleasant way to pass the time.  Amazingly, Costner adds to, rather than subtracts from, the experience.   "},{"Title":"A rather wistful take on the whole frat boy thing","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Much better than the summary might suggest. Good performances, great script and and an enduring message about friendship that stays with you long after the final credits have finished rolling. Top. Apparently I need to add further comment watch it. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite movies.  Not only is it hilarioius (see if you can find the scene where Kevin Costner plays basketball off the fat guys head), it gels many issues like coming of age, being drafted (the vietnam war), lost loves, and friendship.  Really enjoyed and highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Still my favorite movie,","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Good cast, story, and music.  This was my first introduction to the music of Pat Metheny and Lyle Mays.  I have lent my tape to several friends who have also enjoyed the movie.  Wish it would come out on DVD before I wear out the tape.   "},{"Title":"Funny and poignant","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This treasure can be hard to find, but worth the while of anyone who does. A great up-and-coming cast (including a very young Kevin Costner) collectively delivered performances that were funny and poignant. You don't have to have grown up in this era to appreciate this movie! "},{"Title":"Costner's finest bar none","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A secret passion, as much for Costner's career-defying performance (give him a baddish guy to play - cf Silverado - and he can be quite compelling) as forJudd Nelson (in non-superbrat role shock); the all-but catatonic would-be priest; the delicious use of Pat Metheny's music in the marriage/dance scene; and finally, in that same fandango twixt Kev and Suzy Amis, the finest melding of dance, romance and music it has ever been my privilege to witness on a screen. And to think Reynolds went on to make Prince of Thieves...a tragic waste of two talents. "},{"Title":"arguably Kevin Costner's only good movie","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Forget what Kevin Costner has become of late. Try, if you can, to forget such hideous aberrations as Waterworld and The Postman. Try, instead, to remember Dances With Wolves--and Fandango. This is the pre-Hollywood Costner, back when he was leaner (literally) and hungrier (figuratively). Fun, funny road trip flick has a surprisingly beautiful ending. I'll never listen to Pat Metheny's As Falls Wichita, So Falls Wichita Falls CD again in quite the same way, not after director Kevin Reynolds used some of the tracks so beautifully, lending the final scenes of the movie an aire of downright gorgeous melancholy. "}{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie really surprised me. It was both endearing, and funny, but also very deep at times. And Judd Nelson, of course, is my all-time favorite. I never knew he could play such a wonderful nerd. I think my favorite scene is where Phil(The Judd Man) Is in that piece of crud airplane, imagining what everyone will do when he lands head-first into the ground in cinders! Then to add to his anxiety, the pilot offers him a joint! Too funny..... I recommend it to Judd Nelson fans, and college guys. Heck, anybody can watch it, it's that good! *+*Anna*+*  "},{"Title":"The score makes the difference","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie first over 10 years ago, and the musical score still strikes me as the strongest component of the movie.I would agree with the posters who say the graveyard scene and the skydiving scene are strong, but the wedding scene, with the dance between Kevin Costner and Suzy Amis set to It's For You by Pat Metheny is by far the strongest emotional moment of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Classic Coming of Age Story","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the best Costner films ever (matched, if lucky, by only Tin Cup and Bull Durham).  It's almost as priceless and memorable as Animal House, Pretty in Pink, and Say Anything (among movies about 16-20 year olds)! "},{"Title":"Brings back memories of my youth","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As many others have expressed, this movie brings back my youth and thoughts of growing up in the 70's.  Although I wasn't in Texas at the time, I can still remember so many similar things that we did back then. I can identify with Dorman and his one liners. I am lucky to have found after looking for quite a while perhaps not hard enough and found the movie.  I can watch it and see things new all the time. Vietnam was an ever present place for me. I can remember so many things and people I knew who went, came back, but not all. If a remake is coming. I just hope that Kevin Costner and company really watch the movie again. Don't lose the feeling. "},{"Title":"Movie appeals on multiple levels","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fandango is a road trip film. No, it is a morality play. No, it's the updated stone soup fable. It is all of these things. It began life as a student film. Steven Spielberg saw it and financed a big screen version. The film's quirkiness has a freshness borne of much of it having been written on the fly. One rumor has it that the Dorman character (Chuck Bush) was written into the script when they met Bush working at a convenience store somewhere on the road to Texas. Scene after scene, the characters and dialog are well developed and richly drafted; the Pecos Parachute School sequence is HILARIOUS. The tagline, the privilege of youth, is used only once, and for those of us who were roughly their ages in the film's timeline (1971), there is a sharp edge of reality that shines through this work of fiction. Wonderful stuff. It was also the very first Kevin Costner film I'd ever seen. Go rent Fandango if you like to laugh and be uplifted! "},{"Title":"Background Of FANDANGO","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nothing I can add to all the previous comments on the greatness of FANDANGO. But I was in love with FANDANGO long before it was actually made as a feature. In the few places I can find any background text on FANDANGO, it says it was based on Reynold's student film, PROOF. But I know it titled as MONTEZUMA'S REVENGE. In fact, a friend used to have a 16mm print of MONTEZUMA's REVENGE that I first saw in his basement theater in the early 80's (Maybe even the late 70's) I have a crude video transfer from his print made in 1987. This film is about 20 minutes and is in black and white. In it, a group of guys start out playing cards and then decide to take a road trip to Mexico to see the Donkey Lady, with none of the graduation and wedding plot yet in place. This film is as wonderful in its own way as is FANDANGO. I've seen it a dozen times and couldn't believe when I discovered it had been remade as FANDANGO. I don't think any of the original cast of MONTEZUMA end up in FANDANGO. Music is just as important to MONTEZUMA as it is in FANDANGO, using LOGGINS AND MESSINA'S Just Before The News as it's theme. I too assembled a FANDANGO soundtrack of my own after the fact, along with getting the LOGGINS AND MESSINA track. I would like to hear from anyone else who has seen MONTEZUMA'S REVENGE.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorites with a great soundtrack.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was the first time I had seen Kevin Costner.  It still is my favorite of all of his films probably because it set the stage for showcasing his style of portaying a regular kind of guy.  I not sure if most would share this same impression if they have seen any of his more popular works prior to viewing this film.Great soundtrack also.  The Pat Metheny tunes near the end of the film really fit very nicely and added an extra dimension.  Hooking up the Steppenwolf classic with one of the Cessena scenes was pretty cool.    "},{"Title":"Brilliant road movie!","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is truly a gem of a movie. I caught it back in the mid-eighties on cable, and have been a fan ever since. It speaks many truths about coming of age, about one last fling before accepting the responsibilities of adulthood. A group of college buddies in Texas hit the road on a wild trip of adventure and discovery. The film resonates with the feeling of reaching a point in life which, once embarked upon, can never come again. I can't figure out why this film has not yet been released on DVD!! "},{"Title":"Nostalgic Sountrack that makes this movie one of the greatest","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This picture has one of the best movie soundtracks I ever listened, and It´s a shame that Warner Brothers they didn´t released the soundtrack. It´s unavailable! The best musical moments are the title credits at the beginning (Saturday Night´s Alright For Fighting by Elton John), the evening at the small Texas town (Spooky by The Classics IV) and the Wedding Dance at the end (It´s For You by Pat Metheny & Lyle Mays, from their CD ´As Falls Wichita, So Falls Wichita Falls´). In Italy, Wichita was also known as Fandango Soundtrack, but it was not true. "},{"Title":"Why so low?","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't really understand why this film gets less than a 6 rating and the comments about it being pointless. There are some truly hilarious scenes, including the sky-diving. But I think my favourite is the train and the car tow. And the scene in the graveyard with the rockets and the sudden change from fun to thoughts of war is spot on. The cinematography is great too - the desert scenes, the wedding and the scenes around the old Giant set, and the soundtrack is pretty good too and for once it is reflective of the exact time-setting of the movie. It all comes together to make a very likable and nostalgic movie and I think the only reason it is rated so lowly is because of it's unwarranted obscurity. "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you like the movie.....check out ultimate fandango.com and visit our chat site. We are planning Ultimate Fandango 2010 to tour the movie locations in West Texas on the 25th anniversary of the release. Come join us. I first saw this movie in 1986 and it is still my favorite movie today. I was raised in West Texas and have been to the locations where the movie was filmed. I have friends that were in and worked on the movie. There has been no better coming-of-age comedy made since we were introduced to Kevin Costner in Fandango. Judd Nelson also turned in his best career on-screen performance as an about-to-be-Army Lieutenant reluctantly providing the vehicle for The Groovers last road trip. The quest todig up Dom would seal forever these friendships and the privileges of youth they shared during their time at Texas University. Many flat out hilarious moments are provided in Fandango, along with some thought provoking and even chilling glimpses into young adult life in 1970's war torn America. See Fandango because you like great performances in a well done comedy. Watch it every few years just to remind you how much fun it was to be 22 years old when seeing past the day in front of you was completely optional. "},{"Title":"under-rated coming of age road trip movie","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Unlike the typical and hackneyed teenage or college losing your virginity, and party movies of the 70s and 80s, this movie has depth as well as humor and sophomoric behavior. With Vietnam looming in the near future, a canceled engagement, and the end of college, four diverse friends head out on one last Fandango in south Texas to have some fun on a road trip to their buddy Dom with no money, but find so much more in self discovery. The movie also boasts a wonderful soundtrack as well as a fine performance by Kevin Costner in one of his first roles. I highly recommend it to any college age film fans or anyone who remembers the 70s. "},{"Title":"This is a great film","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie many times over the years and it affects me every time I see it. I love the relationships between the friends. I love the conflicts between the friends. I love the look between the girl and Gardner. I think there is still a lot of love between the 2 of them and Gardner could probably take her from the friend. I think that says a lot about their friendship because I don't think he even considers it. Instead he plans a wonderful wedding for them. I still tear up at the end when Gardner raises the beer bottle and Blind Faith's Can't Find My Way Home begins playing. I think it is a great film about friends, love, and life. I would highly recommend everyone to see it. "},{"Title":"This movie got me into movies","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie back when there was only one HBO! I must have stayed up until the wee hours of the morning to watch this movie over and over when it was in heavy rotation. Everyone loves to rant about how great Costner is in this and they are correct...this role is Kevin Costner -- Dances with Wolves was terrible by comparison! However, this is Judd Nelson's best role, other than maybe The Breakfast Club. He is perfect as Phil and not to be a spoiler, but the climactic scene of his Born to Be Wild portion is the best.It's a road movie that you actually feel like you're part of. I wonder how many people followed their lead and had a DOM of their own after watching this? "},{"Title":"great funny/sad 80s flick","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a really great 80s film that ranks along with The Breakfast Club and The Sure Thing as my favourite from the era. The cast is outstanding from the stars to the smaller characters.Its one of those film that stands many repeated screenings and though it has dated it has dated in a good way and it really pulls at the heartstrings and gives you a great sense of fondness for the people involved.The ending is one of the finest point of the film and manages the very difficult task of being emotional without turning saccharine and this is without doubt (along with American Flyers)the film that started the carer of Kevin Costner and Judd Nelson who are both fantastic in this.The stand out funny moment would have to be the train scene witch is a masterful piece of build up with a very funny payoff.If you have yet to enjoy this its time to dig up Dom "},{"Title":"Something you may not have known.","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm in Dr. Korpi's Mass Comm class at Baylor University and he told us that one of his students Kevin Reynolds wrote a movie. (He keeps up with alumni projects) The movie is not based on UT... It's about Baylor. That kind of puts a twist on how you think of the movie and Baylor students. Everyone knows UT is a party school. Who would have thought Baylor kids were this wild?! Anyways, the reason they had to portray it as being based on UT in Austin was because Kevin Reynolds' dad was the President of Baylor at the time when the movie was made. We are currently writing an essay on the film involving whether we think Baylor students still act like this and whether we think it portrayed them correctly. Interesting. "},{"Title":"Top 5 Of My Favorite of all time!","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You know, there are movies that you can watch once and forget about, and there are movies that you can watch once, and never forget! This is definitely one of those movies and I personal can't watch it enough! It's one of my favorite movies and makes me feel better about anything that's going on in my life and the world. It's a great cinematic adventure that allows us to all experience the thrill of going somewhere with little expectations. I can think of movies like Stand By Me, The Big Lebowski & others that are considered Classics and throw this one in there. It definitely holds it's own and it's about time it's being released on DVD. My tape is almost worn out so this will be a great addition to my collection! I recommend this movie to anyone who just needs to get away from things. Instead of taking a vacation, watch this~ A great movie that is extremely underrated, a classic of the time and a film that will remain a classic and cult favorite forever. Enjoy it always! "},{"Title":"Outstanding film! Underrated here, for some strange reason","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this flick. Every other source I've seen on this movie has it rated much, much higher. While it certainly isn't Oscar material, it's an excellent little film with an exceptional soundtrack that includes the masterful work of Lyle Mays and Pat Metheny. The camera work is stunning. Anyone wistful over the one that got away will find this flick particularly satisfying.I have to agree with articles that suggest that this is possibly Judd Nelson's finest acting job. The then-relatively-unknown talents of Nelson, Costner shine as you really can see a hunger for acclaim and recognition.This film really should be a minimum of 8.5 out of 10. It's just that good.It will be better served on DVD.  "},{"Title":"After 25 years, this movies still holds up...","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm updating my review because since I first posted it in 2004, this movie has come out on DVD. This is still one of my top five movies of all-time. I'm such a movie fanatic that for me to narrow it down to five is like pulling teeth. But this sleeper of a movie is that good. Especially if you like road trip movies. Kevin Costner, Judd Hirsch, Sam Robards, Chuck Bush and Brian Cesak play the Groovers, Univerity of Texas graduates (well, four of them, anyway) that go on one last road trip to dig up Dom. They have adventures along the way and learn about themselves, each other and what true friendship really means. While this might not be considered an A film, it's easily one of the best (if not THE best) road trip or slice-of-life film ever made. IMHO, Kevin Costner gives the only unaffected acting job of his career but the rest of the cast is equally good. Chuck Bush and Brian Cesak don't get as much dialog as the rest of the cast, but there is no way this movie would be the same without their characters. The same goes for Marvin J. MacIntyre and Suzy Amis. Glenne Headly and Pepe Serna have small parts. This movie has a great soundtrack, not only with pop songs of the era, but especially with jazz instrumentals by Pat Matheny. I could go on and on about what a wonderful film this is. If only more road trip movies would follow this pattern. I'm not giving away any of the ending (sorry spoiler fans!) but I will say the ending is...well, right. It just wouldn't have been the same with a different ending. The DVD has some deleted scenes and a trailer. To reiterate some comments from my previous review, there are a few scenes in this film that belong in some type of unforgettable movie minutes hall of fame. Rent this, watch this and hopefully you will fall in love with film as I and many others have. "},{"Title":"Fun Fandango","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just plain fun.  It rocks with great music, funny scenes, and sinfully gorgeous Kevin Costner.  He is a dream.  I love the way he delivers in this movie.  I've watched it over and over and still enjoy it each time. 10**************out of 10***************!   "}{"Title":"a classic","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fandango is one of my favorite movies of all time.  It is perfect for anyone who enjoys taking road trips, drinking, and enjoying time with friends. There is a nice mix of comedy along with some underlying deepness about life.  Simply an enjoyable movie.  It also has a great soundtrack "},{"Title":"American Classic","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simply, this movie is pretty much perfect. Not overproduced, obviously; supremely written, directed, and filmed; wonderfully performed. An extremely entertaining story from start to finish, presented beautifully. The actors were perfect for their parts, and every scene was relevant to the story and enchanting in and of its own. I've had the pleasure of knowing some Texans who lived experiences such as these, and they tell me this film captures those feelings pretty accurately. "},{"Title":"This is a great film about friendship","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really like Fandango. It is a great film about friendship and it is very sweet. All the actors gave great performances, especially Judd Nelson. I enjoyed him in this one because he actually played a sweet and likeable character. His character Phil was great and it was so funny when he would always get picked on by his friends. Gardner Barnes (Kevin Costner) was funny and he was likeable. The only thing I didn't understand about this film was the character of Suzy Amis. What was that about? I know she got married to one of the buddies but why was Gardner thinking of her and him together? I don't know. Maybe I just wasn't paying that much attention. Anyways. One of the funniest scenes in this film is when Phil says Do you know what E means? Do you know what E means? It means EMPTY douchebag! Like your head! and the buddies attach a rope from Phil's Caddy to a moving train and it takes the whole front of the car off. I felt so sorry for Phil. But anyways. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and I am so glad I own it. Well, thanks for reading my review! Bye! "},{"Title":"One of the best road/buddies bonding flicks; Costner gem","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  FANDANGO (1985) ***1/2 Kevin Costner, Judd Nelson, Sam Robards, Suzi Amis. Great road movie with five recently graduated college pals out for one last hurrah before the reality of going to Vietnam and an unclear future. Winning performances and cocky dialogue keep the pace set as well as nicely handled direction by Kevin Reynolds.  Best scene fireworks in a graveyard eerily foreshadowing fate in 'Nam. "},{"Title":"best coming of age movies","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the best, most realistic coming of age movies. Some of Judd Nelson's and Kevin Costners best work. Highlights the differences between young foolishness and taking responsibility of your path in life. The jumping scene is a classic.  "},{"Title":"great road film","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i believe this is kevin costner's best film. it's a really touching and real account of three college guys faced with the terror of being drafted and how they deal with it. it's also a great study of peers having a last fling. emilio estevez is great as the bi-talking tough guy who can't wait to get there, while the others range somewhere else on the scale. i loved the character of truman - the pilot vet skydiver - a real hoot. this movie is a great insight into the dilemma of conscription and the rites of passage of youth. it is moving and funny and gets you looking within - a great movie! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Beautiful","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A road movie about five college buddie that actually works.  It feels like a film made in the 70's even though it was made in the 80's.  Probably that's because it's set in the 70's.  1971 in fact.  A great year for films (Dirty Harry, A Clockwork Orange) and a great year to set this coming of age tale in.  This is like a lot of filmmaker's first feature films before they sell out and become another cog in the Hollywood machine.  Hard to believe Kevin Reynolds went from this funny, beautiful, touching weird little comedy to big budget schlock like 'Robin Hood Prince Of Thieves'.  Isn't it time you made a REAL movie again, Kev?  Adios... "},{"Title":"One of the BEST moves EVER!","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm an official movie JUNKIE. I've seen Fandango at least a dozen times and still think it's one of the best movies ever made. It's in my top 5 pick. The reality of the 'Proximity Factor', as I call it, is right on. VERY real portrayal of the end of a friendship era. And just try to get through the train-pulls-car scene without laughing out loud!  "},{"Title":"Excellent 80's Flick with Costner at his best!  Bummer, huh?","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The soundtrack, the characters, the simple writing all add to a wonderful experience. Since I first saw this movie back in 1985 till today, everyone who has witnessed this movie has given it two thumbs up.There is a cult following to this movie and many have traveled around Mexico and Texas to find the exact sites where this movie was filmed.Although many sites are very obscure compared to the 1984 filming, people are great at digging up DOM and passing the travel information onto other followers of the movie.Boy I wish life was as honest as this movie is.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Split personality no brainer can't make up its mind","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fandango tells of a bunch of college buddies who take a last blast road trip before jumping headlong into adult life. The film is a concatenation of situations which run the gamut from comedy to romance to action to drama giving itself a disjointed feel while diluting its worth in any one genre. Entertaining nonetheless, Fandango will work best for young males audiences. "}{"Title":"Not a movie for the emotionally shallow, or the snob","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A friend recommended this movie shortly after its release. It was and still remains one of my favorite movies of all time. The musical score combines perfectly with each scene, making it the story flow from one emotion and memory to the next. Being from that era, it was like living snippets of my life all over again. From my perspective it has some of the funniest scenes I have ever seen. My friends and I have lived much of this movie! The graveyard scene, the wedding scene and the reunion with DOM, are etched forever in my mind, as they epitomized certain realities that all of us go through. I recommend this movie to everyone over the age of 45. It doesn't have the 3D effects and in your face conflicts that the youngsters require to enjoy a movie. There's nothing wrong with going nowhere son, its the privilege of youth Truer words have never been spoken.We must be raising our son correctly, at the age of 11, he loves the movie too! "},{"Title":"Best movie about young adulthood I've ever seen","Date":"23 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Criminally underrated. Apart from glamorizing some very reckless behavior in a few scenes (perhaps what Spielberg didn't like?), a movie with very few flaws. Great dialog, good laughs, a certain depth and resonance to the story, terrific visuals and one of the more affecting endings I've ever seen. Costner is at his best and most charismatic. A star being born. Amazingly, this was Judd Nelson before The Breakfast Club. Charming, haunting, smart and life-affirming in a way that rings true.This film captures something difficult to define. Highly recommended to everyone, but perhaps of greatest value to those on the cusp of adulthood. "},{"Title":"A Farewell Fandango For The Groovers","Date":"18 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Fandango is one of the best movies ever made. That statement is not fair or equitable, and people say it everyday. It is not just my favorite movie. I think Costner himself, if he were sitting here having a beer(or a root beer) would not even agree. Costner would probably say Dances. The Kevin Reynolds movie the review is about is a guy movie, that's probably the truth. They came up with a word or a phrase years ago for this kind of movie, coming of age. Five guys in Texas take off for the Mexican border on a last fling after college in '67, and the order of business is to find an old friend. They know where he is. I figured they must have kept up with him all this time because they know exactly where he is. I don't know how many times I have seen this, and at long last I have the widescreen DVD. I knew from the start, when I first saw Fandango, that I was going to like it. The song playing low in the background at the beginning was Badge by Cream. Gardner(Kevin Costner) was in a room throwing darts at a picture of himself and his ex-girlfriend Debbie(Suzy Amis). His buddy Wagner is about to marry the girl, but something happens and wedding plans fall through. Next thing I know, the Groovers are heading to Mexico in a blue Cadillac. Along the way they run out of gas, and Gardner is musing about old times. They try to hop a train in a most strange way, later run into some pretty young girls, and eventually Phil has to prove he is not a weenie. When the troop finally get to the Mexican border to where their old friend is, Wagner has made a romantic conclusion...he should have married Deb.Some nice flying in this movie. "},{"Title":"Gets better with age...","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ..and it was great when it came out. A friend recommended I see this film in 1988 and it has been one of my absolute favorites ever since. I think the magic of this film is the successful intertwining of mental-patient humor with very poignant scenes.I think I was expecting another Animal House ( A stellar movie in it's own right..) but it ends up being so much different and so much more. One of my favorite scenes is the 'tow the car behind the train'. Dorman's casual walk as the slack is taken up is genius. Throw in 'The Girl', laundry, Dom, the great soundtrack, airplanes, the wedding and it makes for a great movie.I'm not sure why this movie wasn't more successful when it came out but it seems to have a stronger following year by year. Also Costner's best film.An absolute must see. "},{"Title":"Above average, that's all","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As most people commenting here, I stumbled on this film while channel-hopping late one night, and I was pleasantly surprised. Sadly, that doesn't mean that Fandango is a good film, just that it was a cut above normal 3am-midweek fare, but in Mexico, the competition is rank awful.Fandango is a breezy coming-of-age roadmovie that barrels along at a decent pace, which ticks the boxes and holds the interest but slips too often into cliché and simplistic juxtaposition to deserve the over-heated praise I see in the rest of the comments. Just because a movie slips through the net, doesn't automatically make it a 10 star attraction! And yes, Kevin Costner does a decent enough turn, which is to say he isn't toe-curlingly bad as he becomes in his later films, but how far can you praise an actor for being bearable, for once? It's interesting to see that the movie was born from a shorter work, as this is how it comes across - a series of set-pieces that are internally too long and not strung together convincingly enough. Better editing would have made a more coherent story come together, as it is we are left with four engaging if one-dimensional characters forced to dance from one scene to another to the tune of the director's hard-ground organ.In summary, bright and breezy and yes, occasionally reflective, but unbalanced and unconvincing. "},{"Title":"Soundtrack and Costner stand out","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Soundtrack and Costner stand out Great film about post-sixties uncertainty, set in Texas. Clapton's Badge is the first song in the movie, which is perfect, but Metheny's magical material throughout the film really scores big. It's about college, growing up, friends, fun, crazyness, Vietnam, rock and roll. But the boys must now be men and leave in separate pathways, perhaps forever. A magical, wonderful movie, about a simpler time. Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"Greatest 15 minutes of skydiving ever filmed","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First and foremost, this is a mostly boring and dull movie.However, there is a scene about 15 minutes long where the character Mr. Hicks is coerced into making a static line jump out of a dilapidated Cessna. Forget, Drop Zone, Point Break or even the horrible Cut Away. (Which was produced by skydivers sigh)  The 15 minutes of skydiving in Fandango is the absolute most accurate protrayal of skydiving ever recorded on film. The person who shot that scene knew skydiving from the inside and knew it extremely well. Truman Sparks gives the entire first jump course in 30 seconds. Everything he says is accurate (however do NOT attempt to a skydive solely on watching this movie.) You can really tell the jumpers from the whuffos (non-jumpers) when watching this part of the movie.  The jumpers are rolling on the floor laughing, because they have been there and done that!Don't miss the skydive scene, but forget the rest of this forgettable movie.Blue Skies, Canopy FlyerIf you are living on the edge, you're taking up too much space. Skydive! "},{"Title":"Fun Fandango","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a lot of fun to watch.  It's hilarious, in fact.  The escapades of college men riding in an old ugly Cadillac with good music and a great story is the stuff great movies are made of.  And the oh, so good looking Kevin Costner!!!  The best thing about Fandango was him.  A ten plus all in all. "},{"Title":"A Great unknown gem!","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Back in the 80's when Kevin Costner was playing nice likeable guys. This one was a surprise for me, I first seen it on video back in 1987 and I loved it. True its a guy movie but its one that girls would like also, and it has one of my all time favorite lines from Judd Nelson I am not a WeenieCostners best roles was when he played likeable guys, but for some reason he has been playing guys with not much heart the past 8yrs and his box office reflects what people think. I hope he can get back to roles like this one. "},{"Title":"Kevin Costner's best work","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Awesome movie! In fact, one of the few Kevin Costner movies I can stomach. This movie is about a group of college buddies who reunite for one last blast before they have to run off and act like adults. Watch for the hilarious skydiving scene! "}{"Title":"Last Dance","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watch this movie at least once a month, well as Slapshot or Shawshank Redemption and every time I feel better about the hum-drum life I have. 5 friends (The Groovers) leave UTEXAS for a final roadtrip to abandon responsbility and the girl. They make their way southwesterly to dig up Dom down at Big Bend on the Mexican frontier, and for a wedding.Philosophically rich, ridiculously funny, dead serious and a better film than many because there's no Vanessa Redgrave skilled intonation, no acting here. The music and score of the film is great--especially in the opening and closing credits. Blind Faith, surprisingly, has rarely been used in movies.Fandango is a great film about accepting one's future and unfortunately abandoning the past--not an easy task for anyone. And Kevin Costner does not get the girl this time. 'Here's to what we were ... and what we'll be.' "},{"Title":"Beating a dead horse","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   It appears that I am beating a dead horse here, but I had to add my comments.  I discovered this film in the late 80's and thoroughly loved it. I have recommended it several times and introduced my wife to it long before we were married.  She loves it as well - proof that it is not just a male-bonding flick.  I am pleased to see that there are no negative comments about the film (at least that I have noticed).  It does a great job of dealing with the issues of leaving the college cocoon and accepting the responsibilities of adulthood, particularly during Vietnam.  The characters are great, the story is great.  The whole idea that this Grail-like quest to find Dom has such significance in their lives will ring true with most viewers. Some of my favorite moments  Dorman leading them through the desert like Moses; lassoing the train; all of Judd Nelson's ranting and raving.  I loved the fireworks in the cemetery. Excelent cinematography - the allusion to Vietnam is very powerful, as is the contrast between the innocence of the group and the violence of war.  Judd Nelson's parachute jump is classic. Best of all is the wedding where Kevin Costner convinces the whole town to fully outfit the event, complete with live music and home-made desserts.This is one awesome film.  Judd Nelson and Kevin Costner are at the top of their game, but the rest of the cast holds their own.  You'll want to see it again and again. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to admit that i only rented this movie because Judd Nelson stars in it, he really doesn't get enough credit for his work. This movie turned out to be one of my favs but it cannot surpass The Breakfast Club or St. Elmo's fire, and it has to be the best film that Kevin Costner stared in, one of the only films he's in I can watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Big slice of nostalgia","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great movie about a very strange time to be an American,disguised as a coming-of-age movie. The decision to stay andfight, or to leave everything behind and run, was the mostharrowing of the boomer generation, and its true effects arestill being felt now, 30 years later. It could tear apartfamilies or friendships; or, as in this movie, make themstronger. Great performances by Sam Robards, Suzi Amis, KevinCostner, and even Judd Nelson! And a great soundtrack- PatMetheny rules! I use this movie, and a few others, as myfriendship potential test- if the potential friend enjoys it(or at least can sit through it), they pass the test, and areworthy of being a friend. Pretty reliable indicator of "},{"Title":"Grab the Beer and Popcorn..","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I got hip to this Movie while attending College in a small South Carolina town one summer session - way back in the eighties. The KA house was empty except for the dented and battered VCR (but still functioning). I saw the tape plugged it into the vcr and the rest is history.Hey Ron, Leo, Sloop, Mike Flynn remember THE trek based on the film. We did find the Rum not DOM though it was buried in the sand on Fernandina Beach. Then Ron went and GOT Married. Check out the movie y'all will catch my meaning.At least one of us can still watch this Film without being disturbed by the Wife. It's a great movie. Peace. And Pack your own Chutes.*****  "},{"Title":"Fandango","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Five college roommates take a trip together that is their last wild exploit before entering the sobering world of adulthood. Costner leads the pack in the witty and realistic film directed by Reynolds' who would later direct Costner in Robin Hood Prince of Thieves.  "},{"Title":"Prefer to Remember","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here's another youth film recommended to me because I'm writing a book on the subject. Fandango is John Hughized by Kevin Reynolds seven years after Animal House defined frat life in the 1960-78 period. Judd Nelson plays the rich kid with the Flounder like Cadillac to destroy on a road trip. Nelson is a nebbish, future Viet Nam bound Officer. He's trying to improve his resume while fighting self-doubt and cowardice. Weren't we all? I liked the Texas, Austin angle in Fandango. Kevin Costner, thin and handsome with a drawling twang essentially propels himself to stardom in this vehicle as the worldly, cynical, fast talking frat boy leader. Chuck Bush is another Texas hunk who has dumped his girl at the alter although she had a fling with the Costner character sometime in the near past. Suzy Amis looks pretty, but does not have one line in the film.These college films depict with comical exaggeration hedonistic behavior during the last period in youth where one can act like a child and it's rather expected. So while mom and dad dream of the kid's future career as an accountant, the kid is drunk with his girlfriend on top of a pile of beer cans. Ah, those formative years. The trouble is films like Fandango are not about the choices of adulthood; these films glorify the unforgettable friendships of fleeting childhood, and that's what we old farts prefer to remember. "},{"Title":"The sky-diving scene partly resurrects a really ordinary flick","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to agree with another user comment that (i) this is one of the few Kevin Costner performances that one is able to stomach and (ii) the sky-diving scene is a classic, but as for the rest of this B-grade drivel.. the less said the better.  College failures go on a mega-tour of Texas in order to avoid a wedding, avoid the draft, tell their mate what a wheenie he is and find & trash a bottle of hot Dom Perignon!  This is funny??? The soundtrack is good???  Saturday Night's Allright For Fightin' is about the only decent track in it.  Not a good effort! "},{"Title":"Waterworld was Better","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you like movies about a man in turmoil, acted by a man with little expression, then this is your movie. Keanu Reeves could take lessons from Costner about how to shout and keep your voice at a conversational volume. If you're one of those people who finds deep meaning in anything Costner says, then boy, oh boy, will you be happy with this poorly written American Graffiti knockoff about 5 guys who choose to be losers for no apparent reason. On a positive note, the aging post-hippies are right the music is exceptional. Costner, once again, in a movie about a man with conflicted emotions. What a stretch! "},{"Title":"The only thing alive in this movie is the soundtrack","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie started out very well, but about 20 minutes into the film it started to get very boring.  Im surprised it has 1400 votes, because the box office and business says it only made $75,000, I thought movies that make that little money are the ones that have like 90 votes.  Anyway, this movie really has no point and thats one thing that makes a movie bad.  Although the soundtrack was very impressive, including classic songs from Elton John, Carly Simon, Bryan Adams, and many more.  Not totally unwatchable but close. ** out of ****(the second star is for the soundtrack. "}{"Title":"Simply annoying.","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really fail to understand why some believe this is a good movie. From the very beginning you can feel that you are simply up to a film without any sense. This movie is about five friends (even though one of the simply plays no role in the film) that go in a trip to find Dom, something they hid long ago near the border with Mexico. The idea of the movie is neither original nor is it well developed. You constantly get a feeling of despair because the plot is dumbly unbelievable. The events that this group goes through are totally unchained one from another, without mentioning that the whole idea of their trip and the stubbornness of one of the members of the group is simply annoying. I must admit that the movie gets a little better while approaching towards the end, but that doesn't make it a good film at all. I don't recommend watching or renting this movie unless you're up to seeing a very predictable, no depth-in-plot film. "}]