[{"Title":"The Academy Award for best use of a headless corpse goes to...","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"69 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most of the cheap or not so cheaply made horror films these days are nothing more than a tedious exercise in how to bump off as many teenagers in as many different ways as one can imagine in ninety minutes or less.  One need only watch recent films such as Wrong Turn or the remake of Texas Chainsaw Massacre to realize how far the horror genre has fallen.  Once John Carpenter made the first Halloween film, we have been subject to an endless series of copy cat films whose only purpose seems to be finding an imaginative way to slice and dice the local teenage population.  All of the Freddies, Jasons, and Michael Myers films combined don't come close to having an ounce of the entertainment and imagination of Producer Brian Yuzna and Director and Writer Stuart Gordon's Re-animator.Professor Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) is a scientist who has discovered a formula which brings the dead back to life by reanimating their tissue. After an experiment in Switzerland goes awry, he moves to Miskatonic University to continue his experiments.  One thing Professor West isn't and that is modest.  He even takes a few moments to ridicule a professor, Dr. Carl Hill (David Gale) when he disagrees with him about when death actually occurs.  He eventually rents a room from fellow student Dan Cain (Bruce Abbot).  Dan is dating Megan Halsey  (Barbara Crampton) who is the daughter of the college dean, Alan Halsey (Robert Sampson).  What Dan doesn't know is that the aforementioned Dr. Hill has a perverted eye on Megan also.  We know this because of the sleazy stares Dr. Hill eyeballs her with when ever she's around.  Think of Megan as being an overage Lolita and Dr. Hill as Humbert Humbert and you've got the idea.  All of this is not window dressing as it would be in some other films.  It all comes into play very nicely.  It goes without saying that sooner or later, Dr. West will be making good use of his reanimation formula, in ways only those with the most grotesque sense of humor can imagine.  To say any more than that would deny you of the true pleasures of this film.How can a film that is so explicitly graphic and perverted in nature be fun? It's because every person involved in the making of Re-Animator was smart enough not to take it too seriously themselves.  Everything in this film is so wildly over the top, that you can't help but chuckle right along with them as they wink their eye at you.  There may be certain moments of the film that would normally sicken even the most hardcore horror film fanatic, but since Yuzna and Gordon never once let Re-animator sink into the tedious by the numbers game of other films of these nature, these same scenes become intentionally cartoonish and silly.But more than anything, this film owes it's life to it's cast.  Jeffrey Combs as Herbert West should serve as the model for anyone wanting to make a film involving a mad or semi-mad scientist.  Given this kind of role, there is many an actor who would have been tempted to ham it up and alas in many horror films they do just that.  However, when Combs seems to imply that he is the smartest man on the planet and the rest of us are Neanderthal, we don't hate him for this implication at all.  He is so good at making us believe he is the smartest man since Einstein and we are all nothing but Cro-magnon man by comparison that we love him for it just the same.  He may be crazy, but he's a fun kind of crazy.David Gale as the smarmy Dr. Hill, is a joy to watch also.  He has some of the most ridiculous scenes in the film yet somehow manages to keep a straight face through it all.  He gives new life to the old saying about not losing your head over a piece of tail.Bruce Abbot as Dan Cain is the perfect contrast for West.  He is a straight arrow, is madly in love with Megan, yet somehow lets himself become involved in West's experiments.  Abbot also is smart enough to know that the center of this film is West, and never once overplays his role to try and overshadow him.  As for Barbara Crampton, she should have won some kind of award, just for the abuse the producers put her through as Megan.  Is there an award for most abuse of a female by the walking dead?Re-animator was made on a budget of less than a million dollars which is truly remarkable. There isn't a film budget in the world though that can replace the imagination and daring rampant through out Re-Animator.  And when a horror film is that well done, and is something all the Freddies, and Jasons, And Michael Myers can only dream about, I have no choice but to give it my grade which for Re-Animator is an A. "},{"Title":"Tons of campy fun.","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"64 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah, finally a horror camp classic that deserves to be called a horror camp classic. Re-Animator is one of those fun horror movies that is so over the top that it is just a lot of fun to watch, kind of like the spectacular Evil Dead films, although not quite to that same level of skillful horror/comedy mix. Ironically enough, I think it should be a testament to the quality of the rest of the movie that it is able to work so well despite prominently featuring a soundtrack that is a naked rip-off of the Psycho soundtrack. It's amazing to me that Richard Bond, the music composer, didn't think anyone would notice him plagiarizing one of the most famous movie soundtracks in cinematic history, but luckily everyone else in the production was right on the mark.Jeffrey Combs delivers a wonderfully crazy performance as Herbert West, the scientist in the movie who is determined that he has discovered a scientific method to beat death, and is desperate to try it out on a human being rather than small animals, on whom he has had remarkable success. He is playing a completely one-dimensional character, a genius scientist whose mental capacity is also tinged with madness, but which is counterbalanced by the fact that he may very well be desperate to try something potentially immoral but which could also potentially revolutionize medicine. Maybe his intentions are good after all, but for the purposes of the film, he just wants to get his hands on some fresh corpses, which is a great premise for a horror film.The movie operates in its own world, like the Evil Dead films did. It takes place in the horror genre but wants to combine some elements of drama as well, as we have a real scientist who is truly brilliant. He is still in medical school, I believe, but is often smarter than his often-published professors, criticizing their work for being incorrect or even plagiarized. He's very quick to make enemies, I would think his line of work might be easier the less people he had watching him, so it's unfortunate that he was so good at making people not like him. Mere days after he rents out a room from a couple of other students, they find their cat dead in his refrigerator. I hate it when new roommates do that.There is plenty of gratuitous nudity in the film, and while I appreciate nudity as much as the next guy, I don't like it when it drives a weak film, and that is certainly not the case here. There is a graphic and highly disturbing nude scene three quarters or so through the film that made me literally cringe and turn my head, not because of gore but by the sheer disturbing idea of it, it was awful. But the thing that I loved is that that scene fits in with the rest of this movie so well. It is all about too much gore and too much blood and too much nudity, but also lots of laughs. This is a perfect example of how much fun scary movies can be. "},{"Title":"Modern Horror Classic","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"65 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The astute viewer will immediately pick up on the tone of Re-Animator. The introduction (added to the film at the last minute before its release) is a glimpse of the over-the-top nature of the entire production. If one were to be frightened by this intro, he or she will be comforted by the playful cheer of the opening title music. The score was heavily inspired by the famous Psycho score, a classic by Bernard Herrmann.The movie, inspired by H.P. Lovecraft's `Herbert West Re-Animator', follows a simple plot. Herbert West (played to precise pitch perfection by Jeffrey Combs who, like Bruce Campbell, is a B-Movie legend) is new at Miskatonic Medical University. Immediately, Herbert clashes with Dr. Carl Hill (David Gale) on the subject of `brain death'.At the same time, Dan Cain (Bruce Abbot) is looking for a roommate. He is also dating Dean Alan Halsey's (Robert Sampson) daughter, Megan (Barbara Crampton). When Herbert West shows up at Dan's door one night during a `study' session, Megan is immediately suspicious. Why is Herbert so anxious to move in? Why is he so interested in the basement?It is not long before the cat is dead, re-animated and dead again. The early scenes of violence are disturbing and hilarious at the same time and are only a taste of what is to come. Dan tries to resist the temptation of power inherent in the re-animating fluid, but is sucked into Herbert's mad world of life giving.There is a turn of events about halfway through the film (which I would be crazy to spoil) that almost screams to the viewer, `We aren't playing by the rules here.' The storyline twists its way to the famous conclusion that, if you haven't heard of it, will leave you breathless. Even if you know what is going to happen, when you finally see it, in all of it's gory, sexual glory you understand why this classic has achieved such a status. The finale of the film is twisted in so many ways it's impossible to count.Obviously, I loved the movie. Having never been anything but a horror fan, I cannot say it will suit everyones' tastes. The film is so over-the-top that the outrageous gore becomes less and less shocking. The timid viewer may want to shy away from this masterpiece. Anyone with even the slightest curiosity should seek this movie out.  "},{"Title":"A true horror/gore classic","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"40 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very loosely based on H.P. Lovecraft's story Herbert West Re-AnimatorHerbert West (Jeffrey Combs) is new at Misketonic University in the (fictional) town of Arkham MA.  He rooms with nice guy Dan (Bruce Abbott) but Dan's girlfriend Meg (Barbara Crampton) doesn't trust him.  And evil Dr. Hill (the late David Gale) hates him.  It seems West has a glowing green/yellow potion that brings the dead back to life...but they always come back in a foul mood.  But he hasn't tried it on humans...yet...Boy, do I miss the 80s!  Back then they could make extremely gory, sick, violent, unrated films like this and get them to play at mainstream theatres.  I saw this opening night in Boston back in 1985--it was unrated and no one under 18 was allowed in the theatre.  The audience was quiet at first, but as the violence and gore escelated and the black humor kicked in, the audience came alive.  People were screaming, yelling, laughing...just about everything!  Especially during a sequence between Crampton and Gale which just went way over the boundaries of good taste.  It was just great!  The movie is fun on its own, but with the right type of audience it really comes alive.The film has extreme gore...probably the goriest movie of its decade.  It also has huge doses of black humor and the whole cast blessedly plays it straight...it they had winked at the camera once it would have destroyed the film.The film also has a tight, well-written script (it runs 86 minutes), is well directed by Stuart Gordon and has a great cast--David Gale (sadly no longer with us) was fantastic as the evil Hill.  Jeffrey Combs plays West just perfect--we see his obsession with the potion but Combs never overplays it.  Abbott is somewhat bland but plays a very good hero.  Crampton is just excellent as Meg--sexy, smart and very brave.  Also Robert Sampson adds strong support as Meg's father.Basically a must-see for any horror fan.  Also a great score and I LOVE the ending!  Don't miss this one!Try to see the Special Edition DVD--it shows deleted scenes that flesh out the story more.    "},{"Title":"A classic of the 80's-a rare thing","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"33 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Considering the 70's was a decade of monumental proportions as far as films went, it was a shame the 80's had to produce such dreck, especially where horror films are concerned. In the 70's we had The Exorcist, Halloween, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Phantasm-just to name a few. The 80's did produce a small but stellar group of classics, however, including Evil Dead 1 & 2, A Nightmare On Elm Street, An American Werewolf In London and, of course, Re-Animator. Like Werewolf and the Evil Dead films, part of Re-Animator's success and notoriety is the film's deliciously sinister blend of horror and humor. Wait let me correct that-perverse horror and sick humor. In accordance with the decade that birthed it, this film is typically over the top and totally gratuitous, pulling out all the stops at every turn. Jeffrey Combs heads a great cast as Herbert West, a strange and eccentric but brilliant young doctor/scientist who has perfected a syrum that can reanimate the dead. Circumstances get out of hand when a medical student and his fiance (Bruce Abbott & Barbara Crampton) get involved in West's work and a plagarist rival doctor (David Gale) plots to steal his idea. Horror and hilarity ensue from there on, thanks to imaginitive visual effects coupled with clever dialogue. For nitpickers like myself there are a few minor inconsistencies in the screenplay, but it does very little to hinder the film. Ironically, several scenes that wound up on the cutting room floor (included on the dvd) would have fleshed out those minor story flaws, but they were excised-and probably rightly so-in the name of pacing. Besides, any flaws in writing are easily forgotten about thanks to the terrific performances. Here is a cast that really brought the characters to life so to speak; Combs as the nerdy scientist and Gale's lecherous Dr. Hill are both standouts. And Stuart Gordon's strong direction holds the whole thing together even when the film threatens to be crushed by it's own outlandishness. For those interested, check out the sequel Bride of Re-Animator that followed 4 years later. It doesn't hold a candle to this one, but it's plenty of fun in it's own right.  "},{"Title":"hilarious!","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  when i first saw re-animator in 85, i hadn't been introduced to the likes of the evil dead series, dead alive, or any of that horror/comedy genre. i thought horror/comedy went together as well as military intelligence...i was aghast and appalled. i just didn't get it. i was a classic horror fan; so when i heard the obvious rip from psycho's theme, it irritated me even more.well, now i'm an older, wiser horror fan. i just saw it again for the first time since 85 and i laughed my bum off! homage, homage, homage! honouring everything from hitchcock to raimi, from day of the dead to frankenstein. this in-your-face send off is a great double feature with dead alive. jeffery combs' over the top performance is reminiscent of colin clive and cronenberg found his very own ash in bruce abbott. so sit back, relax (as much as you can...) and enjoy re-animator. "},{"Title":"The Greatest of All Lovecraft Interpretations","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After learning all he can learn in Switzerland, Herbert West comes to America to study life and death. Can death be overcome? West thinks so, and with his reagent serum he might just prove to the world how right he is.Re-Animator ranks at the very top of my all-time favorite horror movies. For a guy who has seen probably one thousand horror films, that's quite the accomplishment. For me, the film is paced perfectly, has plenty of gore, a fair amount of nudity (and a scene of sexuality you won't find elsewhere), some black comedy and a simple plot premise (a variation on the Frankenstein story).This is the film that gave Jeffrey Combs his place in cult film history. On the basis of this movie alone, he is sought after to appear in other horror films and appear at horror conventions. Sure, some of his other films are pretty good, and he had an impressive run on both Star Trek Deep Space Nine and The 4400. But he will always be known as Herbert West. None of the other stars (David Gale, Bruce Abbott, Barbara Crampton) has gone on to such a level of recognition.The film has some flaws. The score, which is supposed to be an homage to Psycho sounds more like a blatant ripoff. And my biggest pet peeve is trying to find a complete copy of the film. I owned the longer, R-rated version on VHS. Now I own the shorter, unrated version on DVD (the Millennium Edition). I have yet to find one that combines the gore of the uncut version with the plot of the R-rated one (which I think really drives home the story and fleshes out the motives and power of Dr. Hill).But the sheer fun of the film makes up for the flaws. Jeffrey Combs is clearly having plenty of fun, and the way they approach such things as the reanimated cat and the use of the reagent as an intravenous drug tells me they knew that the key was just letting a good time fly.The people involved with this film (Combs, director Stuart Gordon and producer Brian Yuzna) went on to make a variety of other Lovecraft-inspired films. So I guess I have to thank the success of Re-Animator for giving them the chance to pursue these other projects (even the less wonderful ones like Necronomicon or Dagon (which many people like but I wasn't impressed)).If you're a horror fan and haven't seen this, shame on you. You simply cannot have an in-depth conversation on horror without this film coming up. I urge you to check it out and decide for yourself. Can thousands of horror fans be wrong on this one? When have they steered you wrong before? "},{"Title":"An unquestionable classic! For me it's still the best horror-comedy ever made.","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While many horror movies have strong doses of humour in them (from 'Bride Of Frankenstein' to 'Dawn Of The Dead', 'The Texas Chainsaw Massacre' to 'From Dusk Til Dawn'), there's very few actual horror-comedies I enjoy. 'Motel Hell' is one exception, Frank Henenlotter's movies, especially 'Frankenhooker' are others, but to my mind Stuart Gordon's 'Re-Animator' is by far the most original and entertaining one ever made in my opinion. This movie put Gordon on the map and also made Jeffrey Combs into a worldwide cult figure. Combs is absolutely brilliant as Herbert West, one of the most memorable mad scientists in horror history, and the rest of the supporting cast - Bruce Abbott, David Gale, and the lovely Barbara Crampton - are all excellent. Gordon uses H.P. Lovecraft's West stories as a jumping off point for some grotesque and genuinely funny moments that once seen are never forgotten, particularly THAT scene between Crampton and Gale, which is now the stuff of legend, though beware it is cut from some versions of the movie. Make sure you see the uncut version of 'Re-Animator' whatever you do! Gordon went on to make some other Lovecraft adaptations, some good, some not so good, but 'Re-Animator' was the first and is still in my opinion the best. Highly recommended fun which gets better and better as the years go by! This movie is an unquestionable horror classic! "},{"Title":"Death Is Just the Beginning","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Austria, the medical student Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) develops a serum to resuscitate the dead while working with a famous scientist that mysteriously dies. Herbert travels to Massachusetts and his application is accepted by the Miskatonic Medical University Dean Alan Halsey (Robert Sampson); then he moves to the basement of the house of Daniel 'Dan' Cain (Bruce Abbott), a medical student that is seeking a roommate to share his expenses and that is in love with Alan's daughter Megan Halsey (Barbara Crampton). When Megan's cat disappears, she finds it dead in Herbert's refrigerator. Later, Daniel hears a cat and Herbert screaming and he sees the cat alive violently attacking Herbert and they kill the animal again. Herbert invites Daniel to work with him, but Megan sees the bizarre experiment and tells her father that expels the students from the University. But Herbert and Daniel go to the morgue to find a corpse to revive and they are surprised by the dean that is murdered by a resurrected man. Herbert injects the re-animating fluid in Alan that revives but the envious and greedy Dr. Carl Hill (David Gale) wants his formula to become famous.Re-Animator is one of my favorite cult-movie and I have just watched it again at least for the sixth time (last time I saw it was on 21 March 2000). This funny and gore B-movie has excellent special effects and made Jeffrey Combs worshiped for the rest of his career. Barbara Crampton is very beautiful and the scene in the laboratory with she naked and Dr. Carl Hill beheaded is one of the funniest I have ever seen. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Re-AnimatorNote On 26 August 2012, I saw this film again, now on DVD.Note On 25 June 2015, I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"Grand Guignol","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like to think of Re-Animator as a prime example of the french art-form, the Grand Guignol - a puppet show meant to disturb the audience. Viewing this film as such, rather than as a straight horror film (a film that's meant to terrify), I think raises its stature.Taken as a horror film, Re-Animator would really not qualify as anything other than yet another gruesome sort of zombie movie. Anyone who has seen this film, though, knows that Re-Animator is not your run-of-the-mill Romero knock-off, not your ordinary horror film. It's unique. There's something off-kilter about this flick, something very, very funny, and also something quite disturbing. Re-Animator (spoilers maybe), with its demonic cat, provides an instance of intense slapstick at which the audience laughs. Simultaneously, the audience must also feel revulsion both at what's taking place on screen and at themselves. Surely, a cat, it's neck broken for the sake of science and brought back to life only to die an even worse death is not something to laugh at. Yet it's staged like an old 3 Stooges episode. The film-makers undoubtedly understand this, desire to make their audience uncomfortable, and do a commendable job. Like all great Grand Guignol, then, it thoroughly disturbs. The cunnilingus performed by the severed head provides a similar moment. Viewed as a Grand Guignol, and an experiment in creating a distraught audience, Re-Animator succeeds admirably. It's an excellent movie, highly entertaining, and worth seeking out.8/10 "}{"Title":"Horror-comedy injects a healthy dose of irreverence","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Stuart Gordon should be chided for allowing Richard Band to ape the great Bernard Herrmann's Psycho score in his music for Re-Animator, but don't let the similarity distract you this is a wildly entertaining movie.  Loosely based on a story by H.P. Lovecraft, Re-Animator succeeds primarily because Gordon's affection for over-the-top situations is so obvious you can just see how much fun he had putting this thing together.  The now legendary scene where the severed head of Dr. Carl Hill (David Gale) licks with feverish audacity the unwilling flesh of the dazed and shackled Megan Halsey (Barbara Crampton) while her own lobotomized father stands watching is just one in a galaxy of great examples.  Also of note hilarious performance by the gifted Jeffrey Combs.    "},{"Title":"The H.P. Lovecraft adaptation that defined horror/comedy.","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Writer/Director, Stuart Gordon along with Producer, Brian Yuzna and the perfect cast including Bruce Abbott, Jeffrey Combs and Barbara Crampton collaborate on what is probably the most dementedly hilarious horror/comedy of the 1980's. Based on H.P. Lovecraft's ahead-of-its-time six-part novelette, Herbert West - Re-animator, this is an example of the kind of movie that made the mid-1980's such landmark time for this type of genre. Its gory to the extreme, and provides more comic relief for fans of morbid humor than any other film of its peculiar stature. Stuart Gordon keeps true to Lovecraft's unique style and locations, including the fictionally infamous, Miskatonic Medical School in Arkham, Massachusetts, where this crazy film takes place. Herbert West, perfectly portrayed by Jeffrey Combs invents a serum that can resurrect organisms after subsequent brain death, but the effects are catastrophic for med student Bruce Abbott and pretty girlfriend, Barbara Crampton as the bodies turn out to be mindless, violent zombies. Stuart Gordon adds plenty of excellent additives to Lovecraft's original story including a sub-plot with actor, David Gale as an acclaimed professor who steals West's ideas on reanimation.This is Lovecraft's already twisted story adapted into a non-stop display of madness and gore with great performances from a cast that clearly appreciates the subject matter. Jeffrey Combs is to Herbert West such as Anthony Hopkins is to Hannibal Lecter in one of the best character performances in horror movie history. Its zany, horrific and downright entertaining especially for fans of Lovecraft's bizarre cosmic science fiction. Great dialog, gallons of blood, intestines attacking like a hungry python and a talking severed head going down on poor Crampton while she's immobilized are just of the few hilarious highlights of this uproarious film. Followed by Bride of Re-animator and the equally effective Beyond Re-animator. This is an absolute classic. "},{"Title":"Re-Animated My Interest In Horror","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I believe that horror films are dead, like so many victims shown in the movies themselves, horror movies have been killed off in a violent fashion. It's true, I can assure you. True horror films have been dead for some time. They died when 'Scream' made them self aware.Nowadays, horror movies are made with cookie cutters and specific ingredients. They are a collection of make-up artists trying to out-gore each other and idiotic characters who are so poorly written that you just know that the real thing the writers were working on was how to get the required nudity into the script so that somebody might produce it.But, a long time ago...There was 'Re-Animator'! Gore! Zombies! Mad scientists! And, of course, nudity! But there was also something that I haven't seen in some time... a story. In the old days, they had a thing called a story and the other thing they had was characters who do things as a part of that story.You see, horror films are often ridiculous. Sometimes they try to hide that fact. Sometimes it works, like, 'The Sixth Sense' which was so engaging I forgot it was essentially a horror movie. Most of the time it doesn't work, like 'Cabin Fever' or 'Descent' or well, forget it. It just doesn't work and we'll leave it at that.But 'Re-Animator' works. On every level. I think it's because it knows that it's ridiculous but it just plows on through anyway. If you are going to make a movie about talking severed heads, mad scientists and zombies you have to know that the Academy is very likely to overlook you. But why not go for it? Every scene, every moment, they go for it! And Jeffrey Combs? He steals every second of every scene he is in, even when there is a beautiful naked woman there, you just can't stop watching him. He's nuts, man. It's fantastic!10 out of 10. No winking at the audience on this one. "},{"Title":"great if you like gore","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Re-animator is one of those movies that if you like gore and nudity your going to love it. Jeffery Combs is great as Dr Herbert West the crazy med student who can re-animate the dead. It is in really funny in dark humor sort of way. All the gore effects are top notch. Avoid the R rated version because you miss almost all the gore and some of the nudity. This is based on H.P. Lovecraft story which was also really good. This isn't the only adaptation of Lovecraft the Stuart Gordon has done, he also did from beyond (which I still need to see) And Dreams in witch house for the masters of horror show and that was really good too. The best part of all is that Gordon is doing another one and hopeful it will be as good as this one. "},{"Title":"Scenes That Should Never Have Been Deleted","Date":"28 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are two mad scientists at Miskatonic University, and that is one too many. First, there is Dr. Carl Hill, a member of the faculty, who is motivated by lust, fame, and power. Not unsurprisingly for a man driven by such strong passions, the principal goal of his research is the location of the will in the brain.The other mad scientist is Herbert West, a medical student. West is dedicated to the truth, and cares nothing about women or fame. The principal goal of his research is reanimation, bringing dead people back to life, for which he has a reagent. West is so cold and devoid of sympathy that he is indifferent to the pain he causes when he reanimates the dead, supposing himself to be doing them a favor.West is openly contemptuous of Hill, whose intellect he regards as inferior to his own. Hill finds out about West's reagent and tries to coerce West into letting Hill get credit for it. While Hill's back is turned, West chops his head off. Then he reanimates the separated head and body. The body knocks West out and then picks up the head and bowl it is in, which is filled with reagent. All this leads to a final struggle between these two mad scientists, with Hill in control of reanimated corpses from the morgue. The movie is replete with hilarious horror and gore, including Hill's body holding Hill's head so that it can violate the Dean's daughter.It is unfortunate that the director's cut resulted in many deleted that should have been left in. First of all, these include scenes that make it clear that Hill has mesmeric powers. It is fitting that the man whose research focuses on the location of the will in the brain should have the power to control the will of others. More importantly, it helps us understand why Hill has so much influence over Dean Halsey; we understand how he can control his own body with his severed head; and we understand how he can control the corpses he has reanimated. Without these scenes of mesmerism, we don't fully understand how he can do these things.Second, several of the deleted scenes further develop West's character. Both in his physical appearance and his manner, he reminds me of Dean Stockwell's portrayal of Judd in Compulsion. Judd, of course, was that movie's version of Leopold in the notorious Loeb and Leopold case, in which two psychopathic geniuses decide to commit the perfect crime in order to prove they are Nietzschean supermen. Without seeing the deleted scenes, I might not have made that connection.Third, there is a great scene where West is discussing with Dan, his roommate, what they are going to do about Dr. Hill. West seems to be bothered in some way, and he lurches to the bathroom. When Dan goes to see what West is doing, he finds him with a syringe of reagent, about to mainline himself. West assures him it is just a weak solution, just enough to keep the brain sharp, so he won't have to sleep. Dan helps his shoot up, after which West is all pumped up and ready to go.The director said he deleted these scenes because he felt that they slowed down the pacing, and that is a shame. The scenes are included in the second disk of the DVD, and it is worth making the effort to watch them. Not every deleted scene should have been kept in, of course. The dream sequence, in particular, does not belong in the movie, and its deletion was appropriate.It is still a great movie, but with some of those deleted scenes left in, it would have been greater still. "},{"Title":"Great Movie! (spoilers)","Date":"25 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (SPOILERS)I had the luxury of seeing this film around Halloween 2012 as part of a marathon of horror (Horrorama) movies at the Englewood Theatre in Dayton, Ohio. Quality films like this will definitely bring me back to the place for 2013.I had never heard of the film, and looking back on it now, that's quite amazing. The film starts out in Switzerland, and my love of German Culture (German Switzerland counts) really got my interest piqued. The mysterious beginning had me hooked. What was going on? Strange medical experiments, mad scientists! What's next?The character of Megan was great! Any fine looking actress gets my interest and being a medical student myself, I really felt for the pair. The film progresses and we get to know the pair and the life at Miskatonic University. What a great New England name! There's a great scene with the pencils in the cadaver lab. That scene alone is worth the effort. Herbert West does a really good job. I simultaneously feel his passion to continue researching, and hate him enough for him to be villainous. The ending is great too! What can we ask more than to truly empathize with the character and hope for a sequel?(SPOILERS) "},{"Title":"A great mix of horror and comedy","Date":"16 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A twisted, absurd and immensely entertaining horror film. From the opening sequence you already realize how bizarre this will be. I loved the jumpy music in this film and it matched the colorful and creative opening credit scene perfectly. The visual effects as well as the make up used in gory scenes still hold up very well and I found them creepy and effective. Re- Animator really has a lot of gore, being also constantly hilarious. There were many times I just couldn't believe what was happening and how the story kept getting weirder and crazier as the film progressed. Jeffrey Combs as the mad scientist was terrific and the whole cast did a solid work as well. Re-Animator is now one of the most imaginative and funny horror films I've seen in a long time and I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"A strange but fun zombie film","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Every character in a zombie film hates zombies. But there is only one individual in film history that is actually not afraid of them. This individual is Herbert West. I wouldn't say he loves zombies but he's definitely not scared of dealing with them. West is a scientist who has broken the barrier on how to keep people from dying. He has developed a serum that once injected into the brain, effectively empowers the cadaver to start living again. The problem? The turn out to being very livid, uncontrollable zombies.The story is loosely based off of H.P. Lovecraft's work, Herbert West, Re-Animator. The whole film is quite weird actually. It's definitely a story not many people would tell but it just so happens director Stuart Gordon was able to pull this film off with just enough weird and clever things to make it enjoyable. Playing Herbert West is Jeffrey Combs; the callous non-emotional scientist, that is, unless he's dealing with his work. Combs is so good at his character, that although he makes it look like he has no idea what he's doing, he seems like he does.Co-starring Combs is Bruce Abbott as Dan Cain and his girlfriend Megan Hasley played by Barbara Clampton. Unfortunately, due to West's flamboyant ambition, these two main characters will be sucked into his web of problems as time progresses through the film. And this all happens when Herbert West is transferred to Dan Cain's college. There, West convinces Cain to help him in his studies. Not much else needs to be said, it's a domino effect from here.To many fans, this movie is a dark comedy. Even though I enjoyed it, I found it more bizarre than funny. There were a few moments where I did laugh, either because of Jeffrey Combs' ability to give his cracked character a dry sense of humor (now and then), or, just how clumsy the zombies were. Speaking of which, these zombies are not your standard zombie. No, this is not the tear your flesh off your skin down to the bone zombie. The zombies depicted here are just plain angry. Almost like they didn't want to be re-animated and they were mad at West for doing so.Special effects are actually fairly decent here for 1985. There's not a lot of blood but enough to satisfy. If you're a fan that likes crazy nude scenes, you'll especially like this one. Like I said before, this film is just strange. As for music goes, Richard Band created the score. I have to say, Brand really doesn't create any scary tones. He does create some tension but his music is rather choppy and unconventional which makes it hard to feel anything from it. Again, a strange film but enjoyable in some areas.The classic that brought Jeffrey Combs to the screen is peculiar and creepy. This is a different kind of zombie flick and if you enjoy all kinds, then it's right up your alley. "},{"Title":"Some corpses just won't lie still...","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite being from 1985, Re-Animator is still a really great horror movie, nay a classic horror movie, I dare say. Why? Well there are different factors adding up to this; it is based on the H. P. Lovecraft story and it has Jeffrey Combs starring in it. This was actually one of the first movies that I saw with Jeffrey Combs and what made me become a fan of his work and acting.The story in Re-Animator, to those unfamiliar with the timeless work of Lovecraft, is about Herbert West (played by Jeffrey Combs) whose study in reanimating dead tissue goes awry and drunk with power, the scientist craves for more specimens to conduct his experiments on. But reanimating is not enough for West, and he starts to dabble in crossing living matter and animating it to life. Helping him with the ghastly work is his roommate Dan (played by Bruce Abbott).Sure, the effects in the movie are ridiculously outdated and crude by todays standards, but back then they were quite good and actually were impressive to look at. When you see it today, the effects make the movie appear campy and sort of goofy, but still the movie is driven by the solid story and not the visual effects.Re-Animator spawned two sequels which also were quite good, and they were all part of a great many movies that Jeffrey Combs starred in that were based on the work of H. P. Lovecraft. I thoroughly enjoyed the movies back then, despite not being more than a teenager at the time, and I still enjoy them this day today.Being an avid fan of H. P. Lovecraft's writing, this movie (and many others based on his work) are so far from doing the immortal writer any kind of justice at all. But take it for what it is, a movie meant for entertainment that is based on his work. Keep movie and books separate as two different medias and outlets of information; one does no justice to the other.It was a shame that the fourth movie in the series never came to see the light of day, but one can still hope that the project will eventually come to be completed. "},{"Title":"A horror legend","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie in theaters when I was 16, I saw it 9 times in 4 days ... It has some dark humor, lots of blood, some nudity, more blood, great (I mean really great) acting by Jeffrey Combs ... Inspired by a 5 page novel by HP Lovecraft where Herbert West invents a formula than can make the dead come back to life, it ends with the dead tearing his body apart in the end (like we see Dr Halsey being dismembered by the mob of undead), it takes liberties into putting the theme in modern day society. The introduction scene where West works with Dr. Gruber, introduces us to the strange experiments West does. Then the opening credits with the somewhat light classical music and images of body parts as they study them in med school. We then see Arkham university - Akham is a town where a lot of Lovecraft stories take place. We soon understand that West is a very strange individual, who has left his humanity in the closet, and his new friend Danny is a normal teenager enjoying life with his girlfriend. But of course things start to change with West reanimating Dan's dead cat (the scene in the basement is astounding, with West reanimating the poor cat after, saying  he's screaming because he comes back to life! - he then takes the part of the mad scientist in the old black and white movies). Then horror and blood escalates, yet with some character development for the main cast and the villain, Dr. Karl Hill  even with his head cut, he can lust for Meg and fulfill his desire of power. Stuart Gordon manages to take us into a maddening story where suspense is present, characters are likable (even West sometimes) and gore is at its best. Jeffrey Combs helps a lot, building a cold, science driven med student, and we can perceive a reflexion about the limits of medical experimentation (on humans or animals). Definitely a must see! "}{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was surprisingly funny,gory and entertaining.It's director Yuzna's masterpiece.I found about it by watching American Beauty!Then I watched it...and fell in love with it!There are so many spectacular moments in this film...There won't be any spoilers in this review though.Just buy it!(There was a sequel,but it wasn't as good as the original). "},{"Title":"Amazingly outrageous horror-comedy","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being the directorial debut of Stuart Gordon, Re-Animator is an amazing mixture of jolting horror and pitch black humor.  The thing is, it actually works!  This is one of the few horror films from the eighties that actually still provides jolts to this day.  Based on H.P. Lovecraft's group of novels entitled, Herbert West Re-Animator, the film combines all of the novels into one great film.  Jeffrey Combs and a group of relative unknowns give great performances which anchor the film.  The only thing about this film is its graphic gore and brief head scene with actress Barbara Crampton which may make it a bit tough to take at times, but it's well worth it.Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious and Dark, the best combination","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought this movie after reading a review, it must be one of the greatest horror comedies of all time! If you, like myself, thought that Evil Dead II was hilarious just go ahead and watch this one. Very sarcastic, probably the best Lovecraft movie. "},{"Title":"A crazily enjoyable treat.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This wonderful movie has, over the course of multiple viewings, evolved into one of my true favorites.  I can't exactly say it's in the tradition of Welles, Bergman, Fellini, or so forth, but I will happily call it a minor classic.Why?  It's funny.  Not campy, just plain funny.  The dialogue is sharp, the cast is wonderful (all around; a rarity in low-budget horror), the pacing and structure work smoothly, and the effects are, well, cheap, but somehow it just doesn't matter.  High praise to Jeffrey Combs, as West (That's West.  Herbert West.), who takes his place with Colin Clive as Dr. Frankenstein, Brian Donlevy as Professor Quatermass, Ernest Thesiger as Dr. Pretorius, and a few select others as one of the greatest mad scientists in history.  (Two of the film's funniest moments spring from West's highly inappropriate sense of humor.)  And also to Bruce Abbott, who engagingly holds his own as West's increasingly worried straight man.As West's behavior grows more and more hilariously irresponsible, his experiments go more and more out of control, and the film gets wilder and wilder, you just sit back in joy and watch the sparks fly.  The film travesties H. P. Lovecraft, who possibly never cracked a joke in his life, and in the process sideswipes every pulp/sci-fi/horror cliche in the book. (The climax of the film**************SLIGHT SPOILER******************takes the pulp cliche of the distressed heroine's fate worse than death to a level that has to be seen to be believed, and then smartly one-ups it.)**************END OF SPOILER******************Obviously, those who have a problem with gore may wish to avoid this film, though I may say that the bloodshed, for all its explicitness, becomes pretty hard to take seriously.In any case, this film makes me happy.  Cheers!  And may it live, and re-live, forever!  "},{"Title":"Cat dead-details later","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Exploding eyeballs, zombie cats, re-animation serums, and talking heads.  If this is the kind of crazy stuff that goes on at Miskatonic University, then I want to attend.  When the violins cue up in the Psycho-esque musical intro you know you're in for a treat.  Re-animator takes horror and black humor to new levels of gruesomeness and hilarity.  It's Frankenstein on acid.  There's gore galore and zombies run wild as our heroes go from one escapade to the next.  The heroes of course are Jeffrey Combs and Bruce Abbott.  They're perfect.  Jeffrey Combs' portrayal of Dr. Herbert West is definitely a memorable one.  Combs is at his creepiest as the title character, yet very likable and Abbott plays the genuine good guy role of Dr. Cain.  Some of the scenes are unforgettable; the basement scene with the swinging light and epic climax in the morgue to name a few.  I love the ending as well.  Re-animator is altogether one of the best horror films ever.  Combs, director Stuart Gordon, and producer Brian Yuzna make for an unbeatable combination.  Look for the unrated version so you can see the infamous head scene. "},{"Title":"Tilsit, Nearly Limburger.","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This cult classic is one of the cheesiest and most darkly humorous horror flicks ever made.  It has some of the most macabre funny scenes ever put on film.  Why the dreadful and lackluster Bride of ReAnimator is available on DVD and this is not is beyond me.  If you enjoyed Ken Russel's The Lair of the White Worm or the Rami's Army of Darkness, you'll love this cheese-fest of a movie.  Like most pungent cheeses, its best with alcoholic beverages! "},{"Title":"Best Horror movie EVER.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Up until a few months ago I had only ever heard about how great this classic 80's movie was. Then I stumbled upon the un-cut version at my local video shop, took it home, watched it and held my sides with laughter. Simply put - This is one hell of a GREAT movie. I know that horror movies have a tendency to be crap but from the ashes arise a few gems.This film would have to be Jeffrey Combs' finest film to date. His role as Herbert West is as memorable if not more memorable than his role as Weyoun in Star Trek Deep Space Nine. Combs' co-star, Bruce Abbott, also puts in a fine performance.With dark humor through-out, a great script and a great pairing of actors in the form of Combs and Abbott, Re-Animator goes down a real treat. It deserves at least 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brutally horrifying but funny.","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is at its best in the horrifying and chaotic early action scenes. There is an extra edge of suspense not found in other walking dead films. The movie looses a bit of its edge as the comedy element becomes more prominent later in the film.  It is one of the movies that grow stronger with time, presumably as I forget all the little annoying things that didn't work well, while the good scenes stay.  I rated this a 9 - being somewhat kind as a reward to its deranged style.  "},{"Title":"A very entertaining and funny horror movie","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw an edited version of this, with all the gore cut out, but I still enjoyed this great horror movie immensely. Jeffrey Combs was great as Herbert West, the mad scientist who specialises in bring the dead back to life. There arre a lot of really inventive scenes, and a lot of funny ones. I've got to see the un-edited one, though. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Sex, Drugs, and Ghouls","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went to an all night horror movie festival that supposedly featured the best of all the blood and gore films and although some of them were pretty good for the time (considering the code), I realized after seeing them that the ReAnimator was the film they were all trying to make.  After the code and before the recent new strictness of the MPAA, many films tried to explore the relationship between repressed sexual desires and the need for violence. Although some explored overt sexuality (Love at First Bite) and others explored outright mutilation (Andy Warhol's Frankenstein), none seemed to capture the campy nature of the two--This is where ReAnimator fills the gap perfectly and spoofed the medical/scientific/academic community with delicious abandon.  We have your requisite(for the 80's) nerd who is deadly serious about his work, a jive medical student who is serious about medicine, but has no glimmer of genius but does have a sexy girlfriend.  You have a world renown professor who is good at what he does, but wants what the other two have (a brilliant scientific breakthrough and a hot squeeze).  Add a totally clueless administrator who is the girl's father and you have all the makings of great drama/comedy.  As has been noted before, throw in some mutilated corpses brought to life and some over the top gore and sex scenes and this is without a doubt the wittiest/funniest/sexiest/most intelligent horror film ever. "}{"Title":"a brilliant mixture of black comedy and horror","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  you can't consider yourself a true horror buff if you haven't seen this masterpiece of the absurd. never before has a movie mixed gore, horror and dark comedy as well as this movie (dead alive a.k.a. braindead and evil dead 2 come admirably close).the plot involves a young herbert west who develops a serum to bring the dead back to life. Director/co-writer Stuart Gordon does a great job mixing the grotesque with humor. it is very easy when attempting a horror comedy to slip too far in either direction (vampire in brooklyn being a recent example) but this movie rides that fine line perfectly.this movie gained notariety due to how gleefully this movie goes over the top at various points (all i have to say is the head scene!) the use of gore in this movie is also well integrated and actually has a point in the proceedings.if you've got a sick/twisted sense of humor and a strong stomach, renting this movie should be a no brainer.BE SURE TO ONLY RENT THE 86 min. UNRATED VERSION!!! THE LONGER R-RATED VERSION BITES!!rating 9 (unrated version)  "},{"Title":"Black Comedy/Horror Classic!!  &#141;","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Gloriously gruesome, blackly-comedic splatter-gore supreme, very loosely based on Lovecraft's Herbert West-Re-Animator.  Features bravo performances by the entire cast, knock-out gory FX, and Richard Band's fantastic moovie score.  Re-Animator is director Stuart Gordon's(From Beyond) first, and best, gory Lovecraft-inspired films.  Jeffery Combs(From Beyond, Doctor Morbid)plays the intense, nebbish Herbert West, who just may have opened the door separating life and death with his morally bankrupt, secret experiments on fresh subjects.  Bruce Abbott(The Last Starfighter, The Prohpacy II) plays Dan Cain, the promising young med student caught up in West's macabre extra-curricular activities.  The cast is rounded out nicely by the snuggly Barbara Crampton(From Beyond, Chopping Mall)as Cain's sexy, intelligent squeeze, and David Gale(From Beyond, The Brain), as West's nefarious, unscrupulous rival, Dr. Hill.  But the real stars here are the flawless direction by Gordon, and the fabulously disgusting make-up and fx by Anthony Doublin and John Naulin.  Horrifyingly disfigured corpses cavort, dripping blood and gore, dissected cats howl and scratch, and severed heads....well, watching Dr. Hill's disembodied head molest poor Barbara Crampton in a special area is an all-time horror/comedy highlight!  Moost of the same crew went on to create another Lovecraft-inspired film, From Beyond, which is almoost as good as Re-Animator.  Bride of Re-Animator also followed later, also with many of the same cast, but without Gordon's direction & sense of comedic style it just falls flat.  Re-animator ranks right up there with Dead Alive and Evil Dead II as the best horror/comedy-splatter films ever created, and if that's yer cup of perverted tea, then the MooCow says you moost check out all three.  The MooCow gives Re-Animator two hooves way up!!  &#141;  "},{"Title":"Not for all tastes.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is certainly not for everybody, but it sure is one of the better mad scientists films around. Stuart Gordon injects black comedy with over the top gore and he gets a modern horror classic. Jeffrey Combs is outstanding as Dr. Herbert West, and there are scenes that you will never forget in this one. One of my personal favorite horror films.  "},{"Title":"Heads up, campy cult classic lives up to reputation.","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After all these years I finally got around to watching Stuart Gordon's much loved and much talked about adaptation of H.P. Lovecraft's Herbert West, Re-Animator. The author was a bit dismissive of his own story, but the filmic adaptation is a riotous ball of blood, guts, sexual kinks and laughs. Plot in a nutshell finds two medical students getting more than they ever could bargain for when they start reviving corpses with Herbert West's (Jeffrey Combs wonderful) gooey serum.It's all very 80s, but in a good way, because it takes one away from remembering all the formulaic slasher movies that dominated the decade, so with that in mind Gordon's movie should not be under valued in the context of being different. It obviously isn't for everyone, but for those with a bent for horror comedy spliced together as some sort of funny Freudian grue fest, then this is the bomb.It doesn't need selling to most horror fans, but to the tentatively interested I say don't make the mistake I made and wait 28 years to see it! 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"There's a reason why this tops famous cult film lists.","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is in and belongs to the highest levels of cult film following for a bloody good reason. And the reason is bloody, and is good, in a more literal way than you'd imagine. Yeah, horror movies have gore, some more than others, some more effective than others. But it's until you see a guy's intestines wrap themselves around a young man like an anaconda or a decapitated head doing--well, that's a surprise--you just haven't lived.Loosely based on the writings of HP Lovecraft (as pretty much all work on HP Lovecraft is, excepting the new silent Call of Cthulhu movie a few years back), Stuart Gordon aims to please and doesn't let any sense of regulation or standards stay in his way. Willing to break new ground in effects, willing to break ground in body horror, willing to break the fourth wall, he may be willing even to break your mind if you aren't careful. Sure the acting is campy as ever, but this time held up by a strong presence of belief in the story, which gives it an uncanny aura of believability itself. Oh, and none of this is a stupid dream sequence or a false start. When something happens on screen, it's for real, and has consequences.This movie stands with stuff like Evil Dead, Faster Pussycat Kill Kill, and Shivers as just too darned good to be bad. By all rights you should leave the movie chuckling at the zany quirkiness, but instead you find yourself enrapt and thinking Did I just see what I thought I saw? and not being able to deny otherwise.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Oh that crazy head!","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Low budget collision of black comedy and gruesome horror marked the debut of director Stuart Gordon and has gone on to be a classic among horror fans.Medical student discovers that his strange new roommate has a formula that will bring dead bodies back to life, unfortunately it falls into the wrong hands and all bloody hell breaks loose.With its campy humor and wall-to-wall splatter FX, it's not hard to see how Re-Animator became a favorite among genre fans. The film is loosely based upon the classic story 'Herbert West - Re-Animator' by the great H.P. Lovecraft and although this film adaptation doesn't have the same creepy atmosphere of the story, it more than makes up for that with some truly wild action. It's quick-paced, well-acted, and frankly has a number of unforgettable scenes. The most memorable of which involves a lustful severed head and our helpless leading lady. Gordon's direction is effective and the makeup work is outstanding. Kudos also go to Richard Band for his quirky theme music, even though it does sound a lot like the Psycho theme.All around the performances are good but it's really Jeffery Combs who shines as the plucky Dr. West (villain or hero, you decide).For those that enjoy strong horror comedies Re-Animator is a must, but you might not want to watch it before dinner.Followed by three sequels.*** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"No schlock horror night is complete without this...","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator has the feel of a film-school project with a budget. It was after all, director Stuart Gordon's debut. And what a debut! Loosely based on the (insanely weird) short story by HP Lovecraft, Gordon injects some good campy horror and tongue-in-cheek dialogue to make it THE example of schlock horror from the 80's.Story concerns Mr Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) a promising young med student kicked out of a European med school for reasons made abundantly clear from the first scene of the film. He travels to Miskatonic Medical University in the States, and this is where the fun begins. He rents a room in a house owned by Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott), and no sooner has he moved in, the cat goes missing and strange bumps in the night begin...hehehehe Also no sooner has he taken up studies at Miskatonic, he butts heads with Dr Carl Hill (David Gale - his head is in the dish on the DVD cover hehe), over Hill's antiquated methods of brain surgery and beliefs in the whole life after death thing.West has a little trick up his sleeve, a fluro green liquid he's developed that can bring people back from the dead! Only where is death? Where have these people been? Coz they are not entirely normal, nor friendly, when they return...in fact they all seem rather crazy and p*ssed off! This film is a gore-hounds dream...we got bone saws, a demented zombie cat, and a talking decapitated head! C'mon, do I REALLY need to go on!? You wanna see it.It was worth watching this again one afternoon with a couple of friends from the Saw, Part 27 school of horror just to watch their jaws hit the floor and pretty much stay there for about 80 minutes.One of the funniest scenes by far is early on, when West is inspecting the rental house.He is oddly fascinated by the basement, remarking, yes, this will do nicely! Seriously, if a potential tenant said that to me, even with a wad of cash in the equation...i'd be showing him the front door! Another scene that makes me bust a gut is the severed head splatting against the wall...it's just so bizarre you laugh because not laughing at this film is a definite sign it may be shrink time! Also the guard outside the morgue is a laugh...Break time! Special mention should really go to Barbara Crampton as the Dean's daughter, Megan, in love with Dan but lusted after by Dr Hill, she's really good in this, she's gorgeous, and kudos to her for accepting a part that involved a love scene with a decapitated head. It's one of schlock horror's more memorable romances hehehe. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"You killed him, . . . . No, I gave Him Life.","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" H. P. Lovecraft has given his avid readers many hours of spine tingling enjoyment. Reading him and knowing he's listed among the giants of the macabre world, prepares an audience member for the film version of his books. In this excellent tale of terror called,  The Re-Animator  we are introduced to a remarkable actor called Jeffery Combs who superbly plays Herbert West. Transferred from a university in Europe, where he left under a dark cloud, West takes up residence in an American medical school where he meets a promising student named Dan Cain. (Bruce Abbott) Here he also confronts Dr. Carl Hill (David Gale) who instantly dislikes the egotistic and impertinent student. West suspects Hill is a usurper of innovated and ground-breaking knowledge. Believing he has discovered a fantastic new formula which will revolutionize medicine and establish him as a scientific genius, West, reveals his bizarre secrets to a reluctant, but very interested, Cain. The two then unleash an ever widening circle of criminal mayhem, murder and diabolical experiments which threaten everyone at the school, including Cains' intended, Megan Halsey (Barbara Crampton). Fans of Lovecraft agree, Comb's ability to exemplify the author's work is nothing less than supernatural. The result is a cult classic. **** "},{"Title":"Excellent, wish I had watched sooner","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, what kind of movie lets you see a bunch of naked people running around trying to kill, The Re-animator that is. This movie kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time, I loved every minute of it, and regret not seeing this amazing flick earlier. This movie sure has aged well for a movie of this caliber and age. This movie will forever sit on my shelf as one of my favorite movies of all time. The moment the movie ended I wanted more, it just leaves off on such a spot demanding that a sequel be made, so next up for me to watch will be the sequel. And I hope its as good as this one cause If it is, then I have 2 new favorite movies!... If you are a fan of horror movies and even sci-fi check this one out. "},{"Title":"Pure 80's funny terror!!!","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i just finished watching the re-animator and it's one of the funniest terror movies i've seen!!! plenty of action and laughs in an easy and enjoyable plot!!! the movie is quite easy to digest, so you can perfectly see it with your girlfriend if she has some sadistic and black humour!!! there are no spooky scares, but there's plenty of blood and guts flying around the screen!!! my favorite scene has to be the one with dr. hill's in west's basement laboratory!!! it's pure fun!!! just watch this movie, you won't regret it!!! although there might be some clichs, they are not boring or repetitive!!! and don't forget, the re-animator always re-animates!!! =D "}{"Title":"Absolute classic","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of gore has flowed over the bridge since, but this was as over-the-top as it could possibly get in the mid-80s. The scene where the naked corpse bites off the scientist's fingers is the stuff of everlasting nightmares. The maimed cat corpse is another moment of true ghastliness. A must-see for horror aficionados. No better horror film was made in the 80s, and the sequels are pretty lame by comparison.  "},{"Title":"Hilariously gory and over-the-top!","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is one of those movies I always heard about but never got around to watching. Having finally seen it (and its sequels), the only thing I can say is that I wish I would have seen the series a lot earlier!Promising medical student Daniel Cain is assigned partners with Herbert West, a peculiar young man obsessed with the idea that death is a reversible process. West has developed a re-agent that he believes will lead to resuscitation of tissue after death, although when he is given the opportunity to try it out on a perfect specimen, things do not go as planned. What follows is a descent into gory chaos that also happens to be a whole lot of fun to watch.I certainly understand why this is considered a cult classic, because while it's not for everyone, fans of over the top gore (a la The Evil Dead and Dead-Alive) will find plenty to love here. Jeffrey Combs was flawless in his performance as West, who has become a horror movie icon in his own right... It is worth mentioning that I found nothing at all wrong with the sequels, which is rare in any film genre, but especially so in horror - but that's a review for another time. "},{"Title":"Silly but entertaining","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Silly but entertaining.Re-animator started reasonably well, with a fair amount of intrigue and suspense. It was even plausible, to a degree. After a point, however, it becomes rather silly, with things thrown in clearly just for shock and gross-out value. Plot becomes more and more implausible and ridiculous the longer the movie goes on.Visual effects are okay (but for the over-the-top attempts to make things as unnecessarily gory as possible) but, strangely, the sound quality is quite poor. You'd think this is the one thing everyone gets right, but here it leaves a lot to be desired. Most of the time it sounds like the actors are talking from a distance away. Plus the stereo is all over the place, sound coming from the wrong side speaker at times!Performances, from a cast of unknowns, vary from okay to abysmal.A hit-and-miss movie. Not a must-see, but not a total waste of time either. "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Horror Films Ever Made. An Excellent,Hilarious,Gory,Over The Top Horror-Comedy/Cult Classic.","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is one of the greatest Horror ever made,an excellent and hilarious Horror classic that combines wonderful direction,great performances,a fantastic score,dark humor and amazing special effects. All of those combinations make Re-Animator one of my favorite Horror/Zombie movies,a Horror classic and Cult Classic.Based on H.P Lovecraft's story of the same name,Re-Animator tells the story Dan Cain(Bruce Abbott),a Miskatonic University Medical student who needs a roommate to share rent on a house. Dan gets a roommate in Herbert West(Jeffrey Combs),an eccentric scientist who has transferred to the university. However,Dan gets more than he bargained for when finds out Herbert West conducts bizarre science experiments using a serum chemical that brings people back from the dead and when Cain decides to help West the results are lead to chaos and insanity for Herbert and Dan.1985 was an amazing year for Zombie movies with the release of Horror/Zombie classics such as George A. Romero's Day Of The Dead,Dan O'Bannon's The Return Of The Living Dead and last but not least Stuart Gordan's Re-Animator,a brilliant and unforgettable Horror film that is not one of the best Horror films of the 1980s and of all-time band since it's 1985 release has gained a very strong Cult following. Right from the very beginning Re-Animator is an amazing Horror-Comedy that for it's 85 minutes gives viewers a terrific and memorable movie that is twisted and offbeat,weird and hilarious as well as gory,bloody and disgusting. Director Stuart Gordon takes the concept of amazing Horror classics such as Frankenstein(1931)and The Bride Of Frankenstein(1935)and takes the concept of bringing back the dead even further with Re-Animator. The genres Horror and Comedy are two sides of the same coin because both Horror and Comedy can get you to react either by making jump out of your seat or making you laugh and Re-Animator does both with such greatness and that's one of the reasons I love the film. On the Horror film side,Re-Animator doesn't rely on scares or suspense although the movie has some suspenseful scenes but on the blood and gore and when the blood and gore comes it never stops and the gore will disgust viewers. At the same time despite the blood and gore Re-Animator is never meant to be taken seriously because the movie has a manic and wild energy that makes you just forget about the gore. The Comedy and Humor in Re-Animator is hilarious and funny with a dark Comedic glee that is politically incorrect and matches the insanity that happens throughout the movie and it's the way the characters react to situations that are over the top and wild and when the horrific scenes become more horrifying you cannot help but laugh. Re-Animator is one of the best Horror-Comedies ever made and truly belongs in the great Horror sub genre known as Splat stick(a combination of blood,gore and over the top Comedy). Another thing that I also love about Re-Animator is that some of the dramatic moments and scenes have the look and feel of a Soap Opera like Days Of Our Lives or The Young And The Restless where each of the serious moments are so dramatic you just burst out laughing with joy. The main character Herbert West is one of greatest and truly most unforgettable characters in the history of Horror films and when you see him the first time in the beginning you are aware that West is very insane insane to the point where he only cares about bringing back the dead in such an obsessive way which make Herbert West funny in a twisted way. Despite the chaos and damage West is causing he continues to work on his experiments with craziness and determination and that is one of the things that makes Herbert West so iconic,funny and is a great character that you will never live on forever. The ending of Re-Animator is terrific and memorable because there is blood,gore and plenty of laughs,shocks and surprises that will stick with the viewer. A classic ending to a great film.The cast is great. Jeffrey Combs is excellent and iconic as Herbert West,with Combs being insane and delightfully over the top. Bruce Abbott is terrific as Dan Cain,West's partner in crime. Barbara Crampton is amazing and beautiful as Megan Halsey,Dan's girlfriend. David Gale is fantastic as Dr. Carl Hill,a rival of West's. Robert Samspson is wonderful as Dean Halsey,Megan's Father.The direction by Stuart Gordan is amazing,with Gordon always moving the camera and giving the film a stylish look with a few tracking and long shots that reminded me of a Stanley Kubrick film. Great direction,Gordon.The score by Richard Band is outstanding and matches the tone of the film even though most of the score was ripped off from Bernard Herrmann's score in Psycho(1960). Great score,Band.The special make-up effects are outstanding,bloody and realistic and add to the film's greatness. Outstanding special effects.In final word,if you love Horror Films,Zombie films,Horror-Comedies or genre films in general,I highly suggest you watch Re-Animator,an excellent,hilarious and unforgettable Horror classic that you will never forget after you watch it. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Demented&#x85;Dark&#x85;Disturbing&#x85;and Funny","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantastic Cult Movie that is as Disturbing, Funny, and Horrifying Today as it was in its Initial Release. That is a an Accomplishment worth Noting Considering all that has Come After. Everything Works in this Boundary Pusher.The Low-Budget SFX and Makeup are Outstandingly Over the Top. The Dark Humor mostly comes from a Deadpan Delivery from a Star Turned Jeffrey Combs as the Delightfully Demented and Giddy Discoverer of the Re-Agent that turns a Medical School into a Playground for Catatonic Corpses Creating a Commotion, and a Gadfly Student.The Movie has its Roots in Lovecraft and Shelley but it Grows on its Own. It is Very Rare that such a Complete Genre Exploitation is Enjoyed and Exalted by both Fans of this Type of Thing and Usually Stuffy Critics. But here it is in all its Gory Glory. It is also Unusual that Gorehounds are given this much to Cheer about. This is Arguably Their Citizen Kane. "},{"Title":"It shouldn't work... But it does!...","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A film very much in the style of the 1930's classic horrors, it never pauses for a laugh and never misses a beat. I admire that it's all taken so seriously and that the actors play it so straight. This gives it a bit of an edge over more modern takes on the genre (for me). Although none of the performances could be called great, I thought both Jeffrey Combs and David Gale come out on top. I really liked the musical score by Richard Band, almost a homage to the great horrors of the past. Over all, an intriguing film that I ended up enjoying despite a totally ludicrous story line; definitely worth a look for any horror fan. Be warned though, it's definitely NOT for the squeamish.SteelMonster's verdict RECOMMENDEDMy score 7.2/10.You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Horror!","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jeffrey Combs, Bruce Abbott, Barbara Crampton and David Gale star in Stuart Gordon's 1985 horror film based on H.P. Lovecraft's story, Herbert West The Re-Animator. This begins with a young scientist, Herbert West (Combs) experimenting his new serum on a professor that can regenerate dead tissue cells bringing back the dead. Soon, we meet medical student, Dan Cain (Abbott) and his girlfriend, Megan Halsey (Crampton) who eventually meet West when he becomes a student at their university and Cain's new roommate. Cain discovers and gets mixed up in West's experiments. Gale plays Dr. Carl Hill who dislikes West and learns of his secret serum. This is a good 80's horror flick with a nice touch of humor. Combs is great as West and the late, Gale was also great and creepy as Hill. I also like Richard Band's Psycho style score and recommend this. "},{"Title":"Enjoyably gory and creepy low-budget horror movie","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dan Cain is a dedicated medical student, whose only failing is perhaps a poor judgement in who he sleeps with &#150; specifically the pretty daughter of the protective Dean Halsey. Cain has a spare room in his house, which he rents to the rather creepy new arrival at medical college in Herbert West. West has a strange air about him and rightly so since he has an obsession with challenging the accepted fact that death is presented as. West openly challenges the teachings of the very experienced Dr Hill on the subject of the brain and when/how it dies, causing some tense classroom exercises. However West's obsession does not end there and experimentations in Cain's basement produce a certain amount of success but will only lead to terrible failure.I'm not a big horror fan but I do have a certain amount of OCD when it comes to watching films and when I saw this in the TV listings I realised that I had never seen it and decided to do so. I'm pretty sure that this gory affair is not Lovecraft had in mind when he wrote the story many decades ago, but this is what it is and I suppose it sort of fits in with the video nasty phrase that was around in this period. With this in mind it certainly does owe a debt to Evil Dead, not so much because it lifts anything from it but just that in concept it is similar. It does differ in humour though because, although some reviewers have said it is tongue in cheek I actually thought it did a good job of playing it as straight as possible and, although excessive in tone and gore, it is certainly not a comedy in the way that the Evil Dead films could be described. It is not a restrained chiller either so don't expect a ghost story but the straight playing does create a tension during the film that helps build to the gore, rather than the effects being the all.The effects are impressive even if they are dated now. Considering the budget it does all look very good, with the prosthetics working well (with the exception of that ridiculous cat &#150; although that is still a disturbing scene). The direction from Gordon is good and the camera moves well in a way that draws the viewer in. The lighting is also effective in some scenes, adding to the creepy feel. The cast surprised me by how good they actually were &#150; not brilliant of course but for a low-budget horror. Combs does a great turn in what some films would have seen hammy and unhinged &#150; instead he plays it aloof and detached, making him more creepy. Abbott channels Bruce Campbell in his turn but it does work as he mixes respect for and fear of, West and his work to good effect. Gale is a wonderful creation and convinces even in the final parts of the film; it is not his fault that he looks like Senator John Kerry, which I did find a little distracting. Sampson is solid while Crampton is a respectable blonde co-ed as required by the genre.Re-Animator is not a brilliant film but it is a good genre film. The effects have dated but still work to produce some watch through your fingers moments to compliment the overall sense of creepiness and doom that the film captures. Remade nowadays this film would just be about the body count so in a way it is a snapshot of a happier time in the genre and can still be enjoyed today. "},{"Title":"One for the cinema book of hell!","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Blood! Guts! Mayhem! AND GOD BLESS HIM! JEFFREY COMBS! This is a blood drenched classic horror in the definitive flavor of H.P Lovecraft. Jeffrey Combs' performance hits home with such a force that leaves you gasping for much needed air as the mad scientist Herbert West. Stuart Gordon crafts together this gruesome blend of black humor & terror in a masterful way with a great style that holds even the non-horror fan interested. In a way, this film transcends the bounds of the zombie genre with an approach that at the time was much needed in order to break new grounds. The result A cult classic still talked about in today's horror cinema scene! "},{"Title":"It lives up to its hype!","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is a film that always ranks very high in any Top Horror movies list among horror fans and film critics; it truly has gained a huge amount of praise and respect and some label it the best comedy/horror ever made. After watching it for the first time, I must say that they are right, this movie deserves all the praise it receives and more. What Stuart Gordon achieves here, is a perfect mixture of horror and dark humor that also pays good homage to his idol, H. P. Lovecraft, writer of the source novel the movie is based on.Lovecraft's tale tells the story of a young student of medicine who happens to meet newcomer Herbert West, a student who has achieved what many had looked before the secret of giving life back to the dead. The unnamed narrator becomes West's partner and helps him in his experiments. However, West's own obsessive ambitions, and the problem of finding fresh bodies will become a serious problem for their investigations and a risk not only for their careers, but also for their lives.The film adaptation follows closely the main story, although with several changes to set the movie in the present. While Lovecraft's story spans over years in the life of West, Gordon sets his version completely in their time in Miskantonic University. Despite the changes, the movie retains that mix of dark humor and horror that the source novel had. Don't expect slapstick humor or a big splatter fest, the humor in Re-Animator is quite black and fits perfectly the cold personality of Dr. Herbert West.West is played by Jeffrey Combs and the unnamed narrator, named here Dan Cain, is played by Bruce Abbott. David Gale plays their teacher, Dr. Hill; and Barbara Crampton completes the cast as Dan's girlfriend Megan. Abbott is very good in the lead role, but is definitely Combs who completely owns the screen. Herbert West was his first important character and the one that gave him recognition among fans of horror. His performance is top-notch and still one of his best. He is a very underrated actor.Director Stuart Gordon makes the most of his limited budget, creating haunting and gory images as the dead are re-animated by West. The special effects are remarkably good, and look a lot better than most big budget movies. However, what separates this movie from others, is that the characters are very well-defined, and it is easy to sympathize with them, something very rare in low-budget horror films. The movie shows that Gordon put a lot of heart in this project, and that he truly likes the horror genre, the not-so-subtle nod to the music of Psycho (Rearranged by Richard Band) makes it apparent.Re-Animator definitely deserves all the praise it receives, and it is truly one of the best horror movies ever done. It is more than a mere scary movie, it is a very entertaining and rewarding experience that can be watched several times. 9/10 "}{"Title":"Death is just the beginning....","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm amazed Stuart Gordon isn't known by fans world wide as one of the horror greats, like John Carpenter, George Romero, Wes Craven, Joe Dante and David Croninberg. Re-Animator is a comic masterpiece, and one of the best zombie films ever made. Herbert West is testing this new serum, see? Brings the recently deceased back to life... sort of. Buckets of screams and buckets of blood, and a comic wit that most filmmakers would envy. One of the funniest scenes in the film features a lascivious severed head and a naked Barbara Crampton tied to a table. Not for the squeamish, but overall one of the best thrillers of its type. "},{"Title":"Lacks the overall nightmarish background tone of Lovecraft's original story, but with the given resources it's fantastic.","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Herbert West is a very ambitious medical student. So ambitious that he openly refutes his professor's lecture about the process of how a body dies. That is because Herbert West, while just a student, has been doing his own research about the subject. He convinces his room mate to help him test his Re-Agent on a recently deceased human body in the hospital morgue and horror begins. It only gets worse when Herbert's jealous professor wants to take his research for his own.Re-Animator comes out of the 80s horror camp set of films and it undeniably one of the best. Lovecraft fans will instantly see that fact that the film strays far away from the set of events in the original short story, but the core idea is the same and the feel of Lovecraft is present throughout the film. Especially in the climax. The short story has a real kicker of an ending and seeing that this is an updated (and campy) version the viewer is likely to wonder what director Stuart Gordon has in stock for his version, but rest assured it's there. It lacks the overall nightmarish background tone of Lovecrafts original story, but with the given resources it's fantastic.Then there is Jeffery Combs who plays West with an eerie perfection and it is hard to imagine anyone else in the role. He flawlessly embodies West's obsession though, the one real strike against the film, is that it could have presented some hints as to why West is on such and obsessive path. From Comb's performance it is not hard to believe West as an obsessive character, but given the relative short runtime of the film, just over 85 minutes with both opening and closing credits, it really seems like that little extra bit could have been in there somewhere.But in the end this is a classic of horror cinema. 9/10Unrated, contains Horror violence/gore and gruesome imagery "},{"Title":"The most unique movie I have ever seen","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The best cult classic of our time in my opinion. This was the best horror movie of 1985. I have a recording of this movie from when it first aired on TV. I think it was on WPWR TV. It was during a halloween movie marathon which included several other horror movies. My favorite part was when Herbert West killed Dr Hill, and brought him back to life. I also saw the uncut version on the IFC channel. That was cool. "},{"Title":"pretty cool,","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was pretty cool. It had neat special effects and solid performances. The story and script were well thought-out and it was a great directing debut for Stuart Gordon. A must-see!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"review of the R-rated version","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hmmm, why would an UNRATED version of a movie be SHORTER than the RATED version?  (My excuse is that this is the only version my local Blockbuster stocks, so there.)Incredible makeup effects, a clever storyline, and an unbridled, off-the-radar sense of macabre humor make Re-Animator a slapstick treasure of the genre (it's far better than Sam Raimi's hopelessly overrated Evil Dead).  Jeffrey Combs is brilliant as the Norman Bates-ish Herbert West, a medical student who's invented a serum that brings the dead back to life...sort of.  This version of the film is somewhat choppy, and the gore scenes are fairly obviously trimmed (the 'head-on-a-stick' scene isn't included), but I still found it absurdly entertaining.  Off I go to find the special edition DVD...  3.5 stars out of 5 "},{"Title":"Great Taste","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie more every time I see it.  It has raw energy, genuine wit, low humor, a jumper or two, and the best gore (and no CGI).  Roger Ebert summed it up best when he said this film has the courage of its lack of convictions.  These people cared about the tone and the effect of this material, therefore they acted upon it fearlessly.  The love shows  as does the talent, the creativity, and (yes) the taste. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, don't complain that this movie isn't scary.  It's not your straight forward horror flick.  Is it scary? No, not really.  However, it has some suspenseful moments, and more than a few scenes that are laugh out loud funny.  The only person I can imagine not liking this film is the late, great H.P. Lovecraft.  This is a great, fun movie, perfect for watching with a group of friends.  Lots of gore, even more laughs.  Top notch fun.8/10 "},{"Title":"Head and shoulders above the rest","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Re-Animator is a heady mixture of gore and black comedy.Jeffery Combs stars as Herbert West, a young physician who works up a full head of steam with his views on cheating death.  His headstrong opinions lead to clashes with his new med school teacher Dr. Hill, forcing him to continue his experiments in his basement.  At first, Dr. West's housemate Dan, is shocked by the experiments, but his curiosity compels him to join forces with West and eventually the two put their heads together to conduct further experiments. Dan also enlists his girlfriend Megan in their strange activities and although she is repulsed by them, she agrees to help because she is head over heels in love with him. The re-animations begin to spiral out of  control and Dan comes to realize that he's in over his head.  Soon the erstwhile corpses develop minds of their own, leading to a head-on clash between re-animated and re-animators.   This film had a big head start over other horror films of the 80s and still retains its shock value today.  The gore and demented sense of humor on display did not endear the movie with the theatre chain's head offices and consequently it was poorly distributed in its day.  But Re-Animator has become a cult hit since, moving the film to the head of its class in the annals of outr horror. We can file this one under the heading Terrific. "},{"Title":"By far the best Lovecraft adaption ever made","Date":"28 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'I had to kill him' 'You mean he's dead?' 'Not any more'Ah, Re-Animator. Having read most of Lovecraft's stories as a kid, I'd been extremely disappointed by the movie adaptions, which seemed to throw out everything that made a Lovecraft story *a Lovecraft story* in favor of typical Hollywoodisms. So when I went to see Re-Animator in the cinema, I was pretty much blown away to see a movie made by someone who obviously loved the stories himself. Ok, so it had a love interest and THAT SCENE, which Lovecraft probably couldn't even have imagined, let alone written, but somehow it really managed to capture the feel of the stories despite bringing them more up to date.It's a B-movie, some of the effects are kind of hokey, some of the action is so dark it's hard to see, but as a horror movie (as opposed to a scary movie, they're not necessarily the same) it works well, and the ending, while seemingly inevitable, was both unexpected and perfect. If you like 'Scream' you'll probably hate this movie, but if you love intelligent, bizarre horror or H.P. Lovecraft's stories, you'll probably love Re-Animator too.Incidentally, the DVD is nominally out of print, but lately a few copies have been appearing for sale at some of the Canadian online DVD stores. The unrated version of the movie is vastly superior to the R-rated, and one of the few instances in history where the Director's Cut is actually shorter than the R-rated release version.  "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies of the 80's...","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Stuart Gordon is the master! This is a wonderful combination of black humour and sickening gore. Outstanding special effects,good acting (Jeffrey Combs as a Herbert West is simply awesome!) and nice-looking zombies. A lot of blood and gore right from the start.Nowadays most of the film-makers don't make horror flicks like this anymore. They tend to create polished trendy horror movies without any suspense or bloodshed (for good example Scream, Urban Legend and other commercial rubbish). So if you are a real horror/gore fan, you must see this little gem. Only for all, who have an iron stomach.  "}{"Title":"An honest horror movie, probably the best of its sub-genre.","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like the teenage kid you know and think is cool this movie is something that succeeds at what it is, a B grade exploitation flick. Taking itself seriously throughout it is bad, but never hokey. A great, dark, gory, horror experience that looks at the mad scientist genre in a refreshingly real way. You pays your two bucks, you sees lobotamized zombies attack a scientist with a foreign accent, you goes home happy.P.S. If you're willing to forgive an oral sex scene with a severed head...P.P.S. It is a necessary scene "},{"Title":"If you are to watch your first horror film, this is a good launching point. A great hybrid of horror & laughs","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Actually&#x85; maybe I'll take that back. It's pretty icky a lot of times. It has a ton of gore, and many gross out sequences. If you don't have a strong stomach, choose something else, but if you do have a strong stomach, get a copy of this movie and reap the rewards of this twisted classic. A lot of the enjoyment has to do with Jeffrey Comb's portrayal of Herbert West. A well meaning, but perennial headcase; his great chemistry with Bruce Abbot as the reluctant tag along is a lot of fun to watch. Herbert West is one of the coolest Horror characters in history. Barbara Crampton is easy on the eyes and plays a likable love interest for Abbot. David Gale steals the scenes he's in with his hilarious performance as the bombastic Dr. Carle Hill. Stuart Gordon's ghastly effects never get old and still manage to amaze me to this very day. Any complaints? I didn't care for the musical score. It's kinda a variation of Psycho and I didn't really boogie to it. I think it should have been more original that way. Other than that, this is a terrific Horror film that has everything a horror fan could want. And the ending never fails to sadden me every time. It really is heartbreaking in waysFinal Thoughts This is one of my favorite Horror films. It's got suspense, scares, and lots of wild, bizarre comedy. They sure don't make them like this anymore. If you have the stomach for the gore, strap yourself in, and enjoy! Oh&#x85;make sure you get the uncut version!8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest splatter films","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are several different ways of resurrecting the dead, which makes a great subject for a movie. Movies about the walking dead have been made for years, but it wasn't until the 60s that we got the type of zombie we see so often today. Most times it was accomplished by voodoo or some type of chemical spill. So many zombie films were made in the 1980s, some derivative of better one and some great films in their own right. It was also a decade where a lot of filmmakers were adapting the works of H.P. Lovecraft for the screen. 'Re-Animator' is not just another living dead film, but rather a new spin on it and to an extent the 'Frankenstein' story as well.Pros Solid performances, especially a scene-stealing one by Jeffrey Combs. Intelligently written. Great score with a 'Psycho'-esque theme. Darkly humorous. Excellent special effects. Plus there is plenty o' gore. Moves at a good pace. Exciting, zombie-filled finale.Cons At 82 minutes, the film is too short for things to be fleshed out enough. Lacking suspense.Final thoughts Though it may not break a lot of new ground, 'Re-Animator' is none-the-less a treat. It's proof that you can make a Horror film that is both gory and intelligent. The filmmakers successfully blended elements from zombie and mad scientist films, both of which needed a shot of life in the arm.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"An 80s horror classic","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of my favourite films, a classic H.P. Lovecraft adaptation from director Stuart Gordon and producer Brian Yuzna.Synopsis Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) is an obsessed medical researcher who enrolls in Miskatonic University to continue his research into bringing the dead back to life. He blackmails his room-mate Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott) into assisting him in his research by threatening to reveal Dan's relations with Megan Halsey (Barbara Crampton), daughter of the university's Dean. When Dan navely tells Dean Halsey Robert Sampson) about their research he threatens to expel them. West is determined to keep going so they sneak into the hospital morgue to continue their research but are disturbed by the Dean who is killed by an out of control reanimated corpse. To cover up his death West reanimates the Dean. The Dean's condition as violent mindless zombie raises the suspicions of Megan and university professor Dr Hill (David Gale). Hill tries to force West to turn over his research to him but instead West cuts off his head. West then reanimates Hill's head and body but Hill is far from helpless and he escapes to plan his revenge.There is so much about this film that I love. Combs is just marvellous as Herbert West, playing him as an amoral monster.Most of the humour in the film comes from the vicious contempt West shows to everyone else, especially towards Megan and Dr Hill. David Gale gives great performance as Hill, a man desperate to stay top dog. Bruce Abbott is very pleasant to look at and I'm sure others will say the same about Barbara CramptonThe effects are probably a little dated but I don't think that detracts from this film at all. Modern CGI effects rarely disgust me like these older effects still manage to. I think fluids like pus and vomit gore are still better as real fake fluids than any CGI equivalent I have seen to date especially when they are dripping from an actor.Another thing I like is the wonderful score by Richard Band, a theme that builds in tension then decays into madness perfectly matching this filmI read the original Lovecraft story Herbert West - Re-Animator after watching this film and I was surprised to find that the film was toned down quite a lot from the book. I suppose I should warn those concerned that this film is violent, gory and has some nudity in it.Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Cats can't tango with a broken back","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is one of the few cult classics that I'll stick up for. I usually wind up feeling like most classic horror films that are recommended or held in such high regard aren't good at all or are extremely overrated. This film is a lot of fun though. It's definitely got its campy qualities with a headless corpse stumbling around the third act of the film, but it doesn't feel out of place for a film built around a concoction that's injected into the brain to bring corpses back from the dead. The music, especially the opening theme, tends to get a bad wrap because it blatantly rips off (or pays homage, depending on how you look at it) the Psycho score. While the similarities are crystal clear once they're heard, I honestly didn't mind it. It's kind of hard to imagine this film with different music, so I have no complaints.The Herbert West role really fits Jeffrey Combs like a glove. His attraction to weird and quirky roles pretty much began with films like this one. As West's unusual personality is revealed throughout the film, you can't help but get a sense of uneasiness as his character traits unravel before your very eyes. The best example is when West brings Dan's cat Rufus back to life. After it's been killed for the second time, Dan is shocked to discover it's Rufus and turns to look at West. West points at the cat and tells Dan to, Look out! Dan quickly turns his attention back to poor Rufus, who's still lying there motionless. West begins to burst into maniacal laughter as Dan looks on in horror. With the upcoming remake on the horizon, it's hard to imagine anyone else in the role of Herbert West especially with Jeffrey Combs confirmed for a cameo.While Re-Animator could definitely be considered cheesy and campy at times, its strengths outweigh its flaws. The story is simple, but tends to unfold nicely and the acting is solid (David Gale as Dr. Hill is up for debate though). The film is pretty much exactly what you would expect a horror film to be like from the eighties; gory, cheesy, tons of nudity and sex, and a few creative twists along the way. And when it comes to horror, what else could you really ask for? "},{"Title":"I didn't believe a gore classic would entertain me, but...","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...it totally did. Even to the extent of my having to come here and say something. I really, really don't enjoy gore but only to some extent, and this was pretty far across my line. Wes Craven's Scream is one of my all time favorite movies and it, too, mostly because of the psychological aspects, not the gore.I thought this is more likely to entertain only big gore fans, but I was positively surprised that the critics were right. The film makers certainly did take it so way over the top, and none of the actors took the roles too seriously, that it seemed more comical than disturbing, and left me feeling very positively entertained.Someone once said that horror is close to humor. When something is too horrible, you laugh in order to protect yourself. Unfortunately that has happened to me only once before this film. It wasn't even a horror film, that one. Anyway, when that happens, there's a great gore movie, even if the psychological aspects are missing or thrown aside. And I think this movie is a good example of such. I doubt any of the things I saw in this film, can come haunting me.So, even I found myself laughing out loud - partly in defense, partly in a heartfelt way, for one when there is the chaos in the mortuary and one of them throw the decapitated head out of the door and the black guy just happens to walk by just then, looks at the head, then at the chaos and hurries away. It's one of those have-to-see-it-to-get-it moments. And when Dr. Hill was walking to the mortuary, holding his own head on a tray. There was just something too comical about those moments.Besides, Herbert Wsst is a wonderful character and the actor is just perfect. He alone makes the film very much worth watching.I even found myself feeling a bit disappointed, when the end credits rolled in. I would've gladly watched a bit more of this fine horror comedy. But I understand that any longer, it might have lost it's power. I don't think I want to watch this again though, as I really don't care for gore much. But I genuinely did enjoy this, this once.I warmly recommend this to any fan of horror and/or horror comedies - of course excluding those who are very passionately against gore, or very sensitive to it/easily disturbed.One last thing; Don't watch this as your first taste of horror. First off; there is some pretty twisted scenes in this film. Secondly; I think you should first get used to gore and then watch this film. Otherwise this might be a shocker and take a lot away of the enjoyability. "},{"Title":"reflexive homage","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fantasporto 2010 This was the first half of a double session i watched that ended with Braindead. It was fun, very fun. The reason why we laugh at films like this is, i think, related with the fact that we understand the breaking of cinematic conventions. in other words, if i'd never seen any gore serious film before, this one would just sound silly. This means we have a comedy attached to a specific genre, and which plays with it. Well, we are given absolutely every element we are supposed to get from the genre zombies, lots of blood, graphic depictions of guts, the object woman, who necessarily has to loose her clothes along the way and be the catalyst of desire of basically everybody on the film (except the inventor). We are even given those elements in the right place, and order, and with the right weight, according to what we except from the genre. But we will just laugh at it, just as the filmmakers did making it. This film doesn't twist the genre (like the new Thirst, by Park Chan-Wook does), instead it turns it into a cartoon, and that's also a good experience.This re-animator has a special interest, basically and simply because it is well executed. Unlike a very vast majority of the guys who did these films, Stuart Gordon does have a cinematic eye. He cares for how every shot is constructed, and that ends up summing up to the experience. Again, in other words, the film matters as cinema, instead of just an artifact for blood gore lovers to appreciate how they modeled the intestine that gains life in the final scene. Some moments, intentionally ridiculous in their plot description, work incredibly funny because of how they were shot. The best example is a shot in which you get, on a single frame, half the naked body of the female protagonist. We see her breasts, being handled by the hands of the headless body. Standing next to the girl we see the head itself, in a platter, with gazes of pleasure! it's incredibly visual, so much that i am laughing just remembering that frame. Other than that, the fluidity of the camera helps all the way.So, in the end, this doesn't have the juice of those films that play, twist, and re-deliver a genre, instead it falls on a larger group of films which are hommages. This is a pretty decent one, and you certainly will laugh at it.My opinion 4/5 http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"a good horror/comedy movie","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A medical student returns from Austria after working in regenerative experiments with a well known scientist who died under mysterious circumstances. He enrols at Miskatonic University where he begs to differ with his professor on issues of the time of death, and eventually enlists his roommate to help him continue experiments on re-animating the dead. This is a really good movie to watch, it's not too scary and this more of a comedy then horror movie really. the whole movie was really funny, i love the part with dead cat coming back to life was really funny, if you are scared of black cat's this scene could scare you.When Herbert West injected the bodies with a green liquid they come back to life and they become really aggressive as Hertbert and Dan try stop one of dead as become super strong for some reason, the make up effect for the injected were really good made then look scary.The special effect for this movie were fantastic, This movie also had some nice gore scene, it not to much gore, it's enough to make the gore hounds happy. The acting was really great from whole cast.The only think i did not like about the movie was ending, it felt a little too rushed.I would have gave it 9/10, i wasn't happy about ending, so going to give it a 7/ 10 "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining 80's gorefest!","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The egotistical young Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) develops a formula that can revive the dead and attends a medical university to expand his knowledge and perfect his creation. He teams up with fellow student Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott), who is dating the dean's daughter (Barbara Crampton), and begins experimenting on various corpses from the morgue which often bring disastrous results. A professor who teaches at the university, Dr. Carl Hill (David Gale), plots to steal West's formula and make it his own. He fails and ends up being decapitated and brought back to life by West, now as a headless body and a talking severed head.This is an excellent horror-comedy for gorehounds that definitely lives up to its hype. Loosely based on the H. P. Lovecraft story, Re-Animator is a fast paced thriller with superb special effects, a compelling story, and great acting. Jeffrey Combs is great as the obsessed Herbert West and Dr. Hill is one of the coolest villains I have ever seen in a horror film. This movie is very gory and fits in well with other films of its kind such as Evil Dead 2 and Dead Alive. If you're a fan of over-the-top blood soaked 80's films, then be sure to give this one a watch. "},{"Title":"Not for the faint of heart","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Has here ever been a gorier, scarier, laugh-out-loud camp horror fest than 1985's RE-ANIMATOR? A very loose adaptation of a Lovecraft story, the movie is a dizzying ride into madness, as young medical student Herbet West (played beautifully by Jeffrey Combs) dabbles in reviving the dead with a serum he has developed. First it's a cat, then it's a corpse. Of course, the dead are not at all happy about being brought back to life and take it out on the living. Another student, Dan Kane (Bruce Abbott, looking a little like Bruce Campbell from EVIL DEAD), is drawn into West's mad doctor doings. Things quickly go from bad to worse, and this includes the reanimated head of an evil surgeon who covets Kane's girlfriend, Megan Halsey (Barbara Crampton), and wants West's discovery for his own. What a time this group must have had making this nasty but somehow lovable romp. Watch in particular for the reanimated cat attacking West and Kane, Megan's dad making a serious mistake while in the clutches of a naked reanimated corpse, and the surgeon's bloody head having some fun with the alluring but shrill Ms. Halsey. And what a finale! A real gem, and arguably the best horror film of the 1980s. At least the best horror comedy. And I hear Lovecraft is still spinning in his grave over this one. "}{"Title":"Ingenious Mad Science!","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mad science has always been one of my favorite Horror topics, and Doctor Herbert West is the greatest obsessed scientist the cinematic world has seen since Peter Cushing played the eponymous Baron in the Hammer Studios' Frankenstein cycle. Stuart Gordon's Re-Animator of 1985 is without any doubt one of the most wickedly entertaining films ever brought to screen, and no lover of Horror and Gore, no, no true lover of cinema could possibly consider missing it. H.P. Lovecraft is doubtlessly one of the greatest writers of Horror fiction (in my opinion, he is THE greatest besides Edgar Allan Poe), and even though Lovecraft adaptations are often far away from the actual literary model, they have often turned out to be brilliant films. Not less than three of Horror cinema's all-time greats have their origin in Lovecraft's mind and pen, namely Roger Corman's The Haunted Palace (starring Vincent Price) of 1964, Sam Raimi's Evil Dead of 1982, and this masterpiece. Re-Animator is, simply put, one of the greatest, most outrageously entertaining Horror films ever brought to screen. This is not least due to the brilliant performance of Jeffrey Combs, who doesn't play but IS Herbert West, and, of course due to director Stuart Gordon's brilliant sense of macabre humor, and his talent to make an ultra-gory Horror/Sci-Fi flick one of the most outrageously hilarious comedies ever.The film starts out with a delightfully macabre and witty scene, which I don't want to give away, and then really begins at the renowned medical University of Arham, Massachusets (Lovecraft's town for everything macabre), where the kind-hearted Dan (Bruce Abbott) is studying to become a doctor and working at the University clinic. Dan's life is well-regulated, in spite of the fact that he has to hide his relationship with the principal's sexy daughter Meg (Barbara Halsey). This all changes when a new student comes to town - Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs). West, who moves in with Dan, is dedicated enough to constantly question the methods of his sleazy professor Dr. Carl Hill (David Gale). He is also obsessed with the resurrection of the dead... I don't want to spoil anything, so my plot description ends at this point, but I can assure that it is getting extremely gory and even more fun. Jeffrey Combs was born to play the role of Herbert West. Combs is a great actor who has played many other memorable roles, but the role of Herbert West is the one he will always be remembered for, simply because he IS Herbert West. Combs is brilliant in the role, and there is simply no other actor imaginable to play the character. David Gale is nothing short of brilliance either in his portrayal of the sleazy scumbag Dr. Hill. Bruce Abbott makes fits very well in the role of the good guy and the beautiful Barbara Crampton is absolutely wonderful (and sexy!) in the female lead. The extreme gore-scenes are outstandingly made. Never has gore looked so good and yet so outrageously funny. Gordon's outstanding direction, the settings, editing and camera work and the awesome score only increase this impression. I could go on praising Re-Animator forever, but I'll just give and advice In case you have not seen this yet, get it and do so immediately! I've seen the film multiple times and it gets more awesome with each viewing. A Must-See For Every Horror Fan! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Is everything Return of the Living Dead wanted to be","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator was one of the most original horror comedies of the 80s. During that time, horror cinema was overridden with either lame slasher flicks (such as Freddy and Jason and all their crop) or bad horror-comedies (I never saw the appeal of Return of the Living Dead). During this period, there were two combinations of gory horror and comedy that really seemed to nail the concept. One was Evil Dead 2. Even better was the other one, Re-Animator. Re-Animator's sense of humor comes from knowingly over-the-top camp opposed to cheap in-jokes. The cast never winks at the camera, which is what makes this combination so effective. Also, the horror sequences themselves are quite intense, directed with a sense of utmost ferocity.In addition to being both funny and scary, this is a pretty well made film. Bruce Abbott is given a pretty dull role but does what he can with it and Barbara Crampton is quite adequate in what her role requires - laying around looking absolutely beautiful. Much more memorable than either of those two are David Gale and of course Jeffrey Combs. Gale is quite unnerving as the creepy and evil mad doctor who steals Herbert West's (Jeffrey Combs) ideas. As Herbert West, Jeffrey Combs is the true revelation. Its no wonder he went on to become a major b-movie player. The direction by Stuart Gordon keeps everything moving at a quick pace, and he knows primarily when to play a scene for laughs or scares. Re-Animator is a classic for a reason. Its one of the 80s finest low-budget films and a true cult classic. (9/10) "},{"Title":"What's to say? The  film's cult status speaks for itself","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror is quite a special genre. It can be loved by the audience and disliked by critics. George Romero was asked once why has he chosen to restrict his career to a genre not favored by critics. His answer was that he never saw himself as working in a genre other than horror.Many typical slasher movies have been released where a bunch of teenagers get it. Most of these films got mixed with the rest of the crowd of nonsense horror and forgotten. In 1985 along came re-animator a horror film so unique, bizarre and disturbing it just had to become a classic. From my point of view the brilliance of re-animator lies not in its over-the-top gore or its black humor but in the plot. Scientists have always been interested in prolonging life. Think about the pseudoscience called alchemy, (chemistry's predecessor) the main objective of an alchemist was inventing an elixir that prolonged life indefinitely. Re-animator is the impersonation of this idea. Conquering death has been in the minds of people since the dawn of time.As far as the gore goes well, I see it as the disastrous consequences of playing God. While Dr Hill (I think that's his name) was alive he did not pursue Barbara due to society's norms and rules. Herbert West's so called re-agent brought back his ID (demand for gratification) not the ego (social conscience), thus turning him into a monster.It is not very clear who the villain is in re-animator. Herbert West is simply an obsessed scientist who wishes to help humanity. All that is inhumane about his actions is the single premeditated murder of Dr Hill, who then becomes the actual villain.William Friedkin, the director of the exorcist said that a film should inspire and provoke you, which is exactly what re-animator does through its disturbing nudity and gore and the quite big content of accurate science. Theoretically it would be possible to bring somebody back to life by restarting the body's chemical reactions.10/10 for it's underlying sophistication, it's uniqueness and because it reminds us of something very simple Death can only be prolonged to a certain degree, it can't be beaten or avoided. "},{"Title":"West !Herbert West!","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In spite of its numerous special effects,its gore and its horrible scenes,Re-Animator was a breath of fresh air in the eighties when the film was released.Why? Because it was a return to black humor (which motel hell (1980) had already broached) which had been completely forgotten in the likes of Freddy ,Friday the thirteenth ,Halloween....And funny,nay hilarious,Re-Animator is!Jeffrey Combs is wonderful as the lead.I dig the way he introduces himself,I love his swagger,I love his deadpan face,and above all his logic (I'm a scientist!).His reluctant pal Dan delivers this line which is the best euphemism I 've heard in the whole horror cinemaafter the extremely gory scene in the morgue ,he mumbles  must be dreamin' .The cat in the fridge,the dean turned into a zombie,the lecherous professor licking Barbara Crampton's magnificent body,and more and more! Horror movie buffs,do not miss it! "},{"Title":"Definitely Not For Everyone. What I Like To Call Kitchen Gore","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah the 80s a decade filled with cheap and mostly awful horror films, yet Re-Animator stands out as one of those extremely entertaining horror/comedies. Re-Animator is a very goofy film and is not exactly intelligent either. I'm not going to pretend that Re-Animator is well made either because it is far from a well made film. Yet there is something very cool about Re-Animator maybe the fact that the very fake gore looks so funny and I can respect the level of creativity because this was before special-effects were filling up the market. Re-Animator is a very iconic film and has a strange nerdy feel throughout it's short running time.Re-Animator has this great B movie feel to it, think Evil Dead (a better film by the way) but with scientists. The movie is very well known for it's level gore, which is definitely is, yet the gore is very fake and so funny that you won't be as disgusted as you would be if it wasn't comic. I think it is great that Re-Animator has so much comedy in it and the whole detached head and body scene is so imaginative and irresistibly hilarious. Still the film keeps you very entertained and provides a lot of intense scenes of clumsy science. Re-Animator feels somewhat like a cartoon that's not sure if it wants to shock you or make you sit back rolling around in hysterics. The film is not scary, but is creepy at certain times and you'll always know what's going to happen next.The acting is another thing that makes the film so funny and the fact that almost every line uttered is cheesy brilliance. I love the way all the actors actually seem very attached to their roles, yet you know they are probably taking the whole thing as a joke. There's something very amusing about watching film basically about an inept scientist who tries to create a cure for death. Not only does the film manage to just shock you from the opening scene, it also manages to hold up the atmosphere throughout the film. The film definitely is an all rounder in the technical categories even if it does look very cheap. The make up is highly detailed and shows a lot of time and effort. At least Re Animator has a level of intelligent direction to it.Being the kind of movie lover who's not a great fan of horror films and tries to avoid them because of the often awful repetitiveness. If you can except that really Re-Animator is a comedy and not a gore fest then you might overlook some of the more intense sequences as highly amusing examples of kitchen gore. Yes Re-Animator is dumb, yes Re-Animator is over the top and yes Re-Animator has a certain style and guilty pleasure level to it. Not for the faint hearted, but recommend for fans of quirky horror movies and great for a group of friends who just want to sit back and be entertained. "},{"Title":"Re-Animator","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Blood, sweat, and gore - that is how you describe Re-Animator, director Stuart Gordon's (that's GORE-don) take on the Frankenstein-like story Herbert West - Re-Animator by H.P. Lovecraft. Re-Animator is to zombie movies what Frankenstein was to the horror genre as a whole - something really special to anyone who stumbled upon it. But it's definitely not for everybody, as Gore-don's effects take center stage in an entertaining zombie free-for-all.In a deliciously over-the-top role, Jeffrey Combs is Herbert West, eccentric and dedicated medical student and the Re-Animator of the title, who as the film opens, has already resurrected his first corpse and I must say, it's literally eye-popping. Ewe.We next find ourselves at a prestigious medical school, and student Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott) has been partnered up with new student West, who has brought his reanimation serum with him. He presents his neon-green miracle potion to the disbelieving Dan, but finds himself breaking into the morgue to resurrect dead bodies.As with any horror movie of this caliber, there has to be a bad guy, and in this case it's Dr. Hill (David Gale), who experiences first-hand the effects of West's serum (the head on the box cover art belongs to him). Hill eventually sets his sights on Dan's lovely blonde girlfriend Megan (Barbara Crampton, exposing enough flesh here for two Re-Animators). Hill steals West's serum and more dead rise, putting West and Dan in a nasty, gory predicament.I think it's safe to conclude that Re-Animator doesn't play, and neither does its director. Gordon keeps the laughs and gore aplenty, allowing even the most cynical to walk away with something, not just a vomit bag (yes, it's that gross). The performers are so-so, but not Combs as Herbert West. He's all over the place, so to speak, in a role that he seems custom-ready for. With his nerdy glasses, pale face and fidgety voice pattern, you'd never guess he has a penchant for raising the dead.Here is a true horror classic from filmmakers who know their stuff about splatter flicks. It's been followed by several sequels but the original still remains the one to keep an eye out for.8/10 "},{"Title":"splatter, corpses, killer intestines, spastic cats, and Jeffrey Combs.... and here we go","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is one of those super-duper-holy-s***-WTF horror movies. You know the kind. It's a movie that if you didn't see it in the theaters, you had to see on video. Or, as is the case now in the 21st century thanks to Anchor Bay, on DVD. And you may not see it right away since it isn't a name brand like a Freddy or Michael Myers, or with the pedigree of Sam Raimi. You have to look into finding this one out (that, or pay attention to the movie conversation between Spacey and Bentley in American Beauty when stoned). But once you see it, it's another reminder of how sick and twisted and hilarious a film can be when its creators keep logic dangling by a thread - sure, some of this is logical, but that's after setting up the 'fact' that people can come back to life by some weird green liquid that one isn't really sure how it's made but, hey, it's Herbert West so maybe you just don't want to know...Simple premise Herbert West (Herbert to his friends) is at a medical school when he takes a room with Dan and Megan, an engaged couple who also are connected to the medical university (Dan also a student, Megan daughter of the uptight dean), and tries out his formula to extend life past the expected amount of time the brain can function after death. Turns out it works, first on a cat, then on something... else, like say a huge muscle man in a morgue! From here on its turns into a match of wills - Herbert West versus the vindictive and power hungry Dr. Carl Hill, who wants nothing but to take West's formula - and then when dead and a severed head, to create a zombie army that only he can control through lobotomies... yeah, still crazy? Just you wait.This is the stuff 'cult' is made of in the film world. You watch it and realize as you're laughing and cringing that you're almost part of a club when watching this. It's a splatter-fest, coupling the ribald gore of a B (or Z) grade horror movie with some of the dread one maybe found in the original Lovecraft story. Some of the movie is just too bizarre and weird to totally qualify as comedy, or some of it just so much that it goes even further (or at least toe-to-toe) than its other 1985 zombie-comedy, Return of the Living Dead. But probably the best assets to make it crazy-funny as opposed to just crazy is David Gale as Carl Hill (mostly after he's a severed head and body, doing more campy takes than one could ever ask for outside of Bela Lugosi), and Jeffrey Combs as Herbert West. Combs is so good here at projecting this determined, insane but almost admirably passionate *scientists* that it's a shame then he only has one other stand-out performance - as a crazy agent in the Frighteners.Sure, the acting by the two leads isn't always at its best from Bruce Abbott (good at one stare, not so much on dialog except for a few key scenes) or Barbara Crampton (a good screamer and a sexy body, but also on par with Abbott for talent), but this is the least thing to worry about as they're supposed to be the bland-leads. What makes the film so incredible and enduring since its release is its attention to real horror - the body that is just there in the background BOLTS UP oh no! - and some real insane comedy. It's not exactly a spoof either, since it's so daring in its subversion of the Frankenstein formula. It is what a die-hard genre fan is salivating for, pun intended bloody fun, with chunks, the thicker the better. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"'Who is going to believe a talking head'","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Neon green fluid is injected into dead bodies making them come back to life to have a little of fun. 'Wesss...... you bastard'. I love this gore / comedy genre.With 2 sequels spawned so far; '1. Re-animator ( 1985 ), 2. Bride of the re-animator ( 1990 ), Beyond re-animator ( 2003 ) and with House of re-animator ( 2008 ) in production' is this one of the more fun-to-watch horror series. Not a scary movie, more like a good comedy loaded with gore. A great ( gore ) / comedy flick, which will last for years to come.For all horror and gore lovers this movie is a must, for all else......Check it out and maybe you will have a good time. "},{"Title":"A blood-soaked classic!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Debut outing for Stuart Gordon provides a very entertaining film with a big helping of good special effects and quite a large amount of gore for an R-rated feature.Great touches of humour shine through the gore although the gore,which there is a lot of,is always excellent.Jeffrey Combs as a scientist/doctor Herbert West is simply amazing.Re-Animator is visually interesting to look at,it is also quite creepy at times.It just can't get any better than this!In my opinion Stuart Gordon should be worshipped by all horror fans for producing such fine films like this one.OK,I admit that his another horror flick Dolls is pretty lame,but From Beyond,The Pit and the Pendulum,Castle Freak are all great.If you like Re-Animator check out its sequel Bride of Re-Animator,also highly recommended. "},{"Title":"One of 80's best horror flicks","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I have not read H. P. Lovecraft's book Herbert West, the Re-Animator, but I can still say that you wont be disappointed. Surprisingly this movie has a good plot, and also some good splatter-effects (especially Dr. Hill's head). Stuart Gordon does his best as a director.Still, it owns it's life to it's actor's. Bruce Abbot is okay as Dan Cain, the only sane character in the movie. The show is stolen by Jeffrey Combs, as Herbert West, the modern, mad scientist of horror movies. David Gale as Dr. Hill, make's his tribute to old horror films. Instead, Barbara Crampton, is here only because of her looks, and her loud voice. Very entertaining movie, that I recommend to all 80's horror/slasher-fans. "}{"Title":"I gave 'em life..!!","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is enough to make you rethink everything you ever thought about horror movies. How is it that such a puerile and disgusting film can be so much fun to watch? It's probably because it doesn't even attempt to take itself seriously. What we have is a zombie flick with generous hints of dark humor thrown in for good measure a classic combination that could easily satisfy even the most devoted fans of Dario Argento or George A. Romero. And why shouldn't it? The satire in this film is beyond plentiful, not the least of which comes in the form of obscenely over the top gore effects.This movie is scary, gory, original, and above all, a lots of fun. Just when you think it can't get any more over-the-top, it does. Combs steals the show as West, who looks like a cartoon version of a brainy young scientist with huge horn-rimmed glasses. I appreciate his performance more each time I view the movie. He gets most of the best lines, such as when Dan yells at him when a hysterical Meg has found her pet cat, Rufus, in West's fridge with a broken neck, that if he found the cat that way as he claimed, West could have left a note. A note saying what? 'Dan cat dead. Details later'? he dryly replies.Re-Animator is the kind of film that doesn't revel in its goriness; it completely depends on it. It's probably not something that fans of the original Lovecraft story would appreciate, nor should they; the film version is so far removed from the source material that the title is practically the only thing establishing a connection. I think that, for maximum viewing pleasure, you just have to go with the flow and leave behind any notions of good taste or decent principles and immerse yourself in pure horror delight.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Starts of with a plot, but then derails into excuses for funny violence","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I feel I missed a lot of great movie experiences by not watching this when I was a kid. It has everything that I would have loved, and lots of it. Now, a bit older, I can still appreciate it for what it is, but the novelty of it all is gone.I'm not sure if I have read the specific Lovecraft story this is based on, but as far as I can understand, it moves away from Lovecraft's storyline. Because I don't know how the original story goes, I can't say this for sure, but It feels like they stuck to the story a while, but then got too caught up in having fun with ideas for scenes. It's like the filmmakers were let loose on a set with SFX-people, trying to think how they could do as much sick/fun things as possible. Which leads to some interesting situation, but it all feels very engineered. The plot built up in the first act(s) of the movie is still there in the background, but they miss the chance they had at making a compelling story. All the characters get caught up in the gore and he violence (and the slapstick), leading to a blood filled finale.What would I have preferred? Well, the SFX is fun, so I'm not really complaining about it. But I wish they had followed more up on the conflicts between the young idealistic scientist and the older, cheating one. It's there throughout the movie, but at one point you realize that it's just there to justify hostility. It also appears that some parts of the plot were removed, because the ending kind of does not make sense. How is one character able to control some of the re-animated? (according to wikipedia, it's explained in some cut scenes) Anyway, if you're a younger kid, you're gonna love this. "},{"Title":"Worth resurrecting, 31 years on","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based loosely on the 1922 H. P. Lovecraft novella Herbert West&#x96; Reanimator, this classic mid-80s horror is both old-fashioned and new. It takes a work of period literature &#x96; about a grave-robbing doctor restarting dead human beings as if they were machines &#x96; and transplants it to a modern-day mad scientist workshop, effectively reinvigorating the zombie genre. With its unnatural lighting, crooked angles and melodramatic outbursts, Re-Animator has the style of cautionary 50s sci-fi. Except much, much gorier.Jeffrey Combs plays West, whom we meet grappling with one Dr Hans Gruber (that's right). It turns out that West wasn't killing Gruber; he was bringing him back to life with the help of a special serum. West flees to New England, where he moves in with Dan (Bruce Abbott), a trainee surgeon, and his girlfriend Megan (scream queen Barbara Crampton). West soon gets to work resurrecting dead animals, but his sights are set on human reanimation. Appealing to his curiosity and his ego &#x96; and despite the warnings of Megan &#x96; West convinces Dan to assist him, gaining access to the morgue. Meanwhile, the scheming Dr Hill (David Gale) seeks to steal the serum and create a zombie army of his own. The movie is based mostly in a single set, the morgue, meaning most of the sub-$1m budget goes on spectacularly gruesome special makeup effects. This release is the Unrated version, meaning all the beheadings and disembowellings are here in all their 4K glory. It's safe to say Re-Animator features some of the most impressive and memorable gore effects of the decade. Tony Doublin's design for the headless Dr Hill is masterful. The scenes where Hill's disembodied head is psychically controlling his stumbling body are eye-poppingly gross and funny.The script is sharp, the plotting is tight, and the characters are well-rounded. Sure, the goodies aren't nearly as fun as the plotting puppeteers. But then, this isn't the kind of movie where you're expecting to feel fuzzy and consoled come the final freeze-frame. More satirical than David Cronenberg's The Fly but straighter than Frank Henenlotter's Frankenhooker, Re-Animator successfully finds the sweet spot between comedy and horror. This is thanks in large part to the universally good performances, chief of which is the possessed Combs, whose deranged scientist is hilarious and unique. There's talent on the other side of the camera, too. Richard Band's wonderful music is pure Psycho-era Bernard Herrman. And the producer is Brian Yuzna, whose directorial debut would be the fantastically grotesque Society, and who would direct the Re-Animator sequel in 1990. Bold characterisation, barking performances, timeless practical effects, efficient plotting and jet-black humour &#x96; not to mention considerable after-the-event reassessment &#x96; leaves Re-Animator a shoe-in for cult status. It even dares to ask big questions What is medical science for? Should we seek to cheat death entirely? And then it drowns such lofty concerns in a bucket of offal. "},{"Title":"The 4 genre movie","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-animator can be considered to be a part of many genres. It does meet the definition of a cult film, a horror film, a sci-fi film and even a comedy film. The movie has a somewhat similar plot to that of Frankenstein. But instead of creating a monster from virtual scratch, a young medical student named Jeffrey Combs is motivated to bring dead corpses back to life. He quickly becomes friends with another medical student, whose girlfriend's father just happens to be a doctor. The re- animations do not go well at first, the revived corpses are not able to think clearly and they try to kill him. This movie is has a solid R- rating and it is one of the most graphic and gory movies I have ever seen. This movie takes on gore like the movie The Evil Dead with the main goal of making it so gory that it is humorous. Jeffrey quickly moves from re-animating animals to re-animating people, even though they are not quite the same re-animated as they were when they were alive. The corpses are re-animated by injecting a needle with green serum into the back of the head, sometimes with highly violent results. Then the movie gets odd and humorous giving i it's cult and comedy rating. A re- animated corpse tries to rape a girl but his severed head cannot do it. The same corpse with the severed head tries to control it's body and it crashes into things. I did enjoy this movie, it was a very unique movie and it was very fun to watch. But however, I would not recommend this film to those who do not like graphic movies. The movie was a very pleasant surprise and it is very funny. "},{"Title":"A deserved cult classic","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is an obvious cult classic. Few people coming to it would be unaware of that fact. It is not undeserving of its status in this regard.Jeffrey Combs is the absolutely perfect choice for Herbert West, or any Lovecraft character. He's small, intense, intelligent, pale, and apparently completely humourless and devoid of any human interest. He comes across as a pure scientist as Lovecraft's characters always were.He was so well cast, and this movie did such an admirable job of modernising a Lovecraft story - albeit with some alterations, such as a love interest (something you'd be hard pressed to find in the horror master's entire body of work) and a spooky, Manson-like professor - that it is hard to believe he made the misfire From Beyond, the next Combs- Gordon collaboration of another Lovecraft story. That one, based on a short story, was simply not suited to a feature film length, and so required more than just modernizing it had to be padded with garbage that spoilt the master's original work. That was not the case with Re-Animator, which was based on a novel, after all.Finally, a word about the tone I first saw Re-Animator coming from Peter Jackson's Brain Dead and Frank Henenlotter's movies. I expected a similar kind of horror-comedy and was disappointed. As far as I know, Stuart Gordon has never gone for comedy in any of his movies. This is not a problem in Re-Animator; it's goofy fun regardless. "},{"Title":"7 - Good","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A classic comedy horror. It features a college roommate who is so naive and stubborn toward finding a discovery that he endangers everyone around him. He invents a serum that can re-animate the dead, but while it does successfully revive the dead, it also makes them erratic and violent. After a zombie nearly kills the gang, what's the solution? Of course, re-animate more people and repeat the same mistakes. Things get spooky when a beheaded professor discovers this potion - I'll just leave it at that. Re-animator is scary and thrilling but doesn't take itself too seriously either. There's plenty of gore and disturbing imagery to go around for everyone. It's either smart for a dumb movie or dumb for a smart movie, but it works! "},{"Title":"A-quality B movie","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this in 1985 on opening day because I am an H. P. Lovecraft and Gothic horror fan. Read The Rats in the Walls, and if you like that, read on!The title music and graphics of The Re-Animator scream I am not just a horror movie, but also a Hitchcock-like thriller. Well, not quite. But it is a funky mix of thrill, slapstick, Freudian psychodrama, gore - and of course dark comedy, as in any good horror film, and in many Hitchcock films.Re-animator is really top-notch in the genre of over-the-top gore films. Even as a zombie film (we are re-animating the dead here) it is vastly superior to most zombie films (such as the sorry World War Z, for example). The film is almost perfect horror in so many ways, and has been beaten in the over- the-top horror category only by Peter Jackson's Dead Alive, which came out 7 years later. Jackson must have seen this and thought 'I can top that both on the Freudian psychodrama and the gore.' And so he did, but you've got to have a 'Vorbild.' (Sorry, Sigmund)So what's on offer? We have a great 4-note string theme from the opening that recurs throughout to announce that something yucky is about to happen. Shirley Walker's theme for Final Destination would be a more recent example of getting it just right.We have all-out gore as we plod to the inescapable conclusion at the end, but always with as much suspense as gore. Who can ever forget the black zombie cat set piece? Or a decapitated corpse giving tongue? (By the way, if the latter makes you nervous, do not watch this movie. It is R rated for the gore, and the director figured, what the hell, why not some sex and nudity while we're at it?)We have perfectly cast actors for each role, such as David Gale in a Christopher Lee-like role as a creepy brain surgeon with a lot of funding, or Jeffery Combs (who played blue Andorians on Star Trek) as a creepy medical student who think's he's surpassed his teachers in skill.Most importantly, we have loving detail in every scene, far beyond the usual horror film. Our hero (played by Bruce Abbott) has a sweat stain on his surgical gown when he wheels a dead patient to the morgue, after exercising hard to pump her chest to re-animate her the convention way. At a dinner, the Dean of Miskatonic Medical School ftes David Gale for bringing in the biggest NSF grant the school has ever gotten. What-in-hell movie director or writer knows what an NSF grant is? When a skull gets sawed open during an anatomy lesson, tiny drops of blood dribble off the saw onto the surgical cart in a close-up. There are two peep holes in a doctor's bag carried by a headless zombie so its head hidden in the bag can direct it. And so much more. What this attention to detail does, is to maintain a sense of realism, and that in turn maintains a sense of suspense, despite the comically absurd plot. The plot is where this film is unable to transcend B territory, and must remain a B movie. The biggest fallacy of horror films is that people who should know better stay at the mercy of an improbable situation. Like a family staying in the haunted house after scary things happen, when any normal person would move out. Rarely, this fallacy is transcended, such as in Alien, where the characters really have no choice but to stay in the spaceship, weeks from any planetfall. Re-animator fails to transcend in that regard it is completely preposterous that a highly regarded medical student with the Dean's daughter as girlfriend takes a really creepy roommate when she says no. Or that said student will go along with the creep, when he finds his beloved cat dead in the refrigerator, to have the poor animal reanimated as a zombie flying around the basement and screeching like no cat ever has or will. Or that zombies will stumble around one minute then be agile enough to do laser-scalpel brain surgery the next. The characters far too easily accept the situations into which they are thrust, when they could easily escape. This is a necessary device to move B movie plots along quickly to the yucky action. And that's where Re-animator falls far short of Hitchcock's Psycho for example, where Bates' staying at the motel is amply explained by an Oedipal relationship with his dead mother, whereas other visitors suffer a rapid demise before they even know what's going on.But there is plenty of yucky action, suspense and dark humor in Re-animator. I realized just how good this film is recently I had seen it once in 1985 on opening day, and thought it was a blast. Yesterday I decided to see it again. Second impressions are often less flattering, but the moment I heard and saw the music, Dr. Gruber, the cat, Dr. Hill's head on a receipt spindle, it all came back crystal clear because my mind had refused to forget. It is a weird feeling when you think you have forgotten something, and then suddenly remember every detail just before it comes up. Thank you, Stuart Gordon (the director), even though your story does not have that 19th century macabre atmosphere of Poe and his disciple Lovecraft, upon whose ideas the film is loosely based. "},{"Title":"I can see how this could have inspired Braindead","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" No real expectations with this movie, my initial thought was some weird comedy horror. While some things look silly and there is certainly humour in it, overall I do think the movie is serious. They actually do make a very good effort to present a good story and interesting characters. It is a simple Frankenstein like story, small cast of characters which relationships among each other are worked out pretty well. Especially our 2 scientists and the lovely Megan were likable, people I liked to root for. Even Megan's father wasn't that bad after all. It's not overly gory, I would say it's the right dose of it. It never gets too much if it would go the Evil Dead way it would have lost its effect on me. It even has moments that are truly heartbreaking and touching. I don't think without this movie we would have had movies like Braindead! "},{"Title":"One of the best sci-fi horror movies ever","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Re-Animator was one of the best horror experiences I have ever had. Fantastic acting, tons of gore, little bits of humor sprinkled throughout, and a certain scene involving a severed head and a girl that just could never be shown in a movie these days. I loved all of it. The movie follows the story of Dan Cain, a medical student who is also in the tough position of dating the dean's daughter. Cain is soon joined by the strange Hubert West, a medical student from Switzerland, who has a serum that can bring the dead to life.The script is wonderfully written, with just the perfect amount of dark humor to lighten the mood just a little bit, but don't get me wrong this movie definitely had a dark tone even with it. I definitely have to give a shout out to the special effects department. A talking severed head, walking burn victims, and a zombie cat. Which all hold up to modern times CGI. With just some fake blood and some quick camera work they made a wonderful Dr. Hill. Another part of the movie that I really liked was the fact that I cared about the characters. In many horror/zombie movies I don't care if or when a character dies, because I don't feel a real attachment to them. The acting is what turned this around, the acting was impressive in every way. They allowed me to really get to know the characters and develop a sort of relationship with that you really don't find in movies of the same genre. The Re-Animator was also straight and to the point. With a run time of only 86 minutes there was plenty of time for action and little to none filler scenes. And boy will that ending keep you wondering what just happened??? Overall The Re-Animator easily gets a 10/10, it was just perfect in every way. Funny, scary, and gory. Modern day directors should look back at movies like this as an industry standard. "},{"Title":"Bringing back the dead","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is a low budget, silly, gore filled, schlock horror comedy. In fact I think the director was hoping to make a serious adaptation of a H P Lovecraft story and decided to send it up as a campy horror comedy based on the Frankenstein/zombie genres and somehow it succeeds. A dismembered head trying to give fellatio to a naked, bound woman will forever be etched in my memory!Bruce Abbott plays the rather wooden lead, Dan Kane, a well meaning doctor who is roped in by Jeffrey Comb's Herbert West who is experimenting with a serum to bring the dead to life. Barbara Crampton plays the sexy girlfriend of Kane who is also the daughter of the hospital principal. David Gale plays a rival doctor who also wants to experiment in reviving the dead and has a sleazy eye on Crampton as well.The film in some ways makes little sense, dismembered bodies moving and attacking people. Yet its a hoot as well as unnerving. Its a classic of 80s horror-comedy. "}{"Title":"Re writable , but a classic anyway","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While not needing every scene , both here and there understanding-the-scene -wise , and also , in terms of the parallel males-in-death pointless-necrophilia here and there , which'd be too much for most upon hearing it, to not give the movie a chance , there is a consistent limits-of-medicine , or failures of science , theme , to the main characters hopes / ambitions , and if I remember it correctly , there was actually only one , inverse , necro scene , along the lines of the if not comfortable, patronising, University senior turned body-less power-mad , from-the-past , denier-of-new-science , contrasted , with the two (both male) would-be explorers of the absurd 'science' , which is only in one of the two in a way , that it so over the top , that he's forgotten when to stop , whereas in the other , a more curious , for-defeating-death only , type reason is maintained successfully, including in the emotions of the actor, and the conflict between them is enough , if not perhaps there too frequently, when a similar plot device allows our more devoted explorer , to have corpses practically land on his desk , oh so conveniently , that the plot can quickly move on to more mayhem , so yeah , its unrealistically convenient for the opportunist , which is a good thing, the plot taking jumps inbetween their clean-ups, with even more unrealistic amounts of investigation ... heh heh ... at the same time as having an effect as a reminder of the importance of societies' need to keep an eye on morgue workers , consistent with a also conveniently bored/slack classic stereotyped guard in front of the door , etc ... moves it along quite fast , which is needed for flicks like this ... too many horror/action flicks are now having character-relationship development in the middle of the action! agh! No time for that , in this old one ... D Classic minimal plot devices for more of what at least some of the audience is after ... creepy lightning effects and weird camera angles , the disturbing nature of the theme , should already let you know what you're in for ... and if the odd ridiculous plot scene , ruins a sci-fi movie for you , then don't watch it.But if that kind of absurdity and detachment are exactly what you're after , as I was , then its a great movie , although the sound needs re-mastering, if it hasn't been already, some of the dialogue ranges are quite narrow , or recorded on old mic.s, or something.Far beyond high-school students efforts production-wise most of the time , but with enough true-to-the-absurdity lack-of-thought to think things through before deciding to do something, kinds of decisions of especially the emotional-limitations weakness-rejection star of the flick , our much more mad fresh but determined doctor , its full of the same potential for science gone mad with the fluorescent green goop , masterfully 'gripped' *scoff* , by the goop wrangler (what wrangling? haha ! ) , but time and time again , new incarnations one might say , of failures lead to not always the same, failures that have to be bagged and destroyed , which is easier said than done.Less consistent and boring than just a zombie flick but also with quite a few good absurdity laughs, and if zombie flicks get under your skin, boring, consistent ultra-violence -wise , then give it a chance ...sure , it s produced in the 1980s but back in those days , people knew more about cinematography , and scene-production , rather than tedious CHEAP, TV, agency-meeting-room contestions of aggressive-professionals dialogue and 'perpetuities' *scoff*(like that's reliable) , often written for pretentious, overly-politically-sensitive, fresh, themselves, film-school grad.s , yet to experience OUR , wider world , and yet to be CONSUMED , BY THE INEVITABLE LIMITATIONS OF ... *ahem* ... excuse me , sorry ... you get the idea ... are there plenty of lamb to the slaughter ? YES , are they just boring zombies ? NNNO. "},{"Title":"A must-see for any horror fan.","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A dedicated student at a medical college and his girlfriend become involved in bizarre experiments centering around the re-animation of dead tissue when an odd new student arrives on campus. Roger Ebert wrote Gordon's direction, and particularly his use of special effects, will come as no surprise to anyone who saw his famous Warp trilogy onstage. He borrows from the traditions of comic-book art and B-grade thrillers, using his special effects not as set pieces for us to study, but as dazzling throwaways as the action hurtles ahead. By the end of the film, we are keenly aware that nothing of consequence has happened, but so what? We have been assaulted by a lurid imagination, amazed by unspeakable sights, blind-sided by the movie's curiously dry sense of humor. I guess that's our money's worth. The classic that brought Jeffrey Combs to the screen is peculiar and creepy. This is a different kind of zombie flick and if you enjoy all kinds, then it's right up your alley. "},{"Title":"Great gore and guts","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" How have I only just got round to watching this? Somehow, despite my love of eighties horror and zombies, Re-animator completely passed me by. My loss. It's truly amazing - in the most gruesome and terrible way possible.My first thought, as the film started, was that it looked like it was made on a surprisingly high budget - almost like a B-movie coming across like a blockbuster. Yes, the haircuts now look a little dated, but the storyline is pretty different and the actors all put in a better performance than you'd expect for an eighties horror film.A moody young surgeon joins a class of medical students. He believes he can bring dead bodies back to life. He teacher doesn't believe him. His teacher soon lives to regret that.Expect gore aplenty and bodies dropping like flies (and then standing up again). In this day and age, where Hollywood is remaking every vaguely successful film from yesteryear, I find it amazing that no one has got round to making this one yet. The plot is decent enough so that you'd probably not have seen anything like it before (despite the multitude of zombie movies flowing across the screen).If you like horror, if you like gore, if you like zombies or just cheesy eighties movies in general, you really have to watch this. I'm glad I did. Now I'm off to see what the sequels are like.The only thing you need to ask yourself is what's worse than being eaten by a zombie? The answer being eaten by several naked ugly zombie (with eighties haircuts). "},{"Title":"slow in the beginning but ends in full gore","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Have seen it in the year it came out on VHS and later on DVD I was glad to know that a Blu Ray version was out to grab. A lot i said about Re- animator and I admit, it's a classic but have seen it the other day it's still watchable for the effects but in the beginning it moves slowly towards the point of no return for Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs). It's also typical for that era that it was heavily cut and a few versions are out there. The shortest version is the 82 minutes with most of the gore intact but here and there they cut out the nudity and some conversations. There's also a 96 minute version that is supposed to be the full uncut version but watch out for the 86 minute version which is the best version. It's the director's cut and what have been cut are some conversations going on. Nothing of nudity or gore is left out so it's better to pick up that version then the 96 minute version. But what makes it the hunt worthy is the fact that one scene is left out of all available prints and is searched by collectors. It's the deleted scene were Megan Halsey (Barbara Crampton) is supposed to be death and is shown to her father and Dr. Hill to be injected by the serum to reanimate her by her lover. It's a scene of a few minutes were Barbara goes naked and screams a lot and close-ups are shown of her breasts. So far I know only the Spanish Blu Ray and the old DVD version with the syringe contained do show that particular scene. It doesn't make sense at all, go figure it out that your daughter goes naked before you and as a father you are enjoying that vision. It's weird and was cut out of all prints. Still, Barbara goes full frontal at the operation table with the gory and sexual scene with the head of Dr. Hill watching her and licking her nipples and almost goes lickety-clit but West enters to avoid that scene. In the beginning it's a bit of a joke with the cat being reanimated and attacking West. But it's really towards the end when West goes berserk and do kill Dr. Hill (David Gale) and beheads him with a shovel that Reanimator becomes gory. I was even surprised by the amount of male and female full frontal nudity that it contains. Some parts do look funny but the performance of David Gale gives this flick a special atmosphere. When he's still alive and is talking and hypnotizing West and Megan (not in the 86 minute version) it do gets creepy. Jeffrey Combs is okay but you can see that the combination of Combs and Crampton do works which went on in From Beyond (1986).Still, it's a must see horror flick that do have some black comedy scene's like in The Evil Dead (1981). Just watch the arm in the elevator with Megan. If you can go through the slow moving beginning and can stand gore and fun then pick this up. I would recommend the Spanish edition, it has all versions and the famous deleted scene and the soundtrack and the 86 minute in HD format.Gore 3/5 Nudity 2/5 Effects 4/5 Story 4/5 Comedy 1/5 "},{"Title":"Brilliant tongue-in-cheek horror","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Weird Doctor does weird experiments in Switzerland, comes to America, teams up and moves in with colleague, experiments in the basement, re-animates dead things! Brilliant tongue-in-cheek horror which has stood the test of time well as it camps up an HP Lovecraft story with over-the-top gore, cheesy dialogue and gratuitous nudity.Obviously it's quite dated in some aspects but the SFX are well done although the cat scene amuses more than scares and Jeffrey Combs steals the screen with his creepy and insane Herbert West. The music isn't bad but sounds remarkably like Psycho is some parts. "},{"Title":"Campy fun, but not really worthy to bear the name Lovecraft","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is campy, gory fun, amusing in parts, generally entertaining... and Jeffrey Combs is perfect as West--calm, creepy, and endearing at the same time. But at the same time, it lacks the beauty and eloquence of H.P. Lovecraft's original story, Herbert West--Re-Animator. The modern, 1980's setting seems odd and a bit awkward. West would be much more at home in the world around the nineteen-teens and twenties, when the original story was written and set.Lovecraft's works are so much more than just shocking tales and monster stories. They're beautiful and engaging, thrilling and--not just gory, but genuinely morbid in the truest sense of the world; a sense that seems to have been largely lost in the world of modern horror.Re-Animator possesses none of the first three qualities. It does have some true morbidity--but only in the very small parts wherein it remains true to the source material.To sum up This is a good, entertaining movie, if you don't mind some gore. It's definitely worth watching. But it's the kind of movie you watch one night and then the next night forget about. It's far from worthy of cult classic status. "},{"Title":"Mad-Scientist with style","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eh, I didn't particularly like Re-Animator.  I didn't not like it, but it's not gonna make my top ten horror/spoofs anytime soon.  Possible SpoilersThe first element that prominently stuck out in my mind was the Re-Animator theme music which takes Bernard Herrmann's classic Psycho theme and remixes it.  Though the theme itself is cute, it came as a very sudden and unwelcomed blow hearing so much of Herrmann's Psycho theme come up.  To me it tried too hard to pay homage and wound up rubbing me the wrong way. Then again, I am biased towards Herrmann's score in the sense that I feel it's groundbreaking . . . but I'm sick of hearing spin offs/rip offs.  Maybe I'll warm up to it eventually.The next element is a positive one.  Jeffrey Combs as Herbert West simply rocks.  There's been too many films featuring mad-scientists, some good, most bad, and very, very few carry a remotely convincing scientist.  Plot absurdities aside, Herbert West is one of the few fictional scientists that carried a sense of genuine conviction about his work.  The mad scientist clich that's prominent in all our minds features a researcher who clearly has the insane part down, but when it comes to them actually believing in their work they're just reciting lines.  Despite how implausible and improbably the plot is, and how inaccurate and impossible the things are that West spews . . . I found myself wanting to suspend my disbelief for the film's sake.(spoiler) Part of that, I believe, has to do with this next bit of praise. West, in a dark and twisted way, is still a protagonist.  You never find out some deep dark alterior motive nor does West truly ever become insane in the traditional sense.  His intentions in the film are always pure and admirable. . . and the premise of the film is not about him losing it.  Not at all. The film is about West unable to explore his field in anything but subpar conditions with outside forces making things difficult at every turn a basement laboratory, school politics, and the threat of his work being stolen--in other words, outside forces forever permit his experiments to go out of control.  If he had a decent working conditions and a grant you could almost believe he'd succeed and there would be no movie nor death. (/spoiler)The dark comedy aspect of the film didn't quite seem right to me.  Granted several parts were humorous as well as disgusting, but there were too many instances where I felt the events on screen came across as too forced and corny to really make me laugh . . . most notably, the professor who kept getting 'hypnosis/mind power' lighting, camera angles, and monotones. Some things did not feel like they belonged.  A good try and better than a lot of other films that try for it, but Gordon did not nail it. "},{"Title":"Music To My Ears","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the most interesting of Lovecraft-Adaptions to the screen. Most fail because they cannot project the true depth and imagery that Lovecraft invokes, on paper, to the big screen. This one comes very close. The contemporary setting is very nice. If they set this in the 30's or something, although that would have been interesting, I think it would have failed for the Horror/Science Fiction viewer.What succeeds? The depth of Herbert West's insanity and quest to re-animate the living, and the other characters fill in rather nice. Lovecraft was not known for witty banter between characters, so this script was done rather well. What didn't work The sleaze of it all. Sex has it's place, but not in this film. Barbara Crampton is lovely, but there was no need for the angle at the end. Oh, well.....Gordon did come from Theatre. Good film, overall. "},{"Title":"A great travesty of an even better story","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If I had not read H.P.Lovecraft's story beforehand perhaps I would not have been disappointed with this film. I enjoyed the story and I did find it creepy. By now I should come to realize that good stories don't always translate into good movies especially in this case. If the producers of this film followed the story word for word as it was written originally,then this film would have been a real shocker and a real horror movie instead of a comedy. Unless of course this story was meant to be a travesty or parody of the original tale as written by Lovecraft. In that case then I have to rate it better as a satire. My advice for those who see this movie is not to read the story by H.P. Lovecraft before viewing it. That way you will save yourself some disappointment and you might even enjoy this well made travesty alot better.  "},{"Title":"What's the zombie doing to that girl?","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If forced to chose only one horror movie to watch, this would be the one. I can't express how much I love this movie! While it is not very faithful to Lovecraft's short story, it certainly stands on its own merits. It is filled with the type of humorous gore and violence you expect from low-budget 80's flicks, yet it goes deeper than just a cheap thrill. Whether or not the film is intended to evoke existential questions, it succeeds in doing so by forcing the viewer to ask what happens to the body/mind after death. What are the limitations of science and the modern quest for immortality? Are we merely ghosts inhabiting fleshly machines, and if so, what happens when the machine has an existence apart from the ghost? This movie was actually the basis of a paper I wrote for my Religion and Film class in college, and I highly recommend it to both the horror fan and the amateur philosopher. Even if you don't remember the questions it evokes, you'll remember the what the headless zombie has a taste for! "}{"Title":"Slightly overrated","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have just seen Re-animator for the first time. I've bought the DVD-version with minimal sensoring. ANd i must say that though I enjoyed the film, I didn't find it to stand out in the horror / splatter genre. As a cult/splatter/horror-fan I liked the humour and the excessive gore, but it is the movie itself that doesn't quite make the cut.The actors are average and the plot the same. Whereas for example Brain Dead and Bad Taste, and the Evil Dead were excellently shot (especially the experimental filming by Sam Raimi in Evil Dead), Re-animator's filming is more average, giving nothing extra to the film.Why should you watch it? If you are a splatter-fan it has plenty of gore and some interesting dissectional scenes. It's funny, though it doesn't come close to neither of the three above mentioned films. Not being scary, the sole reason for watching the film are the splatter-scenes. Other than that, the movie gave me nothing. "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first watched Re-Animator by accident a few years ago and absolutely loved it.  From beginning to end, it is one of the best horror films ever. I compare it to Sam Raimi's The Evil Dead in how the horror flows through the film as if it were a force to be delt with.Re-Animator, made in 1985 with a budget of less than $1 million, is perhaps one of the two most visually stunning horror films of the '80s--the first being The Evil Dead.  The H. P. Lovecraft short-story collection Herbert West  Re-Animator gave alot of good story for this contemporary horror feast, filled with very laughable sequences between the blood and gore.  There is no way not to notice the sense of humor; it's even in the score (composer Richard Band used the motif from Psycho to make an excellent score).If I were Roper and Ebert, I would give this film two thumbs way up!  "},{"Title":"A good doctor knows when to quit.","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's ironic that the most successful screen adaptation of material by horror writer H. P. Lovecraft, who wrote in a repressed, antiquated style, is chiefly known for a visual pun on an oral sex act. But that's part of Re-Animator, finding humor in lurid excess. Director Stuart Gordon reaches new heights of inspired gruesomeness in this witty and well-paced tale of an unstable researcher who has discovered a way of reanimating dead tissue. Jeffrey Combs is marvelous as the creepily intense scientist. Severed heads, flying intestines and other body parts, and murdering naked cadavers are almost too much. "},{"Title":"great campy fun","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so campy and entertaining at the same time. All of the actors did a good job at their characters, especially Jeffrey Combs as Herbert West. He makes the movie in my opinion. He's almost as cool as Ash from Army of Darkness. I know this review doesn't exactly tell you plot details and such, but if you like movies like the Evil Dead series and Dead Alive...then you probably have seen this. But if you didn't yet, run out today and see this. You'll have fun! "},{"Title":"Exuberant adaptation of short story; quite surprisingly absorbing","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most decent trash movies leave me with detached admiration. This one is astonishing in how intensely it engages us. Stuart Gordon, the director, keeps things tight. His film is slightly under 90 minutes long, and filmed in a manner that seems low-rent yet grandly alive and colourful. The scientific conversations don't throw lingo around without respect for the audience's intelligence; they flow logically, in a manner we can follow, while delivering on the level of junk science bluffing. The screenplay is wise to use a certain number of characters and locations for the action sequences; rather than hordes of faceless zombies coming at us, we've got our bearings.Richard Band's music is such an obvious rip-off of Bernard Hermann's Psycho score that from the opening moments we both get a feeling of familiarity and smile along with the filmmakers' crafty sense of humour. The ending is such a deliciously sinister tease, played so well by otherwise straight-laced leading man Bruce Abbott, that as the credits roll we're already hungry for the sequel.Another great performance comes from Jeffrey Combs, as Herbert West, the re-animator himself. Combs makes parts of his face and voice flat, while other parts go over-the-top, and he reminds us there are few purer pleasures than watching a well-played mad scientist. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This review applies to the more violent & shorter uncut version that runs 86 mins.Memorable horror film with some of the most bizarre & gruesome scenes in film history is about two college students getting more then they bargained for when one of their experiments results in bringing back the living dead. Inventive, clever, fast paced horror film is perfectly played out and has a great sense of humor.Unrated; Rape, Sexual Situations, Extreme Graphic Violence, Nudity, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"an absolute hoot from beginning to end which had me in stitches...","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this is probably one of the best schlock comedy horror films ever made. it was with great anticipation that i only recently managed to see the uncut version which i found even funnier than the unfairly mauled u.k. print that was released in the u.k. way back in '85. it still stands the test of time remarkably well especially compared to the inferior sequel. the late, great david gale is without doubt the standout talent amongst the cast in a very funny deadpan performance as dr. carl hill who is also ably supported by jeffrey coombs as the completely deranged but lovable dr. herbert west. the blood really does flow in comic abundance without in any way being disturbing or obnoxious like 'hellraiser 2' which i thought had no kind of entertainment value whatsoever and was just plain 'nasty'. check it out folks! "},{"Title":"One of the best gore movies ever!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I last saw Re-Animator several years ago but I must have watched this film at least half a dozen times. So my memory should be correct enough to allow me to write something reliable about it. This movie may be the best gore picture ever &#150; along with Lucio Fulci's The Beyond and the first two Hellraiser movies. The script is very effective and the relationship between the two leading characters &#150; Herbert West and Dan Caine &#150; makes it even stronger. At first West and Caine are antagonistic characters, but Caine easily gets dragged into his flatmate's madness despite the fact he's disgusted by West's experiments. Therefore the two guys rapidly become complementary and once the duo is formed, the film progressively gets wild and all the characters eventually have to dive into an ocean of guts and blood. What I especially like about this film is also the fact that it was meant to really frighten and shock the audience, and that is why it is such a good film. There is no parasitic humour but only very black humour from time to time. The numerous gore effects are quite realistic and impressive. Lastly, the ending is totally paroxystic, extravagant and NOT happy at all. So go and fetch the cassette or DVD if you haven't seen this masterpiece yet &#150; and if you don't mind spending some time with blood-spitting walking corpses, tortured cats and decapitated mad scientists!  "},{"Title":"Mr. West, I suggest you get yourself a pen.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A clever, audacious film with a riotous sense of humour, Re-Animator is to my mind the quintessential '80s horror-comedy.  Full of great writing and quirky performances (yet even when they go over the top, they're still believable), this set the bar high for all that followed.It's worth noting that this is one of the few times H.P. Lovecraft has been successfully brought to the screen.  Another example is 1986's From Beyond, made by the same team.  Both films are definitely worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Warning in my comments *possible spoilers* but I don't think so...","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you don't like horror movies you should probably steer clear of this one, though it is more of a sick comedy.  I have both versions, the r-rated and uncut.  I want to get a DVD so I can see additional deleted scenes.  Jeffery Combs' brilliant portrayal of the mad scientist is the best I've ever seen.  It was easy for me to give this a 10 as it's one of the best movies ever in any genre.  I say this because it sets out to be a sick, black comedy and then it executes this perfectly.  The unrated version is approx. the same length as the r-rated version which means footage is missing out of both versions.  Everyone says to see the unrated version but it is missing a brief, but brilliant, scene in which Herbert West is shaking like a junkie and shooting up with his own creepy syrum.  He explains to Dan that it is so he doesn't have to sleep. Because of this, the r-rated version is actually better. "}{"Title":"A classic blending of horror and comedy","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Re-animator is in my opinion one of the top modern horror flicks.  Not only is it extremely violent and gory to satisfy horror fans, it is also very fun and entertaining as well as highly original.  The story concerns two students( Jeffrey Combs as Herbert West and Bruce Abbott as Dr. Cain, in a role quite obviously patterned after ASH from THE EVIL DEAD) at a medical school who discover a serum that can reanimate the dead...leading to trouble. Among the highlights is Jeffrey Combs performance as the crazed genius Herbert West.  Also of note is the PSYCHO-esque music score.  And THE highlight...the scene where the head of Dr. Carl Hill, Combs's teacher and perverted doctor, makes love to Dr. Cain's girlfriend.  This scene has become legendary, and overall this film has to be seen to be believed.  Hilariously over-the-top and violent...if you can stomach it, you've got to see it.  Well worth it and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"break time","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've just come in from watching this film, although it was not the totally uncut version i have to say that its a thoughly enjoyable film with Jeffrey Combs turning in a superb display and Bruce Abbot looking like Bruce Campbell in a way that you dont really mind because he does it so well. The acting can be shocking in this era of filming but there is not one complaint about the acting here. you can tear these films apart because of references and rip offs but to do that is not to enjoy films this is a film that is deffinately worth enjoying watch it and love it!  "},{"Title":"Re-Animator is definitely one of my favorite movies...","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Superb acting from the entire cast. Bruce Abbott plays Daniel Cain a top ranked medical student at a prestigious University. The movie is basically about Abbott's life being turned upside down by an uppity exiled scientist from a foreign country. Most certainly a movie you could stand to watch over and over again. Might be a bit gory for some, but the wonderful acting abilities, and thoughtful script work overshadow most of the carnage. Highlights include, Bruce Abbott covered in blood, Bruce Abbott falling down stairs, Bruce Abbott scampering around in a bed sheet, and Bruce Abbott collapsing into a trauma induced shock. The movie is also based on author H. P. Lovecraft's Herbert West-Re-Animator, a wonderful short story to check out to complement the film.  "},{"Title":"One of the 80's best","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Other than the cheesy music, which was ripped off from psycho, this is one of the better movies I have seen. It is intelligent, yet goofy. I have seen the nonrated version, with all the gore. And I have also seen the R rated version, which has the story. Man, I hope the DVD merges them because most people have only seen one of the sliced up versions and don't get the movie. After all, it really isn't all that often that we get to see a killer gore flick with a story that can hook you and this is a movie that could do that. "},{"Title":"Horror as it should be.","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the far better slasher Horror-comedies to come out of the eighties sees medical students Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) and Daniel Cain (Bruce Abbott) attempting to revive cadavers via a luminous green serum. Director Stuart Gordon and Producer Brian Yuzna's audacious slant on the Horror genre succeeds mainly through brisk pacing, a wonderfully OTT script, spirited performances (especially by the maniacal Combs), plenty of gore and even a bit of gratuitous nudity (in a sequence which Gordon has described as 'the first visual pun'. You'll have to watch it, in an uncut version, to find out).4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Best horror movie ever...","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Definitely the best horror movie I've ever seen. If you haven't seen it rent it immediately. You won't be disappointed...characters are well developed and plot is actually scientifically accurate in most ways. "},{"Title":"Evil Doctor Brings the Dead Back to Live as Murderous Zombies","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, my evil assistant, we can re animate the dead brain cells, but they will have deteriorated so far that all that returns is a murderous zombie.  Hey oops I killed the cat.  Here let's try the serum.  EEEEEEKK Get that thing off me.  Scene of dead-cat-foo with actor fighting and throwing around stiff stuffed cat on throat ala Saturday Night Live.  All I had to know was that it was HP Lovecraft inspired.  The master of horrorshow.By now everyone else has given away the great Head scene. I can only add that it is a cinematic horror masterpiece from the perspective of the camera angle, capturing the victim's horror as her face lifts from the morgue slab.  I saw it in a nearly empty theater with mostly black teenage couples.  The full effect of the scene can be summed up in their reactions, the girls squealed EEEEK and the guys chuckled Hyuk Hyuk.Great date movie.(On one of his 80's Drive In Movie Reviews Joe Bob Briggs responded to a question about the best B-Movies of all time, and he named Basket Case and Re-animator, and it is from his summary -- # nekkid breasts, buckets of blood, and dead cat foo) "},{"Title":"Horror comedy","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was an interesting film it had corpses running around, diabolical experiments, & revenge motives.  There were many funny moments in the film due to its bizarre nature.  It kind of gets one interested then holds their attention the whole movie.  I would give this a cult type image because it is unique. "},{"Title":"one of the best zombie flicks ever","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i really liked RE-ANIMATOR, alot.  loosely based on h.p. lovercraft's story i think stuart gordon masterfully directed and jeffrey combs played his part perfectly.  as well as the other cast members.  but of course combs stands out.  mainly because he is the wacked out mad scientist.  loved the music too.  check out BRIDE OF RE-ANIMATOR for more.   "},{"Title":"entertaining horror","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  yes jeffery combs is good,,but folks lets not forget bruce abbott,who gave a great performance.david gale is good for his part(not great),,,but i love the ideas that went into this movie,,very imaginative.not scary,,but very worth the price of admission  "}{"Title":"The best horror movie ever made, period.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  to me anyway, this has to be my personal favorite. Forget all that Scream and I Know What You Did Last Summer crap. You wanna see a REAL horror movie? Rent this one. Skip it if you're squeamish, though--trust me on this.The plot is taken (loosely) from an HP Lovecraft tale, Herbert West, Re-animator. The taglines kinda say it all. Dan Cain is a young medical student dating the Dean's daughter, who takes in a roomer and meets up with West, brilliantly played by Jeffrey Combs. West has discovered a reagent that will bring the dead back to life, except the serum still needs lots of work. When the dead people wake up, they do not seem happy at all to be brought back, and in fact have the tempermant of a grizzly bear on PCP. Added to the mix is the creepy Dr. Hill (who looks like an uglier, way creepier version of James Woods), who clashes with West and also has an icky obsession with Dean Halsey's daughter. (the attraction results in the movie's most outrageous scene that I'm sure you've heard about, which gives new meaning to a slang term for oral sex that..well, you'll figure it out).This movie is scary, gory, original, and above all, lots of fun. Just when you think it can't get any more over-the-top, it does. Combs steals the show as West, who looks like a cartoon version of a brainy young scientist with huge hornrimmed glasses. I appreciate his performance more each time I view the movie. He gets most of the best lines, such as when--SLIGHT SPOILER WARNING, though you'll see it coming a mile away-- Dan yells at him when a hysterical Meg has found her pet cat, Rufus, in West's fridge with a broken neck, that if he found the cat that way as he claimed, West could have left a note. A note saying what? 'Dan cat dead. Details later'? he dryly replies.Stuart Gordon made other great movies later on such as From Beyond and The Pit and the Pendulum (also with Combs) but he never topped this underrated, underseen gem.A word of caution-make sure you are renting the unrated version, as the R version has most of the gore cut out and the last 20 great minutes reduced to 5 or so. The R rated version has some scenes not in the unrated one that you might find interesting if you are a big fan (I rented it by accident) but really, the unrated version is the way to go. "},{"Title":"Great effects, Great Combs, Great Gobs of Crampton!","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow I almost thought I died and went to heaven! This movie had absolutly nothing wrong with it? Jeffery Combs is a Great mad scientist, and don't we all know it. The only thing that could have made the movie any better would be, playing the song zombie ritual during the credits. I recommend it to all who love a good bloody movie. "},{"Title":"A classic...","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Any film that features scream queen Barbara Crampton tied up and stripped down while a live severed head drools all over her luscious bod has gotta be doin' something right.  It's scary!  It's funny!  It's gory!  It's sexy! It's why Stuart Gordon is the horror genre's best kept secret. "},{"Title":"Jeffrey Combs Is Great","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wild,over the top,trashy Frankenstein style horror film with demented sense of humor and excellent performance by Jeffrey Combs.This late night style movie is my cup of tea.Decapatation, headless corpses walking around chasing naked females is fair indication what you're in for! 4/5  "},{"Title":"if you like horror ---","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Re-animator is for you,  its got it all. From the beginning scene to the end, you won't be disappointed. Jeffery Combs steals the show as mad scientist Herbert West. If you like horror, this will be good for you. There are 2 versions of this movie, an r-rated one, and the uncut. The dvd combines both.   "},{"Title":"Good and worth watchable movie","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I seen this movie few days back. I can rate this movie as 8/10 . Such a wonderful , Appreciate the director thought. The Re-Animation idea is really a unique idea where haven't seen this in any one of the films . The medical student , where he is the scientist and he will do an experiment reanimating the dead body and i got excited after seeing the dead bodies moving .And i really like love story been in the movie. I can say that horror is more in the movie finally there will be more dead bodies moving and it became more horror. And the other felt more horror is the professor's head and body will get separated and where he is moving after taking the reanimating medicine into his brain. "},{"Title":"Get a job in sideshow....","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Herbert West is a Swiss scientist who has discovered a fluid which brings dead tissue back to life. After the suspicious death of his professor in Switzerland, West moves to Miskatonic University to continue his research. He involves fellow student Dan and his fiance Megan in his research by experimenting on their dead cat. Dan, fascinated by West's research, agrees to smuggle him into the hospital morgue with predictable results.....As soon as you hear the title music, you know not to take this film seriously at all. Again, its one of those films that I've never really been bothered about seeing. Love craft is a genius, but his films rarely are.Plus the fact that it starred half the cast of From Beyond, made me want to see this film even less. But hey ho, I've heard so many good things about this movie, I decided to throw in the towel.And its a fun movie. Combs isn't the weirdo I made him out to be, and the effects are really good, even today, they impress, despite some of the effects showing gaping plot holes.But thankfully the makers of the film push humour first rather than the scares, and this really elevates the film into something a little more than fluorescent green stuff.The cast are great, and it doesn't let up long enough for you to say, hold on, what about?...Well worth seeing for a good laugh "},{"Title":"Don't Expect It to Tango It Has a Broken Back.","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the greatest horror films of all time and one of all my time favorite movies in general. What makes this film work? A number of things actually; the first being the most colorful horror movie opening titles ever. Also, a very good cast was assembled. Everyone was just perfect in their roles. Bruce Abbot was very much a hero type character, ironic because did anyone notice he looks strikingly similar to Anthony Perkins who played Norman Bates? Barbara Crampton was great in a number of ways, wink wink and David Gale as perfect as our decapitated asshole. Above them all though is Jeffery Combs as the mad scientist Herbert West. He was just so insanely good at the role, giving off the right amount of creepiness yet, how to put this, he also gives off this comedic likability, quite like the movie itself. This film is a fabulous blend of horror and comedy, as well as well-played drama. Despite the fantastic gore which sickens as much as it entertains there are laughs thru out and the balance is perfect.The story, based on a novel by none other H.P. Lovecraft, is a genuinely well told story that keeps you interested until the credits roll and then some. And the score by Richard Band is pure awesomeness. It takes elements from past horror composers, like Bernard Herrmann's Psycho (1960) score and Joseph LoDuca's 'The Evil Dead (1981) and you can also hear elements to those heard in Danny Elfman's Beetlejuice (1988). It's a marvelous score, enough said.Buy a copy of Re-Animator today!! "},{"Title":"Who's going to believe a talking head? Get a job in a sideshow.","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is the stylish and wonderfully wild feature film debut for director Stuart Gordon, based on H.P. Lovecraft's story of Herbert West, Re-Animator.West is an arrogant young medical student who believes he's unlocked the secret to reanimating dead tissue, thanks to his glowing-green liquid known as Re-Agent. West, played by Jeffrey Combs, comes into the life of promising doctor-to-be Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott) and thoroughly changes his life for the worst, as bodies and body parts start to come to demonic life.This movie just goes to show us how well horror and comedy can coexist in the same film, although, of course, as one can imagine, the humour is largely of the very dark variety. Gordon and company - producer Brian Yuzna, and William J. Norris and Dennis Paoli, with whom he wrote the screenplay - know that sometimes the only way to deal with dark subject matter is to develop a sense of humour about it, and have great gleeful fun just completely crossing over the line, especially in the true show stopping scene involving leading lady Barbara Crampton (playing Dan's girlfriend Meg) and a lascivious severed head. Plentiful use of stage blood and outr gore effects are a highlight, with an eye popping apocalyptic finale in a morgue. Richard Band's music score is for the most part excellent, as is all of his work, even if that main theme admittedly sounds just too close to Bernard Herrmann's legendary Psycho theme. Genre pros such as Mac Ahlberg (cinematography) and Robert A. Burns (art direction) lend their talents, and the movie shot on the same sets as the previous year's The Terminator, even using some of the same crew members.The cast plays this to perfection, with Abbott as a great straight man to the manic intensity of Combs's flashy role and performance; Crampton is the real heart and moral centre of the story, as well as a prime visual attraction, showing off her fine body on more than one occasion. Combs is hilarious, getting just about all of the best, most memorable lines. David Gale is a smarmy delight as the nefarious Dr. Hill, a man so villainous that one automatically starts rooting for West, definitely the lesser of two evils. He continues stealing his scenes after something quite nasty happens to Hill. Robert Sampson, as stuffy Dean Halsey, Gerry Black as amiable security guard Mace, and the director's wife Carolyn Purdy-Gordon round out the main cast.The movie gets off to a rollicking start, and maintains its mad energy for a reasonable running time of 86 minutes. It marks one of the rare instances (for the time, anyway) when a movie of this sort was bravely released to theatres unrated, and it remains, as it always has been, a purely fun experience and a guaranteed crowd pleaser.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Meet Herbert West","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" MASTERS OF HORROR alum Stuart Gordon (FROM BEYOND, DOLLS) makes his landmark directing debut with this grisly, but dark-humored adaptation of H.P. Lovecraft's 1922 short story of the same name.Jeffrey Combs shines as the ambitiously insane Herbert West along with co-star Bruce Abbott as med student Dan Cain and Robert Sampson as the undead Dean Halsey.West and Cain come up with a green serum that breathes new life to the dead. Unfortunately, this groundbreaking solution in medical science goes awry as the living dead goes berserk and the two leads must stop the invasion before the human race becomes kaput.RE-ANIMATOR is an undisputed classic of the horror genre that has the balls to mix blood-spilling make-up effects and gut-busting dark humor. Trust me, it is an experience in X-rated horror you won't soon forget. "}{"Title":"A great example of the horror-comedy","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator remains one of the definitive examples of the comedy-horror film. Never the greatest of cinematic sub-genres, most films either fail to be funny or forget the frights. They are usually tiresome or lame. Not in the case of this movie. Stuart Gordon successfully put together a film that blended the macabre with the genuinely humorous. In doing so Re-Animator wisely played things dead straight. There are no winking-at-camera shenanigans here. Every actor in the film tackles it like it is a serious feature. This naturally makes the funny moments all the more hilarious and the gruesome stuff properly effective.Jeffrey Combs is of course quite brilliant as Herbert West. His interpretation has gone down in cinema history as one of the truly iconic horror characters. And it's easy to see how Combs forged a successful B-Movie career off the back of this. However, it would be entirely remiss to not acknowledge the other fine performances in this film. Bruce Abbott, Barbara Crampton and &#x96; especially &#x96; David Gale all are great in their respective roles. It's unusual to see a low budget horror flick full of good acting but this is one of the things that sets Re-Animator apart from its peers. Of note too are the gory set-pieces. They are very well presented and used in many creative ways. The final zombie attack is a well orchestrated sequence, while the headless mad doctor is well conceived and presented. The moment when this character has a, shall we say, intimate moment with Barbara Crampton is certainly the most notorious moment in the film. But it's a hilarious one. So wrong, yet definitely inspired. Inspired is a generous way of describing the soundtrack. It was certainly 'inspired' by the Psycho theme. I do actually really like the version they use in this film, its upbeat revision of that famous piece of music fits the picture really well. I just seriously hope that the composer realized how blatantly obvious and derivative this music is though! This is overall a very accomplished movie. It's one of the top comedy-horror films out there without a doubt. There aren't really any weaknesses to speak of and it remains to this day a hugely entertaining picture. "},{"Title":"The Penultimate Zomedy","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Looming hideously against the spectral moon was a gigantic misshapen thing not to be imagined save in nightmares&#x97;a glassy-eyed, ink-black apparition nearly on all fours, covered with bits of mould, leaves, and vines, foul with caked blood, and having between its glistening teeth a snow-white, terrible, cylindrical object terminating in a tiny hand. (excerpt from H.P. Lovecraft's HERBERT WEST RE-ANIMATOR) Many believe this is the first description of the zombie most audiences are familiar with today. And that was written during the years 1921-22! Reading the full story, you can almost sense Lovecraft chuckling sardonically at certain points. In one incident, Herbert West brings a body back to life which proceeds to terrorize and injure people. West merely shoots the body again and concludes that the brain isn't fresh enough. In spirit and form, Stuart Gordon's movie captures grotesque moments like that. While the movie has a fair deal more comedy than the original short story, it fits with the material. Before ZOMBIELAND, there was FIDO. Before FIDO, there was SHAUN OF THE DEAD. Before SHAUN OF THE DEAD, there was RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD. Before RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD, there was DEAD ALIVE. And before DEAD ALIVE, there was RE-ANIMATOR. Each one of them are solid entries in the zombie comedy (or zomedy) genre. So much has been talked about this movie already, including the famous head scene. But I'd like to point out that before this movie, there was never a better mix of horror and humor (mostly sexual in this one.) It all ends in a glorious special effects finale that may have inspired Peter Jackson's similar finale. The undead make-up is still spectacular 25 years later. Watch it alone, if you dare! Watch it with friends, and you'll have a blast! "},{"Title":"A Horror Classic That is a Must Own!","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re Animator 5/12/2010Stuart Gordon's original horror masterpiece is an absolute classic that can be seen again and again. The insanely realistic gore and effects is like nothing seen before. Released in 1986, it got some pretty damn good reviews for a horror movie. Re Animator is pure 80's horror at its very best.Jeffery Combs plays Dr. Herbert West, a grad student studying medicine, the brain in particular, at the fictitious Miskatonic University in Massachusetts. He previously studied in Switzerland with Dr. Gruber, who died under mysterious circumstances. Dr. West has developed a fluorescent green serum that when injected into the base of the brain can reanimate the dead. Dr. West follows in long line of Frankenstein like mad scientists who try to conquer death. West rents a room with the star student Dan, who is also dating the Dean's daughter Megan. Megan is by far the weakest of the actors and was probably only cast for her nude scenes, but hey it works. The other actors perform as expected while the real star of the show is the effects. The practical, before CGI ruined everything effects. The script wasn't written by Shakespeare, but it doesn't hurt the film. Did I mention how crazy the effects were! Anchor Bay has released a 2-Disc DVD loaded with every feature imaginable and is definitely worth picking up.See More Reviews On my Blog at www.Rockportfilm.com "},{"Title":"Delightful sick ideas, but misses a true climax","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is the perfect illustration of why I love Jeffrey Combs. A mad doctor needs to be appalling and amusing at the same time, and few actors get this better than Combs. I never really knew if I wanted him to live or die, so I was satisfied either way it went. The supporting cast is somewhat less impressive, but you just can't have it all I guess. The effects in this movie are devastatingly old school, they bring us the simple joy of say, a talking severed head. There are some really lovely scenes in here, some really creative moments. However, to me the movie has always felt like it never really uses its full potential. As the sequels have already shown, these zombies can do a lot more than merely throw people around or strangle them. They're just not that threatening here, they're pretty far from the unstoppable monsters seen in Evil Dead. Also the place where most of the horror happens is just too secluded, the hospital setting feels wasted. A hospital has hallways, run through them damn it. Still, this is a very fresh and clever horror flick, one of the 80s best. "},{"Title":"One of the great Cult Classics of the 1980's.","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Herbert West (Jeffery Combs) is a very intelligent medical student but his personality is very unusual and odd. Since Dan Cain (Bruce Abbott) is looking for an roommate for his rented house. Herbert decides to be his roommate but sooner than later, Dan discovers that Herbert can bring the dead back to life, thanks to a serum he has created. But his serum is questionable and most of the people or animals has come back to life has turned extremely violent. Dr. Carl Hill (The late David Gale) becomes curious of Herbert West's work and he is trying to find out, what kind of work, he is creating. But in the mind of Herbert West, nothing goes as planned.Directed by Stuart Gordon (Dolls, From Beyond, King of the Ants) made an fascinating, outrageous horror film that is also an wild black comedy. This is the first film directed by Gordon, which he is best known for directing theatre work for years. As Gordon once said Re-Animator is his Citizen Kane. Which Gordon never topped his first directorial debut. But there is three movies, i can think, he nearly topped Re-Animator was Fortress, Edmond and Stuck. The performances of this movie are extremely good, especially scene-stealing roles by Combs and the late Gale. Which they are hoots in their roles.The two-disc set from Anchor Bay. First DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an strong DTS 5.1 Surround Sound (Also in Dolby Digital 5.1 and Dolby Surround 2.0). The DVD also includes two original running commentaries tracks, recorded for the LaserDisc edition. Commentary one is an intelligent commentary by the director Gordon. Commentary two is an amusing commentary track by the producer Brian Yuzna (The Bride of Re-Animator, Beyond Re-Animator, Return of the Living Dead 3), actorsCombs, Barbara Crampton, Robert Sampson and Abbott.Disc two has an new documentary that runs over 60 minutes. The documentary is titled Re-Animator Resurrectus with interviews from the cast & crew of the movie. This Disc also includes all the original special features from the Millennium Edition from Elite Entertainment. Like Interviews, Deleted Scene, Extended Scenes and more. Re-Animator has dated over the years but it is still extremely well done with fun performances and simple but effective special effects. The only thing is missing from the Millennium Edition is the isolated music score by Richard Band. Re-Animator is an excellent film that is nearly perfect for its time. No wonder why film critics and audiences, who seen it back in 1985 still loves this picture. Director Gordon has become an strong independent filmmaker over the years, Producer and Director Yunza is been producing B Movies for decades and actorCombs has become an cult horror star. Perphas this movie is not for all tastes but it is clever, darkly funny and never runs out of energy. Don't miss this one. Written by Paoli, William J. Norris and the Director.There is alternative version exists that runs 96 minutes and it is Rated R. This version adds some extended sequences (Which some are good) but it deleted some of the most memorable gore of the movie. Which this version (these days) is played only on Television. This is a one of a kind horror comedy. Perphas the best one ever made for its kind. (**** /*****). "},{"Title":"Is It Time for Lunch Yet?","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am a great admirer of H. P. Lovecraft. It's interesting how poorly done most movies based on his stories are. One reason is that as horror writer, he was pretty cerebral, somewhat like Poe. This one take the eighties propensity for gore and latches on to a Lovecraft story. It is virtually unconnected to the original. I viewed it as a film loosely adapted. One needs to plod through an hour and a half gore, dismemberment, sadism, and so on. After a while, we allow this milieu to present itself in all its convoluted splendor. The characters are zealots. They are crazy and sadistic. They have no restraint and no compassion for anything. People's loved ones are killed and torn apart and beheaded and life goes on. Motivation goes out the window. So what. Not for everyone's tastes. It's worth a look, but be prepared for a blood bath. "},{"Title":"A long-time sufferer of the Alien 3 Syndrome","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So far the best Hollywood movie ever made. Certainly it brings the standards of US cinema to a much higher level.One of the biggest Horror Fan and Zombie / Masked Killer type of Films are in my beloved league... (NOTLD, TCM my all time favorite) Well this is my own country's first ever effort in gore / splatter kind of genre and naturally since I first heard of this movie, I was Mad like hell to watch it... and my dearest wish come true last night in LUMS Premiere of this movie I must say It was Fun experience, means what we were promised in the trailer in lots of different discussions in many site ( I Read almost all Zibahkahan related Blogs) is all what we get.The whole crew has performed to their best. Specially Jeffrey Gomez, Bruce Abbott,Barbara Crampon, David Gale,Robert Sampson (cinematographer) & of course Stuart Gordon who was already on top of my favorite directors list. Not everyday is such a movie made in India, so I suggest every Indian to watch the movie on the big screen instead of spoiling the magic of the movie on pirated discs. It's a treat. So do watch it.Re-Animator, is one of the finest movies ever done in Indian Cinemas lustrous history. It ranks within my top 10 movies favorite movies...right up there with the likes of Life is Beautiful, Forrest Gump..etc ... my only disappointment was they start of with so much footage of protest, contaminated water, than zombie attack.. but somehow left the plot to ignorance.. mean I know movie switched to Slasher /Masked Killer/ Psycho genre but it will be kool if its like Team of teens stuck in middle of nowhere with family of psycho and surrounded by Zombie... even O.J as zombie VS Burqa MAN (realllly ;-0) kind of scene can be different , funny or even hilarious (thats campy) Also For God sake.. I hate Uwe Boll for this .. don't use same footage repeatedly again and again.. we spotted spider in web, hanging crows, cock /hen leg, dolls pieces , full moon all were perfectly visible in first spot....Re-Animator, by and all is a superbly made film which takes the art of storytelling to new heights. Add to it the moral of the film.. the positiveness.. the optimism which the film portrays, and you have a Winner I tried to disclose very few spoilers ... It was more like Resident Evil original game movie than day of the dead... but still the opening in Resident Evil game is much much better than this movie... "},{"Title":"A Really Good Movie with Comedy","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So, after a year of waiting, I finally saw Re-Animator, by Stuart Gordon. I had previously saw this movie once but fell asleep watching it about 15 or 20 minutes into it. So, when I picked it up I thought that it would bore me to death like it did the first time. How wonderfully wrong my assumption was.The movie was really good. From what I heard, it was one of the most accurate adaptations of Lovecraft's stories and now after viewing this movie, it makes me want to read the story it was based off of. There was plenty of gore and great creature/zombie effects and some amazing puppetry. The acting was so-so, but that wasn't why I watching it. It was also pretty campy in the style of Evil Dead; combining spoofy humor and real drama along with its overall horror atmosphere. There were points where I was laughing but also disgusted at the same time.What I especially love is how much it compares to Frankenstein and how it completely reworks the entire 'mad scientist' character arc. West is a very brilliant and very driven man whose intentions are for a good purpose but his work has driven him to become unstable, his sanity is diminishing and he lacks any respect for life and death, so is he an anti-hero, hero or villain?It came to my attention that when I first tried to watching this movie, it was around 3am and I was very tired. It would make sense because movies like this don't usually put me to sleep. "},{"Title":"A great mixture of humor and horror, with just the right amount of gore.","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes, these low budget '80s horror films catch audiences by surprise. People assume because of their low budgets, un-well known actors and fairly unknown directors that they're going to be bad. This, and so many other cult films from the 1980s prove this theory wrong. With a budget of less than a million, director Stuart Gordon pulls of a competent, well acted and written, funny, occasionally scary, and always entertaining flick. This one will be remembered years from now, and over 20 years after it's release, it still has a large cult following!Dr. Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) has created a new serum that if injected into the brain after death, will bring the dead back to life. West ends up renting a room from fellow doctor Daniel Cain (Bruce Abbott) and Daniel's girlfriend Megan (Barbara Crampton). Daniel ends up finding about West's serum after a mishap with their cat, and soon they end up testing it at the morgue. This ends in a reanimation with terrifying results, and the realization that bringing humans back to life does not mean that they will be the same as before they died.Really, this movie cannot be classified as horror. It has a spooky setting, and the occasional jump scene, but more than anything this is a comedy. The main character, Herbert West, is an accumulation of clichs from every other mad scientist in the horror genre. The action scenes are so over the top, they're hilarious. This movie is purposefully funnier than it is scary, and this is really a comedy. It can be compared to another cult classic that came out a few years later, Evil Dead 2, in it's morbid slapstick humor.The actors are all convincing. Jeffrey Combs is quite good at being menacing while doing nothing...he's rather creepy in the role. Bruce Abbott seems like an everyman, and plays it well. He's the underdog hero. Barbara Crampton is a nice love interest for him, and David Gale portrays an interesting semi-dead villain.Some of the best scenes, are the most ridiculous. The actors give a deadpan serious performance as silliness ensues, and where it could make it seem like these are good actors in a crummy movie, it instead feels like a tongue in cheek horror film. In one scene a zombie cat attacks, and it's clearly a cheap puppet, but these guys play it off like this is one frightening little feline. Another scene involves a decapitated body's large intestine flying out and choking a character while the rest of the body parts jump up and down. It's so ridiculous, but also so perfect.This comedy horror film is likely to entertain. It has memorable characters, slapstick violence, and for all you lovers of the human body, a lot of full frontal nudity from both sexes. To go along with the film we have a very lush musical score by Richard Band, the man behind the amazing music from the not so amazing Troll. In the end, this is an entertaining film with enough gore to please fans of the macabre.My rating *** 1/2 out of ****. 87 mins. R for strong violence, sexuality, and nudity. "},{"Title":"Loved it, I laughed and my girlfriend was scared.","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found it so funny, my girlfriend is in the medical field and sees freaky stuff all the time. I couldn't take what she sees. Blood, guts, goo, phlegm, all of it. BUT when it comes to scary films she cannot do it. I told her this one is gory, but funny. We sat down, watched it and I am lucky I still have a girlfriend. Funny enough I saw the film back in 85 when I was kid and did think it was totally gross, but now much of it looks very cheesy to me. Not all of it, some of it is downright disgusting, but much of it. I was entertained on such a different level, since I am now a mature man it was a good experience, but I had to kiss a lot of butt that night. I recommend this film to anyone who is not looking for a serious horror film, likes gore, corny, but fitting acting and wants to have a good time. "}{"Title":"Great Fun Horro Flick","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-animator, despite its obvious flaws remains a cult classic amongst horror fans and not just because of Jeffrey Combs' presence. The film seems to suffer from many problems including bad performances, an over-the-top storyline that moves at an erratic pace, dialogue from outer space, completely dry humour and enough blood and nudity (at least for its time) to make anybody but the most unguarded of watchers be put off the film for life. For me however (and a lot of other people) such things often work to this film's advantage. The way this occurs is through Re-Animator's self-awareness that is present throughout most the film, acknowledging that it isn't necessarily something to be taken seriously and as a result, such flaws make the film brilliant fun to watch. Oh and when I mentioned bad performances, I wasn't including Combs- how could I? Without him, Re-Animator wouldn't be as comically animated as it is. For b-movie horror and gore fans, this is a must. "},{"Title":"Oh and what will they do? Embalm us?","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is truly a one of a kind movie. First off you have the protagonist, Dr. Herbert West (played by Jeffrey Combs), who has just invented a new serum that will bring the recently deceased back to life. Everything he does turns into a disaster, whether its bringing back his own mentor, Dr. Gruber. Or bringing back his neighbor's cat, or even his boss Dean Alan Halsey, he always manages to turn it into a complete disaster. West is truly a unique character. His witty comments and strange way of learning makes him one-of-a-kind. Next you have his new friend/roommate, Dan Cain (played by Bruce Abbott). Dan is one of those guys who has his life sorted out perfectly, he has a great job, hes respected, and he's engaged to Dean Halsey's beautiful daughter, Megan (Played by Barbara Crampton). Dan's life is going perfectly until he meets Herbert West. Within days of moving in, West manages to bring back Dan's cat (who he says died by suffocation), but when the cat returns it is a vicious animal, and they kill it. Finally you have the antagonist, Dr. Carl Hill (played by David Gale). Hill is one of Miskatonic University's best doctors, and gets the hospital a lot of grants especially with his new laser device. He teaches new medical students about the human brain, and West continuously objects to everything he says, this laying the blueprint for things to come.Over all, Re-Animator is a low-budget movie with a lot of gore and violence....but thats what makes it great. Its not another knock off of Halloween or Friday the 13th or anything. I'd definitely recommend this movie for anyone (with a strong stomach of course) "},{"Title":"Messy mindless entertainment","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stuart Gordon's schlocky horror film has its moments and, for me, horror films that refuse to take themselves seriously are always better than those that do, but it just fails to stand up to the likes of The Evil Dead. Jeffrey Combs is suitably creepy as the nerdish science student who has discovered the means to bring animals back to life and now wants to progress on to larger subjects. It doesn't matter to him that the hapless creatures returned from the dead are psychopathic zombies intent only on murdering anyone in their path.The film gets increasingly bizarre as it gathers a frantic head of steam, culminating in the body of a decapitated professor holding its own head in position to deliver a little&#133; stimulation to a naked Barbara Crampton. I ask you, what kind of mind could come up with an image like that? Not that you'll hear any complaints from this small corner of the IMDb site this is exactly the kind of thing you want to see when you simply want some fast-paced, messy mindless entertainment. Great final fade as well. "},{"Title":"A cult classic!","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is a great cult classic, the acting is great especially from Jefery Combs who does a chilling performance as the and scientist Herbert West who as came to the medical school to continue his research in re-animating the dead.He moves into Dan Cain's house and soon Dan finds himself helping Herbert by suppling him bodies and keeping record of the experiments otherwise Herbert will tell the dean that he is dating his daughter.Soon Dr.Carl Hill discovers Herbert's serum and plans to take it as his own but Herbert decapitates him and re-animates his head and body. Hill's body knocks Herbert out, takes his serum and takes the dean's daughter who he is obsessed with.Herbert and Dan confront Hill and while Herbert is fighting Hill's body he tells Dan to take the serum.A great film with some good gore affects in the style of The Evil Dead. A must for gore fans. Check out the sequels Bride of Re-Animator and Beyond Re-Animator. "},{"Title":"Welcome back to life...","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm not going to say Re-Animator is better than George Romero's Night of the Living Dead or Dawn of the Dead, but it's certainly up there. Like Dawn, this movie is funny and scary at the same time, with an emphasis on pushing the horror envelope. I think Peter Jackson's Dead Alive was inspired at least in part by this movie.Renegade scientist Herbert West creates a serum that brings anything back to life. My favorite line is when West re-animates a dead cat. It was dead... twice. Enter an idealistic young intern who's dating the Dean's beautiful daughter (if I were gay, Barbara Crampton would be the one), and well-stocked morgue and a plagiaristic scientist, and you've got a recipe for non-stop comic-vomit.A roller-coaster of gory effects and violent deaths, Re-Animator doesn't stop for a second. It's not for everyone; some people don't enjoy watching naked zombies tearing themselves out of body bags and ripping people to shreds. But if you do... =) "},{"Title":"My Review of Re-Animator","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is based on the stories, Herbert West Re-Animator, by H.P. Lovecraft. A wonderful horror tale, the movie actually wrapped all the stories into one, with the writers adding things in (such as the sequence between Barabara Crampton and David Gale).What you have here is a great movie, with awesome special effects for its day. Heck people it was 1985 for crying out loud! Anyway, the movie is top notch, with some great acting, and remains to this day as one of the best horror movies ever made, especially on such a low budget ($1,000,000.00).My advice Go rent it today and see for yourselves! I promise you, you won't be disappointed. And as for the sequels, though they may not live up to the original, they are still worth watching as they tell the story of one mad scientist's goals, that though while good, often bring disaster to those who know him.(Re-Animator- 1985 starring Jeffery Combs, Bruce Abbot, Barbara Crampton, David Gale; Directed by Stuart Gordon, produced by Brian Yuzna) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly  Insane!","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a huge fan of the splatter fest zombie genre for some time, some of my friends found it odd that I never saw any of the Re-Animator movies. Quite honestly, I didn't expect much. I judged the book by it's cover. Being made in America, in the mid 80's, and with a bigger production value than such movies as Evil Dead, I had the feeling it was gonna be a soft core and corny slasher type film. Needless to say, I finally picked it up.. and was blown away. Jeffrey Combs was AMAZING. Even in such a twisted film, his character is highly believable. I always shrugged it off when they compared him to Bruce Campbell, but he really is a phenomenal B-actor. The storyline is nothing special, but I always thought plot should never be a huge factor in these movies. It's good for what it is. Now, to the most important factor of the movie, what makes it so great, and the reason for it's cult status; the gore! I'm a huge fan of low budget splatter gore, I think it's a true art form. No CGI for me, show me some fake blood, ground beef and creative deaths, and I'll be entertained for hours! And this movie did just that! It's disgusting, over the top, and hilarious. And like every gore-fest flick, a grand finale that'll make you laugh and sick to your stomach at the same time! Sure, it's nothing amazingly original and some scenarios just don't make sense but its a very entertaining watch and definitely a new favorite. I suggest, if you want to pick it up, get the special edition two disc set, for awesome special features. I can't wait to pick up the other two films of the series. Oh.. and one point taken off because the only gore movie that deserves a 10 is PJ's Braindead.. and that's that! ..Get a job, sideshow! "},{"Title":"Re-Animator is excellent, classic horror of the 80's","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I picked this film randomly of a shelf in a rental shop, boy was was i impressed. This film is just horror at its best, although the BBC cut out a fair bit. But hay it was still excellent. It is about Herbert West who discovers the art of re-animation and tests it out on one of his professor who he was working with in the beginning, which ends up in an eye popping scene which i enjoyed very much. So from that point on he travels to the USA to work and learn there, but i think he has other intentions.......well lets just say he ends up with intestines round his neck.WATCH THIS FILM IT IS EXCELLENT!!!!!!! To any one in the UK interested, get the millennium edition R1 off Amazon for the full version uncut with DTS. "},{"Title":"Lots of Red-Blooded Fun","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've enjoyed H. P. Lovecraft stories for many decades. However, usually the better of his stories translate into poor films.But the reciprocal is true. Some of his dullest stories get enlivened in their film version. This is one such, a really entertaining film from a very slow story.IMHO, Jeffry Combs was born to play Herbert West, the researcher who wants to reanimate dead tissue.Possible spoilers.Herbert West just looks at dead bodies as machines that have stopped, and with the serum he's working on, he feels he's able to jump-start them. Well, he can -- sort of. But those he reanimates aren't the same as before they perished. They're insane, and killers. Yet this doesn't deter West with the proper adjustment, he feels, he can get a successful reanimation.The film is full of really dark humor. Not a must-see, but well worth watching. "},{"Title":"The ultimate horror/comedy","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stuart Gordon has made the perfect horror/comedy with this film. Peolpe have tried to make a film as clever, dark, witty and gory as Re-Animator in the past, but all have failed. Peter Jackson's Dead Alive comes close, but lacks the talented actors Gordon had.Jeffrey Combs, as the obsessed Herbert West, was brilliant. As usual, his sexy sidekick Barbara Crampton(also with Jeffrey on From Beyond and Castle Freak) supplies the nudity.There is never a dry spell in this film, as it keeps producing laughs and nonstop gore throughout. There are numerous memorable scenes, from Jeffrey and Bruce Abbott fighting Rufus the Undead Cat in their basement to David Gale's severed head becoming intimate with a naked Barbara Crampton.This is a must have for dark humor film buffs. If you are able to find the DVD, I recommend picking it up. "}{"Title":"One of the sickest, goriest, most off the wall & offensive splatter horror flicks ever made&#x85;..& I loved every minute of it!","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" HERBERT WEST is a brilliant young scientist, a modern day Dr. Frankenstein who has made perhaps one of the greatest breakthroughs in the annals of human history a serum that re-animates the dead! Following the violent death of his professor, who died, but wound up being re-animated by West using is re- animation fluid, West is kicked out of the University, where he then arrives in Massachusetts. He enrols in Miskatonic University, where he becomes roommates with fellow medical student Dan Cain (BRUCE ABBOTT) who is engaged to Dean Halsey's daughter Meagan (BARBRA CRAMPTON). When Dan & Megan find her missing cat in Herbert's refrigerator, Dan threatens to kick him out, knowing West (despite his claims), killed the cat himself. Herbert then blackmails Dan, by threatening to reveal that Dan has been sleeping with his daughter, something Dean Halsey does not believe in outside the boundaries of marriage. In the middle of the night, Dan finds Herbert being attacked by what appears to be a rabid cat, which turns out to be Meagan's dead cat! Herbert reveals to Dan that he has created a re-animation formula with his former professor, that can re-animate dead things. The downside? all of his test subjects return to the living in a homicidal violent rage! with no memories or communication abilities upon their return to the living. Herbert insists that if only his test subjects were fresher, the results would be better. When Dan tells Dean Halsey of the breakthrough, Halsey thinks he's crazy & is furious when Dan repeatedly tells him it's the truth. Halsey then suspends his future son in law's student grant & kicks West out of the University. Dan & Herbert return to the school grounds in order to prove to Dean Halsey they are not making the story up. Reviving a corpse in the schools morgue, it goes on an even more violent rampage & violently kills Dean Halsey in the process, before it is brutally dispatched. Using the re-animation fluid, they revive Dean Halsey, who winds up in a violent & yet petrified state of madness. Dean Halsey winds up under the care of Dr. Carl Hill (played by the late great David Gale) a plagiarist who stole ideas & theories from Herbert's former professor & called them his own. He discovers through his tests, that Dean Halsey is really dead but is oddly walking around. He then discovers Herbert's re-animation formula & blackmails him with incarceration unless Herbert agrees to give him full credit for creating the formula. Herbert kills Dr. Hill, via decapitation & re-animates Dr. Hill's severed head in a dish, using the re-animation fluid & success! Unlike Herbert's previous subjects, Dr. Hill returns non violent & retains all of his memories & can communicate verbally! the problem? He's just as evil as ever & determined to have the formula more than ever now! Using his ability to hypnotize & control minds, he revives his body to knock Herbert out & then re-animates a series of corpses in the school morgue to do his bidding, which includes abducting Dan's fiance Meagan, whom we learn throughout the film, he has an unhealthy obsession with her, that is down right terrifying. When Dan & Herbert attempt to rescue her, they find that getting into the morgue to stop Hill is an easy plan, but executing it will be anything but, leading to an all out blood splattered, body exploding, crushed head & human intestine attacking fight between the living & the living dead!RE-ANIMATOR has to be beyond a shadow of a doubt, one of the top best 100 horror movies ever made! It's so over the top & gory that out has to be seen in order to be believed! Despite it's low budget origins, RE-ANIMATOR is one of the very few 1980's horror movies that has really good acting. Each actor makes their character all that more special & interesting & director STUART GORDON proves he is a horror director to watch out for, as he pulls out all the stops & creates one of the goriest horror movies in history! The film, which is loosely based on a six part serial by horror author H.P. LOVECRAFT, is a real treat for die hard horror & gore fans & is filled with many darkly comical moments. The story itself, is really just a modern day remake of the classic Frankenstein tale but is a lot of fun. The score by RICHARD BAND is really good, but it I liked it better when it was used in PSYCHO (1960) that's right, despite Band's claims, this score is swiped from PSYCHO, only re-tooled in some areas (I guess to make it copyright free?) The gore effects here are really some of the best to ever grace a horror film, trust me if it's gore you want, than it's gore you're going to get! as we see a badly mutilated, re-animated feline, broken teeth, chewed off fingers, crushed heads, killer intestines, lopped off heads, hacked off arms, corpses getting their scalps removed, surgical saws tearing through skulls, surgical drills through the body, popped eyeballs & in what has to be one of the most outrageous, offensive & completely unforgettable scenes in the annals of horror movie history, heroine Barbara Crampton is tied to a gurney, where she is molested by a severed, bloody, diabolical talking head of Dr. Hill! Love it or hate it, RE-ANIMATOR is a film that I promise you, you'll never forget!All in all, RE-ANIMATOR is an absolute must see for any & all horror fans! it's a real treat for fans wanting one of the best most hardcore horror/comedy/splatter flick ever made! But a word of warning Don not watch this movie before, during or after dinner!Followed by two sequels, starting with, BRIDE OF THE RE-ANIMATOR **** stars "},{"Title":"A Hilarious Gore fest","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not to many movies can combine humor and over-the-top gore as Re Animator. Despite being released over 18 years ago, the movie still holds remarkably well. Basically what we have here is a modern Frankenstein story. Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) discovers a unique potion that brings the dead back to life, but with some catastrophic side effects. So, for the rest of the movie he's on a quest for the right dose, while leaving a trail of mayhem behind. This is a very adult film (graphically gory and violent, nude scenes, etc.) but also manages to sport a sick and twisted sense of humor that does not lessen its gore aspect. It's a real shame that not too many of today's horror films have this wit and audacity. The effects hold up real well and actually look more realistic than all those CG effects we see in abundance in modern horror pictures.  There are a couple of DVD versions out there and either one will do. If you truly like your horror over the top and with a dash of sick black humor, don't miss Re-Animator! "},{"Title":"A top slaughter rating - Outrageous!!","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Opening scene takes place in a Swiss clinic where police have to break down a door in order to find Dr. Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) standing over Dr. Gruber.  The Swiss police help Dr. Gruber to his feet and all of a sudden his eyeballs explode!  Awesome!Then we cut to hospital in Arkham, Massachusetts where Herbert West has joined the pathology staff and is immediately resented by the chief pathologist, Dr. Hill (David Gale) while his assistant, Daniel Cain (Bruce Abbott) doesn't know what to make of him.  But with a quick wad of cash, West moves into a room in Cain's house in order to split the rent.  Then West takes over the basement for his experiments using the same green florescent fluid he used in Switzerland to 're-animate' the dead.Gore scenes includeBringing Cain's dead cat back to life.  A so-so scene.Re-animating a dead body of a muscleman in the hospital morgue freezer that then starts to bleed from the mouth and attacks them while Dean Halsey (Robert Sampson) is standing outside the door.  The body slams open the door crushing Dean Halsey in the process.  The 'dead' corpse throws Halsey against the wall, biting off a couple of his fingers.  West then comes up from behind and kills it using a surgical saw through it's back and out it's chest.  Cool scene!They then re-animate Dean Halsey's dead body back to life just in time for his daughter Megan (Barbara Crampton) to walk in and get the sh*t scared out of her.  Halsey winds up in a padded cell with a straight jacket on looking like something out of a George Romero flick.  Even after Dr. Hill lobotomizes Halsey, all it does is make him worse.  It's hilarious.After Dr. Hill snoops down in West's basement, West kills him and decapitates Hill's head from it's body with a shovel because Hill is trying to blackmail him.  He re-animates both Hill's head and his body and it's funny watching the body carry Hill's head in it's arms as it then sews the head back on.  Great scene!The ending scene where all the corpses in the morgue come back to life is a hoot!!  Dean Halsey turns on Dr. Hill's head and squeezes it to a pulp.  Then he throws it out in the hallway to the astonishment of the black security guard that's standing out there.  I couldn't help but laugh at that one.  The meat from the head starts dripping from the walls onto the hallway floor while the security guard runs down the hall in terror.  (laughing)Then when West injects Hill's now-again headless body with a double-dose of serum, it's chest cavity starts to rip apart sending Hill's intestines flying out of it's body trying to strangle Dr. West.  Outrageous!!  Utterly outrageous!!While this is all going on, another corpse is strangling Megan in the hallway and Cain comes up from behind and chops off it's arm with an axe.  He then rushes Megan upstairs and fails to revitalize her in the emergency room.  But then Cain thinks about that green fluid again and...well...  There's a lot more that I can say but you'll just have to see it for yourself.The widescreen Image DVD uses the un-cut shorter version (which is the best!) along with the deleted scenes from the R-rated version that made it into most videos back in the 80s.  It's just a bunch of dialog talk that was used in order to pad out the movie and make up for the gore stuff that was cut out of the shorter version.  Movie trailers are included along with separate audio tracks by director Gordon and the rest of the cast.The whole things so outrageous that it deserves to be in any gore collectors collection.  A top slaughter rating.9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"They don't make them like this anymore!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my opinion this is the best horror movie of all time. A must see for those that remember and appreciate horror movies of the 80's. Tons of gore, humor, and wit! These three elements seem to be sorely missing from the horror movies of today. There has never been a character quite as wonderfully odd as Herbert West (played by Jeffrey Combs). The Cast commentary on the DVD is both humorous and informative. It is one commentary track that I can watch over and over without getting tired of it. "},{"Title":"Why did the 80's have to end??? (","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Horror movies are not made like this anymore.  I saw Stuart Gordon's Dagon and yes it was pretty good.  There was gore but not enough sick humor.  It didn't have the same feel that the 80's movies had.  Society, Re-Animator, Fright Night and Night of the Creeps were all awesome.  Twisted humor, over the top gore and exploding heads are what good horror movies need.  Oh wow, they're remaking The Texas Chainsaw Massacre.  Woohoo, they're going to make a sequel to Darkness Falls.  Screw that.  Just buy this unrated DVD and boycott the pathetic waste that gets mad run and will make way too much money.  Oh well, as long as movies like that will help us get head from our stupid naive girlfriends I guess they have a purpose.  "},{"Title":"Talking Heads and The Undead","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ready for something weird and wild that will make you laugh and nearly lose your lunch in the process? Look no further; you have found Re-Animator. Directed by Stuart Gordon and drawn from an H.P. Lovecraft story, Re-Animator tells the story of two college kids who find their lives turned upside down when they discover a special serum that can rejuvenate dead tissue, effectively bringing the dead back to life. Unfortunately the re-animation process has its downfalls as its subjects come back as manic and maniacal undead meat-bags. The pair also finds themselves at odds with an authority figure that takes a liking to a lady-friend and threatens to squash their discovery. Shenanigans ensue in an all-out frenzied finale that will leave you wondering what you just saw.The anchor of the film, Jeffrey Combs, plays college student by day/mad scientist by night Herbert West with such a creepy and convincing delivery that you forget he's playing a character. By his side are his hapless roommate played by Bruce Abbot and the chronically undressed Barbara Crampton as the plot-device that comes between the pair and their foe, the unrelentingly bitter professor played with exquisite expertise and a seemingly endless amount of glee by David Gale. Pile on a heavy dosage of severed heads, rotting corpses and oozing red stuff, and you have a meal that won't disappoint. All of this is of course delivered with an underlying sense of humor that is typical of '80s gross-out flicks like Evil Dead II and Return of the Living Dead, making Re-Animator a bizarre yet intoxicating cocktail that never fails to entertain time and time again. "},{"Title":"Let's hope they never try to reanimate this classic...no way it could be improved upon in this day and age.","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have finally seen this horror classic, I have always wanted to, but it usually cost a bit much. Finally, though I got a reasonable price and quite frankly it would have been worth it at the more expensive price as well. As good as advertised this horror comedy really delivers the goods. Though I am apt to say it is more horror than comedy as there are chuckles to be sure, but it contains more horror elements than say Return of the Living Dead or Dead Alive among others. The gore is good in this one, granted not all the effects are top notch (like say the cat), but it is an older movie and probably does a better job then than would be done now. Of course what makes this movie a bit better than your average horror is the acting. Jeffery Combs is great as Herbert West, as the usually over the top actor is once again doing what he does best, playing an over the top character. The supporters are good as well and Barbara Compton is simply gorgeous. The story, there is an incident in a foreign country involving a very famous doctor. One of his prize students is now enrolling in a school in Arkham Massachusetts I believe. He becomes roomies with a fellow student there and he quickly shows odd behavior. There is a doctor at the school who is seemingly less bizarre than West, who West can not stand and who is more creepily bizarre than West ever could be. Well let's just say experiments galore and the dead are reanimated and can the young medical student who took West in keep his very understanding girlfriend? Great movie with great music too, that tune is played by an orchestra is very catchy. "},{"Title":"Herbert West--Reanimator","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ...or just the way the title should have been spelled, but who cares? Judging this movie, I have to stop and remember that this had a low budget, so the script had to be tinked with. I first read the short story by H. P. Lovecraft, and then viewed it on DVD. Lovecraft invented some fascinating parts in his version, like West and the nameless narrator's house being burnt down, a buried boxer appearing at their backdoor gnawing on a child's forearm and West firing 6 shots into its face, Dr. Halsey being reanimated and going on a killing spree taking down 17 people, West and the narrator entering World War 1 and reanimating a decapitated major, and finally West being ripped to pieces by a horde of zombies in his basement while the narrator watches.SPOILERS However, this version stuck half-way true to it Dr. Halsey being the one who gets ripped to pieces, Dr. Hill being decapitated and reanimated, and a horde of zombies coming after West. With such low budget, how could Stuart Gordon and Brian Yuzna film a flaming house, World War 1 footage, etc.I don't know if this was intended to be a horror film, it probably was, but it passed off more as a gruesome comedy. When reading the summary, it sounds like a Frankenstein rip-off, but it actually isn't. Frankenstein was resurrected with multiple body parts, West just resurrects dead bodies but has disastrous results if the bodies aren't fresh enough, meaning the brain cells haven't depleted too much. For some reason, every Lovecraft movie has to incorporate some new heroine character, like Megan Halsey in this case, even though the story doesn't require one, but for all horny guys out there, this movie does have some eye-catching breast shots. If you viewers have a sense of humor, then you will get at least some kick out of watching this. Jeffrey Combs fits the role as Herbert West 99%, that 1% being his hair it's black, but Lovecraft wrote him as being blond; other than that, he did a spectacular job, no wonder he went on to make 2 sequels. The unsung hero here is Bruce Abbot, the nameless narrator, who just wants to marry the dean's daughter, whom he sincerely loves, and become a doctor, but West destroys those dreams, and Halsey, and Megan. Dr. Hill might be comparative to Vincent Price; it appears noticeable that his severed head is still attached to his body underneath the scrubs of the guy holding him.It's not an all-star winner, since the low budget might have hindered a finer quality feature, but it won the Cannes Film Festival for best picture of the year, so Stuart Gordon did pretty good. The score might get irritating after a while, but there are a couple scenes where it ties in perfectly to the mood. All good actors, Barbara playing Megan probably wasn't the best fit actress, but she deserves no bad mouthing, she got nude shamelessly and still stayed in character (hats off). I don't think Stuart Gordon is a great director, but he did a good job here. You probably won't keep it if you buy it on DVD, but if it's ever on TV, it's worth looking at...if your parents aren't around that is.  "},{"Title":"Fun 80s horror flick with guts!","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It had been over twenty years since I last saw Re-animator, so I was looking forward to re-watching this classic from the last great decade of horror, the 1980s. I was 17 when I first saw this low budget gore-fest and remember thinking it was the dog's dangly bits at the time. Would it impress me as much the second time around? Well, the answer is 'very nearly'. The film is an excellent example of 'grand guignol' splatter and there is plenty to admire in it's sheer verve and gloriously twisted approach, but it isn't quite the flawless masterpiece that I had thought it was.In director Stuart Gordon's adaptation of H. P. Lovecraft's 'Herbert West Re-animator', Jeffrey Combs plays eccentric genius Dr. Herbert West, who is able to bring the dead back to life by injecting them with his incredible discovery, a luminous green 're-agent'. Unfortunately, results thus far have been less than successful, with subjects flying into an uncontrollable rage on reanimation. West suspects that a combination of correct dosage and freshness of subject is the key to success.After the suspicious death of his professor in Switzerland, West relocates to the Miskatonic Medical School where he enlists the help of fellow student Dan Cain to help continue his research. Dan stupidly reveals the nature of his experiments to the dean of the school (who also happens to be the father of Dan's tasty girlfriend Meg), resulting in his student loan being rescinded and West's expulsion from the school. In a last ditch effort to perfect the reanimation procedure, the two men sneak into the school's morgue for one last attempt at bringing the dead to life. Things don't go as planned and the dean is accidentally killed when he interrupts proceedings; West promptly reanimates the dean, but he comes back as a drooling mess.When the university's top professor, Carl Hill (who secretly lusts after Meg), sees the dean, he makes it his mission to discover what has really happened. He discovers that the dean is technically dead and, realising that West is on the brink of a major medical breakthrough, he tries to claim the discovery for himself. But West isn't about to give up his 're-agent' without a fight&#133;Where 'Re-animator' succeeds is in its gleeful no-holds barred approach. The story is extremely preposterous and Gordon and his cast do not attempt to lend proceedings any gravity, opting instead for an over-the-top, anything-goes, tongue-in-cheek style. From the opening pre-credits scene, in which a characters eyes bulge and burst from his skull, viewers know that this is going to be all about the gore. And what a lot of gore we get!! The FX team deliver a huge range of splattery effects which certainly impress, given the limited budget of the movie. Most are extremely effective, so I am able to forgive the odd less successful moment. Highlights include a brain removal, a juicy finger biting, a bone saw through the torso, a decapitation with a spade, a crushed head thrown at a wall, an exploding stomach with writhing intestines, and the infamous scene in which a stark naked Meg receives a bit of (severed) head!So what, in my opinion, stops 'Re-animator' from being perfect? The answer is in the editing.The 'original cut' of the film ran for over two hours. It was severely edited to improve the pacing. The 'unrated' theatrical version kept all of its gore but missed moments which I felt were vital to help clarify certain plot points; the result is a 'choppy' narrative which leaves unanswered questions. The 'R' version had much of the gore removed and some of the trimmed scenes reinstated. Neither version is perfect.Funnily enough, the Psychoesque score, which seems to be a problem for many viewers, never bothered me. Yes, it was a blatant case of plagiarism (very closely resembling Bernard Hermann's classic theme), but it worked well.I highly recommend 'Re-animator' to all fans of gory horror, but I do suggest that they watch the 'unrated' version and then the deleted scenes afterwards to fully appreciate what might have been. "},{"Title":"Well it could be worse..................it could have been directed by a re-animated corpse","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was probably the second lovecraft adaptation i have watched and i was more entertained than i was with dagon.Even though most reviews suggest that it's the goriest film of all time there is gorier films and acting from jeffery combs was top notch more than i can say for his supporting actors.The film focused on bringing back the dead and although that might seem grim there are a few good tongue in cheek comedy moments.With a cliffhanger ending and an altogether decent cast mostly kept afloat by jeffery combs performance this is probably the only good lovecraft adaptation. "}{"Title":"Best Zombie movie I've seen yet but still average","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen some zombie movies and they all actually sucked. This one is a bit different, it has some plot, quite good actors and it is funny at times. But still here you can find the stupidity of zombie films. Dudes running aroung without their bodyparts and stuff. Sometimes dull dialogue and so on. If you like Braindead and Return of the Living Dead 3 you WILL love this one, hell you'll marry it. It didn't do enough for me though, hand me Hellraiser, Scream, A Nightm,are on Elm Street, Child's Play or The Texas Chainsaw Massacre anytime, but don't ask me to see this one again. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Black Comedy & Gore!","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animated was one of those movies I had never got around to seeing after meaning to on numerous occasions so I finally did and the overall experience was shall we say interesting...Now I'm a big fan of the comedy/horror genre as the comedy is usually dark and the gore scenes are usually over the top and thus funny and in this aspect Re-Animator succeeds and does it well. The storyline is okay if not amazing and the film wastes little time in getting into the main plot of the Jeffrey Combs character (Herbert West) arriving from Europe to go into med school. I thought the Herbert West character was by far the most interesting of the main protagonists but I just wish we had more of a back story on him, other then a short clip at the start of the film we know little of what he did in Europe I just thought maybe in flash backs or similar we could have learned more about him. The acting overall was decent enough and as mentioned there was enough humour and gory scenes to keep me happy but overall I felt it all just fell a little flat. There were two scenes in particular I laughed out loud at (they both take place in the morgue..) It was entertaining but not the best of this genre I've seen but fans of this darker comedy should enjoy it.6/10 "},{"Title":"Reanimator should animate more character into it's characters","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" On the surface, this is a smart, and inventive horror/comedy, more emphasis on horror, exploitation pic. Jeffrey Combs is fantastic, as the over zealous, brilliant, if a little insane student doctor, Herbert West, with anger issues who at the start, is expelled from this university, apparently for giving a patient life. He doesn't get off on the right foot either, at his new university hospital, immediately making enemies with one of the lecturers, brazenly criticizing him, and gathering a response, by the snap of a pencil. He shacks up new roomie, Bruce Abbott (Bad Dreams) and his hottie, scream queen/quality actress Crampton, who back in the eighties was unfortunately used in small roles, mostly. Abbott and Combs form a working relationship, where West introduces him to the world of reanimation. A green serum, is the vital ingredient when injected brings the dead back to life, only with catastrophic results. I liked the comedy in this and the three performances are better than you expect to be, although Combs is brilliantly. The two roomies get into more deep water, like with that lecturer blackmailing's West brilliant discovery, and like the rest of re animated, comes back, pi..ed off. I liked the situations developed which led to more strife for the two. Only I found Reanimator to be too much a brief film, as not really getting to know the characters. I must say though, it has some great cutting dialogue, and an original moment, that blackmailing lecturer, holding his own severed head. Horror fans, indulge. "},{"Title":"Classic 1980s Lovecraft-inspired gore film!","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you're looking for a faithful Lovecraft adaptation you will not find that here. In fact, you will not find that anywhere. Lovecraft stories defy cinematic adaptation without cracking in the process, the screen just can't catch that cerebral, ethereal quality that the imagination can. Either way, the filmmakers look to Lovecraft as inspiration and take many liberties with the story - this is a positive attribute because instead of a lackluster Lovecraft tale we get a fantastic Lovecraft inspired gore film.This and Dead Alive are probably the most mainstream of the famous gore films and that isn't a shot at its quality just the odd crossover appeal it happens to possess. I have shown females raised on The OC and Green Day and they have enjoyed the film. I don't understand what the appeal is to a wide group of people but it is there. That said this is a great introduction to gore films.The gore here is so over-the-top and cartoon-like that it doesn't tend to gross out like many of the more hardcore, meaner spirited gore films tend do. Despite the buckets of blood and gore this is a FUN movie to watch.If you're looking for a good movie to watch with some beers and some friends you can't go wrong with Re-Animator. "},{"Title":"Death Is Just the Beginning","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is memorable for two reasons the diminutive Jeffrey Combs as Herbert West (modern day Dr. Frankenstein), and a scene involving a decapitated head going down on Barbara Crampton. Oh, and Ms. Crampton appears nude, so that's three, I guess.Loosely based on the short story by H.P. Lovecraft, Re-Animator is the sordid tale of West, a university student who's just perfected the means to reanimate the recently deceased. His glowing green reagent brings the dead back to life (usually in a fit of insane rage) but also results in a violently unstable zombie.Combs is perfect for the lead, diving into the role with aplomb, his beady-eyed deranged smugness getting under one's skin. But West isn't a likable character, in a film populated by mostly bad guys - except for Barbara Crampton, who's just victimized the whole time.It's the film's humor that provides the film's watchability. When you're not seeing a decapitated head being carried in a dish by its own body, you're watching director Stuart Gordon's gleeful gross-out gore and Evil Dead-style bloodletting.6/10 "},{"Title":"Favorite movie of David Bowie","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first time I looked, Re-Animator Gordon Stewart, it was during the time of VHS, he did not call me if any special delight. Although I have heard that it is a cult horror film, as well as many flattering words about this film. Image left me indifferent in other words. Rather strange entry for the positive feedback, is not it? Today, during the Internet you can learn a lot, including about the past. What was my surprise to see an expanded version of this movie (though in reality it involves only one cut scene), as well as the documentary Resurrection of resuscitation in one of the places of the world wide web. To all this it turned out that American critics is, no joke, called rescuer highly artistic horror to the same at the time this film received a special prize critics in Cannes, France and beyond, even some prizes and let the less important festivals science fiction movie. Perhaps because of that new thing I learned about this movie, I decided to reconsider it. Sometimes it is useful to return to once he had seen tapes - not just to the decades to adjust their opinion about a particular cinematographic works, which, like the time change something lost and something, by contrast, acquires (c) On the other hand, I feel at ease, to borrow the words of the Sergey Kudryavtsev review of the movie 451  Fahrenheit, in 1966 directed by Francois Truffaut, in order to better shall declare his thoughts.I do not know what was going on, but after repeated viewing today (our days) not only feel a sense of nostalgia, it is likely at the age of (!!!), but ever delight.Theater director Stuart Gordon after his success with Peter Pen at the University of Madison, moved back to Chicago and in collaboration with his wife, Caroline, with whom they placed the pieces in organic theater of his native city, and producer Brian Yuznau (after set up two obscure sequel this tape and a number of not less obscure horror) has organized a film based on the story by HP Lovecraft Herbert West - Reanimator. It was his first experience in film and unfortunately the most successful (as he likes to say - his personal Citizen Kane), not counting all the same good and just as positively greeted by a film critic From Beyond.Re-Animator - this is above all a very interesting story about obsessed with his experiments on corpses scientist. Largely due to his skills gained in working on the plays in the theater, Gordon was able to convey the comic and drama of this story, not without the help of screenwriter Dennis Paoli, who rewrote the original script by William Norris, a desire to give him a big Gothic elements. After all, in fact, a scientist Herbert West is not entirely worried about the fate of people around him. Its nothing exciting. No morals and no remorse. For example, in one scene in the film one character dies right in front of West and his friend Dan, but our mad scientist did not saddened. Not hesitating for a second he was already considering a new body as fresh item for your experiment! Show must go on I sang Freddie Mercury / group Queen. No matter who suffers from the next of his experiment - the main thing to continue.And with all this, the audience still gets to the side and West on human experiences is to him, maybe even more than his friend Dan in his personal tragedy. This is caused not only a talented actor playing fulfill this role - Jeffrey Combs - but his main opponent in the film Dr. Hill performed by actor David Gale (facial features which, as noted by many of the crew, in many respects similar to the features Boris Karloff known for the role of Frankenstein.) Gale's character is much more callous and cold-blooded person than the hero of Jeffrey Combs, and eventually he wants to not only steal the secret of serums developed West, but has dirty thoughts on Dean Halsey's daughter.And very true solution was to beat many of the film with dark humor. This may not be noticed at the first viewing, but the characters, most often the hero, sometimes utter such ridiculous and implausible sentences, like the one that said Dan West on the dead cat, it's hard not to laugh.And yet, despite the fact that what is happening on the screen like crazy (but fun), a farce with the revived corpses and copious bloodletting, there is a really amazing actor sketches. Heroes of the movie you want to empathize.That, unfortunately, the following films Stuart Gordon, except perhaps the from beyond, lacks such a zest, black humor, games, actors and plot are with Re-Animator.In conclusion, I can not say why such a title at the revocation. During the filming of a movie, actor and singer David Bowie ran to the operator Mack Ahlberg with the question, Mack, Mack, is it true that you filmed Re-Animator? This is my favorite movie! What can I say, I personally know David Bowie. "},{"Title":"It can't be better","Date":"17 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read here on IMDb that they are going to make the remake but I doubt they can make it any better than this, I definitely recommend this one. For such a low budget movie, its so good, no clichs, lots of surprises, its raw, its funny, Gordon really pulled it off. Its classic stuff, so exaggerated, my friends and i watched just last night and we were in stitches. Don't be turned off by the use of Psycho's soundtrack, on the contrary open your mind to that, once you empty your cup this film is a great experience, lots of fun, could be so even for them who usually hate gore, this is truly to be taken with a pinch of salt, just let go, it will crack you up. And those of you especially that like Cronenberg's movies, particularly his old ones, you are bound to like this too. "},{"Title":"Oh man, you gotta love this movie!","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've heard a lot about this movie for a long time, and since I just read the original story, I finally got around to seeing it. As an adaptation of the story, its really not bad! There are many, many worse Hollywood adaptations. They took the premise, characters and atmosphere of the original Lovecraft story and made an entertaining horror movie.The story, acting and directing was decent, the gore was excellent, and there is even plenty of nudity. I can see why this is a classic, weird (very weird) cult film.Now I'm going to have to watch the sequels, I have no idea how Herbert West survives. "},{"Title":"The Re-Animator trilogy; one of my many unexplained fun-holes","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unavailable for quite a while over here, 'Bride' has finally spurted out of whatever artery it was stuck in and landed onto a cheap DVD. Herbert West is back! And this time he's not as dead as he was at the end of the first Re-Animator (which was a lot of dead). Yay! I don't even care that the film has no explanation as to his or Dan's survival, I'm just glad to see them again and yes, they are still perverting the course of nature with bright green stuff, those crazy goofs.The film begins bizarrely by telling us that rather than die as it appeared in the original, our 'heroes' instead volunteered to be doctors in some random South American revolution. Fair enough, it's what I would have done. Now we know that volunteering for such revolutions looks a lot like dieing. That's a nice thing to tell a child whose rabbit's just died; fluffy volunteered for the Peruvian guerrillas. Anyway, they are continuing their EVYIL EXPERYMENTS on the wounded until a pretty woman runs in to the tent with a gun and tells them that they are coming. Soon, they arrive&#133; all three of them. These prophesized hairy men open fire and things get exciting as West and Dan have to make a run for it. Do they get away? A short scene change later and we find that yes&#133;yes they did get away. Not only did they get away, but they seem to have gotten jobs in the very same hospital that they caused a massacre of undead proportions in the last time. Not so good staff vetting procedures at this hospital I feel.Soon a policeman sniffs around. I hate him. You see, on the DVD I have the sound quality's not that good. This big fat policeman talks so quietly I had to constantly adjust the volume to hear what he was saying, not that it really mattered&#133;plot is no-ones priority here. One of the reasons I enjoy the Re-animator films so much has solely to do with Jeffery Combs' amazing turn as Herbert West. That and the comedy gore. Let me put it this way; at one point Dr. Hill (the disembodied head from the first film) returns and, wait to you hear how awesome this is&#133;he gets bat wings installed into the sides of his head so that he can fly. Yes. Fly. I think I clapped.The ending of this film makes everything worthwhile. Cheeky Herbert has been combining parts and re-animating them; a foot with a hand, two half people stuck together and all manner of other freaky funny stuff appears, all while Hill's flying head flaps around cackling. Also earlier in the film there was a cool spider-like thing he made using some fingers and an eyeball, which was hideously underused. It should have got a spin off.It should be known that bat-head Hill looks like one time presidential candidate horse face. I mean John Kerry.Did I mention the flying head? Ross @ www.musiconthemoon.com "},{"Title":"A Classic in every sense of the word","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is a fun and rather enjoyable 80s feature.**SPOILERS**Working at Miskatonic University, Dr. Dan Cain, (Bruce Abbott) is receiving plenty of praise from others due to his extreme devotion to the job. Soon, Dean Alan Halsey, (Robert Sampson) assigns young Dr. Herbert West, (Jeffrey Combs) to his assistant role, which resident Dr. Carl Hill, (David Gale) is none to pleased with, especially when he gets shown up at every turn. When his daughter Megan, (Barbara Crampton) begins to wonder what he's doing at the university, he finally reveals that he has a serum that can revive the dead, which they all immediately want to take from him for their own personal use. Now forced to deal with the various reanimated corpses running around the campus, he tries to keep them under control while figuring out a way to stop them.The Good News This here is one of the best horror films in the genre. The thing that this one does so well that very few others get so well is the mixing of the gross-out gore with the funny and humorous moments. The gore in here is about as good as possible for the time, and sometimes it gets really messy. The kills in here do get some gore, as there's a shovel used to sever the head from the neck, fingers being bitten off, a multitude of limbs taken off with just about everything possible, including axes, bare hands, knives and much more, as well seeing a victim strangled with a strand of ambulatory intestines. There's a main focus on blood-splatter here, with it flying everywhere, onto walls, others and any nearby furniture, leaving a mess just about everywhere. Factor in with that all the make-up work on the reanimated, which is quite a standout. The blood stains on the skin, mangled features and postmortem scars on just about everything allow them to look somewhat original and have some sense of menace to them. As usual, they're kept to mainly being a threat due to the large numbers of them that attack, since they can be fought off reasonably well if only an individual or two but the victims succumb when swarmed by several, exactly the kind of threat they should pose, as they were dead for a while after all. The film also manages to incorporate humor into it with relative ease, making this one a real joy to sit through. From the snappy come-back lines to the insults to the one-liners thrown about with reckless abandon, this one manages to have a pretty funny feel to it that will include a couple lines here and there for some to find funny. There's also a large amount of physical gags that are included to also get some sort of laugh out of them. The sight of the headless zombie using a diagram's head to wander around unsuspected, the flying head gags and the multitude of body-parts gags here get a chuckle, which is what was aimed at. There's even some scares in here from the many instances where the reanimated bodies pop up from under covers unexpectedly, and they get a small jolt. The film gets a little sleazy with the infamous scene where a completely nude woman is forced to engage in oral sex with the severed head, being held by the reanimated body, which itself provides numerous punch-lines and comes off as the single most inventive scene in a film filled with it. The idea about the serum holding off natural reactions is ingenious, and the after-effects that come from them are solid gold. The finale, though, is it's most fun segment, which is where the majority of the gore comes from, the action is wall-to-wall, it's creepy and has plenty to endear itself to others. These here make it rather fun and enjoyable.The Bad News There isn't a whole lot here, and they aren't that big either. The main issue here is the effects caused by the serum. It's never told how it works, what happened that caused it's creation or anything about how it works. The only time anything close to it is the fact that it's said to reanimate the dead brain cells, causing the dead to live again, but how and why it works is an utter blank. For something as important to the film as that, a little more about it would've been nice. The film's only other problems here relate to tolerance matters. The amount of gore in here might be a tad excessive, the humor might not be funny to some, and the amount of sleaze present could be a turn-off. Otherwise, this here is just fine.The Final Verdict With a lot to like about it and only a few minor flaws, this one is a really entertaining and enjoyable feature. Really recommended to the gore-hounds or the fans of the cheesy 80s classics, while just about most horror fanatics should take a look as there isn't a whole lot who won't like this.Rated UN/R Graphic Violence, Full Nudity, Language, a sex scene and animal violence "}{"Title":"It's alright","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was really hyped up about watching this, but it let me down somewhat.The acting is really good, especially Jeffery Combs, who steals the movie as Dr Herbert West. He manages to pull off the difficult character quite well, and is ably supported by his backup cast. The gore is also very well done, especially towards the climax of movie, with blood shooting everywhere and realistic zombies.One thing that is said about Re-Animator is that it is supposed to be funny. Asides from the guy with the severed head and his cunnilingus scene, nothing is particularly funny.Overall, nothing about this movie really stands out, and while good acting is always a plus, it is probably the least important factor in a horror movie. I recommend a watch, but don't expect something too original or intense. "},{"Title":"A treat for the troops of horror fans and the mindless in general","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having been on a long vacation from horror films, I wanted to recapture some of the delights of my youth. I think that only the young, or those with the attributes of the young, the ability to find a clear distinction between fact and fiction, between the horrors currently being perpetrated in the world and the excess of horrors in film, can fully enjoy it. I have difficulty creating that distance. When viewers say that this film is funny, my first reaction is Who laughed? But I realize that those that find humor in it,have the capacity, which I lack, to see the film purely as a creation, as something objective, an art work to be analyzed. I become personally involved in what's happening in a film, identify with the characters, live with them, empathize with them, search for reason for their behaviors. I've lost the capacities I once had to abstract myself as an aficionado of horror flicks must do. If I could have I would have enjoyed the film more . The film gives new meaning to the word excess. Throughout its guiding principle is if anything more horrible can happen, it will. It is macabre, gruesome; the plot is out of control; the acting, except for the two young lover, stylized, one dimensional; the cast is composed of corpses, has-been corpses and corpses to be. This is all intentional, and for many this is great fun. I intend to watch the sequel to perhaps recover my lost innocence. "},{"Title":"American Classic","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Re-Animator is not only the greatest Lovecraft adaptation but it's an American Classic. There is no bad acting to be found in this movie. David Gale makes the perfect evil doctor and Jeffery Combs's performance as Herbert West is some of the best acting I have ever seen. The humor is put in, in the perfect places. The Gore is done quite well. This movie contained some of the greatest quotes of all time and a Hilarious scene with a dead cat in a basement. Also, If you're a fan of Stuart Gordon this is his first film and in my opinion his best. If you haven't seen this movie yet you need to get out the movie rental card and get over to Movie Gallery because this is truly an American Classic. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal All Around","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Jeffrey Combs, Stuart Gordon collaboration is one of the great horror films of all time!  The special effects are fantastic and ahead of its time (1985).  Its filled with blood, decapitations, and twitching body parts. Jeffrey Combs' pompous, egocentric, know-it all persona is perfect for his leading role.  David Gale (aka John Kerry) has his moments as well.  This belongs near the top horror movie greats.  The directing was good as shots segued naturally from scene to scene.  Case in point, Dan (Bruce Abbott) and Megan (Barbara Crampton) begin making out, she says no and--BOOM-- next shot, they're working it out and she's screaming yes!GRADESWriting = A Acting = B+ Special Effects = A+ Creativity = A+Overall 9.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of the best of the 80's!","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (spoilers warning) In this H.P. Lovecraft tale, Herbert West is a Swiss scientist who has discovered a fluid which brings living tissue back to life. After the suspicious death of his professor in Switzerland, West moves to Miskatonic University to continue his research. He involves fellow student Dan Cain and his fianc Megan Halsey in his research by experimenting on their dead cat. Dan, fascinated by West's research, agrees to smuggle him into the hospital morgue with predictable results........Zombie and gore galore! Stuart Gordon's Re-Animator is a classic of the genre, with it's unusually vivid premise, convincing special effects (love the exploding eye scene in the beginning!)and the wacky performances by Jeffery Combs, David Gale, and Barbera Crampton make this a instant classic! If you have yet to see Re-Animator, go rent it....now! "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **** stars out of ****.A scientist (Jeffery Combs) finds a way to re-animate dead tissue an bring the dead back to life. A true classic of the genre, re-animator is a sure bet with it's impressive special effects, great acting, great premise. A classic. I won't give anything else away, see it know! Go rent it! "},{"Title":"Fun movie with a good cast","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Howard Phillip Lovecraft was a man who despised the medium of film, in revenge for his nasty comments the film media has made terrible adaptions of his stories.  Each time I truck out to see some new 'interpretation' of one of Lovecraft's stories, I am almost always appauled.  Re-animator was not such an event, and while I doubt that that the taciturn Mr. Lovecraft would have approved of the film, I think it was pretty cool.One of the main problems is that this film was apparently edited for release on videotape and much of the gore and blood from the original was actually REMOVED (I think that this may be one of the only examples of this kind of self-censorship).  If you were not one of us lucky few to have seen it originally, then it may not appear to be as funny or as gross as you have been lead to believe.  One should also keep in mind (although I am not a stickler for accuracy in film adaptations) that the humor in this film is truly inspired by Lovecraft himself.  Herbert West-Re-animator was written as a serial for a COMEDY magazine.  The story is very dry and sardonic (sometimes to the point where the humor is unrecognizable), but it is still very funny and meant to be taken tongue-in-cheek.  However, this is still a remarkably enjoyable movie with a particularly inspired performance by Combs.  Overall, I would advise anyone with a modicum of interest in truly entertaining horror films to check this one out.  If you can find it. "},{"Title":"Deserves Its Classic Label","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator (1985) *** (out of 4) Twistedly delightful updated of the H.P. Lovecraft story about a couple med students (Jeffrey Combs, Bruce Abbott) who find a way to bring the dead back to life but the only problem is that they're not returning in a good mood. RE-ANIMATOR is certainly a film like nothing anyone had seen up to the point of its original release. Yes, there had been dozens of mad scientist movies but this one here manages to mix gore, sex, violence and comedy unlike any other film before and director Stuart Gordon deserves a lot of credit for taking all of those elements and making them work so well together. What I enjoyed most about the picture is the fact that you never quite know where it's going to go next. The film takes all sorts of wild turns as the doctor's experiments just grow more outlandish and dangerous and especially once another doctor gets put into the mix. This other doctor also has one of the most outstanding scenes in the film but I won't spoil it for those who haven't seen it. However, once you've seen the film then you'll know what I'm talking about. Combs is perfect in his role as the crazed scientist and I really enjoyed how serious and how dark he played the character. Abbott is a lot more fun in his over-the-top style but the two actors work perfectly well together. Both David Gale and Robert Sampson are fun in their parts and Barbara Crampton is wonderfully charming as the girlfriend. RE-ANIMATOR is about as good as a film like this is going to get as all the elements work well and director Gordon perfectly pulls it together. "},{"Title":"Honey I Shrunk Cthulhu","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is a heap of fun. I just wish I could find the unrated version. The video store near my house didn't bother to note on the box that their version was the R-rated version, not the unrated version. Ah, serves me right for leaving New York City. What's the problem people!? Can't stand a little reverse necrophilia!? The dead trying to make love to the living? Too much for you?! Stuart Gordon -- I would love to meet him. All his other movies are great. Just saw Dagon the other night. I was profoundly disturbed...is this real? Or only a dream? Can someone wake me up? Is death real? Are you afraid of death?! I certainly am. I used to not think about it that much. Only the pain really, that was what scared me. But now I think about just the idea of NOTHINGNESS. It's perhaps not so scary if you believe in God or Quantum Physics...but still...Brian Yuzna (the producer) co-wrote Honey I Shrunk the Kids...how scary is THAT!!!? "},{"Title":"A new classic","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator, despite its reputation as a cult classic, should really and truly be considered just a plain classic. David Gale gives us a performance worthy of Lugosi in his role as the disembodied head.As with most other Stuart Gordon outings, this movie gives us everything we could possibly want dark humor, lots of nudity, gore, and violence.Jeffrey Combs once again does a fantastic job. The zombie effects are top notch. The bonus material is also well worth watching, although an interview with the man himself, Stuart Gordon, is strangely lacking. This movie rates 5 out of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Decent, but abuses the story","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This review is based on the unrated DVD version.  The DVD contains many extended scenes that flesh out the plot, as well as a deleted scene that makes absolutely no sense at all.A fairly decent horror flick, especially compared to some of the ones my girlfriend's made me watch.  I'm a huge fan of Lovecraft, and had hoped the filmmakers would respect the story much more than they did, but it certainly wasn't normal Hollywood material without a love interest and a much more evolving plot than the story provided.  I really disliked the addition of the meddling old doctor with the hypnosis powers.  It takes even truth stretching to believe that some little serum is going to revive people's brains and such, but a guy who can do what are basically Jedi mind tricks? Please.  Still, since it was so different from the original story, I was a bit surprised at some of the turn of events.6/10 "},{"Title":"Turned Howard Phillips Into Moe Howard and the Stooges","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Reanimator the movie turns the classic horror story by Howard Phillips Lovecraft into a venue more suitable for Moe Howard and the Three Stooges. This movie could possibly be quite entertaining to anyone who is not familiar with H. P. Lovecraft's writing, or if they are familiar, not a fan. H. P. Lovecraft's horror stories are not for everyone. If the reader is not expecting and wanting the most horrifying tales ever created, Lovecraft's writings might be seen as disgusting or repulsive. If the reader cannot tell or appreciate the difference between blood splattering slasher fiction and mind-shattering horror fiction, Lovecraft might be perceived as just another psychotic writer putting his nightmares to paper. I don't like Reanimator the movie simply because it does not convey the feeling of the written story; it does not stimulate that portion of the mind that craves a good scare. The movie has some interesting points, but these somewhat high points are overshadowed as the film turns to comedy and nudity for continuity. The IMDb even goes so far as to classify the movie under one genre as Comedy. This movie is not satisfying to a devout H. P. Lovecraft fan. "},{"Title":"Entertaining film, but shouldn't have Lovecraft's name on it","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Converting H.P. Lovecraft's works to film has always been difficult, because so much of the emotion and value of his work is based on what is NOT seen... still, a better job could have been done if the intention was to remain faithful to the stories. I've read them and am a Lovecraft fanatic, I have to say that ALL of the beauty of the original works was lost.The film isn't without its compensations, certainly the plot (while by comparison quite crude) is interesting, and the visual effects for the time were quite good... the character of Herbert West was quite well-captured, he came across almost exactly as I pictured him. SOMEONE read the book, at least...Still, I have to say that the only relations to Lovecraft's works lie in the names, the personality of West, and the precept of raising the dead using a reagent. The remainder is a zombie-filled romp with blood, gore and nudity to delight young men aged 13 to... 15. "},{"Title":"weirdly compelling B-movie camp","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At University of Zurich, Herbert West brings his dead professor Hans Gruber back to life with disturbing side effects. He goes to Miskatonic Medical School in Arkham, Massachusetts to further his studies. He immediately challenges the traditional views of Dr. Carl Hill. Fellow medical student Dan Cain rents a room to the weird West. Dan is going out with the Dean's daughter Megan. Hill has it in for West and Cain by association. Using his evil powers of persuasion, Hill gets the Dean to expel both West and Cain. West converts the basement into a mad science laboratory.This is a campy B-movie. David Gale's performance is the proof of it. It is fun campy overacting. Jeffrey Combs is great at being creepy. The movie is grotesque fun. It moves well. It's not a scary horror but rather a campy one. It's weirdly compelling. Bruce Abbott is the main drawback. His amateurish acting isn't worthy of the lead. In the end, the movie makes you chuckle a little and pulls you into the story. "},{"Title":"What a monumental waste...","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" THIS is a prime example of what can happen when someone who has no affinity whatsoever for the genre tries to make a Horror film. RE-ANIMATOR is, in a word, Horrible. Coombs might've been a good choice to play Herbert West, but the choice of Stuart Gordon as director was a big mistake. (And why was he considered one of the MASTERS OF HORROR? Had the producers of that show never heard of George Romero or David Cronenberg or Sam Raimi...?) The only part of the movie that's tolerable at all are the scenes involving Rufus the Resurrected Cat (in particular, the scene where Rufus sinks his claws into West's back and refuses to let go. How's THAT for a sad commentary on this one?) It would be interesting to see a filmmaker like John Carpenter or George Romero or David Cronenberg or Guillermo del Toro (the latter, especially) tackle a Big Screen version of H.P. Lovecraft. "},{"Title":"A sloppy Lovecraft Adaptation","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" But it wasn't the work Lovecraft was most proud of...The essential story is that Herbert West has developed a serum that brings the dead back to life, but they don't have the mental faculties they had when alive. Further complicating matters is a professional rival who attempts to steal West's formula.This is the first film where the ever-creepy Jeffrey Combs appears in an adaptation of H.P. Lovecraft's work. (Although, to be fair, a lot of Lovecraft adaptations miss the point of his flavor of horror.It was controversial in its time because it was released without an MPAA rating. (Two or three scenes of full frontal nudity got it banned, although the gore is kind of tame by today's standards.) It is a better film than it's inexplicable sequel. "},{"Title":"You steal the secret of life and death, and here you are trysting with a bubble-headed coed.","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" To see soap star (The Young & The Restless Days of Our Lives The Bold and the Beautiful) Barbara Crampton completely nude on a table with her breasts heaving and the bloody head of Dr. Hill (David Gale) doing nasty thing was the highlight of this campy horror comedy. This was after we see her daddy (Robert Sampson) ripping her clothes of for the evil doctor. Of course, daddy cannot be totally blamed as he had a lobotomy, so he really didn't know what he was doing.Now, what other film can present a scene like that, followed by a whole room full of corpses rising from the dead. It was zombie mayhem as the autopsy room became one of the wildest scenes imaginable.Jeffrey Combs (The Wizard of Gore, House on Haunted Hill, and almost 100 other films) was absolutely fantastic as the re-animator. He was perfect for the role and really made this film creepy before it became a laugh riot.Never fear, he returned in Re-animator 2, and will be back in 2010 with another episode. I can't wait. "},{"Title":"Gold standard of zombie movies!","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is everything a horror flick should be!  It is gross!  It is suspenseful!  It is campy!  It has over-the top bad guys and genuine, warm-hearted good guys!  It has the most wholesome damsel-in-distress I've ever seen (and she's not even the stereotypical virgin -- but a very nice girl).  And man, it has some scary zombies.I mean, the bad guy is a beheaded zombie psychiatrist who hypmotizes half the cast so that he can perform undead sexual perversions upon the hero's virtuous girlfriend.  How can you beat that?All hyperbole aside, the film has that rarest of all commodities in Hollywood originality.  Rent it, and get ready to laugh, barf and scream all at the same time. "},{"Title":"Re-Animator","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am the proud owner of the green box special edition of the Anchor Bay release of Re-Animator and always enjoy revisiting this classic favorite from my youth&#x97;this is one of those horror films that introduced me to both the great extremes of gore and the beautiful sight of a naked woman's body in Barbara Crampton. As a teenager, I think young men (and women, for that matter) often come across certain films which awaken lust for the first time. Crampton and Linnea Quigley (by way of The Return of the Living Dead) were two of the first lust desires I remember as a teenager. They were visions in my fantasies, and it was horror films that led to this sexual awakening in me. But back to Re-Animator, this film is a spin on the mad scientist sub-genre horror that goes way back to Frankenstein, as Jeffrey Combs' Dr. Herbert West is just an extension of Dr. Frankenstein, with a desire to give the dead life and, in the process, be the one responsible for a great discovery. But doing this, playing God, if you will, always ends badly for any scientist who attempts to practice science that involves reanimating the dead. This film shows that West's green liquid, a reagent he calls it, has really violent side effects&#x97;those dead injected with the reagent always return as animal savages, primitive in behavior going after people that are in their trajectory. Of course, the fly in the ointment besides the negative reactions from guinea pigs injected, is brain surgeon, Professor Dr. Carl Hill (David Gale), actually a psychopath who harbours a deeply disturbing obsessive desire for Miskitonic University's Dean Alan Halsey's college-aged daughter, Megan (Barbara Crampton) who stole ideas from a mentor of West's (a German scientist we see suffering a grotesque reaction to West's reagent in Switzerland). Hill likes to steal from others so that he can reap the accolades and rewards to further enhance his own reputation and career (although he does invent a truly evil form of laser lobotomy that provides him with the ability to control humans experimented on) and plans to do the same thing with West's reanimation reagent. We follow the destruction of the potential of Bruce Abbot's promising, bright medical student, Daniel Cain, who has the unfortunate fate of renting his basement to West, entering a partnership with the scientist that returns disastrous consequences to his life and student career. You can't help but scream at Cain to cut ties with West, because only bad can come from aligning himself with someone who only cares about success of his experiment&#x97;no matter who else gets hurt and the damage caused to innocents caught in the middle of the dangerous effects of the reagent.The make-up effects have always been amazing to me. There's a no boundaries approach that I admire about the gore such as the decapitated head stuck on a paper weight in a bed pan (a shovel used to separate the head from the body!), the bone saw used to penetrate the chest of a massive muscular corpse that kills Dean Halsey, the headless walking torso carrying its disembodied head around, the eerie corpses of a burn victim and one with a shot gun blast to the face that look so incredibly accurate that run amok, and the manic dead cat that is torn practically in half rising from a table after the reagent awakens itThe absurdity of these gore sequences play in the film's favor because of the fantasy element of the mad science involved in the screenplay&#x97;the ability for the corpses and reanimated body parts to move about and raise havoc is due to West's amazing experimental breakthrough, but the results offer nothing but tragedy. Despite the film's sense of dark body part and corpse humor, there's also a dramatic arc I think adds a unique heart to the movie and that is the relationship of Meg and Dan, how it is ripped apart by Herbert West, with a desperate, misguided decision made out of heartbreak and loss to use the reagent we know will not end well.The most notorious scene involves a naked Megan, stripped by her lobotomized father, at the request of demented Hill (whose head is guiding his separated body), bound to a gurney and almost sexually molested&#x97;response to this scene could be met with either horror or arousal. Because I'm absolutely attracted to Crampton, I had a mixed reaction&#x85;seeing her so exposed and violated already before the head can even make contact to her vagina, I was met with arousal to her desirable body, yet felt disturbed by her inability to escape from this bleak predicament. West, of all people, comes to her rescue, not allowing the poor character to be dealt any more violation. Credit to Crampton for enduring this scene because she is completely nude with Hill's head between her legs. "},{"Title":"A craptastic cult classic","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Don't get me wrong- this movie blows. Yet, I can see why it's considered a cult classic. Some films are just so bad that they're good, so stupid they're brilliant; this is a perfect example of just that kind of magnanimous suckiness that makes you love a movie even though you know it's a piece of crap. 'The Re-animator' is to horror films what Dr. Who is to TV- lovably campy dreck.This quality is apparent even from reading the plot synopsis on the back of the video cover Now Herbert West has a problem on his hands. Well, um, yeah! Most people's problems go something like, Uh-oh, I 've overdrawn my bank account, or Oh, great, a huge zit just before my big date! But Help, my legion of zombies are out of control, and they're turning against me!- HUGE freakin' problem, if you ask me.This film is pure camp, and shamelessly overdone. The creepy guy (Jeffrey Combs as Herbert West) is just too creepy for his own good- the ultimate geek-weirdo stereotype rolled into one, like Steve Urkul meets Dr. Frankenstein. It renders him amusing as opposed to scary, and yet still completely unlikeable.It's completely inexplicable why his nice, straight-arrow roommate gets sucked into his deviant experiments in resurrecting the dead (as the results yield no life, just violently reactive meatpuppets) and continues to stick by him even after every single experiment goes horribly, horribly wrong.West, for his part, is somewhere between stubborn and just plain crazy- he brushes off the atrocities that follow his experiments, convinced that if he can just get the right specimen as quickly following the exact point of death as possible, he will unlock the secret to conquering mortality. He finally- almost- gets it right when he murders his professional rival and brings him directly back to life, sans head, but death and disfigurement has unfortunately had an aversive effect on this guy's character; and it's always bad when a person who hates you now knows all your secrets and quite literally has nothing to lose. The other zombies are just wild-eyed monsters who appear confused, enraged, and in excruciating agony all the time, but don't possess much of a rational thought process, making them the ultimate candidates for evil minions. Even better, West's rival has discovered that even individual body parts can be animated can be put to use all on their own. Don't expect anything to make very much sense after this point; but don't expect it to be very frightening either. A lower intestine bursting through an abdominal cavity and unraveling itself like Inspector Gadget's arm so it can grab ahold and wrap itself around you like a boa constrictor is pretty gross, but just too ridiculous to give you genuine willies.If you, like me, need things to be at least somewhat logical, then you probably won't get into this, but who's a big enough snob to make fun of you for loving it? Lovecraft fans beware,though this adaptation really has nothing to do with the actual story other than the basic premise. "}{"Title":"Not for the squeamish....and rather silly.  But if you can just turn off your brain and enjoy, then you'll probably enjoy it.","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If Re-Animator was very realistic, it would be unwatchable. After all, there are gallons and gallons and gallons of blood and enough internal organs to satisfy Andrew Zimern's cravings for the next 200 years! But the effects are mostly pretty cheesy and the story never takes itself seriously--two things that make the film worth seeing. However, even with cheesy gore, there is a lot of gore....A LOT. So, it's obviously not a film for many viewers. I would not show this to young viewers, my mother or anyone I am trying to impress with my intellect! The film is about a goofy med student who thinks he's smarter than all his professors (he's probably right, actually). So, on his own he works on his own project--to create a serum for the reanimation of the dead. At first he tries it out on animals, but like all true mad scientists, he cannot stop there. Unfortunately, the serum has a minor side effect--it seems to make many of the recipients crazed killing machines or blithering idiots. Plus, it reanimates TISSUE--meaning that even parts can become moving, living and killing machines.So is it worth seeing? Well, if you are an H.P. Lovecraft fan and you want to see HIS version of the Re-animator short stories, you'll be disappointed. Some of the film is reasonably close to Lovecraft--most is not. Also, if you are looking for a film reminiscent of something from the Criterion Collection of a Merchant-Ivory film, you should avoid the movie at all costs. If, however, you have a high tolerance for gore, LOTS of explicit nudity and violence and have a sick, dark sense of humor, then by all means this film is for you! Well made despite being cheesy, sick and twisted. You KNOW this is a bloodbath of a film when it makes the Living Dead films seem like Disney pics!! "},{"Title":"Good,but not quite good enough...","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Re-Animator is a good movie but,how can I describe it......there's something missing.It has for one thing,a fairly good plot although barely any character development.The film tends to focus on Daniel Caine(the Bruce Abbot character) than Herbert West.The humor was very dry and seldom and it really was more of a gutsy film rather than a nice in-depth horror movie.This film,and the sequel,for that matter each lacks the lighter touch like that of Beyond Re-Animator.Besides Bruce Abbot and Jeffery Combs,the acting is very corny and un convincing.Actually having read the Lovecroft novel previously,many of the novel's spectacular elements for thee give-me-the-gore' style of movie making of the 80s.Overall,a nice try but Re-Animator doesn't quite cut it. "},{"Title":"A real Splatterhouse flick","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Herbert West is an amoral and rather eccentric Doctor studying at the Miskatonic University (the very institution which sent a doomed expedition to the Mountains of Madness) in Arkham, Massachusetts. He has created a serum which can bring the dead back to life. Only there's a problem - the longer the subject has been dead, the more violent and murderous their resurrection will be.Teaming up with a reluctant fellow student they experiment on twice dead cats and then onto real people. But the sleazy Doctor Hill finds out and muscles in on the action only to be slaughtered by West, who decapitates him with a spade.Out of pure curiosity, West brings the head and body back to life as two separate entities. And Hill continues to screw with West's work, despite having to carry around his own head most of the time.Despite being very well made for the budget it was made on, Re-Animator doesn't have much going for it outside of energetic performances and a real enthusiasm for horror too rarely seen these days. There is no plot and events in the film only seem to happen to shock us or lead into yet another gore scene.And there lies another problem - the filmmakers are keen to give us loads of gore and entrails and while they may be gross the first time round, by the second viewing you'll be disappointed at how tame it really is. No horror is implied or suggested. The only horror there is is that which is shown on screen. The indignity of not being able to rest in peace is never once considered and the murderous corpses are not all that scary.Richard Band's score is nothing more than just alright too. It has an urgent sound to it but doesn't do much for the film and is completely free of melody or theme. In fact I'd argue that it's just the same cue played over and over. The lighting is flat and bland, with barely an ounce of atmosphere and the porn movie sets don't help much.Gordon and Yuzna were obviously keen to make Re-Animator as best as they can and you can tell that they had a blast making it, but it's just not even up to standards the genre set by films like Evil Dead. And, speaking of Evil Dead, the Necronomicon (according to H.P. Lovecraft) is located in the library of Miskatonic University. Why didn't Doctor West just use that to bring the dead back to life?West himself would go onto star in two sequels and feature as the primary antagonist in the Splatterhouse video games. He's a great character and the film soars whenever he is on screen. I just wish it was more ambitious. "},{"Title":"One of those 80's horror flicks","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen several horror movies (it's my favorite genre) from the 80's.Some were very good (Evil Dead II,The Shining,Bad Taste),some were mediocre (Day of the Dead,The Fly,Hellraiser) and some were just not good (Friday the 13th,Mother's Day,The Unnamable).Re-Animator is one of those bad ones.The story has got not much more to offer than a Bride of Frankenstein (1935) re run and the gore at the end is not at all compromising the bad stuff.The actors don't save it even though Jeffrey Combs (The Frighteners) plays in it and the other parts are rather inferior.The character of Dr. Carl Hill,played by David Gale (who resembles John Kerry by the way) is not much more than a rip off from the legendary Dr. Pretorius (played by the genius actor Ernest Thesiger) from the horror classic Bride of Frankenstein which is to me still the best horror movie ever made.re-Animator was also called a comedy but the laughs were few except from some gory jokes.The ending is rather disappointing and becomes a little bit sex-obsessed but hey it's an American movie.The music is a shameless copy of Psycho,conducted by Bernard Herrmann. Overall,not that recommended when you want to see a good horror movie that has much blood.I was pretty disappointed by this film.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Blood everywhere!!","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of those movies that anyone that was a child in the 80's must have seen. Sort of a mix between Frankenstein and The night of the living dead a mad-megalomaniac scientist has discovered a formula to revive the dead.Loads of blood and viscera everywhere, a monument to bad taste that's became a cult movie. There's not much more to say about it... Well, I've seen worse products than this one.*My rate 4/10------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- "},{"Title":"Very fun and very gory, horror cult-classic!","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What makes this movie better than most other movies from its genre, is that it obviously doesn't take itself very serious. The result of this is that the movie is a very fun one to watch.The movie is an extremely gory one, with gallons of blood and some nice make-up effects, so fans of all of that will be absolutely delighted by this movie. The movie does at times shock with its images but really, the movie remains more fun than anything else really. The humor in the movie is very dark and it has some absolutely priceless and original moments in it, that are so odd and surreal that you MUST laugh. It helps to make Re-Animator a very enjoyable and entertaining movie to watch.The story of the movie is absolutely great. It's simple but all very well executed. It really is the fact that the movie obviously doesn't take itself serious that makes the over-the-top, unrealistic story work so well. Perhaps not everything in the movie works out as solid as it could had been, because of that very same reason but it in no way makes Re-Animator less enjoyable to watch.The main characters of the movie aren't really charismatic enough, with the exception of David Gale who plays the main bad guy of the movie. The characters don't make a solid enough impression and make the movie less solid as it could had been. Not really only the actors fault but also director Stuart Gordon who perhaps lied the emphasis of the movie a bit too much on the gore and dark-comical elements of the movie at times.There are absolutely some great and certainly original sequences in the movie, which all helps to make this movie a very memorable one. When a head and I mean just a head, is raping a young woman you know you're watching an original, horror cult-movie. It's a very unique movie, which humor, gory and graphics might not appeal to everyone but to the fans of over-the-top, campy, gory horror-movies this is an absolute must-see!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"It's Not Easy Being Green","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I haven't seen 'Re-Animator' (3/5 Stars) since I was a kid, but I remember loving it. Now? Not so much. Sure, it was still clever and fun&#x85;but the BLATANT RIPOFF of Bernard Herrmann's 'Psycho' theme was so distracting, it was hard to enjoy the movie. I tried to get past that, and managed to, until the third-act that was so out there, I was back to wondering what made this movie so great when I was a kid, aside from all the free-male-nudity that I couldn't see in a internet-free world back then. I understand this is about a green-goo that brings back the dead to life, so I suspended my disbelief as far as I could&#x85;until a dismembered head both breathed and spoke. And then, worse, he could control other zombie-likes with his mind. This was starting to sound like a plot from a 'Wonder Woman' Season Three episode. If not for the overall creepiness that was effective, the entertaining dark humor and the great performance from Jeffrey Combs as the mysterious Mr. West, it would be a waste. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein meets the Incredible 2-Headed Transplant","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not as bad as Frankenstein or 2-headed transplant, but close. I don't appreciate the horror genre so this was not very entertaining to me. I did get a few laughs and there were some good effects but for the most part it left me cold. Buckets of blood and several walking dead for all you lurch lovers out there...all others beware. "},{"Title":"d.o.a","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't get the high score and praise for this film. I can only assume it was good for its time. if so, it hasn't aged well at all. in fact I think I might have liked it more if it was made in the 50's and was black and white. the acting is bad, the script is basic, the direction is mediocre. it might be considered as a parody but its not funny or clever enough to pull it off. a waste of time. a relic, thats how i'd describe it, I switched off after an hour because it was that bad.I think it might have gotten its high score by just being gore laden. if so, it was a gimmick because there's nothing else about the film thats recommendable. "},{"Title":"Re-Animator (1985)","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horror and comedy are very hard to put together. A lot of revulsion can come from comedic ideas and many horrific concepts can be amusing. But an idea that's both scary and funny at the same time is incredibly rare. Some fans hate every film that combines the two and need their horror completely pure. Me- I can appreciate a good mix or horror with anything else, if it is indeed good. When I look at the horror films I enjoy most, a large percentage are horror-comedy hybrids. But are they really funny? What is most essential for a horror-comedy is energy. It doesn't matter if the jokes fail, it's the concept that needs to work. Or the filmmaker needs the pace running smoothly, to keep the viewer entertained. Within reason, I think the undisputed master of the horror-comedy is Peter Jackson. He knows better than any filmmaker how to make the most disgusting things ever put on screen amusing. Even pushing them as far as they can go, until the film's excesses become pure art.Stuart Gordon is no Peter Jackson. His real inspiration is obviously H.P. Lovecraft, the writer Gordon gets most of his movie ideas from. But that said, how funny were the man's stories intended to be? I hear many Lovecraft fans are appalled at what Gordon has done with his work. I could care less. I've always said- a book's a book, a movie's a movie. And that applies to short stories too. But without him, Gordon would have no career. So right away you have to accept that this is an adaptation. Criticize the film for what it is and I won't criticize the material it was derived from. On one hand, you have what I'm sure are graphic stories from Lovecraft that were probably a lot more serious than this film is. On the other, you have a filmmaker trying to in some ways push the boundaries. With that in mind, I think I would have enjoyed the film being so graphic if the purpose were to shock and horrify. Not to make people laugh a little and cringe safely.Re-Animator is an excessive film where the excess is used to get a reaction out of people, not to further the story. But always with a kind of childish gag on the end of it to make it easy to swallow for mass audiences. The film has no dark ambiance, no creepy atmosphere. Just a few set-ups where a zombie will go after someone and a lot of gore, almost always generated from an already dead cadaver. Which is where I point out- that's how the film uses it's gross out quotient. Since it takes place mostly in a medical hospital with a very busy morgue, there are a ton of corpses lying around. Thereby supplying the film with lots of bodies to spew gore from. My one problem with that is that the film shows you people taking those corpses apart. You can see that stuff on The Learning Channel, and just because you can see it doesn't mean most people consider it entertainment. And it may be disgusting, but it sure as hell isn't scary. Not that a non-scary horror film bothers me, as I hope I've proved.Other reviewers have already brought up the score by Richard Band which rips off the theme from Psycho. I don't know what this film has to do with Hitchcock and I don't think I want to know either. I have always been very much against filmmakers outright ripping off other movies. But nothing is worse than a film copying a scene shot for shot or a piece of music note for note. Band copies Bernard Herrmann note for note. Only, adding an 80's synthesized beat to it. Like a very low-key techno song. Not only is it unnecessary to copy another composer's piece, but Herrmann's original was just so much better. I will give Band one credit. The piece that plays during the sequence where Meg walks down the hall into Herbert West's room is good.The story seems a clever enough idea. And I would have forgiven any number of scenes that moved too slowly- I think slowness is crucial to horror (if the right music and atmospheric elements are in place). But the characters are so grating and the dialogue is so melodramatic, it's like watching a very bland soap opera. Probably the best thing about the movie is how down-trodden Dan Cain is. It doesn't make him interesting, but considering how seldom men in horror play vulnerable, it is admittedly fun to watch him getting screwed all the time. Especially since the actor Bruce Abbott is so beautiful. With his always visible sensitivity and high emotional scenes, it's as though his relationship with Meg works because they're both nurturing. A first in horror? Though most of the time, I wish he would just suck it up so we could move on. Meg, on the other hand, is extremely irritating. With her always high-pitched voice and constant whining, she is the definitive Female Victim. But I just wanted her to shut up. A first for me!David Gale as the evil Dr. Hill certainly walks away with the movie's Best Actor Award and is the only thing creepy here. Jeffrey Combs as Herbert is just annoying. But, his interplay with Gale actually makes his character slightly interesting. Two mad scientists in one movie? That's gold. And I would say it's great watching Gale lose his head. Anything to shake the movie up, right? But the languorous, flat pacing just continues. Things never ascend to the next level. The score keeps dropping pennies in a bucket. And though there's one truly cool montage of terrifyingly ghastly zombie face closeups, we also have to see them naked. You ever seen a naked zombie? It's just plain gross. Not entertaining. Gross! "}{"Title":"Now We Know How Zombies Become Zombies.","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have heard about this cult classic horror movie for years, never having the option to see it until recently. I found it to be pretty decent for it's genre and when I saw it was made by the same people as Castle Freak, it made sense why. Those are the only 2 movies I've seen by them and so far, they are 2 for 2.Scientist Herbert West (Jeffrey Combs) has discovered a re-animating agent that when injected into a dead person or animal, they come back to life. Zombies, basically. They have to be killed again because they go crazy and kill others.A lot of things do not quite make sense together, such as why they would try to bring back a loved one to cover up the fact that he was killed for one but I'll just chalk that up to panicked thinking on that characters part.The movie was a little dated but, for the most part, I enjoyed it. The main character was developed slowly and mysteriously so you would not know what to think of him. Finally his secret was revealed and he has been working on the re-animating agent the entire time.The two Stuart Gordon movies I've seen had pretty much the same feel, even though they were ten years apart. I can recommend this movie if you like the dated feel of these types of horror movies, kind of like Rocky Horror, but without the stupidity and the homosexual themes running rampant. No dudes wearing panties in this one. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Jason and Freddy are done...Meet Dr. West !","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you've chosen to watch Re-Animator I salute you. You certainly won't regret it. It's one of the best horror slash gore comedy films ever made. Straight from the golden years of horror - the wonderful 80's - this is a true classic which should be seen by every self-respecting horror fan. I could talk for hours and hours about this movie but it would all come down to the same thing...It's great ! Directed in the way it should be, based on a story by the almighty H.P Lovecraft. (this guy is much more the king of horror to me than Stephen King) Great actors as well. Jeffrey Combs is the most terrific horror actor alive. When he's working together with Stuart Gordon, a kick-ass movie is a fact.Also, the late David Gale is fantastic in this movie, his character Carl Hill is a very memorable horror-icon. The make-up effects and the gore are very well presented but you certainly don't have to be a gorehound to enjoy this film. If you're a fan of dark humor, original twists or just plain fun you'll have the time of your life as well. Jeffrey Combs is Dr. Herbert West. A brilliant, but very fanatic surgeon slash scientist. He discovered a liquid (flashy green -- cool!) that could bring the dead back to live. How? By activating the brain again. Dr. West is prepared to go beyond boundaries to continue his research. This involves experimenting on dead bodies but creating a few new corpses as well ! The freshness of the corpses seems to be very important. Of course, his discovery is very wanted by his competitors. Dr. Hill a professor at university wants to get his hands to it very much Re-animator is the modern Frankenstein. This is suggested even more in the, also very decent, sequel The bride of Re-Animator. This sequel has the same terrific cast and is directed by the producer of the original. Brian Yuzna, also a very respected name in the field of horror.In conclusion  Re-Animator is horror like it should be. Along with The Evil Dead and Nightmare on the Elm Street, this film belongs to the highlights of the 80's and it also easily finds its place in the best horror lists of all time. A must see for all horror-lovers, cult film-lovers and maybe even film-lovers in general. "},{"Title":"NOT H.P. Lovecraft's Re-Animator!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A great performance by Herbert West, but otherwise lame, unless you are a teenager who truly loves cheesy slasher flicks with tacky sex scenes.Dan, cat dead, details later. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good! (an unoriginal title for an unoriginal movie)","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although so bad it's awful would be more accurate. Considering the whole time I could't stop wishing the thing finished for good.The problem was that I didn't think the movie knew what it was, or what it wanted from me. Was it expecting me to laugh or to scream? Either way, the poor thing lacked the boldness and decisiveness to get any reactions from me. In other words it remained very unclear whether the movie was going for comedy or horror. It wasn't funny enough to be a comedy. Neither was it camp enough to be a good horror-comedy. and it certainly wasn't scary enough.You see, good horror usually manages to give you the creeps without showing you that much. Texas Chainsaw Massacre style. This, however, shows you way too much and in a rather stupid context. Porn style. So the only proper label for it would be bad horror I don't understand why this is so overrated. Both in real life and on this site. Acting is unimpressive and forgettable. The soundtrack's a rip-off. And it just gets worse. "},{"Title":"Unless you want to naked men running around, this is pointless.","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What do I define as a 1-star movie? A movie that was a complete, utter waste of time. Like almost every zombie movie, excluding The Evil Dead, Re-animator is just pointless. The plot lacks any facet of originality and left me with that common Why did they even feel the need to make that a movie, we've seen it all before so many times! feeling in my gut. There was not a single thing Re-animator had that other movies that came out before it didn't have. The plot follows the same clichs zombie films have always followed from their birth, and the characters are just as boring and forgettable. Average let's-get-a-girl-in-bed-in-the-opening-scene doctor, average mad scientist, downright clich evil teacher&#151;can you name a more clich cast for a clich movie? This is when most of you who love this film will be arguing back But it's meant to be a comedy! Who cares if it's unoriginal? To which I have to say that even the humorous moments were pathetically unoriginal. My thoughts were, Oh, ha, ha, ha&#151;I've seen that joke so many times I'm not even sure I can call it a joke anymore&#151;humor, humor, ha, oh, ha. Once you use a joke it's no longer funny , and every joke in Re-animator has been used in every predictable zombie movie ever. Same humorous situations. Same slapstick gore that isn't even slapstick to us anymore.Speaking of gore, what is everyone talking about when they call this insanely gory? The gore is just average if not a little below average. It's the same generic amount/graphicness you'll see in any and every zombie movie.I'll really never understand how movies like this get hailed as being brilliant classics (just because they're old) and modern movies get trashed for being too predictable. Really, am I the only one who sees the irony in that statement? Overall, Re-animator was a dull waste of time. Nothing you haven't seen hundreds of times. The humor is so generic it's unfunny. The gore is average. The plot is so unoriginal I really don't know who even had the stupid idea to make this a movie. I can name a lot of other Lovecraft stories that would be much better movies.Oh, and did I mention most of the runtime is just a bunch of naked men running around? Now THAT is disturbing, not the gore.1/10 "},{"Title":"A Bunch Of Naked Dead Men On The Run....Ruuuuuuuun!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was such a pathetic movie. Honestly,i cant believe it has a vote of 6.7 out of 10,that is so laughable. The most horrendous thing about this film was the ending,it was such a load of garbage.In the whole film all you basically see,is dead naked men and women,with organs hanging out wanting to hurt you,if you are into this kind of comical humor. Then hey by all means enjoy this movie,but to me,this was intolerable,and a few good celebrities starred in this piece of trash.Honestly,it has a stupid idea,stupid acting and is highly un-realistic. Dont see this,even if you do see naked dead people,it doesnt turn you on....Really! Well overall this film gains nothing,its just crap in all aspects.Is it worth Seeing over and over again? As i said,if your into dead naked people,you will!So is it worth the rent? Ummmm.....Dream!Rating out of 10. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"RE-ANIMATOR Unrated Version (Stuart Gordon, 1985) **1/2","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of a number of cult horror titles of the 1980s made by young directors &#150; which, at the time, seemed to re-invigorate the genre (many of these were admired for their macabre sense of humor) but also went rather overboard with gory effects. Recently, I managed to catch the same director's follow-up effort &#150; FROM BEYOND (1986) &#150; which, like the film under review, was inspired by the seminal writings of a master of the genre, H.P. Lovecraft; it also shares leads Jeffrey Combs and Barbara Crampton with RE-ANIMATOR &#150; which, all things considered, I'd say is slightly superior. The film itself spawned two sequels, namely BRIDE OF RE-ANIMATOR (1990) and BEYOND RE-ANIMATOR (2003).Anyway, as per the title, the narrative involves a medical student (the perfectly cast Combs) obsessed with conquering Death; after a spell as an assistant to an eminent scientist, he enrolls at a Medical College after the latter passes away under mysterious circumstances and immediately locks horns with a rival of his mentor (whose research, Combs believes, is outright plagiarism). He goes to live with a fellow student in love with the College Dean's daughter (Crampton, who looks good in and out of clothes) &#150; on whom even the middle-aged Professor has designs! Throughout the course of the movie, several attempts are made to restore dead bodies to life &#150; from the hero's black cat (which hates Combs' guts!) to the Dean (whom the Professor subsequently lobotomizes and makes his slave!), the Professor himself (he manages to revive even after having been beheaded!), and assorted other 'occupants' of the College morgue (all of this morbid activity goes on in spite of the presence of a laid-back black security guard, who remains oblivious and impassive practically to the end!).As can be expected from such a premise, the film is gruesome indeed (at least, though, we're spared here from seeing zombies feeding on the living); unsurprisingly, and as would again be the case with FROM BEYOND, any trace of a logical plot line goes out the window during the frantic final act to make way for a parade of revolting make-up effects! While it's nowhere near as stimulating as classic horror titles from preceding decades, the film is a good example of the style prevalent in its day (and a reasonably elevated effort in terms of quality). One major quibble I have with RE-ANIMATOR, though, concerns Richard Band's score &#150; which unashamedly rips off Bernard Herrmann's classic PSYCHO (1960) theme! "}]