[{"Title":"Chuck Norris takes over Vietnam, part 2","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The opening scene of this movie shows Chuck Norris getting shot down in a helicopter while sporting a mustache, but no beard. He is then captured and taken to a prison camp. Little do his captors realize that the more facial hair Chuck Norris develops, the stronger he becomes.Many people are of the opinion that this is inferior to the first movie, including the producers, who filmed the two back-to-back and decided to release this one later. I have to strongly disagree. While the first one was more like a Blake Edwards comedy than an action movie, this one shows off some surprisingly brutal torture scenes and a general air of nastiness, all for the better when Chuck decides to take matters into his own hands. I am not in a position to say whether the Vietnamese are really the demonic beings they appear to be in this movie, but after enough scenes of Colonel Yin's cruelty, the only political opinion the average viewer can hold is that Chuck needs to beat the sh*t out of this guy. Chuck indeed appears to be genuinely disturbed throughout the thing, to the point where you want to take him aside and tell him that it's just a movie. Watch carefully his face in the scene where he jumps out of the treetops in order to knife two soldiers--it is not the face of an actor. It is the face of a madman. It is a face of murderous rage. He really intends to kill these people. Whether or not this is a good thing is for you to decide, but it is certainly impressive. The jungle action as Chuck goes psycho is undeniably good, and a lot of work has been put into making sure the characters are as dirty and sweaty and bloody as possible, making the whole viewing a wonderful experience. You may notice the soundtrack is done by Brian May--not the Queen Brian May, but the Brian May who wrote the music for the first Mad Max. This is only the second soundtrack I have encountered by the man, and his music has definitely not improved--it is as blustery and overblown and inappropriate for the specific scenes as it was in Mad Max. The only downside to an otherwise sublime movie. "},{"Title":"One of Norris' best films","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All Costs1985 was a top year for Chuck Norris,with Invasion USA and this immensely enjoyable actioner coming out.Following on from the disappointing,slow moving original,this charts his highly involving experiences in a Vietnamise POW camp,and his eventual escape.A lot of depth is invested into the characters,which fully envelops at the end when Norris faces off against Soon Tech Oh.Given that the films were created by Chuck as a tribute to his brother Wieland who was killed in Vietnam,it's not really so surprising in hindsight to notice the extra invested energy and emotion he displays in these films.And all the better for it.**** "},{"Title":"An excellent post-Vietnam war movie","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although many people will disagree with me, I enjoy watching this movie. While the acting may not be top-notch, the plot and setting give the impression that you are actually a member of a POW camp and must struggle along with Colonel Braddock (Chuck Norris) to escape. Following Braddock's plight as a prisoner, the death of his comrades, and his final showdown with Colonel Yin (Soon Tek Oh), the movie nicely builds up to its climax and leaves the viewer with a sense of finality that many movies tend to lack in their endings. This prequel is definitely the best in the MIA trilogy and I recommend it for viewing. "},{"Title":"Did we really need a prequel to this series?  The answer is yes, we did","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie has no use for a plot and it makes no apologies about it. The closest the entire film comes to forming a plot is when the words Geneva Convention are randomly thrown out by Chuck Norris in the first couple minutes. Luckily Colonel Yin quickly shoots down the idea that the real world has any bearing on the movie's setting and we're off to the races- Jungle style.***there may be spoilers**** The beginning of the movie shows all of the members of Norris' crew being captured and declared Missing In Action (hence the title). From that point on the movie is set ten years later where we find the men still being held hostage and all but forgotten.For some reason the prisoners just don't seem like they have been there ten years though. In the opening prison camp scene one of the prisoners is complaining how he can't sleep and explains that every time he closes his eyes he sees his wife GINA! If he had been there ten years wouldn't he have established at some point that his wife is named Gina? Couldn't he just say when I close my eyes I see my WIFE!? Well either way, the story is they've been there ten years so we'll go with that. Why they have been held hostage in a remote Vietnamese torture camp for ten years without being killed makes no sense although there is a faint attempt to explain it for the sake of giving the men a reason to be there, the colonel a reason to torture them, and the film a reason to exist.The reason Norris and his men are being held, you ask? Apparently the Vietnamese colonel is a very prideful man (although he's not above sentencing himself to live in a jungle prison camp for ten years in order to monitor it and ensure that nobody escapes) and he requires that Norris sign a document stating that the Americans have committed war crimes against the Vietnamese and accept their guilt. The fact that this is the entire reason these men have been held in the camp for TEN YEARS is completely ridiculous. We are to believe that Norris is such a dedicated soldier that he refuses to sign the document even though he could simply sign it, go home, eat a pizza, get some reinforcements, and go back to finish off the remaining Vietnamese and any record of what he signed.Because Norris refuses to sign the document the vengeful, yet oddly patient, Colenel Yin keeps him there and occasionally tortures him now and then for good measure. Apparently Colonel Yin has no problem imprisoning, degrading, and killing human beings, but he draws the line at forging someones signature.The movie does provide some of the best jungle action pre Arnold Schwarzenegger's Predator however. There are some good fight scenes with many two and even three hit combos dealt out by Norris. Throughout the movie the Colonel always has the upper hand and uses the line you lose every time he foils Norris. With a one liner as great as that there's little doubt that it will be used against him once Norris turns the tables by the end of the movie. And in the jungle Norris doesn't disappoint.By far the best part of the movie is the end when Norris gets his mitts on a cache of Columbian firearms/explosives and comes back to the camp for sweet revenge.And the most hilarious part of the movie is the fact that the only escape from the jungle camp is by crossing a very long wooden bridge over a huge ravine and this wooden bridge is guarded by a guy who's only weapon is a flamethrower. Stop and think about that. Instead of a machine gun, they give the guy guarding the WOODEN bridge a flamethrower to defend himself. So does that mean every time someone tries to escape he shoots at them with the flamethrower, the bridge burns down, and he has to rebuild it the next day to go back to the camp?In the final scene Norris gets his revenge and beats down the colonel like an arcade wizard using cheat codes at the Mortal Kombat machine. Like I said before, the phrase you lose is conveniently dropped right before the death blow is administered. What more can you ask for in a movie that gave the entire premise away with the title? "},{"Title":"Prequel  about  Vietnam prison camps with  the  incomparable Norris' Colonel Braddock as liberator","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The picture focuses Colonel Braddock (Chuck Norris) aboard a helicopter which's down . He's imprisoned united to various Vietnam soldiers (Steven Williams , John Wesley..) by a hideous and sadist POW camp chief (Soon Teck Oh) and underlings (professor Tanaka..) . The tough Braddock attempts continuously to free the prisoners held captives and they receive numerous tortures and sufferings at charge of the concentration camp wardens and their evil ruler .The screenplay of the movie is plain and simple . It deals upon horrible conditions of prisoners and grueling efforts of the meager band of captives to survive , confronting starvation , mistreats , rampage and continuous violence with hitting , punches , lashes , knocks and incredible tortures . Storyline is a bit ridiculous , embarrassing and shallow , it concerns on prisoners trying to escape and subsequent revenge executed by Braddock as a headstrong and reckless Colonel . Filmed back to back with Mising in action (1984), this film was supposed to be released first . However , when the producers realized the second film was the better of the two, they released it first and named this film a prequel . It's a predictable routine and formula actioner film . It's all obvious , unconvincing and overblown . However if you appealed the first part , you'll probably love this picture . In the wake of  ¨Uncommon valor¨ (directed by Ted Kocheff) and ¨Rambo II¨ (by George Pan Cosmatos) and Norris imitating to Silvester Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger as one army man , shooting and killing numerous enemies . The movie belongs to a trilogy , in the first Braddock only frees prisoners , in the third film he looks for his disappeared wife after Saigon downfall . The three films contain ominous and villain enemies played by oriental actors (James Hong, Soon Teck Oh , Aki Aelong) with offensive racial stereotypes . Fine support cast formed by Steven Williams (TV L.A.Heat ) and Professor Tanaka (a wrestler who possessed incredible strength) who was arguably the successor to Harald Sakata( Golfinger) as the archetypal Asian henchman . The motion picture was middlingly directed by Lance Hill , also producer . Rating  Average but entertaining . "},{"Title":"I Cried","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  For many years I have enjoyed Chuck Norris. Now I can say that one of his movies made me cry. This movie was an absolute heart-stopper, tear-jerker, and gut-wrencher. This is a total psychological flick, exposing to the viewers the horrors of Asian prison camps. Of course, Norris busts out in the end with his comrades. After watching this movie one feels like a true American. If you can't crack open a Budwieser and wear a t-shirt with an American flag on the front you shouldn't watch this movie. This makes me think of Bruce Springstein's Born in the U.S.A. The only thing missing from this movie was Billy Drago, of course. All in all, a worthwile and moving flick to view. Rent it right now, or better yet, buy it.  "},{"Title":"Good Film.","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one that will probably be torn to shreds critically by snobby europeans, and wannabe intellectual movie-goers who just cant get enough of their bullet time, and 200 million dollar epics.This is actually the prequel to the first Missing In Action movie.It tells the story of a forgotten group of P.O.W.'s who are being brutalised by an overbearing colonel who enjoys watching the vet's suffer.As the prisoners numbers dwindle, one James Braddock decides to take charge of the dire situation before its all too late.From the opening to the fiery, action packed finale this film boasts raw combat and even dares to throw in some emotion.I actually truly cared for the characters as I wanted to see them survive and extract revenge upon their communist enslavers.Truly strange times we live in when one cannot be proud to be an American.I will always be proud and you can go back to your dull German expressionist films.Chuck Norris is the man.I love 80's action! "},{"Title":"Masterpiece compared to first one","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This feels like real movie. Not like cheap Rambo rip-off like first one. To be honest this have some First Blood feeling in it but it is not such rip-off as first one. Now we have real characters. Chuck Norris feels like acting and story makes sense. You sense danger unlike first one.This happens before first movie and things happening in this movie are mentioned in first one. You are not spoiled if you have seen first one. Unless you count spoiling problem all prequels have. If I have understood correctly this was shot before first one or at same time. It makes little sense that this was released later than first one since this happens before and is much better movie.I prefer prison camp part at beginning over action part at the end. This would have been better with less action but this is action movie and Chuck Norris movie so action has to be there. "},{"Title":"The Best Chuck Norris Movie Ever","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For this film to get a low 4 score is a travesty and probably because of a concerted effort by political leftists to 1 star all Chuck Norris films because he is a Republican. We all know there are groups on IMDb that do this, mostly the leftists because the right wing doesn't think in such activist terms. I mean I have watched some USSR films that are rated here straight high 7 to 9's and actually really are horrible so you know IMDb is populated by a leftist crowd. Having gotten that off of my chest, it has been a long time since I've seen this trilogy but the prequel is the best. One could say it's a B movie Rambo part 2 and thats fine, it probably is, but it does have differences and that lies in character development. Without giving away any spoilers lets just say that all the characters are way over the top and that if you are an American you will love the Americans here and loathe all the enemies down to the last guard tower guard, but especially the leader. Pleasant surprises, the Aussie journalist and the black American POW collaborator. Chuck shows a full range of emotion as best as he's able and hey thats why I think this is the best Chuck Norris film, I really was blown away by parts of this when I first saw it, and despite it's cheesy low budget feel (or maybe because of it) I rate it a 9 of 10. "},{"Title":"The Struggles of Yin vs. Braddock","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What makes Missing in Action 2 The Beginning, is not the great supporting cast of Cosie Costa, Professor Toru Tanaka, Steven Williams or Joe Michael Terry Nor is it the effacious use of props such as the tree or Francois' helicopter. Simply put the storyline which was developed by the renowned writer Steven Bing, makes the film a simple test of wills between Colonel Braddock(Chuck Norris) and Colonel Yin(Soon-Teck Oh)! Yin's incessant prodding of Braddock to obtain a confession is very well articulated. Yin's methods of persuasion(including the torturing of Opelka, the kidney punches by Lao, and the overdose of opium given to Franklin) are almost as persistent as Braddock's capability to survive them, and yet not give in to Yin's signed statement of confession. In the end the realistic action sequencing, and excellent auteur directing by Lance Hool, make Missing in Action 2 The Beginning a film to be seen and enjoyed by all fans of great film. "}{"Title":"Looks like the malaria again.","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Prequel to Missing in Action covers Braddock's years as a POW and his eventual escape. This one was filmed back-to-back with the other movie and was intended to be released first. But they realized the first movie was better, so they moved it from part 2 to 1. Which is funny as today there are many fans who claim part 2 is the better movie. I'm not one of them but they're out there. Don't get me wrong, it's a decent war movie and I like it. It's not action-heavy, though it never drags and the action does pick up towards the end. It's more of a drama for the first hour or so. Chuck is his usual stoic self. Soon-Tek Oh is a suitably despicable villain. Steven Williams plays the POW who betrays the others. Christopher Cary has a brief but enjoyable role as an Australian photographer who tries to help the POWs. The continuity doesn't line up with the previous movie (or the third), but I doubt most viewers will care. If you like Chuck Norris' Cannon movies, you will probably like this one. "},{"Title":"Action movie gold.","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's not surprising to learn that Chuck Norris made this series as a tribute to his brother who had been killed in Vietnam. He really gave all that he had to these films. It may be manipulative but damn is it ever satisfying. The villains are the kind of loathsome scum whom you JUST CAN'T WAIT to see messed up in a variety of ways. And the good guys are fleshed out enough as characters that you do feel bad for them, and want to see them get their revenge.As one can guess, this is a prequel to the original Missing in Action film of 1984. It shows how Chucks' colonel character, James Braddock, was shot down and captured during the war, and the tortures that he and his men are obliged to endure for the next several years, even after the war has basically ended. The sadistic colonel in charge of his work camp, Colonel Yin (Soon-Tek Oh) acts like a dictator, and just when you think you can't hate this guy any more, he ups the stakes yet again.With Lance Hool taking the directors' reins, this proves to be a high old time for the action junkie, underscored by the genuine poignancy to be found in stories about prisoners of war. This is exciting much of the time, with kick ass battle footage, lots of explosions, lots of gunfire, and some breathtaking scenery. Chuck is a formidable hero as always, and Oh is a deliciously evil bad guy. Lending strong support are Cosie Costa, Joe Michael Terry, and especially John Wesley as the ailing Franklin. Steven Williams is good in an initially unlikable part as a captain eager to cooperate with his captors in exchange for better treatment. It's also cool to see hulking screen heavy Professor Toru Tanaka and Ninja III The Domination villain David Chung as two of the guards.All in all, this is solid entertainment, complete with a high body count and never ever boring.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Critically evaluating the artistic merits of Chuck Norris movies seems like over-thinking, doesn't it?","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This middle chapter of the James Braddock trilogy is a prequel to the original Missing In Action that traces the origin of Chuck Norris's not-quite-iconic franchise player. The film is centered around Braddock's detention at a Vietnamese prison camp with several other American POWs, who are held at the mercy of a malevolent colonel who subjects them to a variety of cruelties. Of course, Norris is never one to sit idly by while injustice is being done, and he soon navigates a daring escape, blowing tons of stuff up and gunning down dozens of bad guys in the process.Though The Beginning boasts all of the hallmarks of an enjoyable B-action flick (slow motion explosions, liberal use of machine guns, a hero seemingly impervious to damage, etc.), Missing In Action 2 spends a lot more time developing the characters and the scenario than fans of the genre may be used to. While this relegates most of the action to the third act and slows the pace a bit, the film benefits from the more immersive approach, and delving deeply into the horrors of the POW experience brings home the real-world resonance of the piece while simultaneously bolstering the pay-off when the guns n' grenades portion of the plot gets underway.The dramatic emphasis also allows the usually stone-faced Norris to showcase his acting chops a bit, and even when he's called upon to express actual emotions, he does a capable job of humanizing Braddock beyond the scope of an interchangeable action hero. I'm keenly aware that most people curious about the Missing In Action series aren't all that interested in seeing Norris cry, so I should post-script that endorsement by adding that even though this outing is a bit more serious-minded than some others you'll encounter from the era, Chuck still doles out plenty of vengeance upon his captors with flame-throwers, Uzis, explosives, and good old-fashioned karate leaps out of trees.Your basic good-vs-evil movie is only as strong as its villain, and we get a suitably malicious match for Norris in Soon-Teck Oh's Colonel Yin, who notches up serious baddie points by burning people alive, tormenting Norris with news from the home-front, and humiliating one prisoner by having the least attractive prostitutes you'll ever see strip him naked and mock his genitals. In adherence to the sort of muddled logic you only find in '80s action films, Colonel Yin is a rare breed of Vietnamese overlord who speaks perfect English and is proficient in advanced martial arts.The presence of veteran henchman Professor Toru Tanaka is a welcome addition, and always entertaining character actor Steven Williams lends his services as a conniving turncoat, who, in true Williams fashion, fights valiantly to steal the movie by taking big meaty bites out of every scene he's in.Most of the shoot 'em up aspects of the film are fairly standard, but MIA2 does boast a few truly memorable scenes during the extended prison camp segments, the most effective of which is the rat in a bag sequence. Though the majority of Colonel Yin's tortures aren't all that creative, when he orders his men to stuff Chuck's head and an agitated rodent into the same burlap sack, it becomes impossible not to recognize his ingenuity.Though The Beginning dramatizes the true fates of some American soldiers left behind in Vietnam, any parallels to reality are readily negated by Chuck's propensity for invincibility. He does get kicked around a bit as a prisoner, but once he assumes the mantle of heavily-armed liberator, his (we assume) highly-trained captors suddenly forget how to aim their weapons, and Norris is able to elude even the most voluminous volleys of gunfire by simply rolling out of the way. The absurd apex of Chuck's super hero capabilities arrives when he opens a hatch to free some of the prisoners, only to discover that he has been lured into a trap. Instead of POWs, the compartment is filled with a dozen enemy soldiers, who immediately open fire with their machine guns inches from our sturdy protagonist's face... and somehow miss him entirely.Of course, such silliness is to be expected from a film like Missing In Action 2, and when the result is a fun and entertaining 90 minutes, it seems beside the point to complain about the improbabilities. Judged against the other work being churned out by Norris and his contemporaries during the era, The Beginning is a surprisingly thoughtful offering that balances its heart and its gonads rather adeptly. Above average is definitely good enough in this case. "},{"Title":"This series gets better as it progresses","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie has lot more story to it than the part 1.Most of the scenes in this movie are beautiful. On the average, Golan-Globus made some of the best quality budget movies of the '80s. Many of them had compelling titles that made you want to go to the theaters and take a look regardless of the content. Chuck Norris' chronic sour expression spoils the mood of this movie. He's supposed to be the hero, so lighten up Chuck, we don't want to be depressed watching you.Soon Tak Oh was great as the villain. The inevitable duel in the end was one of the most memorable martial arts combat scene of the decade.Good movie that could have been better if Chuck wasn't so down all the time, but part 3 answers to that. "},{"Title":"way better than the first","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" the first missing in action was, okay, i guess, mindless action, cheesy. this was MUCH better though. it actually had a pretty good interesting story. the first part of this film is all the torture this crazy man yin. he runs the place. he is such a dick he made me want to go into the movie and kick his ass. the second half is chuck doing what he does best, kicking ass and blowing stuff up. and the ending is as satisfying as it gets, Braddock vs. yin. i found this film very predictable, but isn't that all 80s action films? ha but i loved it anyway. instead of mindlessness of the first missing in action, this one had heart. it was very phisicological for an action film. this had a certain effect, especially in this one scene were yin burns a letter from Braddock's wife. it was pretty original compared to the first one witch was obviously rip off of Rambo first blood part 2. this film is very good give it a watch! "},{"Title":"Greatest Fight Scene","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The Last part of the movie was a classic to remember.  Braddock(Norris) and Yen(Teck-Oh) going add it in a showdown to the finish.  Braddock whack Yen like a dirty rag on the floor.  I give that fight scene a 10 from a scale of 1 to 10.David "},{"Title":"In the heart of the Vietnamese jungle Braddock awaits...","Date":"10 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Oddly enough, then this sequel to the 1985 Missing in Action movie was actually the best of the entire trilogy. Why is that? Well, pure and simple because it is set to be a prequel to the first movie, and we follow Colonel Braddock during his time in the Vietnam War where he was captured and held at a P.O.W. camp.The storyline was simple, for sure, but it worked out quite well, because the movie had a good continuous flow to it, and the characters were very detailed and came off as being believable characters.Chuck Norris manages to establish the Colonel James Braddock character as a memorable character with Missing in Action 2 The Beginning, and he does a good job in this movie, both in acting and action sequences.It should also be said that the movie does include other good talents on the cast list, especially Soon-Tek Oh as Colonel Yin, the leader of the Vietnamese camp.Missing in Action 2 The Beginning is the best of the trilogy because it puts the audience into the Vietnam War and right alongside with Colonel Braddock in the P.O.W. camp, which is what we want to see, and not some political drama about retrieving possible prisoners of war. "},{"Title":"One moronic film which should be listed as MIA","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Battle Rage, a better titled movie, when at the drive in late 85, I preferred to of course, the video titled Missing In Action 2. The thing about Chuckie's 1984-1986 movies were they hit the video circuit only months, after hitting the screen. This pic, a moronic POW Vietnam tale, I now feel embarrassed or ashamed for watching it back in 1986, during my teen years. This prequel was so trashy and bad, not trashy and good. Chuck and his Vietnam buddies are kept in a POW camp, where they're treated harshly, and there is a grueling and merciless setting to the film I must say, as well as an atmosphere that is choking. This too is helped by the evil and sadistic performance from Soon Teck Oh, the best actor in the pic. We even have an Aussie photographer, who poses as one of the prisoners, actually getting himself caught on purpose, so he report the abuse and suffering, but of course, he meets his doom. This movie is so clichéd to Chuckie's other films, we don't need a map or script to know what's going to happen next or how the character's fates will ensue. There is however, one twist moment involving 21 Jump Street's Steven William's character, a POW turned traitor. There are some embarrassingly funny deliveries of dialogue and reactions from the actors, the film's almost worth renting for comedic value. Of course, and I haven't forgotten, that trademark torture scene. Chuckie's tied upside down, a bag with a live rat inside, is pulled up over his head. Who will survive? Duh. Highpoint of the movie. Oh, and waiting for Chuckie to strut his karate stuff, comes near the end where you'll be thankful to see him do his thing, where you so much want to see him kill Soon Teck Oh. Sadly from the start, with Norris, about to board a chopper, clean cut moustache and all, we actually get the impression of a much better quality pic, awaiting us, instead of the result constant dreck, How mislead and blinded will you be. Bad beyond comprehension, for only a few moronic majority, where as a viewer, your brain cells will drop radically. "},{"Title":"Missing In Action 2 The Beginning","Date":"16 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well if that title doesn't tell you all you need to know I don't know what will. Both of these films were filmed at the same time, back to back, but for some odd reason the powers that be decided to release the sequel first then this film as a sequel prequel. Why exactly I don't know as it makes no sense whatsoever, I don't think there were any issues so why muddle things is a mystery.This film simply tales the tale of how 'Braddock' got captured and held captive in Nam before breaking out and getting to the point we see him in 'Missing In Action'. Its all very straight forward and like the other film, very by the numbers step by step action flick fluff.Mind you this film is slightly more adult than the first film. Most of the plot takes part within the POW camp and shows us some mildly nasty stuff. The odd bit of torture, beatings, mock executions, real executions, torment, getting burned alive with flame throwers etc...it is a bit harrowing in a semi-harrowing kind of way. Nothing that will make you lose sleep, its not a dramatic epic true to life event flick, but its based on the reality of real Nam POW camps and does offer a touch of emotion.The evil sadistic POW camp leader is nicely portrayed by Soon Tek-Oh. Much like Drago in 'Delta Force 2' this film is saved by his smooth villainous ways, his almost charming tone of speech, wry smile and merciless manner. His henchmen soldiers are all your standard Vietnam war types if I can say that, they just appear very stereotypical to look at I guess. Same can be said for Chuck's boys, militant and loud mouthed yanks with blonde hair, blue eyes and the token black guy (who dies). As for Norris...well its business as usual with the headband, Uzi and his lumberjack looks. He says little and acts badly while doing it, but we don't ask that of Norris do we, we just want him to grunt stare and kill bad guys tamely.The film looks better than the first that's for sure but I'm starting to get bored of bamboo huts within green South East Asian jungles. Still we are given some more explosions, bigger ones this time and a more interesting array of deaths for various military personnel good and bad. Its still fun as we see Chuck wear down the evil Colonel and survive his torture tricks. It is more realistic than the previous film but overall it does also feel a bit of an excuse just to see Chuck take out an entire camp of bad guys...again. Still its on par with the original film in my opinion, the more adult approach is welcome adding some tension, the corniness of the first film has been cut back. Its also funny and hackneyed that when this film was made it was common practice that the goodie black guys all get killed off whilst most of the blue eyed white guys survive to fight another day, old movie clichés huh.7/10 "},{"Title":"The movie is definitely worth seeing, as is the first one.","Date":"19 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We all know Braddock was Missing In Action (1984). But this sequel - actually a prequel - fills us in on just what went on in the brutal prison camp he was imprisoned in. Braddock and his fellow soldiers are routinely tortured and subjected to harsh, cruel, and sadistic practices, thanks to maniacal commander, Col. Yin (Oh) and his sidekick Lao (Tanaka). Will Braddock escape to see freedom? (Actually, you know he will, because this is a prequel, but just ignore that).The fans clamored for more Braddock, and more Braddock is what they got with this sequel/prequel. Cannon provided more jungle action and Prerequisite Torture with that trademark Reagan-style patriotism that we've all come to know and love. There's even stock footage of Reagan in the actual movie. It could definitely be argued that this sequel is superior to the original, because the plot is more streamlined, and the final fight between Chuck and Soon-Tek Oh absolutely delivers the goods. The movie primarily takes place in one location - the prison camp - and you see their travails, everything from Punchfighting to dealing with Professor Toru Tanaka. He's a fan favorite and his presence improves the proceedings.Like the first film, you kind of have to wait for any substantial action, but when it comes, it's a true crowd pleaser. Adding to this, you get to see the origin of Chuck's beard. When he was first captured in 1972, he did not have a beard. But he had to grow one in captivity because Col. Yin did not provide razors. Apparently, he liked the way he looked, so he kept it. Because of Chuck's long hair and beard, and the way he's treated, in Missing In Action 2 The Beginning there are certainly some parallels to the story of Jesus. Think about it.Director Lance Hool, who was credited with writing and producing credits on the first film, here steps into the director's chair with successful results. He obviously understands the Braddock character and that's probably why he got the gig. Once again Aaron Norris is on board for stunt work, as is fan favorite John Barrett. Dean Ferrandini, usually part of the stunt team, here steps in front of the camera in the role of Kirtle. It appears everyone knew what they were doing and did their best to expand the story of Braddock, and it certainly worked.It was released in one of those cool MGM/Cannon silver big boxes, so the collectability factor is high. But the movie is definitely worth seeing, as is the first one. But the highest heights of Braddock were yet to come the final installment of the trilogy was still three years away. "}{"Title":"Where it all began for Col. Braddock","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Prequel to the 1984 hit Missing in Action depicts the hardships of the prison camp where Col. Braddock is held and his attempts to escape with the few remaining American soldiers. The film is a cut below the original in terms of just about everything. Hence the original was released sooner. This film, due to its storyline had to rely a bit more on drama rather than action. Most of the actors in this film just cannot cut the proverbial mustard in that department, though. It's a bad sign when Chuck Norris is pretty much the best actor in a film. No M. Emmett Walsh to steal any scenes this time, unfortunately! The story begins with Braddock and a helicopter full of soldiers getting shot down behind enemy lines. We then have some newsreel type footage of Memorial Day ceremonies for MIAs back in Washington DC. President Reagan even makes an appearance. Then, back to the POW camp we go. We meet the sadistic Col Yin who runs the place. And we see that there isn't much left of Braddock and the Americans after several years in captivity. The scene is basically stolen from Bridge on the River Kwai as the Col. explains to the men what they must already know. Escape is pretty much impossible due to the Vietnamese troops and the perilous jungle surrounding the camp. Two hapless prisoners of course try to make an escape right after this speech and are killed in gruesome fashion. The only way any of the men could ever possibly get home again would be for Braddock to sign a confession of his war crimes. But this is B/S and Braddock knows it. There is no way Yin would ever let these men get out alive.The balance of the film basically depicts the torture that these men endure before Braddock is able to escape and eventually free the other prisoners. Col. Yin is a real S.O.B.. He uses hungry rats, mock executions, you name it. At one point, he even burns an American soldier alive after shooting him up with a gigantic dose of morphine. AMC doesn't show the burning scene, as it is particularly disturbing. Over the years, the psychological and physical abuse gets to the prisoners. One man even swears his allegiance to the Vietnamese so he can live better. His rationale Our country has forgotten about us, so does it really matter? Maybe in some ways he has a point, but he is considered a filthy traitor by the other Americans.Finally, Braddock is able to get free and get his hands on some weapons. Lots of gun battles and explosions result. This film must have set a record for the most stunt men jumping off trampolines with an explosion behind them. Then, a scream is dubbed in. The effect comes off as pretty fake, actually. There are some neat stunts and camera work though. In one scene, a guy falls down a steep cliff and splatters on the rocks below. It kind of looked real! And there is an excellent martial arts showdown between Norris and Soon Teck Oh at the film's conclusion. Looked pretty painful! Unfortunately the entire film just looks kind of cheap compared to part one. It was filmed in Mexico, in case you were wondering. I believe part one was made in the Phillipines. Director Lance Hool doesn't seem as confident with the material as Joseph Zito did with the original. 5 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"weak 80s B-movie","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 1972 Vietnam, Colonel James Braddock (Chuck Norris) tags along on a mission and his helicopter gets hit. The men are captured Missing in Action. Ten years later, they are in a prison camp run by the ruthless Colonel Yin (Soon-Tek Oh) who demands Braddock's confession. Braddock is still holding out and only Nester has caved in to Colonel Yin.Even by the standards of cheesy 80's action movie, this is pretty bad. The action is poorly done but there are some explosions. The dialog is really bad. It is worthy of the worst of B-movies. The acting is pretty bad and Chuck Norris accounts for much of that. The movie is a simple prison movie without much of a compelling story. "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favor and watch this movie","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a huge Chuck Norris fan but after watching this movie I know why people are. At the time when this came out this movie was the greatest P.O.W movie out there. Graphic and raw! For my money Chuck has never done better and that is no put down of his other movies. This one just hits the mark in so many ways. After watching this movie you will know why there are so many Chuck is so tough jokes. EXChuck Norris doesn't do push ups he pushes the earth Down. Do yourself a favor and watch this movie. I know it has some age on it now but its still Chucks best. Its not the Terminator, Aliens, or Star Wars but for what it sets out to be its really worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Never saw the other Missing in Action movies, but I rather enjoyed this one.","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is not the super explosive blockbuster that Rambo was, but this one has a certain appeal to it. Then again it has Chuck Norris in it, what more does one need to enjoy a film? I am only semi joking as I just enjoy a good Chuck Norris movie every now and then and this one was rather interesting and had some good action as one might expect and a very nice finale that was very explosive. This one is about a bunch of Vietnam soldiers who are p.o.w's in a camp with a very brutal commander. He wants simply to break the leader of the group Braddock (Chuck Norris) and he goes about trying to do it in very demented ways. One of the p.o.w's seemingly sides with this vicious man, but he really believes that if you play nice and do as your told that they can all be freed. The ending has Chuck getting away and getting revenge and is just as nice as the scenes in Rambo, and at the same time are a bit more emotional. The film is not perfect by an means, as you usually can see where this one is going and who is going to live and die and who is going to get theirs, however there are some surprising scenes such as the nasty rat scene. The movie moves at a nice clip, the action is more confined to the end of the picture, but the rest of the movie is entertaining enough so that it is not a chore to get there. "},{"Title":"Decent Prequel","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Missing in Action 2 (1985) ** 1/2 (out of 4)Prequel to the first film has Col. James Braddock (Chuck Norris) and his men thrown into a POW camp where they are constantly abused and tortured. Soon Braddock finally realizes that their only chance for survival is by escaping. I've read at a couple sites that the first two films in the series were shot at the same time and that originally this prequel was meant to be the first in the series but the producer's film that the other film, the eventually part one, was better so this one here was released second and as a prequel. The first film was a laughably bad action film but this one here tries to play itself more straight and it works in some ways. I'm really not sure if the series would have been better had this one been released first but it does contain more human drama than the first film. This film has B movie written all over it due to the poor performances and lackluster direction but it still manages to be entertaining due to some nice action and a fun ending. Soon-Tek Oh plays the bad guy in the film and actually steals the movie. This isn't an all out action film like the first movie but I enjoyed it just the same. "},{"Title":"Behind enemy lines...","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Chuck Norris returns as Col. Braddock who shows exactly why he hates Vietnam so much. The plot details Norris' painful stay in a Vietnamese prison in which Soon Tek-Oh tortures and humiliates his prisoners all in order to get a confession out of Norris, accusing him of war crimes. MIA 2 is a vast improvement over the original, the action sequences are done with more flair and the beautiful scenery makes a lovely backdrop for all the action and therefore it's more exciting. Also the climax which has Norris becoming a one man army and taking no prisoners offers guilty pleasure. That's what MIA 2 is, a big time guilty pleasure.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "},{"Title":"Above Average Prequel, With A Good Enough Pace, And Good Performances","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is an above average prequel, with a good enough pace and good performances. It has a few shocking moments, and all the characters were pretty cool, plus Soon-Tek Oh is extremely menacing as the main villain. Chuck was somewhat bland at times in this, however, this was a challenging role, and for the most part he was up to the challenge as were the rest of the cast. It had a few dull moments here and there, and the characterizations could have been a bit better, however it's helped by a good enough, pace, good performances, and for the most part unpredictable. The finale is pretty exciting, and the story is kind of engaging, however it could have been a lot better, plus Chuck seemed to be a little bored in places. This is an above average prequel that's well worth a watch!. The Direction is good. Lance Hool does a good job, here with good camera work, good angles, nothing overly fancy but he got the job done, plus he kept the film at a good pace. There is a little bit of violence. We get quite a few bloody gunshot wounds, a couple gory impaling's, and a gory wound. The Acting is very good. Chuck Norris for the most part was fantastic as always, and really did good with some of his emotional scenes, however he looked bored at times, and as a result was kinda bland, however he kicks that ass, and for the most part was tons of fun to watch! (Norris rules!). Soon-Tek Oh is fantastic as the main villain, he is extremely menacing, evil, and was very interesting to watch, as he was so unpredictable!. Steven Williams does pretty good with what he had to do i liked him. Cosie Costa and John Wesley are both good with what they had to do. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall well worth a watch!. *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Bad prison drama","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is actually a first movie in the series. It was made along with part 1. The producers when they saw two movies decided to make the original part one a sequel . It was a wise move . Missing in action was a box office success. It had some action in it and was definitely better than this flick. I'm pretty sure that if Missing in action 2 was released first it wouldn't be a hit. So that's why it has beginning in the title.MIA 2 is just an annoying prison drama . I like a good prison drama &#x96; Birdman from Alcatraz , King Rat or Shawshank redemption just to give you a few examples. To make a successful prison drama you need complex characters , no black or white morality and a bit of subtlety . MIA 2 is just as subtle as punching someone with a brick . The whole movie is heavily handed and all the dramatic scenes are either annoying or laughable at best. MIA 2 doesn't work as a drama . It's barely watchable. It also certainly doesn't work as action movie. The action happens too late in the movie and it isn't satisfying . In the end the movie is for nobody.The acting is very weak , especially from the Asians . Norris wears his trademark stone face all the time , which is a tragedy here , since the whole movie tries heavily to be dramatic , yet we don't see any trace of emotions on main hero face . Well , maybe except when he's eating the rat.I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"So this is where it began.","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Cannon productions backs another American colonel James Braddock film to the surprising hit that was the 1984 Chuck Norris starring post-Vietnam action-flick Missing In Action. This sequel 'The Beginning' is a prequel to the original and from the trivia on this site it explains that it was actually made before Joseph Zito's film which was shot back to back with number two. I guessed they liked Zito's effort more, and you can see why.This very low-cost, raw looking sequel (prequel) seems to primarily parading around its many fragmented set-pieces of brutally unpleasant torture and demoralizing spirit-breaking with little in a way of story to back it all up. Due to this it did become a tad dull and numerously repetitive making it feel longer than it is, but few and far between are some effective moments like a rat in a bag sequence. After a slowly lean get-up amongst the stinking hot jungle setting and POW camp (which for most part is completely dreary), it finally breaks the shackles in the last half-hour or so with blistering action (even some of it is poorly conceived) complete with explosions and Norris suitably paying back some of his own medicine in what is a fittingly tough and cheering confrontation (due to what has gone before it) with the sadistically malevolent Colonel Yin performed with smarting glee by Soon Tek-oh. Norris looking quite weathered and bruised goes about things in a steely and scrappy manner until the rage he kept inside finally breaks out after the constant torment to get him to confess to the unheralded crimes. The acting is inconsistent, but the cast features the likes of Steven Williams (probably best known for his part as X in the 'X-Files' series), John Wesley and Professor Toru Tanaka. Lance Hool's direction is fundamentally junky with the score pumping out the cues with a somber touch at times.Although I've seen this feature quite a few times, it's so forgettable that each time I do happen to come across it's like I'm watching it for the first time again. Not as entertaining as the first film, but Cannon's cheap-jack b-grade fodder still backs brute force. "},{"Title":"Overlong and inferior sequel.","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was apparently filmed back to back with the original entry in the series and was actually originally intended to be released first; that was until the producers decided that it was inferior in quality to its intended sequel and released it as part 2, serving as a prequel (have you got that?) Watching the film I would say that the producers made the correct decision; Indeed, not only is this inferior to its predecessor in virtually every way, it is additionally for the most part, unforgivably boring to! Chuck Norris once again plays the tough as nails, Colonel James Braddock who finds himself and a few of his men at the mercy of a sadistic prison warden when they are captured in Nam. What follows is a mercilessly drawn out representation of the prisoners hardships and humiliation in their confinement for the first half of the film, and a fairly lacklustre action fuelled second half. Even the inevitable hand to hand finale between Norris and his nemesis is incredibly blandly handled here.Sadly far from Norris' best and a somewhat miserable failure when compared to the joyous mayhem of the original. Luckily, matters were redeemed somewhat with the third and final entry in the series which saw Braddock back on fine form. "}{"Title":"your average reactionary b-actioner","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" MIA 2 is as stupid, racist and hypocritical as typical action-cheapos from the golden 80s can get. But this alone shouldn't stop anyone to have fun with this kind of movie, unfortunately there are some other problems. The first half of the movie is rather boring with it's torturing scenes, the conflicts between the P.O.W.and so on. The actors are bad, Chuck Norris is extremely unlikable as Col.Braddock just like in the first MIA, therefore these scenes are neither involving nor convincing. In the last 40 minutes Chuck Norris strikes back, but in a quite unsatisfying manner. The action is cheaply made, shootouts without any impact, just a few badly staged fights and moves, A-Team-style explosions. It's quite entertaining, though, but pales in comparison with similar scenes in the second RAMBO, although the final fight betwenn Braddock and Yin is surprisingly well choreographed. Nevertheless, if you like 80-Style action and have already seen the gems of that decade, than MIA 2 is an acceptable time-waster, but this movie isn't even one of the better Chuck Norris-flicks. CODE OF SILENCE, LONE WOLF McQUADE or the third MIA are much better movies. "},{"Title":"Rent this one first","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Rent this one first or it will ruin part one.  This film is where I waste a Saturday drinking beer eating chips and watching this on TBS.  Well it will at least relax me. That is what escapism is about. Spoiler Super macho Chuck is a POW of 15 year, or what ever time, and is treated cruelly.  The rat in the bag seen is pretty good.  Anyways he gets out, and its his turn. "},{"Title":"Good for a dew laughs but not much else.","Date":"23 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Missing in Action 2 The Beginning starts during the Vietnam war in 1972 & starts as Colonel James Braddock (Chuck Norris) of the US army hitches a ride in a helicopter to Cambodia, however the helicopter comes under enemy fire & the crew along with Braddock have to bail out in the Vietnamese jungle only to be captured by the Vietnamese & taken as POW's. Back home in the US although hope remains that prisoners of war still survive the men are classed as 'missing in action' & rescue efforts cease, ten years pass & Colonel Braddock & some of his men are still being held as POW's by Vietnam under the false pretence of war crimes. Imprisioned in a POW camp in the middle of the jungle run by the strict General Yin (Soon-Teck Oh) & left to rot there by the country they once served there seems little hope of escape, but Colonel Braddock is a strong man & when the time is right will make his move in a bid for freedom...Directed by Lance Hool this supposed sequel to the original Missing In action (1984) was actually filmed first & chronologically is set before the original Missing in Action but the producers (probably the executives at Cannon) felt the original Missing in Action was the better film & decided to release that first & promote Missing in Action 2 The Beginning as a prequel. Released theatrically only four months after the original Missing in Action in the US I can see why the producers switched the films around, while I wouldn't say there's a huge difference the original is slightly better. There's a lot of predictable clichés going on here, from the evil Vietnamese General to the tough US soldier who stands up to everything thrown at him, the first hour is just General Yin torturing Braddock in order to try & get him to sign a war crimes confession (the details of the war crimes that Braddock was supposed to have committed are never revealed despite the whole plot revolving around it) while the last half an hour is the all American hero victory against the enemy as Braddock totally obliterates the camp & all the bad guy's which is a clear attempt at a political statement by saying how great & morally strong the US is as it stands up for good against the evils of the world. Unintentionally quite funny at times Missing in Action 2 The Beginning is quite fun on a mindless level, it moves along at a decent pace & there's just about enough going on to sustain ones interest. Take it for what it is & don't expect a masterpiece then Missing in Action 2 The Beginning is a reasonable time waster but little else.The action is competent but nothing special, the explosions & shoot-outs are OK but I have seen better. There are one or two funny aspects to Missing in Action 2 The Beginning though, Braddock's US army issue uniform he is captured in seems to be holding up surprisingly well after ten years of imprisonment in a POW camp & why do the Vietnamese guard the only rope & wood bridge across the mountain with a huge flamethrower? Surely the Vietnamese need to cross it so it being set on fire & burnt with a flamethrower isn't going to help anyone? Why not just put a guy with a machine gun there? Then there's the classic scene with Chuck Norris hanging upside down from a tree, General Yin orders his men to put a big Rat inside a bag & stick it under Chuck's head which they do. After a struggle & lots of squeaking & thrashing about blood seeps through the bad & it is removed only to show Chuck Norris unhurt with the now dead Rat in his mouth! A scene that needs to be seen, it really is quite funny even though it's definitely not meant to be.Filmed in Mexico the lush green jungle locations look nice, the action is alright but again like the original Missing in Action a little bit wimpy, why when Chuck Norris throw's a grenade into a wooden hut at the end & it goes off does the hut not even catch fire? With a supposed budget of about $2,500,000 like the original this has decent production values & one feels it was made to cash-in on Rambo. The acting is bad, Chuck Norris can't act & that's all that needs to be said.Missing in Action 2 The Beginning was indeed meant to be the beginning & be released before the original but as it stands it's good for a few laughs & some nice jungle scenery but little else. Followed by Braddock Missing in Action III (1988). "},{"Title":"A very serious history distortion","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is an great example of history distortion. The movie describes Vietcong (Vietnamese communists) like devils. I totally disagree with the movie's content as well as the violence in the movie. In general, this movie contains nothing objective but want to say American is the best and others are trash.. Now, you can go to Wikipedia to learn something useful about Vietnam War and about the bloody crime of American troops& allies.In 1995, the Vietnamese government reported that its military forces, including the NLF, suffered 1.1 million dead and 600,000 wounded during Hanoi's conflict with the United States. Civilian deaths were put at two million in the North and South, and economic reparations were expected. Hanoi concealed the figures during the war to avoid demoralizing the populationDon't waste your valuable time to watch this deceptive movie. I think this movie want to shame the Vietnamese people. "},{"Title":"Enter the Dragon meets Hogan's Heroes","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie isn't THAT bad.  If it wasn't so over-the-top with the blowing stuff up, it might not be so bad.  But what did you expect from this movie anyways?  Come on, it's Chuck Norris.  Basically, if you don't expect too much from this movie, you won't be let down. "},{"Title":"You really didn't think I'd leave... without making sure you were dead?","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was filmed at the same time as Missing in Action and was supposed to be released first, but they liked the other one better. It was better.There is not as much action in this film. It is basically a Hogan's heroes with Norris at a POW camp being tortured by Colonel Yin (Soon-Tek Oh) for 10 years until he has had enough. It has good fight scenes, but you won't find the over-the-top action that you saw in Rambo II.It is a forgettable movie and you won't lose anything in the MIA series if you never see it. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's Chuck Norris Mania/Multiple Sequels/Vietnam War movies!","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Missing in Action 2 (1985) is a bad sequel to a bad movie.  Actually, part two is worse than part one.  The film is a prequel (despite the fact Braddock looks the same as he did in part one).  The Colonel is a p.o.w. in Vietnam.  The N.V.A. officer is portrayed by Korean actor Soon Tek-Oh.  Wrestler Prof. Toru Tanaka is a N.V.A. soldier. Real bad stuff from Cannon Films.  Just another Chuck Norris vehicle that was filmed back-to back with Missing in Action.  A boring film that has a very lackluster finale.  The action is twice as bad, the acting is twice as horrid and the storyline is twice as implausible as the first film.  If you have a strong constitution by all means watch Missing in Action 2!!!Another bad film from Chuck Norris.  Unlike some of his other films, this one is virtually unwatchable.  The lack of logic and common sense is amazing!  People actually bankrolled this movie?  No wonder Cannon went belly up a few years later. By the time part three came out.  They were on their last legs as a force in the low budget film market.Strongly not recommended.D-- "},{"Title":"Exactly how many times have we seen this formula?","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When you put this in your VCR, or when it comes on TV, and you decide to sit back and watch it, remember, you aren't seeing anything you haven't seen before. Is it me or are all Chuck Norris movies practically the same? Nothing against Chuck, next to Jackie Chan he's todays best martial arts star, but he could have tried something new. I found Soon-Tek Oh's character alternately funny, stupid, and annoying. Still, it's an example of a mid 80's action flick, which could mean either a good thing or a bad thing. "},{"Title":"Only movie with a chicken-choking scene","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are several hilarious issues with this mind-numbingly simplistic war/revenge movie. In addition to the fact that the script could have been written by an illiterate third-grader with hooks for hands, check out these fun items1. Opelica is listed as a Corporal at the beginning of the movie, but when Yin threatens to blow his brains out years later he is referred to as Sergeant. Gee, I didn't know the North Vietnamese were so kind to promote POWs while in captivity.2. If these guys have been prisoners in the same location for several years, would the Evil Camp Commandant Yin really have to announce who he is to the entire group of prisoners every morning? And would he also have to remind them of all the nasty traps awaiting them in the jungle and that none of them have ever escaped? Perhaps Braddock and his men suffer from Alzheimer's.3. If you were said Evil Camp Commandant, and you had an Impassable Bridge (to deter the POWs from escaping) made out of wonderfully flammable materials like wood and rope, would you defend it with a flamethrower? Methinks the ECC would be better served if he just set up a machinegun nest at the other end of the bridge. Extensive use of a flamethrower would eventually turn the Impassable Bridge into a Charred Ex-Bridge. I'm sure the ECC paid good money for that Impassable Bridge and would want to keep it in good condition. Otherwise, why even have a bridge at all? If this keeps up, the ECC will eventually have to start threatening the POWs with his Impassable Canyon instead.4. If a Bad Guy is shooting at you with a carefully-aimed pistol, all you have to do is run around in zany Benny Hill-esque patterns and he will miss you with every shot.5. While not a goof, the scene where the Evil Camp Commandant kills Mazili's pet chicken is hilarious. When I first saw that, I leaped out of my chair and yelled OMIGOD. He just CHOKED HIS CHICKEN!!! But then the study hall teacher told me sit back down and shut up. Freud would have had a blast interpreting that scene, especially the horrified look on Mazili's face afterward. Definitely a B-movie classic. "},{"Title":"You lose.","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You lose.In Missing in Action 2, Soon-Tek Oh's soulless character says this phrase several times to the equally soulless character played by Chuck Norris.But when the movie is over, it is clear that the only real loser is the viewer himself.  An hour and a half of life forever lost . . ..I lost. "}{"Title":"Outta be called Missing Action...","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One thing you can't accuse Lance Hool of, is false advertisement. Because the movie rings somewhat true. The only thing missing in action here is, well action.As far as plot and acting go this is all terrible stuff with awful acting and crummy directing, so those who enjoy the story won't find anything to like, and those who enjoy a good old fashioned actionflick will feel royally cheated by the lack of action. For at least 70 minutes nothing happens!  The ending has Norris escaping and becoming a one man army, but by then the action crowd has fallen asleep while the other group is left to marvel at the awfulness of the whole movie.So who was this made for?* (Out Of Four) "},{"Title":"The old stars and stripes","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hehe... Those evil asians are at it again... The good Americans who, for some very unclear reason, have been held captive for ten years in the 'post-war' Vietnam are getting there asses kicked...Hmm... I wont get in to that any further...the önly reason why I write this is to let you know how funny one particular scene is. when Chuck almost can´t take any more...he finds strenght in an american flag he holds in his hands.... HAHA!!! Boy is that pathetic or what?hehe...This movie is so sickening that you almost cannot laugh at it...almost. HAHA!!! "},{"Title":"Almost two hours of unnecessary violence","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have seen lots of bad movies, but this one is so bad it's beyond belief. I hate these war films in the style Americans are the best and all the others are garbage. I don't understand how can anyone shoot a film like this, how can anyone produce it, and how the hell can someone watch it..... The plot is about American soldiers constrained in Vietnam during the absurd USA-Vietnam war. Everything in the film is directed against Vietnamese people, Vietnamese are shown as evil, cruel bastards with no regret and Americans are shown as those who are always good, fair and against violence. I don't understand how could Chuck Norris condescend himself to something like this. How the hell can someone who in real features to be against violence, against racism and so on act in such a crap?? The movie is full of unnecessary brutal scenes, the whole atmosphere is depressive and racist. The fight scenes are terribly choreographed, Norris is slow and clumsy and he appeals very non-athletic. Besides Norris is a bad and wooden actor and so is the rest of the actors in this crap-movie. And what the hell was the end supposed to mean?? Terrible hand-to-hand combat with hardboiled murder at the very end?? Gosh!!! I beg everyone, If you have any discernment, never watch this. It's a violent and racist crap with no plot and no acting. If you want to have REAL entertainment with REAL martial arts watch for example Jackie Chan's Police Story!!! "},{"Title":"Inferior Prequel","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is an inferior prequel to Missing In Action. Soon-teck Oh is formidable as the villain we want to hate; he's one of those villains we'd like to strangle with our bare hands after jumping into the screen. The best thing about the film is that it might give you a good idea about what a P.O.W. would have to endure. The problem is the claustrophobic setting. With mostly a single setting, there has to be a collection of much better dramatic actors or comedic side stories to make the movie more compelling in such a setting. As it is, there's over an hour of very little action, just a battle of wills between Oh and Chuck Norris. After that, hang on, there's shooting and explosions galore. The opium subplot goes no where either. There's no good acting support and the script, as in most Norris movies, is a let down again. Highlights are the Norris scene when he's hung by his ankles and the big fight with Oh. Not enough to make it a satisfying action movie. * 1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"The only thing missing in action is Chuck Norris' brain","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ah, the 80's. Reagan is in the white house, the USSR is collapsing, Madonna was on top (and catholic), Steve Guttenberg is considered to be a good actor, and nobody would shut up with that stupid saying where's the beef?. From the late 70's to the beginning of the 80's and so on, the American public was facing the difficult backlash of the Vietnam War and its effects it had on the country. We did have to face the fact that we LOST that war, and it would be the first war America didn't come out the winning opponent. Not only were tens of thousands of lives where lost for a unworthy cause, but many of the soldiers who fought were left behind to serve as POWs and branded either MIA or dead. Their country had forgotten them. Henceforth, a string of lame, action-packed movies where released, depicting the search and rescue of the POWs, most famously known where the movies Rambo First Blood, part II and the Chuck Norris vehicle Missing in Action. Yes, we were sending one-man armies back to Vietnam to rescue the troops from the communist, ten years after the war ended! Alone is the idea ludicrous and cheesed-beyond-portion, because you'd think by now the POWs and MIAs would be dead, or sold up river to slave colonies. Missing in Action is the most laughable of all the films, because it ceases to take itself seriously. So why make a sequel? No, it's a prequel, which doesn't explain why it has the number 2 on the title.MIA2 The beginning takes place before the first film, which has Norris' character, Col. Braddock, still a captive in post-war Vietnam. Along with around 4 to 5 other Americans, they endure harsh treatment from the camp's CO, Col. Yin, played by Soon-Tek Oh. They make it seem so hard to leave the camp, with dense jungles, booby traps, and a bridge with two guards carrying a flamethrower, but why don't they just walk out? Morales, I guess. Braddock protests the harsh treatment by saying Yin is not following the Geneva convention, but Yin assures that none of them are POWs because in order to be a POW, there has to be war and the war ended years ago...a pretty lazy loop hole if you ask me. Yin tells them that if they sign a contract that rejects the American government and admits to war crimes, the troops will be set free. Naturally, one of the does it; a sneaky backstabber played by Steven Williams, who for some reason still hangs around the camp? In the midst of Norris' cornball acting and Soon-Tek Oh's more evil than evil portrayal, a French (?) opium dealer flies his helicopter into the camp to conduct business with Yin. The Americans then decide to take control of the camp and escape in the helicopter. *yawn* MIA2 is a boring, lackluster of a film, even for an action film. Norris is practically sleeping his way through this role, even when his character is painted up to look like he has Malaria...which he doesn't, but another American GI does. The film is over zealous for it's action moments. There's just not enough things going on to really catch anyone's attention. The location where they shot is a little too dense of jungle to be Vietnam yes, Vietnam has dense jungles, but not THAT dense! It looks more like the Hawaiian island of Kauai, which is probably where they shot it. The acting is beyond atrocious, and lets remind you, this IS a B-movie. The casting director went for the obvious approach to any Vietnam film in the 80's, and cast Japanese actors instead of VIETNAMESE or SOUTHEAST ASIANS. Soon-Tek Oh IS Japanese, let me remind you. So it comes off more like WWII POW film rather than Vietnam. And a French business man? Where the hell did that come from? Not to mention, he comes flying in on a American-made Huey helicopter. I dunno about you, but you just can't go out and buy a Huey at your local Army Surplus store. And apparently, English is the official language of Vietnam, because not one person speaks Vietnamese in the film. It would be a scene featuring only Yin and another foot soldier, and they're speaking English! Huh??? It just isn't that worthy of a film, and it was followed up by ANOTHER sequel. Lord, when will it end?! 'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Chuck Norris returns as Col Braddock, in this inert sequel which shows how Norris escaped the prison camp in Vietnam. This clumsy and wooden sequel is so tedious that it feels more like Chuck Norris on Gilligan's Island. Though Soon Tech Oh makes cuts a decent villian figure. "}]