[{"Title":"Freddy's back to terrorize a confused teenage boy!","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"54 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 (1985) was the second film in the Freddy Krueger series.  This time his main target is the son of a man who just but the Elm Street house.  Freddy preys on this sexually confused kid and forces him to do his bidding and uses him to serve his twisted needs.  Can poor Jesse over come the strong willpower of Freddy?  Will he be  able to discover his true self?  Watch and find out, you'll be surprised!  Strange stuff.What I liked about this film was the filmmakers tried to do something different, and it almost killed the series.  The plot  and storyline was too complex and byzantine for you average horror film.  Much of the film's hidden context and meaning  would go over the heads of most horror film fans.  If Sigmund Freud were alive today he would've had a field day trying to  figure out this one.  Sadly underrated and unfairly neglected..Strongly recommended "},{"Title":"Not as bad as some would have you think.","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"42 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first of the Elm Street sequels is a bit different than the other films of the series, but it's not nearly as bad as some critics say.Young man (whose family has moved into the Elm Street house) is terrorized by chuckling Freddy, who wants to use him to do his dirty work.'Elm Street 2 is a fairly entertaining sequel directed by B movie maker Jack Sholder. The movie's possession theme is solidly played out with some tight direction. Sholder gives this movie some well-done moments of shock and dark humor. The opening sequence on the bus is a memorable thrill ride. The film boasts some bloody FX. Charles Bernstein's theme music is missed, but Bing Crosby's song 'Did You Ever See A Dream' makes for a nice touch. Many say that this movie has homosexual themes and granted star Mark Patton does spend much of the movie semi-naked, but the theme is a bit of a stretch.Robert Englund makes a welcomed return as Freddy, while the rest of the cast does decent performances.All around, a good sequel that hasn't really gotten critical justice.Followed by the superior Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987).*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Snubbed at the Oscars...","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"31 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ALL MY REVIEWS HAVE SPOILERS.  EVERY ONE OF THEM.This is the type of movie that was 80's back when it was the 80's.  Let's start off with the movie's hero, Jesse-- androgynously played by Mark I Have Yet To Make Another Movie Patton.  How did this guy get the lead in a flick?  Just look at him.  And how 'bout that Oscar winning bedroom dance number he did.  Take special note of the part where he closes his dresser drawer with his butt.  I was laughing so hard, no sound was coming out my body.  How do you like THAT, Dad!  I guess he told him.  This scene alone sealed the film in my opinion as an instant cinematic classic. I first saw this movie in theaters when I was just a fetus, and I thought it was bad.  Now I'm watching it 20 years later and boy, was I wrong.  It's horrible.  Let's start with the credits, which read Special Appearance by Clu Gulager;  the same man who happens to be in every scene of the movie.  Our main character, Jesse wakes up screaming from a nightmare and sounds a lot like a woman; but this dream is nothing compared to his gym teacher nightmare.  Note the end of this dream, where Jesse looks at his hand and sees he is wearing the famous razor glove.  When he screams, oh my god.  I must have rewound the scream about 12 times.  I think Fay Wray's voice was dubbed over his, because he shrills like the classic women of the 30's.  This may very well be the movie's finest hour.     Was this scene even in the original version?  For some reason, I don't remember Killer Basketballs when I saw this in the theater.  Was I watching a director's cut or something?  This couldn't have been in theaters, could it?  I must be slipping in my old age, because I would have been laughing too hard to forget a scene like Killer Basketballs.  This scene is second place only to the unbeatable Killer Braces scene in Poltergeist 2.Midway through Freddy's Revenge, Alfred Hitchcock takes over and directs a cool When Parrots Attack scene.  The scene comes out of nowhere, but the sudden shifting of gears is welcomed in this movie.  The parrot destroys his lovebird partner, and for some reason, Jesse lets the Cujo of birds out of his cage.  The bird then begins to terrorize the family and by this time, the scene is going great.  Easily comparable to the great shower scene of Psycho, or when Michael Corleone kisses Fredo.  The director then gets tired of this sequence and decides to end it by having the bird explode into thin air.  What a disappointment!!  They could have dropped Freddy and expounded with this bird concept for the rest of the movie!  I was having a ball.  It was clearly the only well thought-out scene of the movie.  Hollywood just doesn't make enough Attack Bird movies.  That's exactly what this industry needs!  More Attack Bird movies!  If Titanic had an Attack Bird scene, I guarantee you nobody would have complained about the 7 hour running time.  The possibilities are endless when it comes to movies about disgruntled birds.  Freddy's Revenge is directed by some guy named Jack Sholder.  Now I don't know who this guy is, and I have a theory as to why we've never heard of him again  Once he got famous, he eventually changed his name to Joel Schumacher.  Laugh if you must, but I am convinced the two men are one and the same.  Jack Sholder is as queer as a 3 dollar bill.  Not that I am gay bashing, but I do like my slasher flicks more scary and less Rocky Horror.  How gay was Freddy's Revenge, let me count the ways1.) A slasher movie starring a man is unheard of.  We want breasts, Hollywood! 2.) Our freakishly feminine hero, has the unisexual name Jesse. 3.) More locker room and shower scenes than you can shake a stick at.  Get it-- shake a stick at? 4.) Plenty of bare ass shots of men. 5.) What's up with Jesse having that dream at the Blue Oyster bar?  Then the dream evolves into a bondage S&M concept; which is truly a nightmare-- more frightening than anything Freddy could ever do. Oh yeah, that reminds me.  There is also this guy named Freddy who goes around killing people or something.  I don't know, who cares?  This movie has an Attack Bird scene!!!  * * * * * out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Very underrated","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street part 2 Freddy's revengeMay contain `spoilers'`Mommy, why can't Jesse wake up like everyone else ?'Firstly I'd like to say that I believe this to be the most underrated film in the series. Aside from the first film this is the only other from the series that I still like. As has been mentioned by other people, I think Freddy developed too much of a personality after this film, dispatching victims with comedic one-liners and more stylised, effects based death sequences. In this film his remains pretty much as he was in the first. In fact, probably a little darker.One of the main problems People seem to have with this film is the implied bisexuality of its main character. I personally think it gives the film an Unusual twist. To quote Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger) `Nightmare 2 is a very creepy, very kinky film. It reverses the first one - instead of having a teenage girl in jeopardy, we have a bisexual male, and this factor is exploited by Freddy. There's a lot of stuff implied with the S & M bar, stringing up the coach in the shower room bondage situation, and going to his boyfriends house for protection, the two of them take their clothes off as often as possible. All that adolescent mad teenage hormone stuff is explored, which of course Freddy is privy to'.I like the nightmare sequences in this film. To me they have a quality that rings truer to real nightmares than that of the ones in the other sequels. When Jesse (Mark Patton) first spies Freddy lurking in the back yard and then the basement being a prime example. The school bus at the start is also a classic and another that springs to mind is when Jesse awakes in his room to find it's become so hot that things around it like a vinyl record have begun to melt.The score is my personal favourite of the entire series. Christopher Young creates something very unusual using such bizarre sounds as whale calls to good effect. It is a complete departure from the cheesy synth score of the original and because it lacks that familiar piano motif that's heard in all the films, sets it apart much like the film itself.There's also some nice camera work in there to, the shot that follows Jesse as he arrives at school the morning after the murder of the coach is good. Though my favourite has to be the shot that takes us up from the basement (albeit rather poorly cut as you go through the basement door) swerving up the stairs and into Jesse's little sisters room. Freddy's face is never fully visible unlike in the other sequels. Which I always thought was the way it should be kept. We only ever really see his face in a neat shot behind the flames of the broken Barbeque during the pool party scene.The acting from all concerned is solid, Patton and Meryl Streep look-a-like Kim Myers (Lisa) the two leads being particularly good.The film does have plenty of flaws, certain effects shots are very badly rendered. Witness the budgie exploding for a prime example and the awful creatures in the boiler room towards the end of the film for others. There's a lot of plot holes and the ending is decidedly weak but over all I really like the film. A lot of people say it's the worst of the series but in my opinion if you prefer number's 5 or 6 to this you are missing the point. I'll go out on a limb and say it's my personal favourite.7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"ok not everyone's favorite, but...","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What they are missing are the campy little details that are hinted through-out the saga. Everything from the stretching tongue to the the exploding bird. You can't deny the fun watching Jesse Walsh shrieking like a scared little schoolgirl when he finds Freddy's glove on his hand. All this and after Jesse's girlfriend comes up to his room and says, I thought I'd help you unpack. In her sexy voice, moving him toward the bed, they ACTUALLY start unpacking! None of the gags in Freddy's Dead is THAT funny!!! "},{"Title":"Possessed by Freddy Krueger","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When the Walsh's move to the Elm Street, the teenager Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) has a creepy nightmare with a burned man wearing a glove with blades called Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) that tells him that Jesse has the body and he has the brain. Jesse becomes close to Lisa Webber (Kim Myers), who also has a crush on him, and befriends his school mate Ron Grady (Robert Rusler), who tells him that his house had remained closed for five years since the former dweller Nancy Thompson that went to a mental institution after witnessing the death of her boyfriend on the other side of the street and her mother in the living room. Lisa finds the diary of Nancy hidden in a locker while Jesse is possessed by Freddy Krueger that uses him to kill his victims.This sequel to the classic A Nightmare on Elm Street is underrated in IMDb. The story about possession is more romantic with the love of Lisa for Jesse, has plot holes but is also entertaining, with the use of great special effects. This movie is also the debut of Kim Myers, who has an impressive resemblance with Meryl Streep, in the cinema in a lead role. Again there is an open conclusion to give a sequel to the saga of Freddy Krueger. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Hora do Pesadelo 2 &#150; A Vingança de Freddy  (The Hour of the Nightmare 2 &#150; The Revenge of Freddy) "},{"Title":"At least it had the guts to be a bit different...","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now that Nightmare is up to seven or eight sequels, while Friday The 13th is up to ten (and counting), it must be hard to look back on the days when horror films tried to be vaguely original or even different. With all the Screams and I Know What Your Breasts Did Last Summers, making Freddy's Revenge in these enlightened days would be just about impossible.But culture, and particularly youth culture, in the 1980s was considerably different, certainly far less conservative and anti-creative. In those days, The Cure were a big thing, and even the most basic of pop sludge was far more creative than what we have today. Not to mention that it was far easier to make dodgy films and get them released theatrically.A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 2 picks up five years after the original, although it was a rush-job filmed less than a year after said original was out of the theatre. The film company, at that time the independent startup known as New Line, saw a quick and easy meal ticket that only required them to convince Robert Englund to submerge himself in what looks like three tons of multi-coloured latex. So the idea of a decent script, decent actors, or decent photography, went right out the window.Which is kind of sad, really, when you consider that this is the only Freddy film in which an original premise is used. You might want to skip the rest of this paragraph if you have yet to see it. In it, a young man (whose behaviour is consistent with repressed homosexuality, in one of those hilarious plot coincidences) has just moved into the house from which Nancy originally dealt with Freddy. With the help of the sort of girlfriend any other male (and even some females) of this age would want to climb atop of at every opportunity, our hero attempts to fight off Freddy (and his own gayness), which in turn creates some very interesting plot devices. The moment when our heroine is holding up a carving knife at Freddy, who gives her a graphic and terrifying demonstration of the fact that she'll kill her (confused) lover if she kills Freddy, could have been one of the most horrific moments in the entire series. I am not quite convinced that it isn't, given that the only other episode in the series that was vaugely adult after this point was Part 3.Unfortunately, the actors hired for these roles cannot act their way out of a wet paper bag. The only cast member with acting skills that even compare to Robert Englund's would be Marshall Bell. I am convinced that his turn here as the (gay) gym teacher was what got him hired to be in Total Recall and StarShip Troopers. Mark Patton (no relation to the Mike Patton who leads Mr. Bungle or the Mike Patton who was an early cast member in You Can't Do That On Television) is terrible - his only talent, as such, is to scream like a seventy-year-old woman. The actors who play his family look as if they belong on a cheap knock-off of Family Ties. The best actor in the whole piece was the budgie, who seemed to decide he would rather explode than be in this idiotic film a second longer.When all is said and done, Robert Louis Stevenson said it much better in The Frightening Tale Of Doctor Jekyll And Mister Hyde (although there are no shortage of adaptations to that work which suck more than this). Normally, I would give this effort a three out of ten, but it gets two bonus points because it is like no other episode in the Nightmare canon, and that is a damned good thing when you put it alongside episodes four through seven. "},{"Title":"Not the worst, but not the best either.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The opening scenes of this film are very promising.  The title music has a very sinister, menacingly calm quality to it and there is an excellently nightmarish sequence in a school bus which is driven by Freddy.But generally the film is a might-have-been.  True, it has its moments, such as the discovery of Nancy's diary and the scene at the party, but things are pretty tame compared to the first film.  Jesse is the new teenager living in Nancy's old house and haunted by nightmares, but apart from the opening sequence there are very few dreamlike effects.  There are some nightmarish animals but they are too briefly seen and are in such total darkness that they're barely visible.  The film is more of a cliched haunted house yarn than a story about nightmares.  There are some interesting homosexual undertones but they are never really developed properly.  There are also gaping plot-holes.  After Freddy tears his way out of Jesse's body, the remains somehow return to life.  The next time Freddy appears Jesse seems to be inside him.  Can anyone work out what's going on?What really lets this film down is its weak ending.  Freddy and his boiler room suddenly burst into flames because Jesse's girlfriend tells him she loves him.  Utterly feeble.  Surely the script-writers could have come up with a better ending than this.Not an unwatchable film by any means, but just not the sequel it should have been. "},{"Title":"Pretty sad","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"44 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge, the second installment in the Nightmare on Elm Street series and probably the worst in the series. I was lucky enough to get the boxed DVD set of A Nightmare on Elm Street series and I got to see all the sequels. I think this is the sequel that I disliked the most, just because it didn't at all add up to what the first film was. It was like watching a cheesy teenager show with a twist of Nightmare on Elm Street. The kid who's the new victim, Jesse, is like Kevin Bacon's character in Footloose where he's not excepted by anyone, now just mix Footloose with Nightmare on Elm Street and you've got A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge. The story had potential, but it just failed.Jesse is the new kid in town and he has moved into Nancy Thomson's old house. Not too soon is he having the same horrific nightmares that Nancy was having about Freddy Krueger. Jesse confides in his neighbor/crush, Lisa, she doesn't believe him until she starts having the nightmares herself. She researches Freddy and finds out that he is after Jesse's body and wants to take it over. But she may be too late when he does enter Jesse's body and is after her and all the rest of the kids at Jesse's high school.A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge isn't bad, just compared to the series, yeah, it's the worst in that category. The story had something, but it wasn't delivered well. But just think about what A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge was compared too with it's first film that was an ultimate classic. So maybe that's why we have such a problem with the film. But I would recommend it if you wanna see the sequels, but if you're watching it without knowing the first story, I don't think you'll enjoy it.5/10 "},{"Title":"Even through the eyes of a boy, Freddy is fearful and frightening","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first sequel of a film like this A Nightmare on Elm Street is probably the most difficult task, especially if you change directors. It has to be in the line of the first film and yet change a few things to make it nothing but a repeat. The character of Freddy Krueger is kept with his three distinctive elements  the right hand four finger claws, the hat and the black and red striped pullover, plus of course his ugly mug. But then we move. First the main character is a boy something like a junior or senior in high school, so not really a boy anymore. But yet the boyish side is emphasized by a hairless body, shiny and pure skin, a skin that is widely shown and slowly brushed up and down by the camera. And that's the change. The camera really centers on his body, his skin, his flesh even, except of course his front sexual parts per se. Then it uses gym scenes and even locker room and shower scenes, but once again with restraint. Very little nudity and when there is some backside scenes it is in a very traumatic situation  the gay sports teacher who is tortured and whipped in the nude of course, tied up to the showers, while the boy in the nude too is shown slightly in some darkness and flittingly. Many scenes of the boy in bed only wearing his underwear, never really ambiguous but always sexy even if once again flittingly. Then some more elements are added  his friendship with another boy who is the rather of the macho type but who does not seem afraid of a masculine friendship. Both are victimized by the gay sports teacher on the football field a couple of times and in the end the boy, Jesse, will come to ask for help from his friend, Grady, and the first reaction will be nearly openly gay even if denied in some side remark, and Freddy will kill Grady through, from inside the body of Jesse  if that is not a repressed homosexual desire, what is ? And before Jesse had gone to a leather bar and had been literally kidnapped by the gay sports teacher and it is then later in the showers that Freddy again will kill this openly gay character from within the body of Jesse. If one case is a coincidence, two are not and that is the main change of this film from a girl-centered vision of fear to a boy-centered vision. In fact we must understand that Freddy is the real character questioned here. He is an old pedophile and after having recaptured some existence through the dream of a girl in the first film, and having thus gotten a couple of boys in his bag through the desire of the girl for these boys, now he moves directly to the main target of his desire  he wants to possess a boy from inside, he is a gay pedophile and Jesse, to defend his sanity in this invasion, will have to react against this gayness that is imposed onto him and kill the boys and men Freddy desires. But this can also be nothing but a tactic from Freddy to push Jesse into killing, to titillate him where it tickles and where Jesse does not really want to be tickled, though when Freddy forces Jesse away from his girlfriend at the very moment when he was getting excited enough to let himself slip into some sex can be seen as the revulsion of Freddy for that type of sex or as the fear of Jesse in front of that type of sex, which would lead to believing that Freddy managed to get back into existence through the homosexual desire of Jesse and at the same time his resistance to this sexual appeal. But that is a real change in that kind of horror films  to take a point of view that focuses onto a boy, his desires, his fears, and his anxiety, all of it emphasized by a castrating authoritarian father and a loving, maybe too much, mother. We must keep in mind that this is a common situation for many boys when they turn sixteen or seventeen. In no way is this sequel lower and less intense than the first episode. Note finally the use of an old abandoned factory to give some density to Freddy's old personality and past, but also to open another chapter in that exploration of fear  the fear we can feel in front of and inside those old factories that seem in many ways haunted. That is a dimension Stephen King has used over and over again in so many of his books and films. Nothing really new but something definitely effective, at least by reminding the audience of other frightening scenes in other films. Then the evaluation of that reference is a question of date to know who used it first and who is a copycat or an imitator, who can anyway also be a developer.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "}{"Title":"10 out of 10","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first Nightmare On Elm Street is one of my favorite horror movies.It had an original plot and was very entertaining.Now this is the first of the many sequels that followed it.Sure its not as good as the first and its the second worst one in the series(in my opinion).But its still an entertaining and good 1980's slasher flick.The cast is different from the first film and neither of the actors or actresses from this film return for any of the sequels.In this film, a family moves into the house that Nancy lived in during the first film.Freddy possesses the teenager who lives in the house and makes him do his killings for him.With the help of his girlfriend, he must stop Freddy.Though the sequels are known for their comedy, this film wasn't meant to be a comedy.Yet there are a few laugh out loud scenes in it.Nightmare On Elm Street 2 is an alright sequel that slasher film fans should enjoy.Rated R for Extreme Graphic Violence, Profanity, Sexual Situations and Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"Equal to the original. Freddy is better and it's funnier.","Date":"5 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" OK, Nightmare on Elm Street 2 seems to be a love it or hate it film, with most people hating it.Some reviewers seem concerned that Freddy possesses the body of new-boy-in-town, Jesse, to do the killings rather than killing everyone in their dreams but I couldn't really care less about that. It has no negative impact on the film whatsoever.I've seen this film a handful of times and I've appreciated it more with each viewing, to the point where I now think it is as good as the original and perhaps even better in some ways. Here's why...Let's start with Freddy. Director Jack Sholder made a good choice in keeping Freddy in the shadows for most of his scenes, therefore making him a lot more mysterious and menacing than in the first film. Freddy also does a lot less talking, which is a bonus. Overall it gives him a less human and more demon-esque quality.Despite what some others may say, I think this film is directed perfectly, mainly because the directing is apt for the subject and doesn't try to be anything more. It's just a small element that adds up to the whole. The heavy use of smoke and some very nice lighting adds to the overall horror aesthetic and atmosphere.The intro is excellent, I've always felt this was shot really well and the bit with the school bus balancing on a tall rock with the pits of Hell or God knows where below, are very surreal and nightmarish.Then there's the humour. I mean, there are so many visual and verbal jokes (often homosexual) in this film that I find it hard to believe Jack Sholder was oblivious to this, as has been stated in the IMDb trivia section for this film.Just some of the funny bits -Jesse's extremely long, shrill, wailing, old woman-esque scream. The most hilarious use of this is at the beginning when it is heard off-screen and the rest of the family are all at breakfast.-Jesse's friend, Grady, doing a whole scene while munching on burgers, making his dialogue almost inaudible.-Jesse cleaning his room while dancing in the campest way possible, which is followed by him closing a drawer by grinding his butt against it, followed by a visual innuendo gag whereby he holds a popping toy at his crotch, rubbing it in time with the music, only for it to pop just as his mum enters the room.-The budgie that bursts into flames for no reason.-Jesse's coach being tied up and having his butt whipped red raw with towels by an invisible assailant.-Jesse's best line he's inside of me and he wants to take me again! Don't get me wrong, it's not that I think this film is so bad it's good, I actually feel I am laughing along WITH it rather than AT it.The film is short at 87 mins and keeps up a good pace. There is only one disappointment for me, which is that the first film has more gore and in some ways I feel this one is a little restrained. It's a small quibble and as far as I'm concerned, this film is a triumph. I'm sure that's entirely accidental as I don't believe for one second anyone involved in this production was trying to make a good film here, but they have succeeded none the less. "},{"Title":"My favorite of the sequels","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This one was definitely different than the rest of the Elm Street's. But I loved all of Freddy's scenes and the way he delivered his lines. Robert England knew which words to emphasize in order to be effective.The teenage characters were all likable. Especially Kim Myers' character Lisa. She could have very easily abandoned Jesse when he started to get weirded out every day, but she stuck by his side to fight Freddy.The special effects in this movie were really good. The best one being Freddy emerging right out of Jesse's body.The film's humor wasn't bad either. The littlest things still make me chuckle. "},{"Title":"Overlooked, Big Time","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie seems like it has nothing to do with whole entire series. It does sort of? Really this one just furthers along the Freddy character and mixes in a few new elements as well. I've never really quite got a handle on this movie myself. It's still good to watch from time to time though. The characters are developed right and Freddy is shown an equally amount of good times throughout it, but there is still something missing to make it a true Nightmare movie.MINOR SPOILERThe only thing I did not like about this movie is this is when the series started to take a fantasy twist. I also did not like the claws coming from Fred's fingers "},{"Title":"The Deadly Dinosaur of the Nightmare Series?","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There's no question, A Nightmare on Elm Street part 2 is the red-headed stepchild of the series. In a time when every other slasher film from the 1980s is being remade and/or revered as a seminal genre work, this atmospheric little sequel has been all but dismissed, even by the Fredheads themselves. The overtly homosexual subtext is often cited as the reason, with the writer and director, both of whom are reportedly gay, crafting a film about a troubled young man who can't perform with his would-be girlfriend and running off to see his chum Grady at home in bed &#150; this after tying up and slaughtering (with Fred's help, of course) his S&M-inclined gym teacher (Marshall Bell). Yet, they maintain, a homosexual undercurrent was not intended.Ahem.In any case, this is a solid &#150; indeed, far better than average &#150; entry in the Freddy canon specifically, and slasher oeuvre more generally. It is certainly the most deliberately and effectively paced sequel in the entire series. In the broad strokes, it seems more concerned with ratcheting up the tension, rather than the body count.But let's not forget the humour. ANOES2 has more than its share of laughs, most of them courtesy of the Happy Family sequences, featuring an exploding pet bird, an impromptu drug intervention, and the best clean-up-dance-sequence in cinema history (How do you like that, Dad?), not to mention the deliriously funny sequence in science class, when our dozing young protagonist is nearly done away with by the local python (NOOOOOOOO!!!).But unlikely chum Grady also draws a chuckle or two, with his coarse talk about the film's supremely hot Meryl Streep lookalike (that rich babe you've been cruising to school with everyday&#133;are you mounting her nightly or what?), Kim Myers, whom Seinfeld fans may recognize as the ga-ga girl with the velvet scrunchy.Christopher Young's score also merits recognition. Foregoing the frequently frantic synth of part 1, Young utilizes reverberating, dissonant piano chords and eerie strings, building atmosphere in a manner that is very far removed from current examples of the genre.But a word about Part 2's Freddy. Without a doubt, this is the scariest Freddy to be seen post-part 1's initial dream sequence (THIS is God.). Try as he might, Englund (thanks largely to the writers and directors) was unable to recapture the raw terror or parts 1 and 2 in the subsequent twenty or so years. It's just been announced that there will be a remake of the first film and that Englund won't be involved. I love the guy, but I can't help but feel that it's the right decision; he's too tied to the gimmicky humour of parts 3 through 6 to be effective in a new context, I think.The conclusion rather reminds me of Polanski's The Fearless Vampire Killers, with its utter lack of satisfying resolution. Fear not Part 3 was on the horizon, and the fan-base was destined to swell still further, but even Wes Craven's New Nightmare (part 7) wouldn't be able to compete with little old part 2 for sheer terror. "},{"Title":"Chuckles","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you need a nice horror/comedy flick, this movie is sure to be a winner for you and the kids. Don't get me wrong, the plot does fall apart now and again, throughout the whole movie, but if you walk the whole thing out, you truly will appreciate the giggling effect this motion picture has on the majority of it's viewers. When I saw this movie, it was love at first sight. Unless you're a real horror fan, your gonna love it too. The characters are the most lovable bunch, you got variety from Mr. Bungle, that naughty Mr. Krueger and the rest of the gang. So grab some popcorn, grab Susie and Margret cause you're going for a ride my friends, it'll be one you'll never forget. "},{"Title":"He's inside me and he wants to take me again!","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A new family has moved into Nancy Thompson's old house and the son (Mark Patton) begins having dreams of Freddy, who wants to use him to do more killing in the real world. The first of many (mostly lackluster) sequels to Wes Craven's classic is also one of the most different, with some kitschy elements and a gay subtext that has caused many these days to champion it. I think it's a better watch now than it was when I was a teenager and saw it for the first time with certain expectations. But that isn't to say it's a good movie or a good sequel. I don't believe it is either of those things, really, but I do think it has some merit that at least warrants a look for anyone not seeking another by-the-numbers Elm Street sequel. Aside from the subtextual stuff to chew on, there's some silly and campy moments that provide some chuckles. The Freddy here is not as scary as in the first film but not as corny as he would be in the later sequels when he was quoting Nintendo slogans. Probably the best thing about this to me are the interesting visuals the director and special effects teams conjure up. The script doesn't make a lot of sense but the surreal aspects will likely keep the interest of those who are generally bored by these types of movies. "},{"Title":"A Classic Subject of Queer Film Theory","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although this sequel may have upset a lot of the fans of the original because it did not bring back Nancy, or any of the other characters from the first Nightmare on Elm Street (except Freddy Krueger), it did provide an interesting take on the character of Freddy Krueger and his representation of the main character Jesse's (Mark Patton) worst nightmare. I won't go too deep into the Queer Film Theory surrounding this particular installment of the franchise ( I made a video on YouTube about that, which you can watch here https//www.youtube.com/watch? v=coNYGzz2zQ8 ) but as a stand alone film, it is enjoyable to watch, and creepy in it's own right! "},{"Title":"very big step down from the original but still a good movie!","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Freddy's revenge is a good movie. don't let all the bad reviews cloud your judgement. while i will admit, it is a BIG step down from the masterpiece that is the original but it is still a good movie with a few flaws. first of all the direction they took the story was a strange one. the writers chose to abandon the whole dream demon idea (which in my opinion it wasn't necessarily a bad decision because of how early in the franchise it was. but it also wasn't a good decision either because id much prefer the dream demon premise) and have Freddy trying to possess a kid named Jesse's body to kill in the real world again. Robert Englund brings another terrifying performance to the screen as Freddy Krueger. remember folks.. Freddy is still scary in this one, and the pool party massacre scene is fun to watch! the atmosphere is very dark but loses so much of it's power due to the absence of the dream sequences and all the possibilities that could have been utilized. in the FX department the film does alright. now something else i should include in the review is the obvious homosexual aspects included in the film. i am not gay (so this is not biased), but i can honestly say it adds a uniqueness to the film. in the fist film Nancy's secondary struggle was her parent's separation and her mother's alcoholism, in this film Jesse's secondary struggle is his own sexuality. as i said this doesn't ruin the film what so ever. it simply adds a uniqueness to the film. check this one out its a fun little film that deserves more respect than it gets. 8/10 "},{"Title":"a dirty dark little film","Date":"19 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this week I went out and got the elm st films on blu ray, I have always loved this movies,so after watching the films again I can say that this is my new fav after the first film of course, people have always seemed to not like this movie, but I think that is it a film on it's own within the series, dream warriors the dream master and the dream child have long been bundled together as a trilogy in the series, and they are, freddy's dead was a comic like scareless mess, and the new nightmare was a 2nd part to the classic first film, the leaves FREDDY'S REVENGE a dark dirty little slasher film, if you take the time too look at it again, you might find a new love for this film, freddy looks just sick in this film, and I think there is a real thought that this kid could kill his family, the sets are great and the effects seem very cool, and I love that the house has a role in this film, not just oh that's the scary house like in the other films, freddy is at his dark best in this movie, I say have another look at this movie and treat it like it should be A GREAT SLASHER FILM. "}{"Title":"You've got the body, I've got the brain","Date":"12 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Most people would probably tell you that A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge is one of the worst films in the Nightmare on Elm Street series, but to be honest it's actually grown on me after repeated viewings.Jesse is the new kid on Elm Street living with his parents and younger sister in the same house Nancy lived in from the first film and immediately he starts being tormented by Freddy Krueger in his dreams. However, instead of attempting to kill Jesse, Freddy regularly takes control of Jesse's mind and body to commit terror out of the dream world and in the real world. It reminds me of classic movies and stories like The Wolfman, and The Strange Case of Doctor Jekyll and Mister Hyde, but it can be confusing and most fans of the series will tell you that it breaks the rules of what can and can't happen in the Nightmare on Elm Street series.One of the main things people like to discuss about Freddy's Revenge is how homoerotic it is. Jesse is the only male lead in the entire series and he acts like a (fe)male in distress spending a lot of time literally screaming like a girl. There's a weird scene where he goes to a gay bar in the middle of the night for no reason at all and gets busted by his gym teacher (who happens to be gay). I won't say exactly what Freddy does to the gym teacher, but what I will say is that it's got balls...and towels. I'll also admit that there are also some other odd scenes that don't seem to make much sense too.What I like about Freddy's Revenge is that it's probably the scariest of the Nightmare sequels. The dialogue might be lame, but the main actors actually do a good job of acting terrified of Freddy who is still as twisted and intimidating as he was in the first film without being as comical as he was in the later sequels. Freddy is once again played by Robert Englund. Originally New Line Cinema had hired another actor to play Freddy, but the other actor was so terrible that they ended up bringing back Englund and from then he's played Freddy in all the sequels, including Wes Craven's New Nightmare and the crossover film, Freddy vs. Jason. He really is one of the greatest horror actors of all time.It may have its flaws, but overall I think that Freddy's Revenge is a really underrated sequel. "},{"Title":"a great sequel","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is an underrated horror flick. Yes, it's a nowhere as good as the original, but it does have a certain unique feel that makes it stand out compared to the other films in the series. Maybe it's the fact that the main victim/protagonist is a male instead of a female. It's been 5 years since the events of the original movie took place (1-year in real life) and a new family has moved into the Krueger home. A young high school teen named Jesse starts to have nightmares of Freddy and then kids at his school start dying (like in all the nightmare movies), except this time there is a twist...Freddy wants to be reborn using Jesse's body. The film features some bizarre elements, such as a S&M bar scene, a 2 faced dog, and the question of the main characters sexuality(he may be a homosexual). Freddy's make-up is much scary in this film then any in the series, mainly due to the fact the director wanted Freddy to look more like a demonic witch then just a burn victim. Overall, it's prob one of the best in the series and one of the most overlooked horror films. There is some decent gore and some better than usual dream sequences. A school bus drives to hell at the end...talk about starting off your school day bad! "},{"Title":"Revenge is sweet","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although the orig ranks of one of the all time best, this sequel more than lives up to it.The beginning is mind blowing with the ride of a lifetime that has to been seen to be appreciated. The camaraderie of the two principle male characters is an added twist and enhances the story. At first they seem like they are not going to get along and get into a fight but later comically tease each other in class with both taunting the other by friendly laughter at the right moment. Also the love interest between the girl and her ride to school is intriguing and does not cross the boundaries early in the game. *possible spoiler* The 2nd appearance of Fred is fun also with him hiding in the bushes then appearing in the boiler room and then taunting the lead dude by using a famous line that I will not divulge here by spoiler. This movie is underrated and deserves a second look by Freddie fans. It is far from boring and IMO is the most entertaining in the series. Personally it is the sequel that I go back to the most in the whole line of Fred empire movies. "},{"Title":"My favorite in the series.","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In my opinion, 'A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge' is the best film in the series.It's a violent yet entertaining movie that takes the plot of the first film and turns it into a new direction.In this sequel, Freddy Kruger actually has a reason to kill either people or a certain person.In this case, he's trying to get a certain person so he can control his body.There's another reason.He wants to become real.Now that's interesting.I don't have to bother telling you if Freddy becomes real in the end, because he does.Just like any other slasher film, he dies at the very end.Did I spoil the movie for you? Oh, I'm sorry.Maybe you should've watched the movie first before reading my review.Ah well.Tough luck for you. "},{"Title":"Jesses's Gay!","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is one to watch with a group of friends on a boring night it will give you tons of material to make fun of and that is why I love this movie. When I first watched it I thought it to be just a piece of garbage to best be overlooked and go on to Nightmare On Elm Street 3 The Dream Warriors. But as I got older I realized that this film is so bad it's good. Mark Patton is one of the best actors in the series and his Jesse character is one of the most memorable. I love what he did with the role. I also like how he subtly makes you think maybe just maybe he's gay and not really just terrified by Freddy. Freddy almost acts a parable in this one. He is Jesse's homosexuality coming out but he can't say that because of the time he is living in. I know that is deep but that is what I take from this film and I find it funny. You could say this is just another slasher movie, and you would be right if that is the view you wish to take on this film, but I am here to tell you, if you watch this as a metaphor than it will greatly improve your experience of watching the film. Watch this one to laugh and makes jokes with your friends about. "},{"Title":"There is no Jesse....I'm Jesse now!","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" And I'll say it again. There is no Jesse, I'm Jesse now. Those are the words of Freddy when Lisa tries to reason with Freddy. The reason I mentioned that quote is because that one, and many others like it are what make this movie so funny. (I'm not even going to get into the sounds of Jesse's screams). Freddy has so many one liners that will have you busting up (if you pay attention). Not quite as good as the first, and not really scary, if you will. None of 'em are. The special effects are OK, but it's the acting, as I always say, that you need pay attention to. If you do, you'll find so many UN-intentional comedy props you wont even believe it. Try looking at Freddy's face when they do close ups. I'm sure this was intended to be frightening but it ended up as comedy at it's best. As Shooter says the best comedy in the world was never planned. I shoot it a 10 for humor and a 4 for suspense which averages this flick to an 8. "},{"Title":"A different Elm Street flick.","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the infamous ending of the original Nightmare, Freddy returns to continue his reign of terror in Springwood. This time Freddy's victim is Jesse (a skinny boy with gay tendencies). Soon after Jesse and his family moved to Nancy Thompson's house, strange things started to happen (an exploding parrot, weird nightmares, etc.) and led Jesse to think he was going insane.Freddy's plan is to possess Jesse and kill everyone on his way in order to spread the terror again as a part of his revenge against the parents of Springwood.SPOILERS The cast is somewhat interesting. Mark Patton delivers a bizarre but believable performance. The gay subliminals totally work for his character. Kim Myers also gives a good performance as the loving girlfriend that shows temper in the difficult situations. She discovers that Nancy wasn't crazy at all and that Fred Krueger wasn't only a myth. Robert Englund delivers a great performance; probably among his bests. He gives a dark and sinister personality to Freddy. I really dug his physical performance in the pool party massacre. The direction is good. The use of bright colors as part of the art direction on some non-important situations, combined with creepy and dark settings; make this a visually stunning slasher. Craven creates a world of fantasy and terror based on nightmares. There are very memorable moments in this movie that now are classics in the Slasher sub-genre. Freddy coming out of Jesse's chest is a great scene and now a favorite among the ANOES fans. But the most memorable scene in the movie has to be the pool party massacre. Freddy Krueger comes to slaughter as many teens as he can and finish with a rock on phrase you're all my children now. The scene is an important moment in the series because it's the only time you will see him attacking teenagers in the real world and in the best possible way. Great scene.Freddy's Revenge is the movie that stands alone from the other movies from the franchise because it is strange and not exactly 100% a slasher movie. Sure, we have the typical one by one death scenes but that isn't enough to consider this among the pile of slasher flicks from the good 80's. There are some unusual subplots and a dramatic tone that isn't very common in the series. Some scenes ask for dramatic performances. A highly underrated and bashed by fans sequel. 7/10. Freddy's Revenge deserves a watch for trying something different. "},{"Title":"Not the best but definately the darkest (which is good)","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why is everyone trashing this flick as the bastard of the Nightmare children ? Maybe because they expected to see more of the same , after the Wes Craven first version . Come on people , the producers wanted simply to go to a new direction . It is not the best of the bunch but it is way too better from the disappointing video-gameish part 4 and miles above the freakish , inbearable and disgraceful New Nightmare.  I have seen this movie many times and finally I have made my mind why it is so different from the others and not for the obvious reason , that the lead is a guy (perhaps one of the reasons everyone hates it. they always want some stupid screaming female in order to be terrified) This instalment is the most psychologically dramatic one , the inmost . We focus solidly on the personal drama of Jesse ( Mark Patton ) . The other ones had usually a group of kids gathering and fighting Freddy which gave a feeling of Dream Combat ( not that it is bad ) .Even the most fanatic enemy of this film will have to admit that the dream sequences of Jesse wandering like a coursed ghost in the house are very nightmarish and delusional . To me they are the most faithful to the original spirit of the series and surpassed even the first Nightmare 's . ( I know I may be put in the firing squad for this ! ). Just think of it . Forget the plot flaws . The dream scenes  are utterly insane invoking . Poor Jesse is seriously tormented . He does not know if there is indeed a dream demon who is threatening to kill him and he can 't escape (very scary) or all these are in his head ,simple coincidences , premonitions that his mind starts going crazy (even scarier). Pure psychological horror. Maybe people trash it because of the few action scenes . I don 't know they were enough for me . The two main characters are adequate in their performances by Patton and Kim Myers . Freddy performs his darkest and most brutal screen appearance to date and this IS an achievement. The less he talks the better . To continue my defence I will try to reverse some of the stupid comments made  What a disgrace , Freddy coming into real life !!! He only exists in our dreams !!!  First of all it is a FANTASY film and the writers are entitled to do whatever they want . These are fairy tales and they have creative freedom. I will have to remind you that Nancy in the first film in order to kill Krueger pulled him in reality . If the god/creator WES CRAVEN  said it can be done then it CAN be expanded . Why did Freddy kill the gym teacher ? OH MY GOD ARE YOU STONED ??? He is a brutal murderer , serial killers do not have logic!!! . Furthermore it is probable he used Jesse 's bad feelings for his coach in order to be incarnated and do what he could not (and not any of us) materialize .Kill a dislikeable person . As for the gay subtext  oh well what can I say ? If a man 's bare bottom or a teenage sleeping in his shorts is regarded as a gay subtext then we should trash every film about sports teams (basketball , baseball etc.) because they usually DO have at least one scene with naked fellow players in the locker rooms having shower together . Not to mention Pulp Fiction which consisted of a scene with a man screaming helplessly while being sodomised .  In the bottomline there are some unforgettable scenes like the bus - riding - to hell scene or the horrifying scene with Freddy 's knife-fingered hand touching Jesse's sleeping little sister saying wake up little girl !  What is it ?  she says and then her brothers arm touching her, saying  Nothing . Go back to sleep  it is heart breaking. Pretty weird vision . It DEFINATELY worths a look .7.5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Quite Scary","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I purchased this film, and it did not seem like the typical Elmstreet flick, with freddy humor.  This was an all out horror film, with good special effects, realistic gore and it was delightful.  The only thing wrong with it is that parts of it can seem a little lame at times. "},{"Title":"Freddy´s Revenge","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Nightmare On Elm Street part 2 Freddy´s Revenge.The first sequel to the massively aclaimed Wes Craven´s hit A Nightmare On Elm Street.Most people know the plot by now.I have to say I quite liked the movie. It was different than the original. It had quite many scares and was very exciting. Storywise it was very good, sometimes silly but it never got to the point that you just wait a minute. The acting was good for the most part which is rare in these kind of movie and the special effects were also good considering its budget.The movie is short. Only 80 minutes long but it manages somehow to tell an entire story in these times and managed to do that perfectly. Freddy is still dark and scary and the make-up is excellent. Some fans of the series have complained about the gay undertones and indeed there are some but it isn´t all that bad and some of those part were perhaps important to the story in a way. Overall a scary and an enjoyable horror flick that isn´t near as bad as everyone has said and is indeed a perfect rent for a lonely movie night. Check it out.7.5/10  "}{"Title":"The 2nd Dreamers","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember when i saw A nightmare on elm street part 2 when i saw it after 1985. This was released a year after the 1st nightmare on elm street when that was released in 1984. The 2nd nightmare on elm street is set in the same elm street house, a different family and it's 5 years after the other family. "},{"Title":"Reasonable Sequel","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 is a reasonable sequel. I think it is fair to say that all movie fans have preconceived notions about sequels, particularly horror sequels. We all wonder whether lightning will strike twice and I did the same myself for this film given that the first Nightmare on Elm Street film was brilliant.Before I first watched this film in the 80's, I had preconceived notions. Where were Heather Langenkemp and John Saxon? Why a change of cast? However, when you think about it, most sequels suffer because they basically rehash everything from the original. The producers of this film tried to do something different for which they deserve to be commended.Mark Patton plays Jesse Walsh, a young schoolkid who has moved into the house where Heather Langenkemp lived in the original. Five years has elapsed since the events of the first film and Jesse is being plagued by dreams involving a man in a fedora with razor-finger gloves. That's right-Freddy is back. This time however, he has a different plan. In the first film, he was stalking the dreams of the children whose parents had murdered him. In this installment, he is concentrating his energy on Jesse Walsh and attempting to enter into the real world by taking over Jesse's body.There are quite a few scary scenes in the film if you're a horror fan like me who is willing to suspend your disbelief when viewing. There's a scene at a party which really is the best part of the film. And Mark Patton and his co-stars do a good job with their characters.Like all horror movies, the ending is a bit ambiguous as the lines between fantasy and reality become blurred and you're wondering whether what is happening is real or all in the mind of one of the characters; but horror has it's own reasons for doing things. One thing I think horror fans in particular and movie fans in general do wrong is that they analyze movies too much; I have been guilty of the same thing at times. If you analyze a film too much it rids you of any enjoyment. With a film like this, it's just best to sit back and let Mr. Krueger take you for a scary ride. "},{"Title":"Ah, not bad! Good, actually!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Freddy's return in this movie is not surprising considering the ending of the first movie. A whole new tale with a new twist and some really cool scenes that stick in your mind. Many people don't like it, but I don't know why. It has plenty of scares and surprises and it's a proud member of the original trilogy.  "},{"Title":"The Best Nightmare film!!","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some sequels top their originals. Freddy's Revenge definitely beats the first film by a long shot, cuz its more scary and Freddy is so much more terrifying than the other films. Another cool aspect is while the other films have Freddy portrayed as a stand alone killer, this entry has the dream killer in a more psychological aspect in that he has to possess a person to continue his evil spree, thus creating a more haunting tale than all the others. This also, in my opinion, is the darkest of the elm street series, especially the climactic pool party scene in which Freddy chillingly claims You are all my children Now! one of his best quotes. the acting by Patton and Meyers is excellent, and Robert Englund turns Freddy into a more menacing fiend than the last film. Strongly recommended. The Best Of The Series! "},{"Title":"Freddy possesses 1428 Elm St's new tenant to have him do his dirty work","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This sequel is better than the original Nightmare, contrary to popular and critical opinion - sure it has a couple of cheesy parts, but when you watch the first one, you find that there are many more cheesy parts than in Part 2. Part 2 is also scarier and has better acting. Heather Langenkamp is good in the first one, but overall, 2 is superior in acting and in creep effect. It has a darker storyline, and the two lead actors Mark Patton and Kim Myers are very good in adding to the overall creepiness of the story with their very convincing performances. I think Part 2 is the scariest of all seven of the Nightmare movies - but, on an overall objective scale, New Nightmare is probably the best-made of them all... But 2 is the most entertaining, especially if you're a horror fan! Also, Kim Myers is great! "},{"Title":"Great Job","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think this film is very good, not as the first one but very good. Freddy is darker than part 3-6 and it's cool. The story is quite good and original. Robert Englund has done a very great job like in the six others. If Wes Craven would worked on this movie, the movie would be almost perfect. I rate this film  ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"The Second Entry (Dun-dun-duh)","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why in God's name did this film get a four? I don't understand it! Okay, so it's not as good as the first one, but it's really close. If we were to compare the parts of the film, it would look something like thisBeginning Nightmare 1 wins here. It's more mysterious than 2. In 1 Tina's in a boiler room with Fred Krueger scratching his knives on things. In 2 Jesse's on a bus and suddenly Krueger's driving and they're on some sort of pillar with lava below them. Middle I don't want to retell every part of both movies, so I'll just tell you who wins Number 1, but not by a whole lot, sort of a 10-9 thing. 1 has more suspense, 2 has more plot development and explains things better. But in 1, we care about the characters more. And that's why it wins.End That would go to 2. The climax is more exciting. In 1 the ending kind of sucked, with bringing Krueger into the real world with Nancy putting traps all over the place... Yeah, it was nor so good. But in 2 he comes into the real world and starts killing kids at a party. It was way better.I really don't have to retell the plot because everybody else has told it correctly, so I'll just give my recommendation SEE THIS MOVIE!  "},{"Title":"Underrated.....","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recently watched this film for the first time in a while. Originally, as a kid, I liked this, but then I didn't really have much ability to discern between this or any other Freddy film.Later, a couple of years ago, I revisited the movie and it seemed so bad I couldn't even watch all of it. The acting was appaling, it wasn't scary, there was 80s cheese everywhere, and it just didn't click.I just watched it again however, and my opinions have really flipped. I honestly enjoyed it. I think the concept is actually quite good. Sure, there is some loss of logic when Freddy eventually does come into the real world, but its all rather ambiguous and open to interpretation anyway if it weren't, what kind of a film would it be?This episode of the Elm Street saga lacks that famous music that marks the first (and rest) of the films. Instead, it features a rather standard horror movie strings score that works rather effectively. While it isn't traditionally scary, the music (and quite masterful camerawork at times) really works to create a feeling of unease.So the lead actor is a pretty shoddy actor, and there is a little bit too much 80s trash involved, but this is an admirable attempt to take the Freddy motif to the next level. Certainly the themes of abandoned teenagers, middle America and sexual maturation are all evident here, and it certainly 'feels' in the same vein as the first. If anything, this film is the most in keeping with the spirit of the original Nightmare On Elm Street than any of the other sequels, even if it does disobey the cardinal rule of Freddy he exists ONLY in our dreams.It worked quite well for me.(It must be mentioned however that those theories that this film is a metaphor for a young male coming to terms with his homosexuality are REMARKABLY well founded. The film-makers still claim to this day that this was completely unintentional...when you watch this film though, it will seem like the biggest coincidence you have ever encountered.) "},{"Title":"something people seem to be missing about this film...","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  am i the only one who's noticed the blatant homosexual undercurrent to this movie? that along with the occasional splattergore was the only thing that made this watchable.let me see here, where to begin? something is inside jesse walsh, it's an ugly dark side that wants to come out? this inner demon makes him in one scene run to a leather bar wherein he sees his obviously s+m inclined coach, in another run from his girlfriend's exposed breasts to his best friend's bedroom? short of writing gay on a 2x4 and smacking the viewer on the head with it, this is the most.... errr... ham-handed piece of sublime gay cinema to ever enter the mainstream horror genre.other than that, i would only recommend this movie to the people who've already seen it for the obvious reasons, i.e., nightmare on elm street fans and people looking for a slapstick (oooops!) gross out film. and perhaps my sociology-for-english-students-103 assistant professor who could find the homosexual undertones in a head of lettuce. good in a few ways, but wretched in most. "},{"Title":"Original Story Doesn't Try To Cash In On Part 1","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've got to praise Jack Sholder for taking the Freddy Krueger character into another direction. This film was in no way like Part 1, in this, Freddy tries to use the new kid on the block, Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) to do his dirty-work for him. Patton does a good job of going bonkers during the film. Some comic relief is added by Clu Gulager as Jesse's No-Nonsense Father (There must be a rational explanation for the bird exploding into flames), and Robert Rusler as High School friend Ron Grady. The film has a dark premise and the Pool Party scene kicks *ss! This film may not have had Wes Craven, but I thought it was the Fourth best in the series (Under part 1, 3 and New Nightmare). If you want edge-of-your-seat, nail-biting terror, then check out this classic.  "}{"Title":"Freddy´s Revenge","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is very underrated and I just can´t stand it when people are bashing it. It has its own style, mood and direction, the music score is different but the film stays true to the original story and works really well. The special effects are also good, it is scary and a good plot. This film is however not as good as the first one but is in my humble opinion the second best Nightmare On Elm Street film and has been overlooked by many who believe the third picture ( which is just special effects and nothing else to be a lot better). The second may perhaps distract some people because it is a bit cheesy but overall a good sequal that has yet to be discovered and taken for what it is not what it isn´t. 7/10.  "},{"Title":"You'll have a gay ol' time!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you ask me, I think this sequel is highly underrated. It takes a new and different direction from the first, while still staying true to the original story. In this movie, Freddy is possessing a repressed teenage homosexual by the name of Jesse, who has just moved into Nancy's old house on Elm Street. He is trying to use Jesse's body to get into the real world and spread his terror. This film is fun because we get to watch Jesse go completely insane, all while dealing with subliminal hints of homosexuality. Jesse wanders into gay-bars, he dreams of his coach naked, he ditches his girlfriend to stay the night with his best (male) friend. Yep, this sure is a gay movie, but unless you're a homophobe, this shouldn't be a problem. A lot of people get hung up on the gay factor, but if you can just ignore it, accept it, whatever, you will find a really great movie. It is unlike most sequels. It's still fresh and Freddy is still creepy. The gore & special effects are superb. The acting is awful, but who cares. Open your mind a little bit and let this movie in. It's a movie that all Nightmare on Elm Street fans can appreciate. In the meantime, just try to be a little more accepting of other people's sexual preferences, Mmmmkay? "},{"Title":"answer to Zeptron","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Freddy took Jesse because he lives in his house! I think this movie wasn't that bad. Sadly, they didn't explain the ending of the first one and there was not enough dream scenes. I think this movie is better than 4,5,6 and maybe even 3 and 7. Freddy was scarier than in the following sequel. Too bad Wes Craven didn't write it. "},{"Title":"A Highly Under-appreciated Nightmare sequel","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After reading several reviews for Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge, most of which being quite poor, I was a bit wary whether or not to see this film. However, upon seeing it, this sequel to Wes Craven's hit scare-fest wasn't nearly as bad as what many critics make out.The story focuses a Jesse, a young teenager. His family moved into the house vacated by the main character of the original and, sure enough, weird things start to happen. Jesse is possessed by the soul of a deceased child-killer Freddy Kruger, and Freddy uses Jesse to kill the children of Elm Street. According to fans, the main reason for the hatred of Freddy's Revenge is because that this film wasn't consistent with the first. Freddy is too dark a character (he plays almost a satanic force in this film) and there are too many homosexual themes running through the movie. This I found barely noticeable and didn't detract from the story whatsoever.In short, this sequel to Nightmare on Elm Street is only marginally worse than the first. The special effects are quite terrific and there are some very bloody murders at the hand of Freddy Kruger's trademark knives, along with some genuine scares. However, if I was to fault this film, it would have to be its pace. Be warned - it is quite slow at times but, when it takes off about half way through the film, it is relentless. The film has been recently released on DVD in Australia, along with the original and third film, and is rated MA 15+ for strong horror violence after being rerated from its original R 18+ rating.I would rank the film an 8.5 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Not a bad sequel.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A nightmare on elm street started off a trio of these series,and the second one in the series doesn't do a bad job.This time another family have moved into the house and the son (Jesse),is stalked by Freddy and Freddy becomes him.A nightmare on elm street 2 isn't bad on all stages,I have to admit,it has its flaws,but it kept me entertained for a couple of hours. Freddy isn't as scary but there is the idea of the school bus which I found creative.I would reccomend buying this if you're trying to get hold of the collection,if not,don't. I rate 3/5. "},{"Title":"Slightly undervalued effort which has some enjoyable elements","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Moving into a new house on Elm Street, a teens' recurring nightmares about a scarred boogeyman are leading him to be the personal target of Freddy Krueger's resurrection and forces his friends to stop it from happening again.This one wasn't all that bad but is a slightly lower sequel. When this one works it's mostly about the individual, isolated scenes in here rather than working as a whole, and several of those scenes are quite a bit of fun. The beginning on the school-bus is a great way to start a movie and keep those from the first one remembering who Freddy is driving the panicked kids out into the desert where the ground gives way and he stalks them while left atop a dangerous looking precipice, the scenes of Freddy tormenting him and psychologically going after him and his family as well as how he becomes part of the possession is all kinds of fun The party scene, which is the film's great highlight, is definitely all sorts of fun here with the realistic way it plays out, from the house stalking and then out among the guests which is what really makes this one fun with all sorts of great action chasing them around and getting the panic of the scene down nicely, Also really great is that Freddy becomes a bit more of a psychological villain here,taking a little bit longer to start his rampage, but gets a great rampage full of great and interesting kills. Among the best is when Freddy emerges from another body by slashing his way through the abdomen and then walking through, with the shredded remains falling off of Krueger's back and shoulders. It looks bloody and painful, just the way it should be if Freddy Krueger was trying to escape from inside someone, and it also featured a couple cool ideas that add to the overall realness of it. Along with the fun finale in the chemical plant, there's a lot to like here over it's few flaws. The main issue here is the fact that it spends so long on building up the psychological aspects of him being targeted that there's hardly any action or kills for the first fifty minutes. It's still interesting but hardly really as fast-paced as it could've been as it has to deal with his psychological issues. Also, I think the redesigned facial make- up of Krueger is dreadful. It looks like his skin is even more fried than before, and I don't like it all that much. I miss the great looking make-up from the first film he looked really creepy in that one. Here, it really doesn't do the trick. Still, beyond these issues there's not a whole lot else really wrong here.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, rear male Nudity, and a clothed sex scene. "},{"Title":"It's bad but Freddy just stalks a confused teenage boy.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is a bad movie not because the main character is gay but simply it's really boring. Freddy is the best part about the film like he should since every one else in the film sucks there is no Nancy but she is referenced and the acting sucked. Now I would say Dream warriors is the best and superior Nightmare sequel but yet another problem in the film is Freddy's motive which is just strange.So the plot involves a teen who has a lot of bad dreams involving Freddy who later on we find out is trying to use the teen to get back in the real world. After he was killed in the first and this is his way of coming back after dying.The film is bad simply because it's slow and boring but it is a movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"Actually grew on me over time.","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let me start by saying for awhile, this film competed with Part 6(Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare) for worst in the series. Then after a few more views of it and the rest of the series, it flip- flopped with Part 5(The Dream Child) as the second worst.Having re-watched the entire series in a marathon over a couple of days, I finally came to terms with this film. There's much to praise, probably as much as there is to denounce. The positive aspects include the dark tone. Freddy would never be as dark and serious as he was in the first two films. True, there were flickers of humor in his mannerisms and actions, but it never went all-out comedy. Another positive aspect I've come to enjoy is the homosexual subtext. The idea that Freddy represents the main character's repressed sexuality fighting it's way out. Growing up, I found this laughable, but the more I think about, the more I realize fighting homosexuality, being closeted, resisting the urges in order to keep yourself safe in a society that is still not 100% okay with who you are is terrifying. And in the '80s with the AIDS scare being new and heavily labeled as a gay-only disease, this must've really struck a chord with some people. That's horror. It's a real feeling. And though it takes the gay tones a bit too far to the camp side at times, that's what horror of the '80s was known for. A blend of camp and terror. Another thing to enjoy about the film is that even though they had a completely new cast and characters, they still found a way to link it to the first. Had this film been critically successful, I don't think I would've minded the franchise becoming a stream of sequels about different teens moving into the house and discovering Freddy in new and terrifying ways. With the exception of Dream Warriors and New Nightmare, it would've been far superior to the trash we would've ended up with.BUT as much as I enjoy things about this film, there's still too much wrong with it for me to thoroughly enjoy as a great entry in the series. I'm not going to talk about how things in this film were against the rules of the series because at the time, the series did not exist so it wasn't breaking any rules. Freddy got into the real world in part 1, there's no reason he shouldn't be able to through other means. The pool party I do not dislike for Freddy being in the real world. I dislike the party because I did not know a single thing about any of those teens. No names, no characteristics, nothing. This film could've used 3 or 4 more characters with some development to kill off rather than throw in a pool scene that seemed only to be made to make sure the body count wasn't the dramatically low 3 it would've been without it. Probably one of the bigger reasons I can't love this film is the way Freddy was defeated, which is actually a lot closer to the first film that most people seem to think. Cheesy, a bit overacted, not that climactic.So, after years and years of having this film sit with a 1 star rating on IMDb, I bump it up to a mediocre 5. "},{"Title":"Quickie Review A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The main problem with Elm Street 2 is that it isn't really an Elm Street movie. The plot has a teenager called Jesse who is being terrorised by Kruger in his dreams. So far so good. Jessie begins to feel more isolated from the people around him as none of them understand his situation. Fascinating. Then Kruger ends up possessing Jesse and uses him to slash teens at pool parties and whip away at naked PE teachers in the showers. Huh? What? That's not how Kruger operates. That's some evil-twin Patrick Swayze Ghost stuff going on there. Plus it completely deviates from the rules about what Freddy can and can't do. Ah well, at least Freddy's Revenge had the guts to be different. The gay overtones and subtexts annoyingly take centre stage in this film. It's less of horror movie about a nightmare boogie man and more of a drama about a teen coming to terms with his sexuality. Surely different material could have been used as a springboard for such a story? Whatever Freddy's Revenge did, Dr Jekyll and Mister Hyde did it better.Best Scene I guess the bus ride in the opening was worth watching. Plus it was a chance to see Robert Englund without three layers of latex smacked on his face. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 why everything has been changed.","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The number of Horror movies I've watched consists of movies made during my generation, never thinking that the older movies from the 80's or 90's would be Horrific at all. Watching A Nightmare on Elm's Street put that falsified thought process to shame. Like Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho, Wes Craven's ability to have the viewers questioning at the first scene of the movie, leads you in knowing that this will be an intriguing film. Seeing that Wes Craven didn't direct this movie you can see the differences in why it didn't do as well.  A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge the sequel to A Nightmare on Elm Street, makes some questionable changes to the original film not only do all of the main character's change, and not only is the plot completely different, but Freddy Krueger's motives and abilities are fundamentally different from the original film. When you think of a sequel you think of the same characters, the same villain, and a twist that will differentiate it from the previous movies. Throughout all the Harry Potter movies the main characters stay the same, the Lord of the Ring movies have all the same main characters. Each movies plot changes a significant amount but it changes with the characters.A Nightmare on Elm Street challenges the progress of this franchise Freddy's motives and powers change. Freddy's motives in the first movie is to torment and pick off his victims one by one, in this movie he starts out only infiltrating the minds of the teenagers through there dreams; causing disorientation by him appearing in realistic scenarios, until he can take over there body. Freddy is the component of the dream that leaves you petrified and perplexed. Freddy, before he was burned to death, was a child serial killer who wants to continue his work. Once Freddy captures the character's mentality he feeds off the fear they have of him. Nancy is the only one capable of stopping Freddy, in the second movie Freddy's motives have become more physical. As Freddy torments Jesse in his dreams his vulnerability becomes Freddy's access point to his body, abusing it to get his dirty work done. Freddy is able to control Jesse, soon enough he is able to take over Jesse's body. No longer is he just trying to pick off his victims in there nightmares he is wanting to take over Jesse's body to murder people in the real world. Throughout the horror franchise we see the powers and motives of villains increase as sequels continue to be made.  A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge challenges the expectations that the horror franchise has built for decades. The change in this movie is significant enough that if you were to watch this movie without watching the first Nightmare on Elm Street you would be able to follow along. With the change in characters and plot you wouldn't have ever known that the first one was made. The deviation of continuity in the first movie to the sequel seems to be broken, small similarities keep it going but even Freddy was changed which was the biggest effect on its continuity. "}{"Title":"You are all My Children now","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Shortly after the Walsh family move into Nancy Thompson's old house on Elm Street, their eldest son Jesse begins to experience horrific nightmares. He frequently dreams that a man named Freddy Krueger is trying to possess his body in order to use him to commit his murders in the real world.When Jesse starts sleepwalking and finding himself waking up at the scenes of very real murders he believes he is losing his mind.With the support of his girlfriend Lisa and Nancy's old diary documenting her own struggles with Freddy, he investigates the sinister truth behind Freddy's history with Elm Street and tries to find a way to defeat him before he takes him over for good.I must admit I have no idea how to rate this movie. As a Nightmare on Elm Street movie, it kind of sucks. Like Part III of the Halloween movies, Freddy's Revenge is very much the black sheep of the Nightmare franchise, following almost none of 'rules' established in the rest of the series. During some parts of the movie, Jesse isn't even asleep when 'things' start happening to him, and at one point, in the form of Freddy, he unleashes an attack on a pool party in full view of a group of very wide awake teenagers.You could pretty much replace Freddy with a generic monster and not lose anything from the story.However if you look upon it as a standalone horror movie about a teenage boy struggling to come to terms with his sexuality, it is far more interesting.I've heard conflicting things about whether or not the homo erotic themes in Freddy's Revenge were intentional or not. Frankly, the gay undertones are far too blatant for them not to be intentional, so I don't buy that they weren't written into the movie on purpose. The choice to not only have a male protagonist in a genre where the protagonist is usually female but also to cast an openly gay actor (Mark Patton) to play him was quite an unusual (and I believe, deliberate) choice. "},{"Title":"A bad sequel, but an OK movie in the slasher horror genre!","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take a bad underrated sequel horror film in the genre, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge (1985), oh boy. It is not the worst movie in the series but is not the greatest sequel either. It is very Underrated which I understand why because the film has a lot of problems. It is my at least favorite film. Even tough it is a bad sequel it still follows the roots from first movie with a different story, different idea,different cast and that is good. The first time that a boy was a main hero in A Nightmare on Elm Street franchise. In the rest of the sequels was always some girl as a hero. 4,5,6 and the remake (2010) are seriously the worst ones in the movies, the best one is Wes Craven's A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984). Freddy was still serious - not as much joking around and you feel for the main character - plus his girlfriend was smoking hot - didn't know he was bisexual. What can I say? I don't hate the film and I like it for a bit but that's it. I like the film because it follows the roots from the first film, It is mentioning Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) yes I am a Nancy Thompson fan! I love her very much and this film has respect to Nancy Thompson! While showing the diary and the telling the story's about her. Walsh family moved in to Thompson's house. That's what I like a bit this film. It is a horror film, Freddy kills a doesn't people, specially in the pool that was just awesome. Kim Myers as Lisa Webber was really smoking hot and she cared about Jesse. I like this film for it. Freddy stripped the coach down and killed him in that gay overtone because the coach was into some freaky sexual stuff, because I remember the coach being in leather and bondage looking clothes when he runs into Jesse.. So yeah Freddy killed him in an extreme version of what﻿ the coach liked. From the looks of the coach's bondage like clothes he had on you can assume he likes to be whipped and stuff like that. So his death scene was very fitting and that was awesome, I like that a lot. The love scene between Jesse and Lisa conger and defeating Freddy was amazing! The nightmare on the bus was just really extremely awesome even the ending scene was awesome. The film has major problems that I just don't like that. For most of the movie Freddy's Glove was missing and they had to use the blades on his fingers. Reportedly it was stolen after filming and they had to scramble to make a replacement. They should have watch for that glove. Wes Craven refused to work on this film because he never wanted or intended A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) to become an ongoing franchise (and even wanted the first film to have a happy ending), and also because he didn't like the idea of Freddy manipulating the protagonist into committing the murders. I agree with that, why the main hero has to get him self into been manipulated and go murdering people around? That's just not right and it is wrong in my opinion. The film was too short and it become a little boring by time to time. I didn't like the gay scenes including the couch who was a molester and a gay in this film. I am glad Freddy killed him. The story had potential, but it just failed. The part where Jesse runs into gym teacher at the s&m bar and then he brings him back to the school and has him do laps and makes him take a shower, after he was tired. Looks like he was prepping Jessie for ass rape. That was the worst gay scene in the movie ever and it hurt the film so much! Anyway with all the problems in the movie, the story did work well. Freddy in this film is at his darkest plus the make up FX by Kevin Yagher on Freddy made him look more and scary then I ever seen him look in any of the films after this one. It had a very good cast and effects and you finally saw Freddy's whole face it was a nice sequel. I think Jack Sholder did a great direction debut I don't think, he did a terrible job which he didn't. Robert Englund did a great job in this film, that is one of the reason the film isn't the worst than other sequels are. It is at least my favorite horror slasher film because it really did had a potential and it failed. It was OK sequel tough, but still a bad one and I have a lot of respect for Mark Patton cheers for him!!! Anyway I am giving this film a 6. rating even tough it deserves less. A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge is a 1985 American slasher horror film and the second film in the Nightmare on Elm Street film series. The film was directed by Jack Sholder and stars Mark Patton, Kim Myers, Robert Rusler and Robert Englund as Freddy Krueger.6/10 Grade C Studio New Line Cinema Starring Mark Patton, Kim Myers, Robert Rusler, Clu Gulager, Hope Lange, Robert Englund Director Jack Sholder Producer Robert Shaye Writer David Chaskin Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 27 Mins. Budget $2.200.000 Box Office $30.000.000 "},{"Title":"Subtext satisfies, scares demise","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge comes as a surprise for anyone expecting the series to keep with its reality-bending, surrealist brand of horror that Wes Craven pioneered for the first film. However, little did people know at the time of its release, this is the film that would hereby kickoff a series of sequels to the classic 1984 film by playing musical directors, with New Line Cinema acquiring new directors and writers to to etch their own sort of spin on Craven's classic, dream-haunter.Out of all the Nightmare on Elm Street sequels, the first one has a chance at being the most substantial one in the regard that the subtext is more interesting than anything in the way of character relations or legitimate scares. In addition, it also may be the slowest eighty-two minute film I've ever watched, taking its time building up its situation in a way that doesn't feel like the slowburn pacing Craven used for the first film as much as it feels like being just plain slow.The story revolves around Jesse (Mark Patton), who has been waking up soaked in his own sweat for the past several weeks, worrying his family and his best friend Lisa (Kim Myers). Little does anyone, let alone Jesse, know that he is being haunted by Freddy Krueger, the same demon who terrorized Nancy and her friends in the previous film. The shakeup to the story this time around is that Freddy doesn't exactly haunt his victims in their sleep as much as he serves as a repressed identity or sensation - or like a closeted skeleton, ambiguity intended - for Jesse. The repressed identity in question is homosexual and the gay subtext is so blatant in A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 that you could probably watch the film with the sound off and probably get it. Jesse now has the choice to confront the metaphorical and physical demon inside of him as he slowly eats away at his confidence and his mental health throughout the course of the film.A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 gets considerable subversive points for being a film that dared to feature a significant level of homoeroticism - including a scene in an S&M bar as well as a clearly homosexual murder - in a narrative where you'd least expect. If nothing else, this is where Freddy became less a nightmarish boogeyman that just seemed to appear in one's head out of nowhere and more a metaphorical albatross that contributed to the slow and painful deterioration of a young person over time.Director Jack Sholder and writer David Chaskin do all they can to give this gay subtext weight, and the film largely remains interesting for that one idea. To boot, Chaskin infuses one of the best scenes of the franchise, which is the opening sequence here, taking place on your average school bus ride through a typical suburban neighborhood. The nonchalant, unassuming nature of the film that slowly descends into a dimly lit, grim suburban nightmare is the perfect visual representation for the series itself, and cinematographers Jacques Haitkin and Christopher Tufty make this scene's escalation slow and delightfully unexpected.Through all the unexpectedness that Sholder and Chaskin manage to create, they do, however, forget the most fundamental inclusion to the narrative that, if anything, is the most expected and that's making this a horror film. A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 is so depressingly mild and largely devoid of scares that it makes everything else questionable as a result. There's no validity to the suspense, nor the immersive buildup here that was in the first film, so what entails is a film that has a real identity crisis in terms of whether or not it caters to substance or caters to its genre.A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge pleasantly takes the series in a different, deeper direction, but its lack of scares and sudden change of rules as to how and why Freddy haunts his victims is a bit jarring, especially when Freddy is such a non-character in his own film.Starring Mark Patton Kim Myers, Robert Englund, and Robert Rusler. Directed by Jack Sholder. "},{"Title":"Possession is nine-tenths of the law.","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge is the runt of the Elm Street litter. It was unfortunate to be the sequel to a landmark horror film, a film that birthed one of the ultimate horror icons whilst having at its core a terrifying premise. A premise that was superbly executed by all involved in the first film. Part 2 bravely tried to advance the bogeyman story to another level, to one of possession, which in hindsight was a mistake.There's also the mixed tonal flow and confused intents that hamper the pic. Whilst the young members of the cast are too blank to garner the required amount of sympathy to get us to care about their plight, especially lead lad Mark Patton as Jesse Walsh. However, there is still a lot to like here, some striking imagery grabs the attention and it is not without some unnerving scares.The debates about what metaphors the makers were going for still exist, and that homo-erotic sheen is never going to go away, but even though it's an average Elm Street movie, it's not as dreadful as it was first painted. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Really bad","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I never thought much of the Elm Street series - it always seemed silly and goofy to me. I just liked to see the nightmares bits for their special effects - most of them were laughable, while others were pretty good and imaginative.I haven't seen this particular sequel in over 20 years, but it's just as bad as I remembered it. Even if you ignore all the gay elements in this movie, it's still really bad. The writing and performance of almost everyone in the cast is just terrible and that's enough to ruin the movie.The plot change of Freddy possessing the lead actor to kill for him just doesn't fit the main idea the original movie or the rest of this (bad) series. But at least Freddy is not nearly as goofy as they made him in the following sequels.There are only two good elements in this movie Christopher Young's score (which is almost always a treat) and some of Kevin Yagher's makeup effects.Sequels ranking 3>4>2>7>6>5 "},{"Title":"Just outweighed by a few major flaws","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The original 1984 classic film was a huge success and 2 years later, in 1985, we got our very first Nightmare on Elm Street sequel, titled A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 2 Freddy's Revenge. The film was a box-office success, but it received a negative critical reaction from fans and audiences.This is not a horrible film, but the direction and execution that it took could have done a lot better. The story is the first big problem the film takes place five years after the events of the 1984 original and the new character is a jerk. He does not even try to be a nemesis to Krueger.The other problem is Jesse. He's not Nancy Thompson. He was meant to be different, but it does not show in this film as he is being controlled by Freddy Krueger until he comes back in the real world through Jesse. The character of Jesse is just confusing and boring as hell. His girl screaming does not make this any better.On the positive side, I like the idea of Freddy Krueger needing to be possess someone to get stronger again. Freddy is also different here. He is no longer sneaking in shadows, he is just sneaky. Him controlling Jesse to get the kids afraid again, that shows nicely. He kills kids and in full view of people he kills, he just kills them, but the next movie he would be a less serious and more comedic Freddy Krueger, which I will get to.I will get to the acting. The acting is just dreadful, but the only performance that is worth mentioning is Robert Englund as Freddy Kreueger, and he does good job in the last fifteen minutes of the film. Mark Patton as Jesse is just dreadful, his performance was so over the top that I almost wanted to just take this movie out of the DVD player, but I could not because I wanted to see Freddy Krueger.The rest of the stuff in the movie is alright, but like I said the acting is just dreadful and Robert Englund really saved me from hating this movie.Overall, A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 2 FREDDY'S REVENGE does a few things right, but is just outweighed by a few major flaws. Now, if Wes Craven would have directed and written this one too, the movie would have been fine. "},{"Title":"Freddy Is Back For More.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Freddy returns for more horror in this sequel to the 1984 hit film. This time Freddy stalks the dreams of new kid Jesse. Jesse and his family move into the old house that Nancy Thompson lived in five years before.Jesse starts becoming interested in the story of Elm Street after finding a diary belonging to Nancy. Not only does Jesse have a hard time fitting in, but he also has that pesky Krueger to worry about. This story is quite different from the first Nightmare, as Freddy does something different. If you enjoyed the first one, you might like this one. It's nothing like the first. Some would call this sequel mediocre, but it is unique. This movie marks the beginning of Freddy's quirky one liners that will continue throughout the series. "},{"Title":"Terrible, just awful","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Being a huge fan of the first one (gave it 10/10) it kinda hurts to say this but I would be a coward if I didn't, but this is one of the worst movies I have seen in years, maybe ever. First complaint the tone is so wrong in this movie. While the original Nightmare had that feel of being dark and gritty throughout, this one just feels like a massive 80's cheese-fest orgy. Also, the dialogue between the characters doesn't seem to make any sense and Jesse's acting just makes it worse. OHH the acting, it is beyond terrible. It's definitely worse than porn. I just said that, and I mean it. Also it seems like there are A LOT of gay sexual tones and the main character's terrible acting just makes it even worse. Freddy barely shows up in this one and when he does, it is truly forgettable. Definitely worth skipping this one, I hope the other Nightmares make up for this abomination against humanity. "},{"Title":"Do you like 'short shorts?'","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, if you ever have a small appreciation for short shorts, then you'll get an added bonus out of Part II of the long-standing horror franchise. Because, believe it or not, the film was written with a 'homosexual subtext' and, if you look closely, you may just spot it.I don't know whether that's the main reason why people think that Part II is probably the most inferior of all the sequels, but there's many an Elm Street fan who skips this one over the rest. However, I can't really get the hate.We join Freddy in his seemingly never ending quest to do away with the children of America by invading their dreams. Here though, he needs a helping hand from an unwitting teenage boy called Jessie, who the spiky-fingered one regularly takes over (or 'has' as Jessie desperately puts it) when he wants the boy to do his murderous bidding. Part II was made before Freddy became such a figure of fun. In the later movies there's far more tongue in cheek moments. Here, it's pure horror. Perhaps people don't like this one because Freddy doesn't invade so many dreams, choosing to inhabit a mortal boy instead and make him do the killing (technically).It does have a different 'feel' to it among the rest of the franchise. The series' creator, Wes Craven, came back on board for Part III to 'steer it back to its original direction.' But, if you're a fan (and you don't mind seeing plenty of teenage boys in short shorts) then you might want to overlook the hate and check it out to see whether you agree. There are some pretty horrific moments included where the (non CGI) special effects really are quite good.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Bold themes running through this slasher sequel.","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's been a few years since Freddy Krueger first returned from the dead and began killing teenagers in their dreams. Then he was defeated by Nancy Thompson, who pulled him into the waking world for a final showdown. Now he's back for some&#x85; revenge?Bizarrely, even though Freddy's motivation from the get-go has been revenge and all the other films in the series are specifically about Freddy's Revenge, this is the only one that isn't. Freddy usually targets the Elm Street children, the surviving children of the parents who first killed him, but here he pick on the new family has moved into Nancy's old house.Still, this is a very minor gripe, as this is the first sequel and the series could have gone in any direction at this point. What the film makers decided to do with this one ended up being unique, and has a lot more going for it than your average slasher sequel.Freddy's plan this time is to inhabit the body of his primary victim, Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) whose family has moved into the house. In his first face-to-face encounter with Jesse, Freddys says 'I've got the brains, and you've got the body.' Cue some classic Freddy body horror as he rips apart his skull to expose his brain.This means that Freddy spends more time breaking into the real world to kill people in the flesh than he does setting up the elaborate and ironic dream sequences that would come to define the rest of the series. He slowly takes over Jesse's body to achieve this, creating a more potent and personal journey than characters in other Nightmare films experience. This film is about Jesse's dilemma, and his feelings of confusion and isolation.Specifically, this is that Freddy's manipulation of his body represents a latent homosexuality, which Jesse is confused and terrified by, and as a result resists. He exhibits self-hatred, and is continually torn between whether his actions are the result of an uncontrollable possession, or something else inside himself.Certainly the openly gay actor Mark Patton and screenwriter David Chaskin have acknowledged these themes. Director Jack Sholder was apparently naïve to this, and unwittingly accentuated the subtext when surrendering to the movie's naturally camp aesthetic.There are many scenes in the film which suggest this, most significantly the death of Jesse's gym coach, who he runs into in a leather bar. The coach comes across as very predatory, forcing Jesse back to school to run laps. Jesse/Freddy's response to this is to strip ad whip the coach in the showers, before killing him with Freddy's glove.Not only is the main character in the film a male, but the only characters who die in this film are male. This is a significant reversal of the established slasher formula. The only major female character in the film is Jesse's girlfriend Lisa. They never consummate their relationship the way they might in a bawdier slasher movie, although it is their love for each other which eventually defeats Freddy.Another recurring motif is of heat, which could tie into the film's other theme to represent an increasing heat of sexuality. During some of the film's few dream sequences, Jesse experiences intense heat as objects in his room, such as vinyl records and candles, melt around him. The film is bookended by dreams where Freddy appears as a bus driver and drives Jesse's school bus through the desert and into what looks like hell.In the real world, the house's thermostat is broken, and the toaster bursts into flames. Finally, in a hilarious and surprising real world event, the family's lovebirds become crazed and cause chaos in the living room before exploding in a ball of flame.A highlight of the Nightmare on Elm Street series is its role as an '80s time capsule, more so than other slasher franchises, and this instalment is no exception. Notable moments include Jesse's room-cleaning montage wearing ridiculous sunglasses, and the pool party scene, in which Freddy appears to wreak havoc and terrorise the partygoers en masse. I also love Jesse's car, 'The Dinosaur,' a beaten-up convertible that he has to hotwire every time he wants to start it.In conclusion, there is something very complex running through this film. The fact that such feelings manifest themselves as Freddy and are ultimately destroyed could be seen to undermine this film's exploration of sexuality by suggesting it is something that is destructive and must be defeated. It could be that Freddy represents not overt homosexuality, but a general teenage confusion surrounding sexuality. Defeating Freddy therefore means Jesse has reconciled his confusion and acknowledged his feelings for Lisa. "}{"Title":"I can't believe I'm saying this, but this movie really works","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first time I saw 'A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2' was in 1988, when I was 14 or so, at a friend's house. It scared the crap out of me, and as soon as it was over I ran home. Before now all I could remember about it was the opening scene with the school bus and the bit later on with the kid's tongue becoming a disgusting meaty thing, which at the time was just terrifying. I didn't expect much from rewatching the film all these years later, especially as I've seen the other sequels since and none of them are any good. I thought, honestly, that it would be crap.And it knocked me sideways. I'll be damned if it isn't an entirely effective horror movie. Surprisingly, shockingly and unexpectedly effective. Wow. Now I don't know whether this is in part because the feeling I had when I first saw it was somewhere in the back of my brain, if a weird kind of nostalgia was at work, but I didn't expect such a gripping experience full of genuinely unsettling imagery and an intense atmosphere. I'm in shock a little bit.One of the things that took me aback is just how much impact Freddy has in this movie. The character became so diluted over the course of the series that all sense of menace disappeared, replaced by rubbery make-up and a horror-negating habit of dispatching his victims with a crushingly unfunny one-liner. Here he's used sparingly, the make-up is suitably horrible, he's lit with style, and Robert Englund's performance is nothing like as hammy as in later films. Even his glove gave me the wiggins, what with the sound effects and all. Surprise number two is the sheer amount of freaky images in the movie the opening dream sequence, the bloody blades through the bedroom door, the pool party, Freddy ripping open his scalp, the monstrous rat and cat in the finale. (The tongue scene hasn't aged too well but it's still pretty creepy.) The movie has an escalating sense of sweaty dread, fuelled in part by Christopher Young's oppressive score, and I was on edge throughout. The cast may not be the best bunch of actors around but they certainly sell the sense that reality is coming apart at the seams, Mark Patton as lead character Jesse in particular.On another level entirely, it's fascinating just how homoerotic the movie is. Slasher movies traditionally rely on naked female flesh to get their sexual kicks, but here the emphasis is firmly on the boys, with many exposed and sweaty torsos, and the only nudity in the movie is a male backside getting slapped with a towel (in a bondage heavy death scene). The friendship between Jesse and Grady (Robert Rusler) is convincingly antagonistic but also has an undeniable undercurrent of something beyond platonic male bonding, unless we're supposed to take the scene where a tormented Jesse interrupts sex with his girlfriend to run to Grady's bedroom and beg his shirtless friend to let him sleep there at face value. It's genre bending stuff for a mainstream horror movie, let alone a horror sequel slapped together in the mid 1980s; apparently director Jack Sholder was none the wiser that writer David Chaskin had included this stuff on purpose, which seems weird considering how prominent it is. Sure, Freddy is eventually defeated by the power of heterosexual love (literally) but that doesn't negate the approach of the rest of the movie. The film isn't perfect. Jesse's family seem pretty happy to push aside such minor issues as an exploding bird, an unplugged toaster that catches fire, and their son arriving at the front door naked on the night his coach is murdered. Kim Myers gets her act together in time for the finale but until then is wet as anything. And to look at it all objectively, I suppose it is pretty cheesy and doesn't make much sense.But it really works, I can't deny it. I'll have to go back and watch the original again now. I didn't much like it before but who knows how much it might improve, given another chance? "},{"Title":"Not a terrible movie, but not as compelling as the original","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the original became a hit back at 1984, a sequel was needed and it became a hit as well despite the critical reception it received. I understand that fans hated it, but to me, I don't think it's as bad as everyone says it is. OK, it's not as compelling as the first, but it's a decent sequel.There are some problems that I do have. The story is thinly plotted and is not as solid as the original's story. The writing is terrible and it's not as scary as the first due to it's cheap frightening attempts.Aside from those flaws, there are some good stuff. The acting's not that bad and the make-up on Freddy is good. The scenery is great; the direction is fine and creates a suspenseful tension in it's moments; the death scenes are creative and the music score is decent with an atmospheric tone to it.Overall, A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge is a decent, if not a disappointing sequel to a classic that has a thin story and terrible writing, but it has it's atmospheric moments and a lot of creative stuff. I recommend this to those who haven't seen it, but due to what I've said before, fans might want to stick to the original and some of the sequels. "},{"Title":"Freddy's Revenge","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first time i watched this film, I hated it. Move on to several years later and now the second instalment is ranked second best in the series.The acting is on par with the original and so doesn't make it feel like a cheap spin-off and Freddy remains in his darker and sinister persona. The story attempts to try and do something different, showing very little of Freddy through out the film and instead focusing on the main protagonists struggles to keep Freddy from taking over his mind and body.Reasons why this film is lowly rated is probably because the innovative charm has worn out and the third instalment is nothing but Freddy killing off people in zany ways, something all people want too see in horror.But unlike the later sequels, this film stays close to the original and is creepier than any other NOES. The scene with Freddy emerging from the shower stream is one of the most memorable scene in horror. "},{"Title":"Underrated 80's Horror Sequel!","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Robert Englund, Mark Patton, Kim Myers, Robert Rusler, Marshall Bell, Clu Gulager and Hope Lange star in this 1985 horror sequel. This sequel picks up 5 years after the events of the original with burned Elm Street child-killer, Freddy Krueger (Englund) haunting new teen on Elm Street, Jesse Walsh (Patton). Jesse has just moved to Elm Street with his family and meets Lisa Poletti (Myers), a girl he drives to school with everyday. Freddy starts possessing Jesse to kill for him so he can come back to the world and as Lisa begins to care for Jesse, she learns what's happening to him and helps him face Freddy. Rusler plays Ron Grady, Jesse's new pal at school, Bell plays Coach Schneider and Lange and Gulager play Jesse's parents. I've always liked this sequel and think it's very underrated. Englund is great as Freddy and his make-up by Kevin Yagher is creepy. Patton also gives a very convincing performance as Jesse, he and Myers have good chemistry, Christopher Young's score is creepy and there's some neat special effects sequences. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Underrated Follow Up","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The plot = Five years after the events of the first movie, a new family moves into Nancy's old house, Jesse (Mark Patton) the new teen star in this movie starts to have nightmares but this time Freddy wants something else other than killing him, he wants to take over his body and be let out into the real world.Wow the 1980's was definitely the era of the franchises, Halloween and Friday The 13th were by this time already several entries into their franchises and along comes Freddy Kruger. Rare is it in someone's lifetime that a horror character is created that has such a profound and lasting impact on the genre. It certainly isn't likely to happen again in my lifetime.I have reviewed this movie before and gave it a 5, but after a while now I have warmed more towards it, okay it's not as great as the first one, but this is still a great Freddy movie. What I liked about this entry is that we get to see a whole lot more of FreddyWhile that is usually a recipe for disaster when it comes to sequels, the tone of Nightmare 2 is perfect. Freddy is still scary this time out, it's just that he's not overexposed as he was in the films that followed. We see him just enough to appreciate his menacing appearance and presence, but not enough to become bored. I know a lot has been said about the gay undertones of this movie (like the scene where Jesse is sleepwalking and walks into a S&M bar, and when he starts kissing his girlfriend he runs away and sleep over his best friend's house) but I found it a hoot and a half with some rather interesting and funny dialogue.The performances really balance this movie out well, Mark Patton (Jesse) really handles himself well and hits all the right emotional notes. Kim Meyers (Lisa) plays the sympathetic girlfriend really well for a relatively newcomer, Robert Rusler who I recognised from another 80's classic (Weird Science) plays it cool as the best friend and has all the best lines. Clu Gulager and Hope Lange played the parents really well they had wonderful chemistry together and they were the heart of this movie I thought, and lastly the true star of this movie Robert England Here, his Freddy swagger and line delivery were showcased much better than they were in the first film.All in all a highly underrated sequel that has been overshadowed through the years by the flashier entry's, but the fact is Freddy is still scary in this one and I easily prefer this one to Part 5 and Freddy's Dead. "},{"Title":"A strange, uneven sequel","Date":"9 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Here is a strange film with intense acting but poor continuity and some very, very odd moments that obviously weren't thought out beforehand. A family has moved into the house where Nancy was locked behind bars installed by her alcoholic mother. Strange things happen in the house and boy, one scene is quite creative. Probably won't see that again in another film. The teenage boy alternates between insomnia and bad dreams with night sweats. If I had been forced to see him entangled in his sweaty bedspread one more time I don't think I could have handled it. And what is it about the open, button down shirt all the time? That wasn't an 80's thing.Despite the flaws, of which there are many, the film has an eerie, creepy feel to it in a sort of distasteful way. Too bad that some of the acting is bad, even by Hope Lange. Even Freddy seems unsure as to what to do here. Kill? Stare? Stand still? Move? What? Gone are the campy moments from the original that make it so endearing and cult-like. Here, everything is played serious without any comedy. I would say that this is unique but some of the scenes are so odd that they sort of derail the story. "},{"Title":"Freddy's back to terrorize the Elm street children!","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was kind of good. There were lots of things that did disappoint me like the whole idea of Freddy coming into the real world through a teenager's nightmares,Nancy moving out of her home(due to her mom dying by Freddy), and the whole thing of Jesse Walsh turning into Freddy through his dreams. I did like Lisa(Jesse's girlfriend) trying to help Jesse get over the nightmare's and the deaths surrounding him but the whole movie was just bad. If I were anyone reading this review I suggest skipping the movie and watch the Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors because this movie has nothing to do with Nancy and Freddy battles or anything other than stalking a teenage boy struggling in Gym class and his life at Nancy's former home with his family who thinks that he is doing drugs or drinking alcohol. Take my advice watch the next film don't waste your time watching this. "},{"Title":"Not a bad sequel, but sincerely 2 is enough","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'Nightmare on Elm Street', the famous slasher film, gave birth to a large number of sequels. This is the 1st of many sequels. No need of watching more than this, seriously.The original might be a frightening start, but obviously this one goes farther. It has more blood, brutal violence and a cup of gross scenes that the original doesn't have. Freddy Krueger is back! And he's ready for more...Freddy Krueger's repulsive figure is better seen in this film. But his characteristic laughter remains the same.Freddy Krueger seems to be immortal. He just never dies! And why's that? To give continuity to many more of these films? Give me a break! Enough is enough!Despite the fact that this was directed by another person and contains a different cast (except for the guy who plays the evil Freddy Krueger), surprisingly it isn't very inferior to the original. Curiously, it takes place in the same locations (even the house is the same, except with other people living there now instead of Nancy). It takes place 5 years after the events of the original. "},{"Title":"Freddy takes revenge softly","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first time I saw this movie I thought it was a cheesy follow-up to the First Nightmare, adapted to a more teenaged taste in its attempt to get a higher gross at the box office. The main failure for this film is to break the rules that make its predecessor so great the leave out Freddy Krueger from its dreamland to the real world, turning him into an average psychopath and the movie itself into a conventional teen slasher, so the so much nightmarish imagery has no sense! In addition the story execution is sometimes boring, it seems that we are watching just an impertinent boy complaining and scream out loud like a girl than a group of friends suffering for dangerous nightmares. Anyway it is interesting to see for being the last time Krueger stops in the shadows, really frightening although far less than the 1st. The are some amazing scenes (the pool's party, the opening scene at the bus etc.) and the performances are good despite its even character development. The score is very good although I liked more the previous theme since it's the series signature music! Also interesting the supposed gay subtext (at least, the interpretations of some viewers agreeing that possibility seems to fit perfectly with the events of the film. In fact the main role played by Mark Patton looked very gay and I have heard the actor really is. That makes the movie a little more original. "},{"Title":"Roki Reviews NOAS Part 2 Freddy's Revenge","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Freddy's Revenge - the second (and commonly regarded as the worst) part of the Nightmare on Elm Street series is underrated. Continuing the tale of Freddy Krueger, a burned man wearing a glove with knives replacing the nails who kills people in their dreams, the setting takes place in the same house on Elm Street that Nancy lived in during the first part. The story takes place 5 years after the final events of the first part. Apparently, a new family has moved into Nancy's house &#x96; a teenager named Jesse Walsh, his parents and his younger sister. Jesse lives his life as most teenagers do, until he starts dreaming about Freddy Krueger. Soon enough, Jesse finds Nancy's diary that she apparently wrote during the first part of the series. There she explains her adventures, as Jesse starts to suspect that Krueger is not merely a part of his imagination. Jesse soon realizes that Freddy is killing people all around him by using his body, putting the blame on him. Jesse now has to fight Krueger who will stop at nothing to get his revenge on the children of Elm Street.Freddy's Revenge may very well be the darkest part of the series. There are often references to homosexuality and the audience has to live through the pain that Jesse feels as Krueger uses his body as a killing tool. The effects are better in this film than in the first part, making the images even more disturbing. The deaths are less creative in this film then in the other parts, but they are truly ruthless. The transformation that Jesse goes through is very graphic and creepy. Due to the gory moments and the tension that you feel between the kills, this movie is truly scary.Robert Englund seems to have grown into his role after the first film, as he does an even more astounding job in Part 2. The other actors are rather bad, but they do not ruin the film as in some other movies. Mark Patton (Jesse) seems to have some talent as he is able to portray the pain that Jesse goes through.Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge may not be as good as the first part, but it is definitely underrated - I would give it a 6/10. "}{"Title":"Underrated.. Please give it a go","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A nightmare on elm street 2 is often recognised as a weak entry in the series... Granted it's not as good as the original but it stays true to what Wes Craven wanted Freddy to be; A dark, mysterious killer.. Not a games show host.. And lets be honest, it puts later entries like part 5 to shame. First I'll talk about the new main victim, admittedly it was a bit of a shock to not see the return of Nancy.. But being an entirely different film, I think it works to have an entirely different main character. Jesse, who is definitely a weaker more troubled individual is played by underground actor Mark Patton who does an amazing job Imo. You believe he is terrified of what's happening to him, never does he try to be a hero and have an action sequence with Freddy, that was left for the sequels, this is all about Freddy being the predator and the kid being the prey.. Jesse is only tormented and victimised and every scream is believable. Although he is shockingly isolated by his parents who blame drugs or insanity, Jesse's girlfriend Lisa played by Kim Myers is supportive towards Jesse and helps him discover more about Freddy and help him out, again I think this is a good acting performance. As for Freddy, it appears, like part 1, his aim is to scare and kill, not entertain us with jokes.. Not that his later character development was a problem, I just definitely prefer the darker Freddy. As for the plot, Freddy now wants to come into the real world using Jesse as a host to possess.. This may make the film visually seem a lot less surreal and possibly less creative due to cutting out a lot of dream sequences.. This can be seen as a major flaw to the audience but I can also take this in a positive way. What is lost here with visual horror, is amplified with psychological horror. We've seen what happens in the dreams in the prequel, we know Freddy is terrifying in nightmares, dont fall asleep we understand, yes it's a very fresh idea and yes there was a lot of interesting ideas that could be used for more death dream scenes, but the director, named Jack Sholder, wants to take Freddy in a different direction, not terrorising a group of teenagers with nightmares and gruesome deaths but aiming for one unfortunate victim with nightmares, twisting with his thoughts, blurring his realisation of dreams and the real world and making him madly insane. And I'm open to try experimental ideas. Freddy succeeds in a few murders this way.. First of all in the less memorable scene with Schneider, which was just plain weird and confusing I thought.. But secondly against who appears to be Jesses only male friend Ron where he is locked in his own room with a mutating Jesse.. This scene is among my top fav Freddy kills in the series.. You know what I mean, and I bet you haven't forgot about it neither.The ending is nothing special, but it works.. Again Freddys death is achieved by a female character Lisa.. Who emotionally destroys Freddy revealing her love, Jesse.. And no surprise after what you believe is a happy ending it reveals this is not end of Freddy.. He will be back again and again and again. Overall I'd give this film an 7.5 out of 10.. Not as fresh, creative nor iconic as the original, but more dark, twisted and evil.... "},{"Title":"Freddy's Back!!!","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This sequel isn't as good as the original, but it's still okay. Robert Englund is still terrifying as the dream stalker; Freddy Krueger. It has been five long years since Nancy killed Freddy. Now, a new kid named Jesse lives where Nancy lived. Jesse and his girlfriend, Lisa find Nancy's diary that talks about who Freddy is and how she killed him. Soon, Freddy is back and he needs Jesse's body to kill people again. Can Lisa stop Freddy and save Jesse? I thought Freddy at the pool party was pretty cool, and Freddy showing his brain to Jesse. If you love Freddy, you might like A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET PART 2 FREDDY'S REVENGE!!! "},{"Title":"Where's Freddy?","Date":"17 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This much maligned sequel to the era defining slasher movie original is nowhere near as shabby as you may have been led to believe. In fact, I would even go so far as to say it is damn original. Instead of simply being a rehash of the first movie, with more deaths, instead this reinvents itself, casting Freddie as a puppet-master type figure, controlling the actions of a hapless individual, forcing him to do his killings for him. Indeed, Krueger barely makes an appearance until the very end, sustaining the menacing killers' persona for one movie longer than is usual for this style. The plot Jesse's a bit weird. Jesse moves into the same house on Elm Street that Nancy used to live in, even sleeping in the same bedroom. Jesse becomes possessed by the spirit of Freddy. That's all folks, but it's more than enough. Enjoyably spooky, this manages something that none of the sequels after this managed by actually being pretty damn frightening in places, and it also has a triumphant opening sequence which sees a school bus wind up suspended above a canyon on two craggy rocky protuberances, which is a superbly impressive visual. I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Not as good as part I, but still okay","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After watching Nightmare on Elm street, I immediately tracked down Part II and watched it. I was expecting a scary movie, but my expectations were a tad too high.It was a good movie, but not as good as it's prequel.Probably because I already knew what I could expect. Still, the movie gave some creative scenes and twists.The acting is okay, music fine and effects about the same as before. Go watch this if you liked part one.I give this 6 out of 10 stars.I think I'll go track down part III as soon as I got some time... "},{"Title":"Freddy makes his move.","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The second installment of Krueger takes place a few years after the first one, when a family buy the old Elm Street house. Son Jesse experiences nightmare involving a mysterious man who he later finds out is the infamous Freddy Kreuger. As the dreams become more and more real, Jesse is forced to use sheer willpower in order to overcome Krueger's attempts to take over his mind and body.From what I've seen from other comments, this one is not well liked by fans, mainly because it doesn't fit well with the rest of the series. I think this is why I'm such a fan of it, possibly being my favourite one. The overall premise is pretty chilled and even though it has a ton of shitty 80's acting, Patton does a fairly believable job while dealing with a fairly unbelievable plot.Watch it. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge (1985)","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The success of Nightmare on Elm Street paid for this film. Some people approached Nightmare 2 in development as just another movie. Others put a lot of work into it, and if you're looking, you can tell. And some others, I doubt the public will ever know what was going on inside their heads. For all the claims this sequel's subtext is strongly rooted in homoeroticism, which there is an equally strong argument in support of it, there's only one person who can substantiate these rumors - writer, David Chaskin. But no one seems to knows anything about him. This nearly gives Freddy's Revenge a whole other brand of cult status now- interpreting the meaning of the supposedly gay themes. I would personally love to pick the writer's brain about it as well. But with all the negative energy toward the film, it makes sense that we're never told what this film really means.Some say the film failed because it didn't have a female lead. At best, these claims are only an aesthetic preference. Fans couldn't have been disappointed by lack of a female lead. Kim Myers becomes the heroine in the last half hour. Even as a 'side-kick', she's in more scenes than Johnny Depp had in the original. The film does cast a male lead. A 20-year old baby-faced cutie (Mark Patton, who I certainly approve of, spending a few solid minutes of the movie in nothing more than tight white briefs). He's not your typical movie teenager, since he's only lacking the proper Cure / Flock of Seagulls / Echo & the Bunnymen goth '80s make up, dyed hair, and dark black clothing before turning into the average punk concert attendee. He has perpetual dark circles under his eyes, an intense look of introversion plastered on his face, and constant nervous mannerisms. But his isolation is what allows Freddy to exist, an ambitious re-working of the original's back story.I believe the homoerotic elements of the film are intended to take his incredible loner quality (which I always relate to) down an unknown path, somewhere unfamiliar to mainstream audiences. To lead him astray from his natural life patterns (this 'sort' of thing also happened in 1986's Labyrinth, only to a daydreaming girl) so that he would be vulnerable to Freddy taking him over. This of course was revisited three years later in 1988's The Dream Master, when Freddy used a spiritual connection of one character's dreams to catch teens for his victims. Here, he just uses the character's body. And we can never quite tell if he's in a dream or not. This leads to all sorts of fascinating set-ups which people just assumed meant Jesse was living out gay fantasies he was repressing. The first one has Jesse going to a leather or s&m bar. Though, a good 40% of the patrons aren't even wearing leather and few of whom are anyone in actual drag.The second has his Phys. Ed. coach blackmailing Jesse into entertaining him (I assume so he won't call Jesse's parents and tell them Jesse was hanging out in a gay / bisexual bar) in the gymnasium, then getting 'revenge' by whipping the coach naked with towels in the shower room while he's tied up. What stops this from being a fantasy of any kind, though, are several things. One- Freddy murders the coach, two- the coach fears for his life as inanimate objects take on a life of their own (a movie cliché I was obsessed with as a kid), three- Jesse could never be attracted to the coach anyway. He's played by Marshall Bell, king of the creepy 80's sleazeballs (remember him in 1988's Twins?). And even if the coach were played as more of a muscular, sexy, suave, mature older man and not such a creep - the movie sets him up as a classic pedophile.The third 'fantasy' is a lot more interesting. Jesse runs to his best guy friend, Ron (Robert Rusler, who you can also see shirtless in 1986's Vamp) sneaking into Ron's bedroom in the middle of the night to confess something and begs to sleep with him. Though just in the same room. Unfortunately they never share a bed together. What's great about this is that Jesse gets some guts and starts ordering another guy around, rather than letting someone like the coach walk all over him. And that he finally finds a healthy target for whatever affections he buries inside. Ron is a non-judgmental, open-minded, fun and funny guy who's never too serious (if anything, Jesse's the ultra-serious and uptight one) but is completely supportive in comforting his friend. Even if they never became intimate, Ron would take care of Jesse and help him get to a better place emotionally.Most people think of movies from the '80s as a technical step above the '70s (though now it looks a lot more dated by comparison). Not completely true in the scene at the old power plant. It's hampered by some horribly plastic creature effects (why'd they even bother with those 'demon dogs' anyway?). But the scene's lighting, camera-work, editing, and ensuing meltdown of Freddy's flesh (through stellar goo and dripping-gore effects), are outstanding. And Kim Myers' first-rate performance. The film is definitely underrated by some. Taken as a low budget film, it has a lot of great effective build-up scenes. An incredible camera pan up from the basement, up the stairs on 2 floors of the house, down hallways and all the way up to a bedroom in 1 shot - now, that's impressive! And other cool assorted imagery - Jesse's sister jumping rope in the middle of the night to the Freddy tune, the quirky Fu Man Fingers moment, and I thought this was really cool; a bolt of lightning striking inside the house while Jesse stands right in front of the window (a little Poltergeist inspiration?). "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Sequel, But Don't Expect Too Much From It!","Date":"23 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The start of this movie was great, went to a full blast with the school bus which I found very inventive and entertaining. I have to admit that this wasn't bad but was worth watching it. The violence was a bit cut out until towards the end which was pretty good. The story could have improved a bit but was really good. Once again you don't really see Freddy that much, so don't expect the movie to be all about him. I think the plot was entertaining but spent too much time talking about Jesse and Freddy taking his place but other than that I was impressed. Another sequel would be good but would be better to stop after the fourth movie. "},{"Title":"One of the Strongest Nightmare Sequences here.","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is sort of unfairly treated by fans of the series because of its differences from the other films. In this one we have Freddy entering reality to commit crimes instead of in the dreams. It is odd with the switch of concepts here that this one would have the strongest opening Nightmares of the series. I guess to say it is the most legitimate in trying to be like a real nightmare, just something bizarre taking place. Many of the other opening Nightmares seemed more focused on playing tricks on the audience(Is he or she dreaming or awake?) Most certainly better than The Dream Child and Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare. This film is at least being bold in creating a new direction instead of imitating and only slightly expanding on what had been established. One of the biggest problems with the later Elm Streets is that they become more about campy humor than really trying to scare the audience. This film is at least establishing a level of creepiness and believably. "},{"Title":"Should have been made after Dream Child.","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge(1985) Director Jack Sholder (the Hidden)**1/2outof****ReviewI've been seeing a lot of hate over the years towards this sequel, and I must state that although it can't spit shine part one's shoes it certainly isn't the worst sequel (I guess these people haven't seen Freddy's Dead). For starters, this sequel decently succeeds in having the nightmarish quality that the parts following lacked. Freddy has no one liners, seems peed off, and has no problem killing someone brutally. So horror buffs rejoice. Freddy also has a certain look towards him that makes him scary to look at in this one. This sequels mythology also is pretty decent. It tries to set up a whole new agenda for Freddy and it actually makes sense. If you ask me this sequel's story could have been told AFTER Dream Child, it would have given the series the horror jolt it needed. It seems Freddy is trapped in Dream World and a new family has moved into the Freddy house (actually Nancy's house, how it became Freddy's house is beyond me). It seems Freddy can't kill anymore so he's using the son Jesse's (Mark Patton) body as sort of a vessel so he can kill in the real world instead of Dreams. See, it defiantly would have been better if this concept was used after Dream Child. That's basically the plot this time around, as indeed Freddy systematically takes over Jesse, and continues to kill, while Jesse may or may not take the blame. The Director shows competence (check out the school bus dream), and definitely brought a lot of style to this nightmare, I dug it the most. Christopher young's score is also on the ball, elevating the movie to a more scary level. I love this guys stuff, and the movie wouldn't be half as scary without it. At times it sounds like whales moaning in pain or something, pretty creepy. The problems that this movie has (for me) is our main lead Jesse. Not only was the actor a whiny suck, he also screamed like a girl, dressed like crap, and basically turned down all the help that was offer. How can anyone incest in someone like that? It certainly hurt the scare factor for since, since he was to despicable. This would lead to another controversial aspect this sequel has. Many tend to see it as a metaphor for a homosexual coming to terms with his sexuality. Take the scene where Jesse walk into the living room and says My god, it is hot as an oven in here, or the one night where for no reason out hero walks into a queer S&M establishment and gets picked up by the sadist gym instructor. Huh? Or the scene where the lead tries to have sex with the female lead(a very Meryl Streepish look alike) only to re think it and then decides he rather spend the night at his male buddies place. Scenes like this are all over the place to poke fun at if that's your thing,I also think the ending of this movie is underwhelming to say the least, and has a love conquers all attitude. Basically saying I LOVE YOU can defeat Freddy this time around? Not only does that seem a feeble attempt, but it also has no real purpose since the last frame has signs that Freddy is still kicking.Freddy also crashes a pool party this time but I found it to be cut to short to really leave an impression. Why was everyone so scared anyways? The winks to part one were appreciated, and the gore and SFX are quite icky, and some scenes stand out with picture clarity, Rottweilers with disfigured baby faces, Freddy ripping off his scalp, a mutant cat eating a rat, Freddy coming out of our hero's body, the scenes of Freddy lurking about, all done with a creepy excellence, this sequel succeeds in giving me some BRRRRRS. So, no I'm not going to complain about this sequel being straight up awful, it has it's flaws, but I can see a decent effort on the filmmakers part to make Freddy and elm street scary, so for the most part (excluding out feminine lead) the movie succeeds. Your our all my Children Now "},{"Title":"Had good qualities","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie seems to be the outcast of the series, as Friday the 13th Part V was in that series. I liked this movie, but at times I wanted to just turn it off. The pacing seemed a bit off at times. The characters were great in this movie, my favorites were the jock Ron Grady and the sadistic, S&M Coach Schneider. Both of the actors are in other movies I like too, which worked out well. Freddy seems a little disproportionate in this film, he has abilities no one knew about and can do things you know he originally couldn't. Jesse was pretty good but some times you just wanted to jump through the screen and punch him. I give this a 6/10, not bad, but could have been better. "}{"Title":"Not Great.  But Not Horrible Either.","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Freddy's terror continues in this sequel to A Nightmare on Elm Street! A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge has a new boy moving into the Elm Street neighborhood with his family. He is now living in the same house as Nancy and her mother from the first film. The difference is that this film doesn't build on dreams to create suspense. Freddy is alive in this movie and he inhibits the soul of the young boy.Sequels rarely equal their original predecessors. This film is no exception. Newcomer Mark Patton plays the troubled teen and while there are some scares, his character is very average. You don't really like or dislike him, but become apathetic. The twist of Freddy now being alive might have been more interesting if Freddy himself had more of a plot to work with in this sequel. There are not enough scares, suspense, or originality, that worked so well in the first film to maintain strong viewer interest.BUT, there are two decent scenes that build up in momentum. One is Freddy killing the mean gym coach. The second, which is chilling, is you see Jesse (Mark Patton's character) get up one night and as he goes from his bedroom out into the hall, you here this, thump thump, thump thump, thump thump than he opens a door in his house and you see a dream-like silhouette of a little girl playing jump rope in the bedroom and singing Freddy's signature song One two Freddy's coming for you... (etc.) very creepy I have to shut my eyes when that scene comes on because it freaks me out........terribly!NOES2 has some moments, but nowhere near enough of them to compare with the pacing, suspense, and dramatic impact of the original film. "},{"Title":"Yet Another Misunderstood Horror Film","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have been watching this film series for many years now. The first of the Freddy films I actually saw was part 3, which is still the best in my opinion. A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge is truly a lime in the series, as far as fans of the series go. That doesn't mean it is a bad horror movie. Actually, after watching this one for many years I have come to rather enjoy it. You might want to put this movie into the category with other horror sequels like Halloween 3 because they go against the traditional sequels. Actually, if you take Freddy out of this movie and replace him with just another dead serial killer this movie would hold its own as an original horror film. This movie also has very little trademarks of the series in it. For one, the infamous Freddy music is completely gone from this movie. Instead, we have quite a nice atmospheric, if not very dark soundtrack from Christopher Young. Also, the Freddy glove is in this movie, but if you look closely at times Freddy isn't wearing the glove. Instead, the blades are protruding through his fingers.Also, you get quite a bit of bizarre things in this movie that seem inspired from many other horror films. We have a killer bird, many haunted house type scenes including objects moving on their, things blowing up. We have dogs with human faces on them, a perverted gym teacher and last but not least Freddy possession scenes. Throw all of this together and you get quiet a strange flick.Another thing that I liked about this movie were the special effects. The effects in this movie must have opened a few peoples eyes back when it came out because they are truly disturbing. Look for the scene where Freddy is clawing his way out of our leads body.I guess the only thing I didn't like about this movie was the lead character of Jessy. I found him to be obnoxious and kind of a wimp. At least in the first movie Nancy was all down for trying to do something about Freddy killing everyone around her. Jessy would rather act like a baby at times.All around, I liked this film and I think it needs to be looked at again by some people. I know I certainly don't look at it as a true sequel to the original, part 3 is the true sequel. But, I think this movie is still a lot of fun and recognition is definitely due. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Proves sequels are always two steps behind the original....","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Today i received my Nightmare on Elm Street collection and having seen part one it was straight on with number two Freddy's Revenge which i found way, way off the mark from the original.The story is set five years after the events of part one and now the Walsh family have moved into the house from part one and the son of the family Jesse begins to have the nightmares that Nancy from the previous installment was having. Its only too long before Freddy begins yet another reign of terror.The film gets off to a quick start with a nightmare which really takes you by surprise and is set up nicely and all i'll say is it goes down faster than the Titanic. Throughout the film you feel that it is just a mixture of plot lines just thrown together in the editing room without a thought to a normal narrative such as the first film.The film is hard to follow and strays heavily from the first film which is not the way a sequel should go but then again we are talking about the horror genre here. Freddy gets little to no screen time in the film which is really a bad thing considering most people watch these film for Freddy so i couldn't understand the logic in this but never the less they did it! The acting is poor and you really feel that Mark Patton was badly miscast in some way or another and i really never bought his whole descent in to Freddy's clutches which i did in the first film. Of course Robert Englund is superb (when he gets chance) as Freddy Kruger and really shows an evil side towards the end. The other actors really aren't worth a mention because of the total lack of respect for their characters shown by the director and writer of the film.Speaking of which Jack Sholder should be appalled by his work here, there is no real direction and when there is it really is all over the place and very bad and shows in no way the brilliance of what Wes Craven brought to the original. The writing too is just mind boggling in terms of how the guy even managed to get his trash on the screen in the first place, the dialogue is cheap and cheesy which is what we expect in the horror genre but just not to this bad extent.All in all this film will certainly go down as one of the worst horror sequels ever as far as i'm concerned but i did give this a four out of ten so there must be something worth watching.... well yes there is and i think its the fact that this is a nightmare on elm street film and for that reason you want to like it a lot but it just wasn't worth the bother and should be ignored from the franchise to be totally fair.As far as horror sequels go this is one of the worst i have witnessed in a long time and is in great distance from the original and that is a shame! **** out of ********** "},{"Title":"Just eat your eggs, dear...","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I watched this for the first time in ten years last night. For anyone keeping score at home, this version was the one included in the NoES Box Set (Nightmares 1 thru 7).Now I can look upon it with adult eyes, I can confirm it has its weak moments (let's get them out of the way first!) 1. The Dead Parrot Sketch. I really wish this wasn't in the film. The whole scene starts badly - Jesse saying My God, it's as hot as an oven in here in the least convincing manner ever - and ends with an exploding bird which suddenly grows to twice its original size and then we see the traumatised family (who are probably trying to stifle their laughter) looking at the comedy feathers floating to the ground. Move along, nothing more to see.2. Jesse's Girl-Scream. This has been covered many many times here, so let's move along again.3. The very rushed Love Conquers All ending. It's not as though the film was running over - it's barely over 85 minutes as it is. This scene also includes a dummy Fred Krueger falling over and making a clunk sound.4. What's with the Bing Crosby song at the end? I distinctly remember the theme tune from the start playing again during the end credits when I had it on VHS - no disrespect to Mr. C, it's a very nice tune but the film ends on a downer and the music should follow suit. If they wanted this song so badly, it could have fitted in with Lisa's Dad's sucky music selection at the pool party.Other than that, it's still a good film. Quite restrained in terms of gore, but there's a good few jumps and some imaginative sequences. Biggest plus for this film over the others in this series is the incidental music. Films of this genre (and especially films with a modest budget like this one) have awful background music but I'm glad to say this is the exception. Genuinely memorable. And for me, that's what pushes the rating up. Listen to it, you'll know what I mean. "},{"Title":"Just Skip This","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This sequel is throbbing with cheap and cheesy scenes. Not to mention Jesse's homosexuality placed throughout the movie. Even if it was unintentional (according to director Jack Sholder) I didn't 'intend' to see horror movie classic monster, Freddy Krueger star in such a disgraceful flick to the series, or see one of the characters that Jesse kills nude. The first movie was INCREDIBLE, probably the best in the series because it didn't need special effects or anything high-tech it just was naturally frightening. In the second film they attempt to use special effects and fail, in the third film they use special effects to their fullest extent and create a very good movie also scary in some scenes. The second will be nothing more than a comedy to me.I would just skip this movie, if I must go into more detail why you should, I'll gladly tell you. 1.Nancy is absent through the whole movie. 2. The movie gets off on a bad start (Jesse is a creep riding on a school bus with two other girls, the school bus driver misses the stop, rides off into a sort of desert and stays there. Gradually, land falls off beneath them until the school bus is remaining on a single piece of land. Freddy reveals himself and fights them as they try to balance themselves. Jesse wakes up screaming and sweating, you can see what a crappy job they did on the whole scene.),middle(just about everything)and end(They are back on the bus going to school and Jesse gets worried, he screams Stop you're going too fast! his friend reassures him in the worst acting ever. She says Its OK Jesse everything is going to be alright at least I think thats what she says. Then there is a skip and Freddy's glove has magically came out of her chest and she starts screaming.) 3. This movie has left this reviewer and HUGE Nightmare on Elm Street fan for a loss of words because they aren't enough cuss words in the English language. In conclusion, if you are looking for a good Freddy, don't look here. "},{"Title":"1 2 Freddys coming for you!","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't see how anyone could give this less than a 7. Its not as good as the first but most movies aren't. The acting is decent and the plot is good, but where this shines is the fact that its so unpredictable and the idea that freddy is inside jessie confused me at first but then grew on me and i became to feel sorry for the poor kid. The coach gets what he deserves and there are a few funny moments as well. There's less suspense than the first one, its almost non existent but still this is a godd movie, if you wanna see a bad movie watch Mortal Kombat Annihilation, that was bad! The thing with the bird was bizarre and completely off the wall and i also kinda get sick of everything bursting into flames all the time but the party scene and the ending, how we see the bus at the beginning drive off onto the desert and the ground opens up and hell swallows them was implemented well again at the end of the film (granted we just see them drive into the desert but still..) Also Lisa was hot! So there ya have it You get Freddy  ) A Hot girl! Violence! A Weird Plot! And thats what makes this awesome. Cant wait to watch the third one on Monday! "},{"Title":"a new approach","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is not an easy task to follow up a masterpiece like the original Nightmare on Elm Street. This time the approach is to use the new kid on the block as a puppet for Freddy's killings. The new kid, controlled by Freddy, does most of the killings. The movie, in my opinion, is not even on the same level as the original. It is a poor attempt to follow up a masterpiece. It was pretty cheesy in many cases, but it still has some cool looking kill scenes. This is not the best of what the Elm Street series can bring to the viewer, but it does help piece the story for the fan. Sweet Dreams! "},{"Title":"Something went wrong along the way.","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The setup for NOES 2 was actually pretty good. The only problem with it is that the one who wrote it obviously hadn't been paying any attention while watching the first one, because the whole idea is that A Freddy wants revenge on the parents that torched him, and therefore he's after their children and B Freddy controls his part of the dream world, it's where he's god and so he has no intention of wanting to enter our world again. The story begins with Jesse (the only time they tried a male lead in the series) having nightmare's that remind us a little too much of the ending in part one, but anyway Jesse's got a hot new semi-girlfriend and he's quickly becomes buddies with the brash Grant, who's your classic 80's rebel type. Weird occurrences keep happening around him, and when his gym teacher (a homosexual Nazi type) get killed, Jesse's the perp or rather Freddy, since he is taking over Jesse body, so Jesse can kill for him. Soon Freddy is going for the complete takeover, and eventually he gets free and wreaks some havoc at a barbecue party. Good idea, but it goes against the entire premise of the Freddy character. The ending's rather predictable but adding the power plant (since it's an important part of the series's mythos) was a really good idea. Surprises me that this one ranks over both 4,5 and 6 since it's generally thought of as the weakest of the sequels. "},{"Title":"Very Creepy, But Also Very Flawed","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge begins with the Walsh Family, who has just moved into the old Thompson house, where Freddy Kruger did his dirty deeds in the first film. Freddy Kruger is still very much alive, and not only is he still haunting people's dreams, but now he is trying to get into the real world through the body of Jessie Walsh, a teenage boy who can't figure out if he is really being attacked by Freddy or if he is just flat out losing his mind.This is a very good movie that has some great qualities to it. The lighting is extremely creepy and amazing, even more so than in the original A Nightmare On Elm Street. There are several great nods to the original, in particular one where Jesse finds Nancy Thompson's diary and reads bits from it about Freddy Kruger. And, like always, Englund does a wonderful job at playing the frightening dream-slasher.However, there are also some major flaws in this movie as well. The first flaw, and it is a big one, is the main character. The character Jesse acts so incredibly girly and homosexual that it is distracting and annoying. The characters are poorly developed, making it hard to feel sorry for them when they are attacked by Freddy. This movie breaks a lot of the rules of the first film, to the point where it would be hard to watch them back-to-back.In the long run, this is a very scary movie, and one of the best sequels. Definitely worth watching, just don't expect it to be near as good as the first Nightmare movie. "},{"Title":"A Major Disappointment!","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET was a classic. It was a matter of time for New Line to make a sequel. The question was will it be better than the first.....NNOOOOOOO! Director Jack Sholder and writer David Chaskin has made a sequel not well like in my book, but had it's moments. Still a major disappointment.Five years has passed since FREDDY(Robert Englund) terrorized Elm Street and it's children. Soon new kid on the block Jesse(Mark Patton) will learn the secrets hidden in a certain house on Elm Street that he and his family have moved into. Everything has change in the house except for the evil hidden in the within house. With the help of Lisa(Kim Meyers) and Grady(Robert Rusler), they find out what FREDDY really wants from Jesse....His Body to exit dreams to reality.Now the first one was known to break the rules that made horror movies in it's day so routine, but why break your own rules that you set up in the first place. FREDDY has to stay in dreams and loves it there, seen in further sequels. The acting is okay, seeming the movie dosen't know if it's hero is gay or a hidden homosexual. Not saying that it's wrong, but stay with one thing man. FREDDY and one special scene involving a pool party highlighted the film. Great make-up effects also saves the film from being totally bad. If your a fan of the series, you will be disappointed. "}{"Title":"DOWNWARD SPIRAL!","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although not a total disaster this is a major disappoint after the first. Freddy has began his one liners and still retained most of his creepiness. But the camp value is way up! The film boasts silly dialogue, coupled with 80's movie music clichés and it's overly homo-erotic. The film is just a horror flick for gay men. which in truth I don't mind cause I am a gay man. But in this type of film I feel that we could've pushed aside the hardbodies and went straight for the chills. This chapter centers on jessie a socially awkward young man whom is plagued by nightmares in his new house. The same house Nancy used to live in supposedly. He wakes up sweat soaked in tightie whities screaming like a girl. Freddy taunts him as he wishes to take over and possess his body. working through him he commits many murders and body count flies up ridiculously. filled with good spfx and some decent acting and creative suspense. The film doesn't measure up to the original and suffers from sequilitus. But as a film on it's own it represents a different type of horror film. One in which the female characters are the strong ones and the male characters falter before e them . i welcome that cliché lol! 6/10 "},{"Title":"Not a very good sequel","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a big fan of Freddy Krueger - I think that he is the most chilling villain in cinema - but I didn't really like this movie. True, it has some good, memorable scenes, such as SPOILERthe nightmare with the bus and the famous remark You are all my children nowSPOILER but I think that it is overall a dull film with too nasty scenes and unlikable characters. The idea of possessing was good, but it wasn't made very well. The moments, in which Freddy appeared were too similar with thats in part 1, but not as powerful. Still, if you like Elm Street movies, you'd like the horrible murders and the character of Freddy Krueger. "},{"Title":"Nightmare On Sequel Street","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Sequels are getting much better these days. This is the sequel to one of the most memorable films ever. Also One of the best horror films. But this sequel doesn't cut the cheese (with four blades).Nightmare on Elm Street 2 is about a boy who has moved into the house that Nancy used to live in that we saw in the first film. Freddy Kreuger wants the boy to kill people for him and the boy is all confused because when this boy falls asleep, he wakes up and becomes Freddy Kreuger and kills a load of people.This Film is very very repetitive at times. Sometimes confusing but it begins to makes sense throughout the film. It's quite a good feature because it just keeps you guessing and thinking.if you have only seen the first and second then you do actually wonder how it's going to end and what is the third film about, But at the end it makes no sense what so ever until you actually watch the third film.Compared to the first one it has the same qualities and not that different in terms of storyline, or strangeness. When you have seen the third one and all of the other ones, you just think what was the point of the second one. If you have seen all of the Nightmares on Elm street, and missed this one, you haven't missed anything special.__________OverallPlot & Story 9 / 50   Entertainment 12 / 20   Music & Sound 8 / 10   Graphics 13 / 20   Verdict 44%Overall CommentNothing Special, don't bother watching such a dreadful Sequel to one of the most memorable horror movies...ever.  "},{"Title":"So So","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    For Five years 1428 Elm Street has been empty.No one wants to buy the house where Nancy Thompson went Crazy.Until; one day,The walsh Family Moves in.Jesse Walsh(Mark Patton) Begins to have horrible nightmares.In his dreams,A horribly burnt man in dirty cloths with Knives for fingers,Whispers to him,Kill for Me.At School,Jesse starts to befriend Ron Grady(Robert Russler),And starts to get Felling's For Lisa Webber(Kim Myers).Soon though,Jesse feels a power over come him,That leads his murderous rage...         Not near as good as the original,But not to bad.Excellent make up and effects,Some cool Murder scenes,But a bad plot,And a terrible ending.Acting was allright,Noting special about the direction.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "},{"Title":"Rereview A Nightmare on Elm Street 2","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I reviewed this movie in 2004, which meant I was 14 years old and thought most everything was very good, so I have decided to come back and re-review this movie to give my response on the whole picture, more mature and more than willing to judge appropriately on this film.NOES 2 Freddy's Revenge is the sequel to Wes Craven's classic movie about the killer who murdered a select set of teenagers in their dreams. This movie claims that everything that happened from the first movie was five years ago. A new family has moved into the house that was originally owned by the main character from the previous film. A young man, Jesse dreams about the Dreamy killer, Freddy Krueger, with no true explanation as to why.Through Jesse's dreams, the villain comes to him, asking Jesse to Kill For Me... You've got the body, I've got the brains... The movie becomes a young man's self realization that he's not the monster, or perhaps he is.This movie is often considered by most fans and reviewers to be the absolute worst of the series, and for a long time after the initial viewing, I would have had to agree. The movie approaches a subject that is quite different from anything typically viewed of horror films from the 80s or the modern time Homosexuality. Most of the time, gay guys in movies are the new black guy cliché If they are in a movie, they will die first.The movie doesn't even approach homosexuality by that context, but by using a rather confused boy, questioning if he's supposed to be a killer or a normal teenager in a convincing way that sort of brings a great psychological approach on the whole villain spin, and it is mostly effective.However, the movie is nowhere free of flaws like the original. From what I have heard and read from the original writer, he meant for the movie to be about a kid trying to find himself, coming out of the closet in association with the villain taking over this kid. That stuff is implied, but it works. But having Jesse dancing in his room flamboyantly or going to a gay bar reduces any message of acceptance in favor of making people call out the phrase Gay in description of this movie.Another problem is that the movie has its fair share of inappropriate shots and scenes that serve little sense to advance the plot. Killer animals and dumb teenagers at a pool party are the major offenders and definitely amps the movie's camp factor.But even with all that said, I feel like I can support this movie a little bit more than before. It's not the best, but it works with what it had. The film score has absolutely no association with the original movies, and makes the movie scarier, I think. The makeup and horror effects are downright terrifying, and certainly the makeup effects on Freddy Krueger are top notch.It is very difficult to accept a movie that is often the nadir of the whole series, but after reviewing it, I can say I support the movie series and its lowest ranked film a little bit easier than previously said. If the film had some shots and cuts here and there to make the movie flow easier, perhaps it could have been better than the predecessor.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"You've got the body, I've got the brain!","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The actors from the first part did not come back for this sequel. Except Robert Englund. So, New Line Cinema got new ones. And they made this second part in the Nightmare on Elm Street series, to cash in on the success of the first one. Sounds familiar, no? Compared to the original, it's funny, but less scary. It also puts a little more emphasis on love and friendship than it should. But, really, this movie is not as bad as some people say.-Gore Although they really tried, this isn't gorier than the first one. But you will see Freddy pulling some pretty cool stunts. And his face still hasn't lost most of its creepiness. 26/30-Suspense The funny moments present in the film kind of take away the tension. Most of the scary moments are concentrated towards the end. 11/15-Ending I pretty much liked the ending; the last 2 minutes of it much more than the previous 3-5 minutes. Of course, taste varies. 12/15-Death Scenes Unlike in the first movie, the death scenes in 'A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge' are gratuitous. They are nice, though. Check out the last moments of poor Grady! 8/11-Atmosphere The dream sequences are very good, especially the first and last. I'm not sure if the whole high-school-friendship thing blends in well with a horror film, however. 6/10-Nudity There is no nudity in this film. 0/10-Cast I have seen Robert Englund and Clu Gulager in other films, but I don't recall any other movies starring Mark Patton or Kim Myers. 2/5-Genre This is a horror film. 4/4-->Overall 69/100If you forget the fact that this film is the sequel to 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' or if you see it before that one, you will probably say that it is a pretty good horror flick. And it is, especially compared with most of the horror flicks being made nowadays. From Swordlord, 2 swords up! "},{"Title":"You've got the body, I've got the brain!","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  IMDb mark 7The actors from the first part did not come back for this sequel. Except Robert Englund. So, New Line Cinema got new ones. And they made this second part in the Nightmare on Elm Street series, to cash in on the success of the first one. Sounds familiar, no? Compared to the original, it's funny, but less scary. It also puts a little more emphasis on love and friendship than it should. But, really, this movie is not as bad as some people say.-Gore Although they really tried, this isn't gorier than the first one. But you will see Freddy pulling some pretty cool stunts. And his face still hasn't lost most of its creepiness. 26/30-Suspense The funny moments present in the film kind of take away the tension. Most of the scary moments are concentrated towards the end. 11/15-Ending I pretty much liked the ending; the last 2 minutes of it much more than the previous 3-5 minutes. Of course, taste varies. 12/15-Death Scenes Unlike in the first movie, the death scenes in 'A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge' are gratuitous. They are nice, though. Check out the last moments of poor Grady! 8/11-Atmosphere The dream sequences are very good, especially the first and last. I'm not sure if the whole high-school-friendship thing blends in well with a horror film, however. 6/10-Nudity There is no nudity in this film. 0/10-Cast I have seen Robert Englund and Clu Gulager in other films, but I don't recall any other movies starring Mark Patton or Kim Myers. 2/5-Genre This is a horror film. 4/4-->Overall 69/100If you forget the fact that this film is the sequel to 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' or if you see it before that one, you will probably say that it is a pretty good horror flick. And it is, especially compared with most of the horror flicks being made nowadays. From Swordlord, 2 swords up! "},{"Title":"A very bad revenge","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If Freddy were to actually take revenge on everybody that screwed around with him, then why would he do so with a kid that really isn't that sharp in the first place? Ok so maybe he lives in the same house Nancy lived in and lives in the same room Nancy lived in, but that is besides the point. Jesse seems to be a straight student, trying to make average grades in school, and has the major hots for a girl way out of his league, but for some weird reason Lisa actually likes him. Now where does this make sense at all?? Well after they start messing around, Freddy decides he totally wants out of Jesses body right? Come on Freddy, lets get something different here. But I guess at the time whenever this hasn't been tried before in cinema, it was different in all shapes and forms. Freddy goes and totally crashes a swimming party by slicing in way through the crowd to get to some bushes only to turn into flames. Ok why not just walk right through them? I mean, where the hell does he go? He just vanishes. I understand that he is the dream master and everything, but he had to go somewhere. I would imagine that he went off to factory where he killed his little children but who in the hell knows for sure right? Anyways, back to the topic. Jesse and Lisa go running off to where Freddy worked and confront him there only to set ablaze the place and bring the order to Freddy. I seems like Freddy and Jesse are killed only see Freddy is stopped. Well at least for the next five minutes or so. The ending is entirely to cheesy with them driving off into the desert in a school bus. One question though, is Springwood in Ohio? Where in the hell is a desert in Ohio? I am from Pennsylvania and there aren't any deserts there. Whomever wrote this script should have thought of that and not of a weird diabolique scheme inside the movie. What a terrible terrible ending.4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Help Yourself ******!!!!!!","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Bad sequel with good ideas. Acting was horrible, it's no wonder you can't find most of these people anywhere else. The directing is poor, continuity errors are quite noticeable and well, at the end we end up with something just a little bit better than Part 5, The Dream Child, which is the worst in the series. The best scene in this movie is when Freddy comes out of Jesse in Grady's room.  "},{"Title":"My Least Favorite in the series","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"      Freddy's Revenge was made a year later after the first one(A Nightmare on Elm Street),can you say RUSH JOB.    Five years has past since FREDDY has reign terror,but when a new kid on the block has moved in the infamous house he has scary nightmares.Not only does the boy find out FREDDY's dark past,but he also finds out that FREDDY is trying to come back to the real world.And is using Jesse(the new kid)body to get what he wants.    Not only does this film gives to many hits that the hero of the film is gay,but it also breaks FREDDY's main reason why he scared us.Making him appear in real life instead of dreamworld.This is my least favorite of the Elm Street films.  "}{"Title":"Incoherent sequel to Craven's classic","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Probably the strangest thing about this very bizarre second entry in the Nightmare series is its liberal exposure of a certain body part...not really my cup of tea.  To add insult to injury, Freddy's Revenge makes little to no sense.  Any connections to the original are slight at best, and the whole concept of Freddy's essence making Jesse kill falls apart towards the middle of the film, especially during a pretty pointless (but very imaginative) SFX sequence.  The movie plods along with very little actual gore until the infamous pool party scene, but even that seems held back and lazily directed (plus you'll probably still be wondering just what the hell is going on when you're watching...more than the other sequels, Nightmare 2 completely tramples on the rules Craven set down in the original). All in all, you won't miss much if you watch Nightmare 1 and take a big leap over this mess to Dream Warriors, Dream Child and New Nightmare (Dream Master and Freddy's Dead are watchable but inferior overall).  "},{"Title":"The franchise was in risk after this movie...","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Freddy Krueger is back in the sequel to the 80's horror masterpiece.After the major box office succees of 1984's A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET, a sequel was visualized and that's when Freddy's Revenge got the green light.  The chiling (somewhat cheesy) ending of the original film led to speculation about a possible return of the main characters, but only Robert Englund reprised his role as Freddy Krueger... and the rest is history.Freddy's Revenge follows the original storyline, as Freddy Krueger is still on the hunt of the Springwood teens. Freddy centers his attention on Jesse, and his friends. This time unlike Freddy's past victim (Nancy), Jesse doesn't stand a chance to survive, but it's with his girlfriend that Jesse manages to survive and stop Kruegers reign of terror.There are some good points about Freddy's Revenge. Englund's performance is convincing and he gained a place among the best villains of all time.This movie was his consolidation. The party massacre is interesting, and it's one of the most infamous A Nightmare On Elm Street moments.This movie could end with the ANOES franchise, but the original film paved the road for many sequels. Fans saved this film from being burned in hell. The acting is very bad, though the character development is good. You can say that the main characters were terrorized by Krueger. The ending is shocking and better than the original's one, it's a classic!. Personally, I think that the best moment in this movie is when Freddy during the party massacre opens widely his arms and says (I don't remember exactly the words...) You're all my sons. That was a moment that most fans remember as Freddy Krueger proclaimed himself the king of nightmares.Give this movie a try, surely it's one of the weakest in the series but deserves a chance.  A Nightmare On Elm Street 3  The Dream Warriors saved the franchise's prestige and consolidated Freddy Krueger among the 80's horror glory.Jesse's girlfriend is hot , sorry I had to say that.5/10  "},{"Title":"The Black Sheep of the Elm Street Bunch!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While not universally hated, Elm 2 is widely thought of as the weakest of the entire series.  After recently re-watching the entire series, I found that this movie is a quite refreshing blast.  While certainly not the best of the series, Freddy does rack up a nice body count.  If memory serves he slices up more teens in this flick than any other Elm Street. Pros  Freddy in the real world -- Cons  Still not enough Freddy -- Bottom Line  6/10 - Check it out! "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  although NOES 2 is not as good as the first part of the series, it´s still  fun watching. i cannot understand that this movie just gets a rating of 4.4 here at IMDB. the first 20 minutes of the movie were, i have to admit, strange to watch and irritating because freddy was there in reality, not only in the kids dreams, so this movie does not follow the rules of the first part of the series. but when get along with this new setting, this movie is enjoyable. of course it does not reach the excellence of NOES 1, but it is still a movie worth watching. NOES 2 is not are gore-movie, the gore amount is low, but the story is creative and innovative. the fact that freddy takes over the boys body to kill the other kids makes NOES 2 even look like a kind of psycho thriller. to sum it up in one sentence the movie is not as scary, gory or shocking as the first part of the series, but i´ll promise you a fun time watching it. 7,5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, But Not As Good As The First","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What makes this film interesting is the main character's struggle with trying to deal with the haunting visions and control that Freddy Krueger has over him. Other than that this movie seems like it never happened as the sequels following this one make no reference whatsoever to this movie. This is a good movie to watch once if you are craving more Freddy after seeing the original. The effects are nice, but not worth it if you are in the mood to see a real horror masterpiece. "},{"Title":"You got the body i got the brain","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A nightmare on elm street part 2 is a good sequel but i was little bit let down with not much gore in the film but anyway there was some very funny scene like the PE teacher geting his bum slap with the towel i was laughing so hard it was funny. I liked Mr Krueger in this film he was pure evil so as the 1st film but later when you get to part 4 and 5 it just becomes a comady more then a horror film. I do agree with most people on here jesse's did a bad job at acting and so did the rest beside Mr Krueger only one who did a good job. Good sequel and some spooky moments and i give this film 7/10 "},{"Title":"Left me with mixed feelings","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Plot is great,but it could use some working on. I really liked how they changed Freddy into The Star,in the first one you wanted to know a little bit more about him. Freddy's Revenge told us. It get's weird,some of it you are not able to understand. But it's fun nonetheless. It has some dumb scenes,and they changed Freddy's character a bit,not much he's changed into more of a Joker like character.  I liked it,but it does get strange,and you don't know what to think. As good as the first3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say it is.","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  NO Freddy's Revenge is not as good as Part 3,or part 1. But it is still worth watching. The school bus scene is excellent. The killings are very good. The party scene at the swimming pool is good. And freddy coming out of Jesse's body is great. I would say this is my fourth favorite nightmare film. Part 3 is totally the best. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable.....don't listen to these other a**holes.","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First thing's first the bus scene kicks ass. Not as good as the first but still a good Freddy film with cool death scenes...............JUST WATCH IT!!Robert Englund plays Freddy well, Mark Patton gives a reasonably OK performance and Hope Lange and Clu Gulager give the film some star quality. Also there are some funny scenes like Patton dancing in his room....................hilarious!  "},{"Title":"Not even scary!","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ok. at first I would like to strengthen the fact that this movie doesn't have ANY trace of horror in it! I mean, who's really scared of Freddy Krueger? Pretty good acting, but the characters act dumb as hell! What would you do if your best friend, all drenched in blood, told you that he had just killed a classmate? I'm pretty sure that you wouldn't do like the kids in this movie!After reading my own review I don't even remember why I rated it as a 6!? Even if you're a Wes Craven/Freddy Krueger fan stay away from this crap! "}{"Title":"Horrible. One of the worst NIGHTMARES.","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Horrible. One of the worst NIGHTMARES. I swear I'd rather watch Scream over and over again then this stuff. Freddy is at his worst. If he were real, he'd be so angry. I mean, this movie is really stupid.I didn't really find the plot. I knew it was about Freddy wanting the teen's body because he wanted to kill in the real world, but why? Doesn't he kill greatly in nightmares? This movie was so annoying. I give it a -1 out of 10. Don't say I have bad taste because I loved NIGHTMARE 1.  "},{"Title":"This is just a good film to the genere and saga fans that like Freddy´s Nightmares","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ooops!They did it again,they played with our hearts and made freddy fake...oh baby,baby!Freddy is not what it used to be in this film,he is a littl too much,now he is a possesing demon..for christ sakes,what have this people done to him,Robert Englund is the only thing that saves this sequel from receiving a Texas Chainsaw MassacreThe new generation treatment,I mean, it´s an O.k film for the fans that did in fact like the t.v. show called Freddy´s Nightmares but to be worth sequel value is too far from being one. This movie is an 8 out of 10 on Horror Maniac Icon 80´s sequel. -Possible spoiler-The only thing i liked about it is the special effect on Freddy coming out of this guys stomach and the swimming pool freddy coming out of the window and letting everyone see him -End of possible spoiler-..i mean..this is a mistake but kind of cool. "},{"Title":"WOW!!!!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film, so much better than part 1. The music is nicer, I think, and the actor who play in this, better than first one. Special affex, too, they are too good, they are frighting. The scene when freddy drrips out of justine are awesome! Again it is missing my favourite song of all times THE DREAM WARRIORS!!! by Dokken (a rock band from Germany) but is still a frighting movie. I reccommend this one. "},{"Title":"I want to marry Kim Myers","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I tend to agree with most fans on this one... I think this one was just Average compared to the original...but personally I REALLY like Kim Myers...shes Sexy,and a decent actress..and liked the whole Freddy-coming-out of-the guy-thing..that was cool! cmon admit it folks!!for these two reasons I give it a 6 out of 10not as good as the original, but still better than alot of the mediocre horror films at that time!!and the party scene was kinda cool....its still a fun film... "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad folks.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  NOES pt. 2 takes a different approach than most horror sequels. It has almost nothing to do with the events of the first one. *Might contain Spoilers* In this one, instead of haunting a poor teenager in their dreams, Freddy is now trying to actually get inside of Jesse, a teenager who just moved into Nancy's house with his family. Jesse starts sleepwalking and finding himself in weird places. Weird things start going on in Jesse's house too, the heat is intense and parrots explode! He discovers Nancy's diary and learns about Freddy, and after some murders start occuring, he realizes he's becoming Freddy himself. We follow Jesse throughout the whole movie as he slowly starts to lose his mind and can't tell reality apart from Freddy's control. Soon he starts killing off people he cares about and the only person who believes him is his girlfriend who tries to help him out. Freddy's Revenge is not as bad as most people say it is. It's definetly not the best in the series, but it is seriously twisted and the special effects are a lot better and more graphic in this one. I would actually say it was a great film if it weren't for all the male nudity, which is what I think is the cause of all the bad reviews.  "},{"Title":"Not one of Freddy's best, but still ok","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you really like Freddy Krueger, or are just obsessed with slasher films, yes you should definately watch it. If your looking for Oscar material, or at least something with a plot, I suggest you don't go near this film. The one good thing about this movie is Freddy, who in this instalment comes across darker than in any other. No wise-cracks, just lots and lots of slashing with his famous glove. Besides that you got half-decent special effects, no script, and a whiny loser as a hero.If you want the best the Nightmare On Elm Street series has to offer, watch the classic original, Dream Warriors, and Freddy's Dead. If you've already seen those, and every other slasher film known to man, rent this. It's still somewhat entertaining. "},{"Title":"One of the last good ones in the series","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS** A Nightmare on Elm Street, Freddy's Revenge is almost as good as the first, except the death scenes aren't as good. The story takes place in the same town at Nancy's ( from part 1 )old house. Jesse and his family had just moved into the house with his family when he starts having Freddy Nightmares. To make it short, basically what the movie is, is Freddy trying to take over Jesse's body. The murder scnes are just okay, except for one killer scene where Freddy cuts his way out of Jesse's body. Well this is all im going to say but this movie gets an 8/10. ( You may not like it as well as the first ) "},{"Title":"Average Story But a Bad Sequel","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This second installment stands on its own as a good movie but is not qualified as a sequel to the Nightmare series, in that many of the rules set by Craven in the 1st part have been broken in this one. For example, hmmm... I thought Freddy only has power in the dream world, but since when he's able to possess human body in the real world? Come on, this is not an Exorcist movie!!!The fright & gore are good. The helplessness as well as loneliness of the lead character (Jesse) really help augment the horror atmosphere of the film in that, to me, the less main characters there are in this type of movie, the more horrifying the film will be (just like part 1)! "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Why do people say this was the worst one.  The plot was pretty good. If this wasn't the best this was equally good as the others.  Well I guess I just like the series period.  If you like this one maybe you should try Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare which was also hailed by critics.  "},{"Title":"Yet another funny horror movie","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  C'mon! They can do better than this! This was the stupidest piece of junk I've ever seen in my life. It wasn't scary at all, and me and my friends stayed up laughing. Even my mom, who is afraid of all horror movies, laughed with us. The acting was crap, and Freddy was acting stupid. Kill for me, Jesse. What the hell is that? I don't understand how this movie actually made any money.Rating -99999999999999999999999999999999999/10 "}{"Title":"Very underrated film","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ATTENTION SPOILER ALERT!  DON'T READ THIS REVIEW IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE!I've read some of the other comments.  Lighten up!  This film was dark, Freddy WAS scary throughout the movie  At the beginning with the attack on the school bus in hell, later when he attacks Jesse and peals his scalp back to reveal his pulsating brain.  The attack on the gym teacher wasn't scary, but the kid wearing Freddy's glove and screaming right afterward is, and later, Freddy's attack on the kids at the party pool is pretty intense, especially the part where he flies out of the concrete, and when he's attacking Lisa in the house, terrorising her while telling her, I love you, Lisa in Jesse's voice.  Freddy is also darker in this movie than most of the sequels, and seems more intent on terrorising here than snapping off one-liners. I also believe the filmmakers actually meant to add the gay subtext that shows up throughout the film.  Say what you want, but most horror movies don't work with subtext or underlying themes at all, making this movie already more intelligent than most other hack and slash out there. As far as the rotten acting, yes, most of it is rotten, with two exceptions. Robert England as Freddie Krueger, and Kim Myers as Lisa, who at times is remeniscent of Meryl Streep, whom she resembles somewhat, or Annette O'Toole, whom she resembles a lot.  She was very good at playing scared and venurable. All said, this is not a classic horror film, but when compared with most of the other sequels, at least, this one at least holds up as one of the better Elm Street films, which degenerated into an almost circus type of atmosphere by the time parts 5 and 6 came along, with Freddy as a wisecracking killer clown.  I'd give it 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"This Nightmare Is Good","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a good one just about three weeks ago I bought this one and part 1 I am planing to get part 3 also.  But any ways this is real good.  It wasn't that scary but still this was a good one.  If you have never seen any of these movies I am telling you now these ones are stupid 4,5,7 part 6 was good has well as the first 3 but skip the others.  I don't want to tell you about it.  So go out and rent it buy it hell steal it. "},{"Title":"its ok","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The nightmare series is so far my favorite series of movies,the only ones i havn't seen were Nightmare5 and Freddy's DeadThe Final Nightmare.But all the ones ive seen were great but this one was ok.They shouldn't have made the coach gay,and they could of found a better way to kill him off.But besides that this is a ok movie.I like the scene were Jesse and Lisa find Nancy's diary and read it.I also like the scene were Jesse is having his nightmare at the beginning,those parts are cool! "},{"Title":"A tale of possession, not dreaming","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge was released in 1985. It features an all new cast and Robert Englund back as Freddy Krueger. Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) moves into 1428 Elm Street (Nancy Thompson's old house), where he starts having awful dreams about Freddy. It seems Krueger wants to possess Jesse in order to kill again. Right here is where the film goes WRONG. The whole idea of the original is the fact that Freddy kills his victims while they are sleeping, and that if he is brought out into the real world he'll die. This film totally contradicts what the first film was about (which is why Wes Craven didn't want anything to do with it). Now don't get me wrong, the special effects are great, and the acting is pretty good too, especially from Patton and Kim Myers as Lisa, Jesse's love interest, but I think the thing that really ruined this film was the plot, plus Freddy doesn't use his glove to kill, but knives coming from his fingers. The music is also different. Although this film does expand on the plot of the first film, with many references to it, the next film actually continues from where the first film ends, and Freddy is actually still scary in this before he started becoming goofy. "},{"Title":"The 'Twin Peaks' of the Nightmare series","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Freddy's Revenge is looked upon as the black sheep of the Nightmare series, but at least he wasn't putting kids into video games and comic books yet. The filmmakers kept his persona as the dark, evil being that Freddy should be. Robert Englund's make-up job was great, it didn't look like a rubber mask, he actually looks grotesquely burnt.I recently purchased the Nightmare collection on DVD and I saw Freddy's Revenge for the first time in years. I must say that it definitely had it's low points, (i.e. exploding parakeets), but  Nightmare 2 is a very dark, strange horror movie that thrives on the very macabre unknown that we experience in our dreams. It is the Twin Peaks of the series. Don't skip this venture, just look at it differently than the other films and appreciate it for trying to be different. "},{"Title":"Freddy's done great!","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the scariest and best of the Elm Street series. It's really scary, with it's dark tones, and scary settings.The special effects are spectacular. Part 2 really delivers, for fans, who are attracted to Freddy's first sequel. Special effects, like Freddy breaking out of Jesse Walsh's body and Freddy's pets, the human-headed dogs, are cool special effects. Including Freddy's disappearing trick, at the climax of the infamous pool scene. The movie starts off with young, Jesse Walsh, riding in a school bus. Suddenly, the bus driver drives off into a desert, in which turns out to be one of the series' scariest settings, a stormy, dark desert! By the end of the movie, everything is calm. Until, Freddy with coolness, bursts his claws threw a teen's stomach and the bus, once again heads to the desert. The ending leaves the door wide open, ofcourse, for Elm Street 3, a less effective Freddy venture for me, but non-the-less, great special effects and a fun time. But not as fun as this entry. "},{"Title":"NOT GREAT, BUT NOT BAD.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie wasn't as scary as some of the others in the series,but is was certainly effective and entertaining. Some scenes really stood out, like for instance when Freddy came out of Jesse's body- great special effects. When the coach got killed- another cool scene. Overall worth watching. -**1/2 "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie ever made","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I read these people calling this movie underrated and better than people give it credit for, and I wonder, what were these people on when they watched this film? This thing was rancid. First off, the acting was terrible! I mean, unbelievably awful. The lead actor appeared to be acting in another film in his mind. His mannerisms were so odd, but it was not tied to his character, it was him just being a terrible choice for the lead. Then you would have scenes that should have never made a final cut for a film. The family sitting around the room and one of them saying it seems hot in here. The dad then goes to the thermostat and tells them that it is 97 degrees inside the room. Uhh, you did not recognize that it was really hot until you checked the thermostat? I'm sorry, I know you are supposed to be forgiving when it comes to acting in this genre, but this was inexcusable. This movie should be destroyed. "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Rushed sequel with Freddy Kruger (Englund) manipulating main character Patton into doing his murders for him. Black sheep of the franchise, with it being the only film in which the male is the protagonist and also to have no recurring characters aside from Freddy. Typical inferior horror sequel, but it does make attempts at honoring its predecessor. Its low points are a scene with Freddy possessing a pair of lovebirds; and another scene where Myers is inexplicably right on her hunches, trying to convince Patton that it wasn't him who committed a murder when he admits to it, but also that he made his confession to her with his hands soaked in blood! Rusler is slightly more appealing as the bully-turned-friend; unfortunately, he's not explored enough and ultimately comes across as a contradictory character. Concept may have actually worked had they given it another year or two to fill the bumps in the script.★★ (out of four) "},{"Title":"Yeah...whaaa?","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't believe I'm going to say this but these movie must be going over my head. I just don't get it. He's inside a dream inside a dream...otherwise this inexplicable stuff happening would make no sense as Freddy can only manipulate dreams...Anyway, a teenaged boy screams like a little girl as he is haunted by Freddy who is attempting to possess him to continue murdering people. This kid, Jesse, has a hot girlfriend who tries to save him and unravel what is happening in this second, entertaining chapter of the series.Despite the stupidity of the acting and the nonsense story, it's actually a fun movie with some great effects. The school bus scene at the beginning is really well done and spooky. It's a pretty solid flick. "}{"Title":"A Flawed,Yet Interesting Entertaining Sequel.","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street 2Freddy's Revenge is a flawed,yet entertaining sequel to the first Nightmare On Elm Street. Although not as good as the first Freddy's Revenge is an interesting film filled with creepy direction,good atmosphere,edgy subject matter and special effects.Set five years after the original Nightmare,Freddy's Revenge tells the story of a teenager named Jesse Walsh(Mark Patten)who's family has moved into Nancy Thompson's house(from the original)on Elm Street. While there Jesse begins having nightmares about dream demon Freddy Krueger(Robert Englund)who has returned to possess Jesse's dreams and body to have Jesse kill for him. With help of his friend Lisa(Kim Myers),Jesse must figure out how to destroy Freddy and save his soul.In between the excellent classic original A Nightmare On Elm Street and the brilliant second sequel A Nightmare On Elm Street 3Dream Warriors came A Nightmare On Elm Street 2Freddy's Revenge,a film that has divided Elm Street fans since it's release. Some like the film while others hate it,I think I fall into the former category because while this film is flawed it's not as bad as people have said. FR is a bold movie to make because while it is a sequel to the first this film takes on a new direction which is it's biggest strength and biggest weakness. The film's strength is the way the film has the feel of a ghost story or a haunted house movie where there are strange things going on and we can't figure out why they're happening which gives the film a creepy sense of dread and fear and the film puts viewers on edge from the beginning with a dark atmosphere that hangs over the movie. It's weakness is the film's lack of nightmares,imagination and originality the first one had. With the exception of two really effective nightmare scenes,this film really doesn't have many nightmare sequences,with Freddy invading the real world instead of dreams. With Freddy being in the real world it makes Freddy seem a lot less powerful and has impact then in the first film where Freddy had more control and in the first film you weren't sure if you were in a dream or in reality this film lacks the original ambiguity. The real world idea worked better in Wes Craven's New Nightmare. The most talked subject about FR is the film's homo-erotic undertones and gay themes. I have to admit when I first saw the film I didn't really notice until I came on the internet where the homo-erotic theme was discussed. Did that mean Jesse's character was gay or just bisexual and struggling with his sexuality?(It doesn't help matters that lead actor Mark Patten is gay in real life)It could be said that Freddy Kruger possessing Jesse and coming out of his body is a metaphor for Jesse to come out the closet. It was pretty bold taking on a homo-erotic theme in the 80s especially in a Horror film during the time AIDS was just beginning. Freddy has a lot more screen time and lines this time around,but,is smartly kept in the shadows throughout the film which makes the character scarier and very effective and his actions more frightening and when you watch the film you will feel like no one is safe from Freddy's wrath and destruction. The violence and gore in the film is straight forward and well-done,even though it's not as bloody as the first film it's still effective. The ending of the film is shocking and creepy and a good cap-off to this movie,although it's not as good as the first one's ending. I like all the original Elm Street films,but if I were to rank this one,I put below 1,7,3 and 4,but above 5 and 6 mainly because of the subject matter and tone of this film but like I said before I like the whole series.The cast does good jobs in their roles. Mark Patten does a wonderful job as Jesse,bringing depth and likability to the role. Kim Myers(who looks like Meryl Streep)does a great job as Lisa,Jesse's love interest. Robert Englund is scary and frightening as Freddy,having more lines and screen time this time around. Robert Rusler shines as Ron Grady,Jesse's new friend. Clu Gulager and Hope Lange do superb jobs as Mr. and Mrs Walsh,Jesse's parents. Marshell Bell is truly disturbing as gay S&M gym teacher Coach Schnieder. Sydney Walsh does a fine job as Kerry,Lisa's friend.The direction by Jack Sholder is great with Sholder giving the film a sense of dread and dark,creepy atmosphere with great camera angles. Great job by Sholder.The score by Christopher Young is effective,creepy and memorable and fits in with the film's dark tone,even though the film was missing the NOES theme from the original. A wonderful score. Also there some good songs like Did You Ever See A Dream Walking(Bing Crosby),Whisper To A Scream(Bobby Orlando and Claudja Barry)and All Night Long(Fonda Rae).The special effects and make-up by Kevin Yagher is outstanding and realistic especially the make-up on Freddy which is frightening and disturbing. Great make-up effects.In final word,if you love the first Nightmare or it's sequels I suggest you see A Nightmare On Elm StreetFreddy's Revenge a flawed,yet entertaining sequel to the Horror classic. Recommended. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"You are all my children now!","Date":"23 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Set five years after the events of the original Nightmare, it sees a young man, Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) move with his family into Nancy Thompson's old house, and good old Freddy (Robert Englund) tries a different tack in this story possessing Jesse's body to enable him to kill all the teenagers outside of the dream world, thereby ignoring the rule Wes Craven had put in place that Freddy could *only* exist in dreams. Of course, nowadays, it's pretty much impossible to watch Freddy's Revenge and not pick up on all of the homosexual overtones, and even see the movie as a metaphor for a young man's homosexual panic. Where does Jesse run to in a time of need? The bedroom of classmate Ron Grady (Robert Rusler). Where does one of the nightmare sequences take place? In a shower room where a butt naked Coach Schneider (character actor Marshall Bell, in his first substantial film role) is whipped on his rear with towels before finally being gored by the infamous glove. Even Jesse himself is a decidedly un-macho lead, and much more victim than hero. There's still a strong female character, in the form of Jesse's girlfriend Lisa Webber (Kim Myers), who saves the day through means that some fans can see as much too corny. On the plus side, for a movie that was basically rushed into production, it still works quite well at times. For one thing, Freddy at this point remains a creepy and twisted character without his dialogue being overly inundated with wisecracks. The moment where Freddy tries to manipulate Jesse into killing his sister is a good and eerie moment. There are surreal touches - somehow, Freddy seems to be able to affect changes in the real world this time around to which various people are witness. The exploding bird bit is a hoot, as are the guard dogs near the end that wear children's face masks. And there is a fun sense of humour, especially when a misguided schmuck attempts to help Freddy with him snarling Help yourself! in reply. Kevin Yagher takes over the makeup and gore effects gig and does a good job. Christopher Young's music is much unlike Charles Bernstein's score from the first movie, but in a definite good way, as it's simply spooky. It goes without saying that Englund is as fun as ever; leading lady Myers is quite appealing, and supporting players Clu Gulager and Hope Lange are effective as the cranky dad and the concerned mom. In closing, using the Bing Crosby rendition of Did You Ever Hear a Dream Walking? adds one of the most interesting touches; with it not exactly being a typical choice for this sort of thing. Freddy's Revenge may not be highly regarded among some fans of the series, but it's not all that bad either. Even with its problems, it's still decent entertainment. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"This is movie. is horrible","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Having watched this movie,as well as the first as of last night sort of a Halloween marathon of Freddy. I was unfortunate enough to have seen this movie. This movie is down right terrible. Skip it if you want to watch the series,it throws all logic out the window and destroys all the rues and boundaries the first worked so hard to set. the continuity is just terrible...Freddy no longer controls everything in dreams,he is god,he can make,move,control ANYTHING and anyone and cant die even when people are awake and it has very awkward scenes. And once in the movie (not a spoiler) He gets out of bed,and walks to a gay bar in the rain....why?...just cause...he then gets sent to school by his gay smn couch to do laps and take a shower......wait..what? yes. this film is HORRIBLE. it will insult fans till the day they die and is just not fun to watch even in the sense of a movie so bad,its hilarious,its just bad and unfun this is a movie worth of a score of -1/100. I hate this movie. and happy Halloween "},{"Title":"Interesting Sequel...depending on who you are that is!","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love the original Nightmare on Elm Street like everyone else does but I also liked 'Freddy's Revenge' just as much. Many critics give it a horrible rating for it straying too far from the original ideas of Craven and Co. But wait a second.... Freddy is attempting this time to take over a young teenagers body and therefore become 'human' and no longer just a figment of perception, so far the idea is captivating to me. I think what did it for me in this movie was the fact that before this movie, Freddy could only come to you in your dreams and that was it. Freddy doesn't really have much breathing room as far as his capabilities go at this point but now (Part 2) he can get into a body and become real! Just the thought of this madman coming into the real world and wreaking havoc is scary enough for anyone that could realistically perceive this. Yes there were some 'pseudo-gay' references in some scenes which could have been handled differently (director Jack Sholder to this date still denies any intentional use of homo-erotic references). And when we were all teenagers we all had those teenage-sexual confused period/phases in our lives and maybe these references in the movie were only done to better capture whats going on in the mind of the life of a male teenager in Springwood, Ohio in 1985. I may be wrong but all in all I thought this movie was very good , and regardless of what other critics think..I will proudly give this movie eight out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"The second is the best","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I find this the unnoticed film that everyone is afraid to admit that they like. It's the 1986 sequel to the 1984 original Nightmare On Elm Street where Freddy Krueger(Robert Englund)tries to take over the body of a teenage teen named Jesse Walsh(Mark Patton)through his dreams.I think this movie had some pretty good deaths, although I would have liked to of seen the real Freddy Krueger sliced and dice Ron Grady, The Coach and kill that one teen at the party. Maybe that's why this movie hasn't made so much fans.I figure out that this film does need something in-between as it lacks that special touch of Freddy's evil sounding voice as it soars over the room in that hissing way. Made that is why I gave it one less start. "},{"Title":"Not As Good as it could have been...I don't think this contains spoilers, but just in case...","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay, don't get me wrong, I am a Nightmare fanatic. But I think the lack of having Wes Craven as a director really hurt this movie, making it slightly worse than the original. The acting was slightly decent, however, the performances of Robert Englund as Freddy and Mark Patton as Jesse were exceptional. The movie, in itself, ruined our image of Freddy from the last film. Where did all his snappy one-liners go, eh? And more of the focus was Jesse, when it should have explain more of what Freddy intended, hence, the plot. The effects were decent for the times, but by today's standards would be considered quite cheap. There also could have been more establishing dialouge between Jesse and Lisa, to justify their emotions. On the whole, I found it rather disappointing from the original. Fans are bound to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"far and away, the most homo erotic movie ever","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  maybe im the only one to pick up on this but come on, the guy with the little shorts and dancing and the coach getting his bare ass whipped by a towel in the shower after coming back from a leather bar, and the whole slow motion push ups and teen boys in the same bed.....maybe its just me but yikes.......not that theres anything wrong with that "},{"Title":"Basic popcorn slasher flick and quite a decent sequel","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's revenge is a bit more comical than the original film was and if the first movie was frightening in one way or another it's obvious that this one isn't. Of course it depends on a viewer but personally I thought all the so-called scary scenes were probably the most humorous ones of all. Naturally there's lot of new, more advanced special effects but it only makes the whole thing look even cheesier. That's why this is a good film. It doesn't try too much to be better and it doesn't try to be exactly the same movie all over again. First sequel to A Nightmare on Elm Street doesn't deliver any surprises but it's a very decent popcorn movie and a well-made follow-up to the original classic. Like most of the sequels, this doesn't surpass the first flick but watch it anyway and see what 1980's was all about. "},{"Title":"I'm not quite sure what to make of this one...","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The funny thing about this movie is that it wasn't until I saw the Nightmare on Elm Street Encyclopedia which included interviews from cast and crew members of everyone involved with this series that I  finally discovered how much homoeroticism was in this movie. In that aspect, the use of Freddie Kruegger almost seems ambiguous since he's one of three men who's haunting Jesse (the other two being his gym teacher and Grady). It also doesn't help that Jesse's relationship with Lisa is one that just doesn't seem to work. This movie can ultimately be seen as an experiment since (with the exception of Freddie) the men in this series are the weaker sex. Lisa is the only female lead in this series who lives yet doesn't possess any major strength like Heather Langenkamp and the forgettable heroines who came after her. Probably the most disappointing part of this movie is that we never find out what happens to Jesse and it's never explained why 1428 Elm Street was boarded up for the third installment which wasn't much to scream about either. Oddly enough, there's a great deal about this series that is left unexplained. We never find out what happens to Alice and her baby. We never find out what happens to Freddie's daughter. And we never find out how Freddie was resurrected in order to be killed in Freddie's Dead The Final Nightmare. It's sad because the same can't really be said for the Friday the 13th series which were all really lame since Jason kept coming back for sake of killing promiscuous young adults. But seeing as how if a series is played enough, there's nothing new that can be done which kind of makes it OK. "},{"Title":"Alright Sequel","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think NOES 2 is Alright  It could have been better, but this is 1985 we are talking about... 1985 wasn't a good year as 1984 was for movies (ie ANOES ). Mark Patton (Jesse) did a good job at playing a big-haired, tight pants, geeky, and fey character.  I thought his screams were a riot. He does scream like a girl, and the dance scene was kind of wierd.  The movie does have homosexual undertones in it. The two good parts were the bus scene and the party scene. Those gave this NOES sequel the typical dreamy or surreal scenario.  I think NOES 6 is the best for those surreal scenarios. Kim Myers did a good job.. I think she was the best actor(tress) in the movie. A nice surprise from Clu Gulager.. Gave the 1985 movie a touch of the 70's. Lastly, Robert Englund could have appeared more... "}{"Title":"like FREDDY'S DEAD is any better","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  c'mon people! at least freddy is, without question, scary and evil in this film that tries to be slightly original and remain true to the spirit of the original.  this was the first nightmare film i saw at age 8 when it was new to video, scared the bejesus out of me, hooked me on the series, naturally the original and new nightmare rule the series, but 2 is decent, different, scary freddy... part 3 ain't bad, scary/funny freddy... the homo thing? didn't catch on to that as a kid, but yeah, i see it now, always equated it to jesse going crazy as freddy takes him over... let us not fool ourselves, their all entertaining, but at least this one is still scary without totally relying on eye-candy it could've been worse, like exorcist IIi'll give this a 7.5 out of 10 for the series, not films or horror films over all, but for the nightmare series... "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OK so it has rubbish acting. So it makes no sense in places. How many other horror movies have these characteristics, hmmmmm? Here are it's good points (in my opinion) the absolutely terrific score (much better than the admittedly more well-recognised, but cheesily synthy, original score), 'Freddy's' least cheesy and most terrifying performance, some genuinely creepy bits (e.g. the little girl's room)- not overproduced clunker 'nightmare' sequences (as in the rest of the sequels). Not brilliant, but then again, neither was the much touted original, not so?  "},{"Title":"The horrible sequel to the fantastic original.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think I could safely say that this was the worst out of the series.  It ignored the first basic rule that the first one lay down, which was Freddy is a dream creature.  They made the fatal error of bringing Freddy into the real world and it's one of the reasons that make this movie so bad. Another interesting tidbit, the door in the first one was blue and in this one it's red and if I remember right, the door is red in the rest of the sequels as well.This was a very gay movie, and I'm not saying that as an insult.  There were a lot of homosexual undertones.  Now, I'm not saying that's a bad thing, but it didn't help any to have the &#145;hero' scream really high pitched like.Anyway, onto the acting, which was mediocre at best.  Englund of course did a good job once again portraying Freddy Krueger, but everyone else seemed to just be trying too hard.  Another thing that differed from the first `Nightmare' was the fact that I didn't really care about any of the characters very much.  As far as I was concerned, Freddy could have killed them all and it would've been a better movie.The story, oh man, what can I say about the story?  It was decent enough I guess, but it could've been a hell of a lot better.  It seemed like they were trying to play on hallucination tricks as opposed to actually trying to get any kind of real plot.  If they had stopped trying to mess with the audiences mind so much and actually got a good story going, it would have been a lot better.  As it stands, it's an average possession story; it's just too bad it doesn't fit Freddy whatsoever.  One of the worst scenes has to be when Freddy is terrorizing a large group of teens by a swimming pool (in the real world, no less).  There are quite a few of the teens that dwarf Freddy and he doesn't seem intimidating or scary at all.The effects were good at least; I'll give the movie that.  I particularly enjoyed the exploding bird.  There's also a really good melting Freddy shot near the end.  Other than that, nothing really special, a model shot at the beginning that looked okay, I guess.It seemed like a rush job to me.  Something thrown together really quick to appease fans of the first and in the process they made a pretty crappy movie.  I'd recommend it to hardcore `Nightmare' fans only.  "},{"Title":"pales to its creator, but still held my interest","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first Elm Street was the only film to ever scare me.  Where I couldn't sleep afterwards.  And I still remember Part 2 debuting on HBO in '87 as a twin-bill with its predecessor.  I had learned my lesson, NO WAY was I watching this at night.  As it turned out,  it wouldn't have mattered. Though completely un-scary, it does have its creepiness, and managed to hold my interest.  As with the first film, some things go annoyingly unexplained. Like the absence of Langenkamp, the first film's heroine.  There's a brief mention of her, but nothing else.  Her old house has apparently become vacated by she and her mother, and now occupied by a four person family. One of which is a teen-age boy (Patton) who is seeing a mysterious man prowling about the basement.  He's confronted by the stranger, who turns out to be Freddy, the supernatural wacko from the first film.  He wants to recruit Patton to do his killing for him, one of the oddball elements of the film.  If Freddy could enter at will and kill that way in part 1, why does he need assistance this time?  As now, he is entering the real world through Patton's body, in disgusting disembowlment sequences.  Patton begins to rip down the middle and out pops Freddy, glove at the ready.  Most of the rest of the film is Patton trying to fight Freddy out of his system so to speak, with the help of the cute Myers at his side.  The few bright spots are the usage again of dark imagery, plus another eerie, if different, soundtrack of clangy tones to spook.  And satisfying slaughter scenes, especially the jerky coach and the mayhem at the barbeque.  But a confused storyline and a little too much emotion toward the end make this fall short of number 1.  But at least they are able to stun us with the final shot again. "},{"Title":"Laughfest...wait a minute, was it supposed to be funny?","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This past September, my brother borrowed the whole boxed set of Nightmare on Elm Street DVDs from a friend of his.  At the time we started watching the films, I was beginning to get a sinus infection, so these films made me feel better...in a way.Ok, this was probably my fave among the boxed set (and that's not saying much), only because I'm into the whole bizarre situation thing (evident in Dream a Little Dream and All of Me, two comedies).  It explores possession, a key element in movies that I'll see.Here's how it breaks down Jesse (Mark Patton) moves into the house on Elm Street that Freddy haunted in the first one, and the dreams begin immediately.  However, Freddy possesses him.  At the by far most inconviencing times, Freddy, rips out of Jesse's skin and commits a horrible murder, unbeknownst to poor Jesse (boo hoo, insert voilin solo here), who doesn't know what is happening to him.  And how can it all stop?  If his dream girl can declare her true love for him.  Will it happen?  I'm not gonna tell you.The Nightmare on Elm Street movies are by far the pinnacle of retarted horror flicks.  The acting is ALWAYS bad, the stars never make it anywhere, and the plots are so corny, you can't stop laughing.  that's not even what the writers were aiming for--it just happens.  By the end of this one, me and my brother were laughing hysterical, and were just DYING to see what happened in the 3rd installment.  I highly recommend seeing this if you need a good laugh.  Really, you should be scared, but why make an effort?  It doesn't work, and faking it certainly doesn't make it any better.  Some nightmare!! "},{"Title":"The worst film I've ever seen","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I knew something was up when we were waiting in the queue on its opening night and saw people coming out of the first show looking miserable. It's good but its not that good I heard a women say. That means its the worst film I've ever seen in England. I tried to get my friends to agree to sell our tickets for a profit, and we could've, after I heard that but oh no, we saw the picture.I could have eaten a roll of Kodak and sh*t a better movie we said afterwards. Illustrates everything wrong with Hollywood in one movie. "},{"Title":"perhaps some of these people should think again","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  nightmare on elm street 2 was as good as the first maybe even better. it was very scary - this was the last of the very scary nightmare movies because the rest were  just semi-scary and more funny,and freddy had too many wise cracks in the others. i give it *** out of **** "},{"Title":"I really don´t think it´s THAT bad...","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Everyone is sure giving this movie a hard time, and I agree to some extent, but at the same time there are som good points to it. Like the pool party for instance, that was a really cool scene. And we can´t complain about Freddy, this was the last real Freddy before the joke-making-lovable-take-home-to-see-mom Freddy that entered in part 3. But I do agree that this is one of the weakest movies in the series. "},{"Title":"Worst sequel","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is defiantly the worst Freddy movie in the series. Thankfully you don't necessarily have to watch the second Nightmare on Elm Street movie to understand the rest of them since the story has nothing to do with any of the other movies (except from the fact that Freddy's in it). This film is a perfect example of what a sequel NOT should look like. It's bloody awful! When I first saw this I thought this was the downward spiral for the Freddy series. And that the money I spent on the A Nightmare on elm street box was a waste of money. But thankfully I was wrong. The rest of the series wasn't all that bad as this one. Yep, it sucked that bad. Yet, I have to say it can be a little entertaining in some scenes. Freddy is still in it as promised, so there are some quality stuff. But if you're watching this movie you will pay more attention looking at your watch all the time, rather than looking at the film because this film is just boring and painful to watch.For some people this may go in the so bad, it's good category. But for me it just didn't work out that way. It was a huge disappointment. The original A Nightmare on Elm Street movie is truly one of the best horror movies. It's a classic. And just after they made the film it made a really huge success and so I guess Hollywood wanted to exploit that.The effects looked really terrible in the film. I normally love it when the effects look very cheesy, but it just didn't work out for me this time.I guess if you're a Nightmare on Elm Street fan then this movie fan then this could be a little interesting. But if not, then I would skip this film and probably just catch another Elm Street movie instead "},{"Title":"awful sequel to an awesome movie","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" this movie was on youtube a few months ago. i swear this movie was probably the worst sequel ever, next to Friday the 13th Part 7 and 8. the acting was pretty awful. Robert englund was the only thing that kept this movie going. but there were some points in the film where he just disappeared and we got to see the weird days in the life of Jesse . that scene with the bird going crazy was kind of cool, but the dad's explanations and theories about the bird were just unbelievably stupid. the worst thing about this film was probably it's plot. even though this movie has the highest body count in the series, the movie's plot is so dumb! this movie is about Freddy, so we wanna see FREDDY kill people, not some weirdo kid who's sometimes Freddy and sometimes himself or some stuff like that. i think a really dumb scene was during the pool party. after Freddy destroyed half of the backyard and killed about six people, everything and everyone turns quiet, and some dumba** kid walks up and says to Freddy it's alright, no one's gonna hurt you. this guy quickly gets the fate every dumb-a** teen in a horror flick deserves. when the words 'no one's gonna hurt you were spit out, i was convinced that this teen would break out into singing kumbaya to Freddy and giving him a hug. speaking of stupid and weird characters, WHAT THE HECK was up with that gym teacher?! it's like he wanted to abduct Jesse or something, like some weird child predator. now we move onto Jesse again. No matter what happens, Jesse never has a reaction that looks like what it's supposed to be. when he's angry, he looks like he just sh** himself. when he's scared, he's calm at first and then just screams out of nowhere. the only things that make this movie watchable are Robert englund (freddy) Christopher young (music) and Kevin yagher (special effects)Overall; this movie was really bad, and i don't recommend it to any fans of 80s horror flicks at all. how this movie managed to be the #1 horror film of 1985, i'll never know. if you wanna see a good Nightmare movie, watch 1,3,4,New Nightmare, and FVJ. Stay away from 2,5 and 6. that is all.2/10 "}{"Title":"90mins of my life i'll never see again","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" seriously avoid this movie like the plague skip to the 3rd one.you don't need the 2nd one to understand any of them it was a total waste of time making it. i'd rather bang my head against a wall for a hr as it would be less painful and more entertaining.it wasn't bad enough to laugh at just cry because someone thought this was a good idea, seriously it's not at all whatsoever. the acting was bad too. freddy didn't do his running. he became real not just in dreams he was a total mess and uncoordinated. i think people forgot he's not meant to be real. not scary not funny not worth watching that's all i have to say "},{"Title":"Ummm...this movie is gay...literally","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" All in all, a fine movie; but while watching it, I realized something....Freddy was a personification for the boy's homosexuality. Also several gay themes. Here's some points for my thoughts-When wandering through town, he ends up at a gay bar. -When he kills the coach, he strips him nekkid and ties him up. -If I remember correctly, only guys are killed by Freddy. -Many shots of the boy when he's practically nude and sweaty. -The clock in the boys home is shaped like a certain piece of the male anatomy. -To get rid of Freddy, the boy had to make out with a chick...--There was more but I haven't seen the movie in years.Don't get me wrong, I'm not a homophobe, it's fine with me whatever choices people make for love. Hell, it could have seemed that the movie was like that because I was in an altered state of mind, but my friends I watched it with agreed with me....so yeah. "},{"Title":"The dish best served cold...","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jesse (Mark Patton) is the new kid in school, despite a few minor incidents he has no real problems in life that is until Freddy tries to possess Jesse and before Jesse knows it, people are turning up dead and Jesse is afraid literally to go to sleep at night because of it. However his girlfriend Lisa's(Kim Myers) love can deliver him from evil. Despite what most fans say, this sequel isn't really that bad it is a different take on the event but to say this is the weakest (Especially when compared to # 4 and # 6) is somewhat unfair. The movie doesn't follow the rules of the series but it works as a coherent whole plus the whole Jekyl and Hyde angle gives this an interesting subtext missing from the later sequels. As I said the movie to me always feels like a split personality movie and on this level it is fairly interesting and perhaps worth seeing. Some silly moments surface (Such as the exploding bird) but honestly it's better than most part 2's in a horror series.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "},{"Title":"The Spartacus of the Nightmare series","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I recently purchased the DVD box set of the Nightmare on Elm St. series, so as of late I've been watching them one at a time. I watched part 2 after seeing Freddy vs. Jason at the theater last night, so I was in a jazzed up, Freddy kind of mood. So what did I think?This movie suffers the indignity of being considered the worst in the series. Personally, I enjoyed it somewhat. I thought it was entertaining in a hokey, 80's slasher flick kind of way. The curious thing about this movie was the amount of barely concealed homoeroticism. There's a bunch of scenes in this that just scream sexual tension and it's usually between two guys. My favorite scene was when the coach got his in the shower. For some reason, they felt it necessary to make this guy a leather bar frequenting sadist with a penchant for making his students drop down and assume the position. This leads to a couple of scenes of sweaty teenage boys working their bodies to the limit, while the coach gets his jollies by ogling them. Anyway, this coach gets dragged into the showers and has his clothes ripped off by an unseen force, while being tied to the shower heads by jump ropes. Then, the comedic part of the scene commences with the coach's butt getting whipped by towels hard enough to draw blood. I swear to God, I was laughing so hard my eyes hurt afterwards. Then Freddy materializes out of the steam and does his thing with the razor claws. The movie is pretty goofy like that, especially in another inspired scene between the main character and his family going up against a psychotic parakeet. At this point in the series, Freddy hadn't become the joke-spouting machine that began to emerge in part 3 and beyond, so he still retained some of the spookiness that he gained in the first one. If you liked the Freddy from the first movie, then odds are you'll like him here also. The hero of the story was kind of wimpy and it didn't help matters much that the dude screamed like Jamie Lee Curtis in a Carpenter flick. Also, watching this guy dance to really bad 80's music was pretty painful. I'm sure that he can't watch this film without lowering his head in shame. Well, to close things off, the movie isn't as good as the original (of course) but I think it has received an unfairly bad rap. Some of it is still spooky and at the very least, you're sure to laugh your head off at least a good four or five times. Also, I wonder why they went with the decision to have Freddy's claws coming out of his fingers instead of from the glove itself. Something about the original glove being stolen from the set?Rating **1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"The weak one in the series of sequels","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie takes place five years after the events of the first film. None of the cast from the first film return. The Welch's have moved into the house that Nancy once lived. I didn't like Nightmare 2 has much.. The movie is about Freddy trying to take over the body of Jesse. The movie has great special effects by Kevin Yagher. Robert plays the bus driver in the beginning of the film. The film picks up during the last half of the film. Nancy is only mentioned in a diary that she left in the house that is found by Lisa and by Jesse's best friend Ron. This chapter in the series is for die hard nightmare fans only. I thought the third one was better and it brought back the Nancy character back and the dad back. So I would skip part 2 all together. "},{"Title":"Homoerotic horror flick","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Film takes place 5 years after the original (meaning it takes place in 1989!). Teenager Jesse (Mark Patton) and his family have moved into the neighborhood unaware of Freddy Kruger and his killings. Freddy Kruger (Robert Englund) is soon up and around wreaking havoc. He plans to kill more teens for revenge and decides to possess Jesse and use his body. Can Jesse fight him and win?This film is actually pretty bad. There's no real script (it meanders all over the place), it's not scary, there really aren't many killings (I counted 3) and Patton has a real silly scream. The special effects aren't that good either. But this has STRONG homoerotic overtones which, at the very least, make this VERY interesting and I'm gay so I really liked it!Pretty boy Mark Patton (who is gay--as is well known) is shown in his underwear a few times (nice package) and has a very nice body. Also there's a shot of his butt too. Darkly handsome Robert Rusler is shown in shorts and shirtless many times. In a way it's great to see a horror movie sexualize the men and not the women and Patton and Rusler are very easy on the eyes. Also they give very good performances. Kim Myers (a Meryl Streep lookalike) is pretty good as Jesse's girlfriend. And it's always good to see Hope Lange (even if it's a nothing role). There's also a cute joke at the end--they play Did You Ever See a Dream Walking during the closing credits!I'm giving it a 7 for Patton, Rusler and their bodies--but nothing else. Considered to be the worst of the series--but that's just by straight boys who are deathly afraid of ANY gay content in a horror film. "},{"Title":"The Best of the sequels","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the best of the many Nightmare on Elm Street sequels. The ending is memorable and it's just as good in places as part one. I would recommend this to any Horror fan.10 out of 10Fans of horror movies like this should Check out Puppet Master, Skinned Alive, Sleep Away Camp, Slumber Party Massacre, and other Full Moon Pictures flicks. For other recommendations, check out the other comments I have sent in by clicking on my name above this comment section. "},{"Title":"The Viewer's Worst Nightmare","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Some movies just shouldn't be made at all and Nightmare on Elm street 2 is one of them.This movie is not only the worst of the series but it's even worse than some straight to video horror films.If there is anything that gives sequels a bad name it is this film.  When we look at sequels we usually abide by the rules of the original unless we are told not to.  This film breaks the one rule that makes Freddy legendary by letting him appear in the real world instead of just dreams.  Although this rule is kinda broken in part 3 and 6 its still not smart to even try this in a 2nd film approach.I can't even give the writer or director credit for the idea that Freddy is inside the main character's body because it just doesn't work like that. That's a whole new topic for a different franchise.  Freddy should be in everyone's mind to create good terror.  That brings up the ultimate slashing pool scene (not a spoiler because it's revealed in the trailer at the end which, I must admit, one of the most funny sequences that I have ever seen in my life.  But that scene would only work as a parody of the Freddy series.I don't know if anyone but me realized this but there is more of a homosexual feel in the main characters of this film which is also a big no no for a Freddy movie.  Society just wasn't ready yet for that kind of tone back then.I can go on and on about all the problems I have with the film.  I can also say that the director of this has a bad resume with Wishmaster 2 and Supernova and if I could I would have this guy arrested and beat down for making bad films.For further info I am a really HUGE Freddy fan and I do own the Nightmare Collection.  But I'm very close to either burning my Nightmare 2 DVD or simply just use it as a coaster.  This film is not like other really bad films that still entertain, it's one of those films that make me sick every time I think of it.  Stay clear of this one if ya interested in the series. "},{"Title":"Flawed Sequel that doesn't respect the original but comes in it's own way.","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Five years later, When a sensitive teenager named Jesse (Mark Patton) is now living in the house. Where Nancy Thompson (Played by Heather Langenkamp in the original) used to live in Elm Street. Jesse is living with his parents (Clu Gulager & Hope Lange) and his sister (Christie Clark). When his new friend (Kim Myers) finds a diary of Nancy's hidden in his room, where Nancy used to be in. Jesse and his new friend are finding out horrible, terrible secrets from her past and the long-dead murderer, who used to kill kids in the neighborhood and now in their dreams! Now Jesse is now dreaming about a man by the name of Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund), who does always tries to contact him and make him do things that he wouldn't do. Since Freddy wanted to use his body to control him and being in the real world, where he could kill again.Directed by Jack Sholder (Wishmaster 2Evil Never Dies, Alone in the Dark, The Hidden) made a worthy if different follow up to the original. But the film betrays between the world of reality and dreams, which doesn't really pull it off towards the end and almost losing the imaginative premise of the first film. Still, it has some scary moments and Englund as the film's villain is menacing and frightening.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an strong digitally remastered-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has the original theatrical trailer, Jump to a Nightmare opinion and Cast & Crew information. The Elm Street Series DVD Box Set on the eighth disc, the DVD has interviews with the cast and crew of this second film. This Sequel has some unusual moments, since this film has some homosexual overtones in the story. This was also a bigger Box Office hit than the original. Some might call this the Worst of the Elm Street films but it's not (depending on the fans or those you have seen this ambitious sequel). Look closely for Englund as the Bus Driver (Without the Freddy Make-Up) in the opening scene. Marshall Bell, who is best known for Starship Troopers and Total Recall has a small role as a nasty Gym teacher with a secret. Watch for Co-Chairman and Co-CEORobert Shaye (The film's producer) as a S&M bartender. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"A most worthy follow-up.","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Freddy tries to take over the mind and body of a teenage living in the same Elm St. house from the original, so he can kill in the real world. A slickly done film, one of the better sequels in the series features startling special effects and presents Fred Kruger in much more dark and grusome way than any of the other Elm St. films did. The acting is decent, the score is effective, the editing tight, and the direction passable. Plus it is creative, but the script is bit on the slim side. Not bad though. 7.5/10 "}{"Title":"Very Disappointed...","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It was a Friday night and I had nothing to do when i saw that A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge was going to be on. I enjoyed the original so much that i thought i would enjoy this movie greatly as well...but i was very disappointed. The Acting was awful. and the script was terrible. This film was not scary at all. The final scenes where Freddy is destroyed by Lisa's Love for Jesse was pathetic and definitely not how ANOES movie should end. This movie was just terrible all around with the only good thing being Freddy Krueger- who only makes a few appearances. I give this movie a 3 out of 10Don't waste your time watching this unless you are a huge fan of the nightmare series. Even then you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"a very scary movie","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a very scary movie. There are scarier movies. The original A nightmare on elm street from 1984 is scarier. A nightmare on elm street 3 the dream worriers is also scarier. A nightmare on elm street 4 the dream master is also scarier. A nightmare on elm street 5 the dream child is also scarier. Freddy's dead the final nightmare is also scarier. W.e.s Craven's new nightmare is also scarier. Freddy vs Jason is also scarier. But still this is a very scary movie. It makes a good back story for the letter sequels. It a good movie in it's self. It as a great story line. Great acting. Great special effects. If you like real scary movies you will like this movie. Freddy is a ghost so I consider this horror fantasy. "},{"Title":"Good ideas, average execution.","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Freddys Revenge came out in 1985, 2 years after the original and was a huge hit, but it was like a whole different film compared to the first one. Its not a bad film, it has good ideas, I just think the execution could have been done much better.Jesse is the first problem here, he just ain't Nancy. He was meant to different and I understand that having your dreams invaded by Freddy and being possessed by him are two totally different things, but the character is just boring and his annoying girly shrieks don't make it any better. However I do love the idea of Freddy needing to possess someone to get strong again.Freddy is different here as well, no longer the sneaking in the shadows type, instead he's just plain sneaky. He uses Jesse to get the kids afraid again and then, well he kills kids, in full view of everyone he just plain kills them. I like this kind of Freddy, balls to the wall fearless in his killing, I do prefer the more inconspicuous, shadow Freddy however.Overall, Good ideas here but the execution wasn't right, it didn't feel right and so the film suffered. "},{"Title":"A different direction","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I remember seeing the first Nightmare On Elm Street on VHS in my teenage years. And to this day its one of my favorite top 10 horror films of all time. The whole idea of a dream demon invading the teenagers dreams on Elm Street in Springwood was so interesting and a whole new concept from the over done killer wearing a mask killing people. When we got introduced to Freddy Krueger played by Robert England we saw a character that came onto his own and didn't copy something else that had been done to death. I loved everything about the first film and then when I got done watching it I watched part 2 with the same excitement and wondered if it could pass the first film in suspense and horror. I can say this film didn't come close to the first film in terms of horror. I will admit its not the worst in the Nightmare On Elm Street franchise but it isn't close to the best. I just didn't think the whole story of Freddy trying to get back into the real world was logical. The whole point of Freddy being a dream demon is because hes about killing teenagers of the adults of Springwood who had hunted him down and killed him when he was a human. He was about getting revenge and tormenting the kids because the adults cant protect their kids in their dreams. Freddy trying to get back into the real world just goes against his whole revenge where the adults cant protect their kids approach. I also felt the characters were just coming off as too macho and tough at times. I felt like they didn't come off as teenage kids with normal teenage lives. Another approach was the character of Lisa. Normally a female is always the one who stops Freddy and is exstablished throughout the film. But she really didn't get much screen time in this as Jessie did and she really didn't start fighting Freddy until the final maybe 30 minutes of the film. To me this film was average. Again its not the worst but not the best. I still think the worst film in the Nightmare On Elm Street film was Freddys Dead the Final Nightmare. If you want to pass the time then go for it and watch the film. But don't expect the film to be as good as part 1. "},{"Title":"Freddy is back and he is not happy","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't know if the IMDb will take some of the content in this review as spoilers so I will list it just in case.Freddy Krueger is back, and since Nancy has moved out, he's haunting the new kid on the block.Five years have passed since Freddy Krueger was sent howling back to hell. But now, a new kid on Elm Street is being haunted by every night by gruesome visions of the deadly dream stalker. And if his twisted soul takes possession of the boy's body. Freddy will return from the dead to wreak bloody murder and mayhem upon the entire town.This film starred Robert Englund, Mark Patton & Kim Meyers A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET PART 2FREDDY'S REVENGE used to be my most hated film ever however I have watched it again and it wasn't as bad as I thought it was but it still was poor basically the new boy Jesse moves into the house which was owned by Nancy and her mother in the first film, this film tells you that Nancy went insane and her mother killed herself. However Freddy wants more than to just killing people in their dreams so he tries to take possession of Jesse to continue his massacre in the real world.The film is poor and nowhere near the standards of the original, however I suppose you have to watch it if you want to watch them from the beginning however I do warn you, this film is not a great one but I will say this it is better than NEW NIGHTMARE which was released in 1994/1995 because that my friends was absolutely dreadful.**/***** Poor "},{"Title":"A different (but still lousy) approach","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first one had a teenage girl in a life or death struggle against a horrifying monster who only exists in her dreams and the dreams of her friends, who are quickly dying around her. This one? This is the one where a guy in his underpants sits around in a hot room and sweats for half the movie.We hop from the greatest in the series directly to the worst, with this ,the first of many inferior sequels to the original classic. The filmmakers go for sort of a Wolf Man approach, in which our hero, played by Mark Patton, is possessed and eventually transformed into the dream stalking Freddy Krueger. While this movie deserves props for originality , the plot makes little sense. I guess Freddy wants to take over the body of Jesse so he can be free to kill people in real life and in the dream world. The problem is, most of the suspense and fear of falling asleep from the first film vanish when most of the deaths occur outside the dream world. And the death scenes that are there are among the worst in the entire series. A couch being towel whipped to death? Really? A bunch of people being chased by Freddy at a pool party? Who thought that was a good idea? The plot structures of the many sequels, while formulaic, work because of the constant fear that a madman will get you in your sleep. This one has none of that.Jesse's transformation scene and the death of Grady do include some great visuals, as well as the hell dogs at the end of the film, but all of the Nightmare movies have good visuals, and this one doesn't really stand out too much. And the performances? Ouch. This was after Freddy was ghoulish and scary, but before he became a tongue in cheek pop icon, so he's kind of just there in this one. He has a couple of one liners, but there's nothing too humorous or creepy here. Mark Patton is prissy, obnoxious, and screams like an 8 year old girl. Kim Myers is cold, and looks very bored in her role as Lisa. Clu Gulager is one of my favorite actors, but he doesn't have too much to do here. And as far as the gay subtext is concerned, it's great they tried to give this film a little depth, but this doesn't help it out at all as a horror film. In fact, with the audience constantly looking for gay stuff throughout the film, any possibility of it being taken seriously is vanquished. So, all in all, this is the film equivalent of a hotdog which has been sitting directly under the hot sun in a parking lot in New Jersey for the past week. It's ugly, nauseating, and you couldn't get me to look at it again if you paid me to. "},{"Title":"Slow-paced, uneven execution hampers what would have been a solid sequel","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can deal with the premise. I can even deal with the homoerotic undertones. What I can't deal with is the fact that we wade through about 40 minutes of this film before Freddy even gets his first victim. And the action didn't even get intense until the last half-hour or so.I thought this film was better the first few times I saw it. Watching it again, I've re-evaluated my position on it. They could have had a hit here. The formula for a stellar sequel is right in the plot. But it's so unevenly distributed and short-changed that it's hard to get excited. The character development is just fine. That is, Jesse morphing in to Freddy to bring him in to the real world. The problem is that they didn't present enough payoff throughout this particular plot point to really make the buildup worth it. Hell, the uneven pacing could have been forgiven had there really been a payoff towards the climax. We could write off a slow start had the latter half of the movie really wowed us. It too fell short.Also, when I say uneven pacing, I'm not just referring to the events of the plot. I'm referring to the fact that some of the scenes themselves have too much idle time in between character interaction. There needs to be a little less staring. If they were attempting to build suspense, it didn't really work. I just got that they slowed the scene down and made it harder to suspend disbelief. It could have been saved too, had it a great ending. But this is easily one of my least favorite endings to any of the Nightmare films. Now, the absolute final ending is okay. But Freddy's demise simply seemed to weak for me, not particularly believable. Nightmare 2 has some great points, too. The pool scene was, for the most part, excellent. A few bones to pick, again with the execution. But overall, it's excellent. And the cinematography when Freddy delivers his immortal line You are all my children now was also terrific. The problem was, it was over too soon. Not enough action, and not enough payoff when we finally received it.I have to also say that I like that they were ambitious, and strove to move in a different direction. That didn't bother me. It was still only the second movie in to the franchise. I also like that Freddy is still dark in this film, as opposed to wisecracking and campy (which he became in later films). But it all came down to how it was executed, and Nightmare 2 just falls short in that regard.Thankfully, Nightmare 3 was a much better movie. It also involved the Nancy Thompson storyline (which is only referenced in Nightmare 2). Thus, it's unaffected by this movie. This is a film only for the hardcore Nightmare fans (like me) who just have to see every movie. Otherwise, feel free to skip it. It's not the worst in the series (Freddy's Dead takes that by a long mile). In fact, I still prefer it over the more action-packed Nightmare 4. But it's one that lukewarm fans of the series could do without. "},{"Title":"A Weak Part in the Early Entries to the Franchise","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A teenage boy (Mark Patton) is haunted in his dreams by Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) who is out to possess him to continue his murdering in the real world.Although this film is generally good, it does not hold up to be as strong as part one or part three. Which is unfortunate, because the principals involved (Mark Patton and Robert Rusler) are two of the nicest, funniest people I have ever met. Great people do not always equal a great movie, though.The strong point is the gore, which was not only cutting edge for the time, but still holds up as pretty intense today. The lack of Freddy through most of the film seems to be what makes it a bit less than the first or third, though some scenes here do not require him at all to be good. The rapport between Rusler and Patton is strong.Interestingly, this has become known as the gay Freddy film, and some have called it the gayest horror film of all. Indeed, it is said that writer David Chaskin intentionally added homoerotic phrases and actions to the script (including the cue for Robert Rusler to wiggle his butt at bat). This is further explained in the documentary Never Sleep Again. This was Chaskin's first film, and he went on to make a few more horror flicks, including Tibor Takács' I, Madman. "},{"Title":"A Disappointing Sequel In The Series.","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When i saw this film i was disappointed. This sequel failed to beat the success of the classic original. Here are the reasons why i disliked this film. First off Freddy hardly appears in the film. Instead it decided to focus more on the main character Jesse other than focusing more on Freddy. Another reason is that i didn't like the whole idea of Freddy being inside Jesse's body and taking over it. I also didn't like the whole signs of gay themes used in the film. And finally the last reason i disliked the film was because instead of Freddy killing people in their nightmares he kills people in the real world. I hated that idea why couldn't they connect with the first film and have Freddy kill people in their nightmares? That is the main thing i disliked the most about the film. But other than those dislikes about the film. I did however like the fact they got Robert Englund to come back as Freddy. Plus i do think this sequel is slightly better than the sixth installment Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare which is by far the worst of the series. And this is an OK sequel that could've been a lot better. "},{"Title":"A Poor Sequel","Date":"3 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In 1984, a movie by the name of A Nightmare on Elm Street was released, it took the horror genre by storm, and quickly became a commercial and critical success. Because of the high praise and scoring of $25 million at the box office, a sequel was inevitable.As you well know, A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge is the second instalment in the Elm Street franchise, what you may not know is that it may also be the worst. For a start, a big part of the movies, dreams, are stuffed into the corner. Replaced with some bizarre plot about possession that really doesn't belong in this series. The acting is okay, though, so is the script, but the movie is COMPLETELY devoid of scares.One thing that I have to point out in this review is the parrot scene. Yes, THAT parrot scene. For a movie that takes itself so seriously, it's hard to think that they would this in. The subtext isn't helping either.Overall A disappointing followup that even Englund's performance can't save, Freddy's Revenge will hold you for a minute, before you start wanting to see him go slash-happy with his glove on some bystanders. "}{"Title":"Come on man","Date":"15 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is simply a terrible horror movie sequel. In the 80's when you made a horror movie and it was a on the cult status usually a follow up is huge and should be good. I found that Halloween 2 and Friday the 13th part 2 were good sequels to the original. This film on the other hand was just sad. It seemed no effort was put forth in making a good follow up it was almost like a remake of the the first. The characters were dull the story felt recycled and not to mention i kind of felt a homosexual theme to this movie (not kidding). The Main character Jesse spends most of the time getting his pants pulled down or getting abused by his coach. At one point he was in a bar wearing nothing but leather clothes, then he makes Jesse run laps in his underwear then he watches him shower.....you must be joking if you cant see how gay that is. But the coach pays the price when he is hit with different athletic balls then dragged to the showers stripped naked and whipped with towels. For petes sake could no one else see this. But oh well another million is made at least the third movie was good. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 2","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1 Year after New line cinema released A Nightmare on Elm Street they decided to release a sequel with out the helping hand of Wes Craven. They hired Jack Sholder to direct the film and they brought back Robert Englund as Freddy, with a new cast of actors consisting of Mark Patton, Kim Myers, Robert Rusler, Clu Gulanger and Hope Lange.Mark Patton Plays Jesse Walsh the new kid on the block who starts to have nightmares of Freddy after he and his family move into Nancys house 5 years after the first film.Kim Myers plays Lisa Webber who is Jesse's girlfriend who starts getting concerned for Jesse after he starts having strange nightmares.Robert Rusler plays Ron Grady who is Jesse's friend who gets killed by Freddy near the end of the film.Clu Gulanger plays Jesse's dad who thinks that his son is taking drugs after Jesse starts having the nightmares.Hope Lange plays Jesse's mum who is concerned for her son after he starts having the nightmares.Robert Englund plays Freddy Kruegar the deceased serial killer who wants Jesse's body so he can be reborn into the world to continue his killing spree.Overall I wasn't really to keen about the film, the acting was a bit amateur (excluding Robert Englund who is amazing) the plot lacked in originality it seemed pretty pointless where it was going and there was lots of gay references in the film.I rate this film a 5/10 because of how much it lacked even though it did feel much a sequel it did not have the originality the first film had. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Part 2 of A Nightmare on Elm Street takes a different route on how Krueger kills. Instead of killing through dreams he uses the body of an individual on Elm Street to do the killing for him. The continuation of the storyline between Part 1 and Part 2 doesn't match in the slightest. As far as the movie goes, it could have been a lot better. There was a lack of characters and the two leads weren't anything special or memorable. Krueger himself is not as menacing and doesn't have the typical Krueger snapping lines that you love to hear. Freddy's Revenge is nearly a fail and should only be really viewed once unless your an avid Freddy fan. Not that good! "},{"Title":"Kill For Me Jesse!","Date":"13 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Day 13 Of My 31 Days Of Horror.My 50th Review! Director Jack Sholder give us the second installment in the Freddy series with A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge. The film follows Freddy played by Robert Englund who wants to take the soul of a kid named Jesse. He wants Jesse to start killing the people of Elm street. Decent story good cast and Robert Englund is excellent although the effects are lacking and the ending is just so ridiculous you can hardly imagine. still I recommend it.Rated R For Horror Violence/Gore, Sexual Content, And Language.1hr 27min/87min.4 uses of the F-word.**1/2/**** "},{"Title":"Not half bad...... (Minor spoilers)","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think the reason that everyone is so scared of the Nightmare series is because everyone has to sleep, and everyone has some kind of fear that Freddy Kruger can use against you. Dying in your dreams, then you die for real really appeals to me, and apparently, a ton of others.A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge is often stated as the worst in the series. Which it probably is. I think a lot of this is that Englund only got thirteen minutes of screen time altogether, but it's still enjoyable. But is it perfect? No.But, let's sit back for a moment here. Is it really that bad? First of all, it's a Nightmare movie, where all of them are creative, disturbing, dark, comical, and just plain awesome. Second of all, this film has a few good one-liners from Freddy, like You are all my children now, and Daddy can't help you now! This movie is creative and introduces something new to the series, so why complain? I think a lot of viewers would have loved this movie if it was its own flick, and not associated with Kruger.Jesse moves into Nancy Thompson's infamous Elm Street House which has been vacant for years. He has a pretty girlfriend, but is having a tough time adjusting to the Springwood, Ohio school district. Soon, he begins having terrible nightmares, where his room knick nacks begin melting. So, he goes downstairs to turn off the furnace, only to discover that it isn't on. Suddenly, Freddy Kruger appears, and the fun begins. Freddy instructs him to kill for him and Jesse refuses. But soon, he discovers that Freddy is actually manipulating him to get revenge on the kids of Springwood, whose parents burned him alive.I think that Freddy's Revenge is cool because it really features Jesse agonizingly turning into Kruger, like knives coming out of his fingers, mood swings, and waking up, realizing that he was about to try and kill his little sister. I mean, wouldn't you be terrified knowing that a psychotic, undead child murderer was trying to force you to kill your friends and family and pin you? That is friggin' scary on its own. Jesse does a great job portraying the pain of the transformations and agonizingly trying to tell his family that he is possessed by a burned, undead, psychotic child murderer! We also get to learn quite a bit about Freddy's backstory, that he worked at a now abandoned power plant in the boiler room. This all leads to Jesse/Freddy attacking his best friend and arriving at his Girlfriend's pool party and attacking everyone, eventually leading to a shattering climax in the abandoned power plant.Many say that this movie has homosexual themes and granted star Mark Patton does spend much of the movie semi-naked, but the homo theme is a bit of a stretch. Robert Englund makes a fun and fairly gory return as Freddy Kruger, and we get to learn a bit , while the rest of the cast does decent performances. Freddy's Revenge is a great rainy day movie, with decent performances, a spectacular return of Freddy, some disturbing and freaky scenes, memorable one-liners, and a new plot. Is it the worst in the series? Probably. But that's only because it doesn't feature enough Freddy, though I think it worked well in this film.All around, a good sequel that critics and audiences have not done justice.Followed by the FAR superior Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors from 1987. "},{"Title":"Freddy's nails are a bit blunt here","Date":"5 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge is a film with no redeeming qualities. With weak acting, a lame script and pedestrian direction, there really aren't enough adjectives in the English language to describe how awful this film is. It's a puerile exercise in teen exploitation that gleefully insults its intended audience with its rampant stupidity. Freddy's Revenge is an uneven, tedious, and sloppy sequel with plot holes, lapses in logic and horrible performances and one I don't intend to see again regardless of the kitsch and camp value. Don't bother turning onto this Elm Street - Freddy's nails are a little blunt here. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm St Part 2 Freddy's Revenge","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This sequel to the brilliant A Nightmare on Elm Street is a major letdown. A new family moves into the house that Nancy from part 1 lived in. Soon after, a teenager named Jesse starts having nightmares of Freddy and all sorts of weird things start happening inside the house with the appliances and the temperature. It starts to appear that Freddy is taking over Jesse's body, making him wear the glove and everything. This time Freddy doesn't kill teenagers in their dreams, it's more of a possession storyline. Therefore there aren't many deaths and hardly any gore. The film takes us to the boiler room/factory where Freddy used to work and kill. Jesse and his girlfriend Lisa uncover the story of Freddy and what he did, etc, etc.The big conclusion takes place at Lisa's house where she is hosting a pool party for her friends. That's where most of the film's excitement and mayhem take place. The acting is very good in this movie, Mark Patton and Kim Myers are good in the lead roles. There are homoerotic elements to this which have been talked about since the movie came out in 1985. That isn't what makes this film a let down for me. What isn't good about the film is it's pacing and interest level. Freddy Krueger is hardly seen in this one at all. It's more of a fantasy/drama until the final 25-30 minutes.Freddy does look darker and creepier in this one (from the few scenes we see of him). He isn't the funny guy we all come to know him as in the later sequels. That hurts this movie too. There a few deaths and even fewer scares. I always felt that this was more a continuation of the story of Freddy Krueger. ANOES 2 focuses way too much on the back story and the possession of Jesse. It gets marks for the party scenes and for telling more of Freddy's story. But it moves at such a slower pace then the rest of series, it becomes tedious. I mean, Freddy doesn't kill anyone until 40 minutes into the film. There are many WTF moments as well. Exploding birds, workable toasters that aren't plugged in, Freddy smacking the coach's ass with a towel. It's a bizarre little film, but I like the introduction of the boiler room/factory where Freddy worked and where he brought his victims. Nancy had a dream of the place in part one, but Lisa and Jesse actually visit the place. This setting becomes very key for the rest of the series.5/10 "},{"Title":"Ehh...","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Contains spoilers. Well, not as good as the first. There are a few good scenes, like the famous pool party scene.But overall, come on guys, you can do better. The first Nightmare on elm st was PERFECTION! this, come on! Also, Jesse needs to CALM DOWN! Jeez, Wheres good when you need it? I mean it could be worse. Like the 5th or 6th. But, The first is the best.Honestly, they didn't even try.I can't believe I'm writing such a good review to such a bad movie.ugh.Movies to be reviewed Psycho, Psycho II, Psycho III, Psycho IV A new beginningJoe "},{"Title":"Truly a nightmare to watch!","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So after watching the very scary A Nightmare on Elm Street, it was time to watch the sequel but did the sequel live up to the first? The story is mediocre and pretty much goes over old ground but this time, Freddy wants to take over the main character's mind, soul and body so he can kill again. The characters are also mediocre, Freddy is the interesting character in the movie and Lisa, Jesse's girlfriend, is mildly interesting but unfortunately I can't say the same for our main character Jesse who is about as interesting as watching a brick wall for six hours. The movie lacked character development and it lacked depth in any of the characters and you weren't interested in any of them. The direction wasn't bad but the writing for the story and the teenagers was. It's basically a repeat of the first Nightmare but with uninteresting characters, no imagination and mediocre acting (except for, of course, Robert Englund as Freddy).A disastrous sequel to one of the greatest horror movies ever. I'm quite surprised Freddy didn't die out because of this sequel, as it's practically a nightmare to watch from start to finish. This isn't the same quality as the first movie and it isn't entertaining enough either. The film started out promising and starts out as a good continuation from the first Nightmare but, as time passed, it started to get worse along with the acting and started to repeat the first movie. In the end, it felt like it drifted from the Nightmare series with the only connection being the story of Freddy Krueger and Nancy's diary from the first Nightmare. Overall, it's a very disappointing sequel to a fantastic horror movie.Read more reviews on www.dudedazzmoviereviews.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"All Really Pointless","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 discards everything that made the first Nightmare movie so good.First of all, this movie lacks the great script that made the first one so enjoyable. The dialogue straight up sucks here. None of the lines really go together and everything is kind of bulled together. I also don't like what they did with the premise. They completely abandoned it. The whole idea behind the first movie was that it was about a killer who murdered people through their dreams. Here, he comes to life through a boy and kills people? I'm not sure why or how that works. It's never explained to us and there's not much to go by. Something else that is never explained to us is how Freddy got his heat powers in this movie. He can make room temperatures sky rocket and controls the temperatures of fences and pool water to make them hotter than the air around it. I couldn't figure out how this power worked or why he suddenly had it.And these characters are all really pointless. Not even pointless; I don't get why they like each other. The lead male, Jesse, becomes friends with a guy who was a jerk to him during the first half of the movie, Grady, seemingly overnight. Again, it's not really explained why they're suddenly friends. They sort of just are.I also didn't like the way no one ever made a big deal about people getting killed off. One teacher gets killed and that seems to be a big deal, but later when a couple of teenagers get killed, no one really mentions it afterward.***Warning Here There Be Spoilers*** The ending is where a lot of problems with this movie lie as well. I hated the ending from the original film--straight up hated the ending--and this one was pretty much a carbon copy of that. But besides that, no one really talks about stuff like, what happened to all the kids who were murdered at Lisa's party? Did the cops think it was weird that there was no suspect present? Does everyone know about Freddy now? Does anyone care about all the kids who just died? Why is Jesse taking the school bus now? What happened to his car? Did Freddy really die because the power of love was too much for him? ***For these reasons and still others--including weak direction, cheesy special effects, awful logic, terrible acting, and some hideous makeup--A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 does not set me up well for the five or so sequels that are to follow...2/10 "}{"Title":"Freddy's Revenge of the Nerd","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What a bizarre bit of horror fluff from the 80's.Having seen none of the Elm Street sequels, I wasn't really sure what to expect here. What I got was a weird dance routine to Harold Faltermeyer style music, exploding parakeets, dogs with human faces, evil puppet pussycats and probably the most ridiculous horror lead ever in Jesse. Another review I read described him as an irritating twerp which I have to admit is pretty much on the nose.Jesse is a teenage boy from the 80's with big hair and a bigger problem. His family have moved into the house from the first movie and he's started having nightmares about Freddy. This puts a bit of a crimp in his social life, especially when he starts shrieking like a five year old girl during class, and being forced by Freddy to go to S&M bars at night.Speaking of which, a number of the reviews I've read for this film mention the gay subtext. I'm not sure if it is intentional or not. On the one hand, it is pretty blatant. On the other, to assume it is intentional is to assume that some form of intelligence is behind the script. The jury in my head is still out on this.Back to the film. It soon becomes clear (because Jesse keeps whining on about it) that Freddy wants to possess him in order to carry his murders over to the real world. No-one believes Jesse. Why won't anyone beleeeeeeive me? he complains to his girlfriend while covered in the blood of his best friend. Eventually, she catches on.There's a bit of a denouement at the end (the traditional place for it) which is rather limp but does involve the girlfriend with big 80's hair and a bow. I am told the 80's are coming back, which is hardly surprising considering it is the best decade ever. Let's just hope they remake this sequel too. The exploding parakeet will be awesome in 3D. "},{"Title":"Not bad....","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I bought this one just to keep a track of the continuity of the series. And I was surprised that this movie had been berated by so many people who perceived it to be horrendous, badly acted, not at all spooky ( which I have to agree upon) and. However, I found this movie to be almost a good one, with commendable acting, a somewhat sensible story (compared to the others in the series), a different approach towards the film, not at all spooky, even for a moment, though engaging at times, all because of good acting, not like the pretentious, shallow performance of Heather something.The story starts off with a ominous looking bus with a crazy driver who takes the guys for a ride. It all happens to be a dream. Mark wakes up, extremely spooked up, after screaming like a girl. Though I can forgive this, since he has acted well the rest of the film. He keeps dodging his parents, who bring up all sorts of reasons and explanations for his strange behavior, like drugs etc. His uncaring father though feels that he is just being a spoiled brat. Mother does a reasonably well job for a horror film, father too is tolerable, sister (the character in the film) is barely noticeable. Enter Meryl Steep lookalike Kim Myers. I feel sorry for the girl. She does a fine job too but is ignored just because of her resemblance to Streep. She too is worried for Mark, who keeps telling her that everything is fine. Then there is Mark's friend/enemy don't know his name who keeps getting punished with Mark. Then there is a gay gym coach who likes to see them sweat. Here lies the problem. Probably the director had good intentions of showing the character of the coach being gay, because of spending most of the time with boys.But since the director isn't Scorsese or Hitchcock, he shows the scene in an awkward manner. They could have just cut off the S&M bar scene. They could have shown Mark somewhere in the streets and being taken by the professor to the gym instead. This would at least get rid off the gay undertones of Mark. In fact, the entire bar scene was so awkward to watch. Or they could have just cleared all doubts and accusations by just stating that the character was gay or bisexual. Also the towel whipping scene was so unintentionally hilarious. What was the director thinking? Someone stars bleeding by getting whipped with a towel.Yuck!!!Nothing scared me in the film. Probably the director hated animals or something. Birds gone crazy, dogs with unusual faces (was that really necessary), cat eating rat (so funny!), and a cluster of other animals dying in various manners. Wow! What happened to the PETA? Animals dying or shown suffering in a film is like a trigger for them.Even the story is implausible. Freddy controlling someone was understandable and the entire party scene was ridiculous. Hover, because of the genuinely good acting, I'd go with a 5 out of ten for this movie. "},{"Title":"Falls short...","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Over the years, I've grown to appreciate this film a lot more then when I was younger. I still only consider it to be about average, but that's a lot better then what I use to call it. Well, Freddy is back, and he wants revenge! Robert Englund does a phenomenal job once again as our favorite Christmas sweatered maniac. The rest of the cast, not so much. This time around we focus on Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton), a young lad who has moved in to a new home with his family, and guess who's former home it use to be, dun dun dun...So inevitably, Freddy starts terrorizing the fresh meat. Stalking him through his dreams, while slowly taking control over his body You've got the body...I've got the brain. The first nightmare we see, I must say is fairly well done. In this nightmare, we see Jesse on the school bus heading home with Robert Englund appearing in his normal form as the bus driver (nice!). They go on a little off road field trip, as our innocent bus driver becomes Freddy, and gives our hero a lil' scare. Luckily Jesse wakes up, covered in sweat, screaming (...like a girl) just before Freddy can rip him to shreds. They definitely took this film in a different direction having a male lead in a slasher. Sometimes it's good to be different, but not in this case...As many already know, this movie has a heavy homo-erotic undertone, and in my opinion it does affect the movie in a not so positive way. Whether it's Jesse's all-star dance moves while cleaning his room, his high pitch screams, the gym teacher in the gay bar, the shower scene or the weird buddy buddy relationship between Jesse and high school friend Grady (Robert Rusler), it's pretty hard to deny that it's there. Over the years, I've somewhat learned to look past this and would suggest others to do the same to make it more enjoyable.This movie definitely breaks some of the rules created in the first film, such as things happening outside of dreams like the family budgie going haywire and exploding in mid-air (WTF!) and toasters catching fire, basically pure randomness. Well now that I think about it, the whole plot is breaking the rules, but this sequel was clearly rushed out quick-time but what can you do.One thing that I love about this movie is that Freddy is still scary, he has a few really great scenes in this, unfortunately they're too far in between. The scene where Freddy takes off his hat, pulls back his skin to reveal his brain is great, reminiscent of Freddy cutting off his fingers in the original. Then towards the end of the film, we're treated with a couple others like Freddy finally taking full control of Jesse and coming out from within, shedding the Jesse layer of skin before giving Grady a much deserved shanking. Then there's the pool party massacre with Freddy in the real world and not giving a damn, quite entertaining, although unrealistic to the rest of the series, as Freddy still seems to have some supernatural powers he's known for in nightmares.One major complaint I have with this film, is the conclusion, it's extremely anti-climatic. With Freddy having full control of things in the real world through Jesse, it's up to high-school crush/girlfriend Lisa Webber(Kim Myers) to save him. She goes searching for Jesse/Freddy at the old Powerplant, hence the boiler rooms always appearing in dreams (I guess Freddy must have really liked that job as that's the first place he goes while being in the real world). While making her way inside she must walk by guard dogs with human faces (hmm...The Unborn, not so original now are we). Once finding and confronting Freddy, they have the shortest chase ever, and right when he's about to kill her...he can't! Wanna know why? Because she loves Jesse too much and wants him back, so she kisses Freddy/Jesse as her deathblow to the dream demon...er...reality demon...and that melts him...what an exhilarating finish, quite epic *rolls eyes*. It's pretty clear this film has it's faults, but at the same time, it does have some great Freddy moments thrown in there. At the end of the day, it's a really sub par sequel to an incredible original. A forgettable entry that is pretty much ignored through the rest of the series. Hmm...normally I'd be upset with a series doing this, but in this case maybe that was a good thing.5/10 "},{"Title":"1, 2, Freddy's coming for you... but he's actually in the body of a dude who screams like a girl","Date":"1 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't envy the person who was given the charge to follow up a film as original and iconic as A Nightmare On Elm Street, but even though that task is destined to be almost impossible, it's hard to fathom that no one had any better ideas than this one.Part 2 isn't the worst entry of the series (that would be the other one with Freddy's in the title), but it does suffer from the implosion of its own logic, and ultimately the film makes very little cohesive sense.Granted, there are some great elements at work here. The darkness that pervades this entry would not be equaled until Wes Craven's New Nightmare, several sequels later, and Freddy hadn't yet developed into a bad stand-up comedian, so none of the tension here is ruined by misplaced zingers or awful puns. For his part, Freddy remains mostly in the shadows, and we rarely get a good look at his charred and brutalized face, which maintains his status as an undefinable boogeyman (oh, wait... sorry, wrong franchise).However, what is accomplished here with a strong atmosphere of foreboding is ultimately sullied by the sheer absurdity of the plot, which raises more questions about the figurehead than it answers. It's an interesting idea to follow the story of the young man unlucky enough to have his family move into the house where Nancy faced the events of the first Nightmare, but inserting the core premise that Freddy is able to possess this hapless soul sort of negates everything we saw in the previous film. Namely, if Freddy has the power to take control of someone in their sleep-state and use them as a vessel to inflict carnage on the other side of dream-land, why would Freddy have spent the entire first film waiting for our characters to fall asleep? Couldn't he have simply possessed someone else and used them to kill off Nancy and her friends while they were awake? Further confusing this issue is the notion that Freddy is able to, literally, step out of Jesse's body into our real world and wander through backyard barbecues doling out maximum damage. If this is the case, why do we spend the first hour of this film watching Jesse roam around committing Freddy's atrocities by proxy, when Freddy could apparently just emerge into our world at any time? Or, is this a misinterpretation of the scenario? Both Jesse and his friend Grady are apparently still awake when this climactic emergence occurs, but it's possible they are actually both asleep, and Freddy stepping out of Jesse's skin is simply another delusional trick the sadistic madman uses to psyche out their dreaming minds. So, in this case, would that indicate that the teens Freddy terrorizes upon his arrival in our reality are ALL asleep? Simultaneously? While at a pool party, no less? And don't even get me started on the weird baby-demon-faced dogs that guard Freddy's boiler room... Where the hell did those things come from? My brain starts to hurt trying to get this straight, and when you really sit down with the happenings here, it seems like the film-makers simply had some ideas for nifty special effects, but no narrative to link them together.In the end, the notion of defeating Freddy with a mantra better explored in Natural Born Killers (love beats the demon) is in direct conflict with the solution Nancy stumbled onto in the original Elm Street Freddy only has power if you believe in him, so if you turn your back on him, he goes away. Of course, if this was true, then there couldn't ever be a sequel, since Nancy DID turn her back on him, so he should have gone away, right? Now my head is seriously sore.In any case, this film seems to be more interested in the supernatural aspects of the Freddy mythos, which apparently cause unplugged toasters to explode and birds to burst into flame in mid-air. Exactly why Freddy would trifle with kitchen appliances and pets that only live a year or so anyway is anyone's guess.Freddy's Revenge does have the distinction of being the lone entry in the series that features a gay S&M enthusiast gym teacher being tied up in the shower and whipped on his bare bottom with a phantom towel. I'm not sure how potent of a selling point that is, but for those interested in that sub-genre, you'll find it here.The ridiculous sequel-ready ending is particularly awful, thanks to the worst camera jump in the history of cinema (if you see it, you'll know exactly what I'm talking about). But asking for a movie that breaks its own rules of logic throughout to conclude with anything resembling coherence is probably a bit too ambitious, so I suppose in the context of the rest of the film, this ending makes perfect sense.I know I'm tearing this film to pieces, so the 5 rating may make about as much sense as the film does. But, despite its flaws, Freddy's Revenge maintains a nice sustained mood of horror because even though this material is ridiculous, the film-makers handle it in a relatively serious way. This outing is definitely worth a watch for completists, but it's unlikely fans will revisit this chapter very often. I did, but I happen to like bad movies. Yes, there's clearly something wrong with me. "},{"Title":"Not a good film but actually quite interesting in a sociological context","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I just watched the first A Nightmare on Elm St for the first time all the way through, in one viewing, a few days ago. It wasn't fantastic by any means but it was an enjoyable movie. I thought to myself I would have fun over the next week watching all the sequels in turn, which unlike the first I haven't even seen bits of, but after this, and the even worse (in my opinion) third instalment, I am definitely not going to bother. Most of the Elm St fan's reviews on here say this film is the worst in the series. I don't know if that's true because like I said, after the third I'm not going to bother watching any more, but for me this film at least stands a chance of a second viewing, maybe 30 years from now I might consider watching it again, but the third... no way. This is a below par sub standard horror film. There is nothing scary about it, maybe it was in it's time, but as one reviewer pointed out this film was 80s even in the 80s and I can see why, but despite being a really crap horror film this movie is actually quite interesting in a sociological way. The unintended homosexual subtext is great. The director Jack Sholder has unintentionally and accidentally created a coming of age film about a young man coming to terms with his sexuality. I'm sure this film must hold a special place on a lot of guys shelves. If you watch it in this way it is actually pretty funny, but sadly even within this context the film is ruined by the awful ending and the lead man Jesse (who is gay in real life) being swayed by the love of his beau Lisa. "},{"Title":"A Fairly Upsetting Dream on Elm Street","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 fails to live up to the original film (and the trailer) Seeing the first film, I wasn't overly impressed. It has quite an interesting concept and had a lot of excitement but never quite delivers the same thrill as other cult horrors like Friday the 13th, Re-Animator and Dawn of the Dead (Romero).The trailer for Freddy's Revenge builds you up for a Nightmare bumped up a notch, with more action, more energy and a lot more horror. However, it seems the trailer editors were experts of their profession, as the film lacked more than 5 minutes of screen madness.Where as the other films follow a string of murders climaxing with a battle between Freddy and his final victim, this film never quite reaches the fighting stage as Freddy seems to be in a war with himself.The main problem was the 'lack of things happening'. Freddy Kruger's method of murder and the man himself are the main attractions, which leaves you waiting for them to appear, disappointing when they do as you see a very limited amount Freddy and a small number of tame deaths, apart from the obvious money shot.If you liked the other films, this one's for you, but I wouldn't count on it going to the top of your favourite Nightmare on Elm Street movie list. "},{"Title":"A stand alone movie that falls over rather quickly","Date":"6 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some directors try to express themselves through the horror genre, some directors try to do so in spite of the horror genre, I'm one of the latter says Freddy's Revenge director Jack Sholder on the making of documentary. Fair Enough.Exactly what he was trying to express in this movie, argued by some as being one of the more campy horror films of the 1980s or any other decade for that matter, is up for debate. But express himself he does. Which possibly explains why this movie seems totally out of place in the nightmare cannon.OK, it's a few years on from the events of the original nightmare and a new family has moved into Nancy's old house. Our hero, and as it turns out our villain as well, is Jesse Walsh, played rather effeminately by Mark Patton, who is the oldest son of Elm Street's newest family. He gets himself a woman and life is going great, until he meets Freddy Krueger, played once again with a lot of menace and a surreal quality by Robert Englund.Krueger would like to be able to kill again, but to do this he needs to borrow Jesse's body. And after a few slip ups Jesse is able to triumph over Freddy with the help of his gal Lisa. None of this happens before Jesse murders his gym teacher after a towel whipping, cuts up his best friend, and crashes a pool party. The movie ends with a tie in to another sequel, but they decided, happily, to go a different direction for the next movie.This is a fairly bizarre movie for a number of reasons. Firstly there are many who claim it isn't a movie about Freddy, it's a movie about a guy who goes nuts and kills a lot of people, thinking he's Freddy. If you view the film from that perspective, I think it works a lot better. Because the story, taken literally, is a little bit silly.While effeminate, I actually think Mark Patton does a fine job as Jesse Walsh, adding some type of personality to a rather bland character. The deaths are either not elaborate enough, or far too unpleasant. There's not really the creative, fun kills in this one we saw in its predecessor.Some of the effects are good, the shot at the start of the movie of a bus dangling over a cliff looks pretty impressive really. Some of them are appalling. But what this movie really lacks is a sense of dread or foreboding. This one keeps you interested by being strange, while the first keeps you interested by being well... interesting.There is some nudity in this and one of the death scenes isn't very pleasant. Not for everyone. A bizarre change of pace, unlike any other film in the original series. "},{"Title":"Freddy's back for YOU boys!","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw all the Elm Street flicks back when I was a kid. Except this one. I just did, in 2008. Now I understand why it's the black sheep of the series. Sure because of its discontinuity with the original concept but also because this movie is such a crap fest. First, the acting is uninspired as it can be, the plot is non-engaging - presenting the ridiculous protagonist having his Freddy possessions here and there BUT why NOES part 2 is such dismissed is mainly because it is filled with too much stupid ideas... the gym teacher attacked by basket and tennis balls, the EXPLODING parrot (no kidding), dogs with babies(?) faces, evil mice attacked by evil cats, and so on. And as many pointed it, this movie has a lot of gay references. Sure there's no real problem with that, in fact it's quite surprising to see a 80s horror flick more concerned with guys than gals. So talking about gay references, there's the butt slapping in the shower, the S&M bar, the constant state of no shirt-on of the main character, the eurodisco music at the party, the only loving scene interrupted by the urge to go see the male friend asleep in his bedroom, etcetera, etcetera.Actually, Freddy's Revenge is a must-see to all Z-movie lovers, cause it's damn funny. "},{"Title":"A good Horror movie","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not a bad horror movie. Well, i could have done without the homo-erotic undertones. Yes, people in the 80s wore whitey-tighty underwear, I get it, but I don't need to see (multiple times) some dude's bulging crotch, the same guy getting de-pansed, and then later, his coach literally getting his butt whipped while tied to the showers.Besides that, this was a good horror film. Straight out of the 80s. Good horror film music very well composed, nice creepy atmosphere. This movie actually focused on the plot development of the Freddy Kruger story. Altought I really didn't like the female lead, the one that looked exactly like tifanny, she was weird. "},{"Title":"Ehh...","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This might have been the worst of the series, in my opinion. Yet, I haven't seen Dream Child.A teenager named Jesse and his family have moved into Nancy's old house on Elm Street. After having some bad dreams, it is clear that Freddy has returned. This time, Freddy possesses Jesse's body and can appear in real life. Yet, we barely see Freddy in this film. The film ends with Jesse's girlfriend defeating Freddy once again and saving Jesse from him.I must admit some parts were okay, like the pool party scene, but otherwise, it was pretty bad. "}{"Title":"There's a new kid on Elm street....","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jack Sholder (the Hidden) brings us A Nightmare On Elm Street 2, a good attempt that falls very short.Young Jesse has just moved into the same house our heroine inhabited in the original and, just like clockwork, he begins to have lucid nightmares about our maniacal dream stalker Freddy Kruger. Freddy, it seems, is trying to possess Jesse to continue his murderous rampage.The film had it's heart in the right place, but it's head was somewhere else. The opening ten minutes are astounding, however. If only the momentum could've kept up. Cult actors Robert Rusler and Marshall Bell show up but the film as a whole is not worthy of the original. "},{"Title":"Only for hardcore fans","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Freddy is at it again, but the smell of burned meat isn't as nice the second time.The basic problem is that Freddy is barely around; the story is boring like hell and doesn't bring anything new to the series. The idea of letting Freddy possess a human body, so he can kill again, is a highly original idea in the Freddy-universe, it is just not intriguing. In the film, Freddy says to Jesse You've got the body, and I've got the brain. Well, clearly nobody was having the brain during shooting. By the way, can you imagine a more 80'ish title than Freddy's Revenge?It is clearly a fast production movie with a smaller budget. So why should you watch 'A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge'? One two, I haven't got a clue. "},{"Title":"Good Movie Ruined By  Lack Of Character Development","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Before I begin Id like to say I did notice some references to homos including a scene were Jesse rips someones trousers, but it isn't as gay as people make it out to be anyway on with the review. PLOT The plot is simple Jesse a new kid has moved into Nancy's old house however it doesn't take him long to realize somethings wrong, OK to make it short Freddy is trying to possess Jesse. 5/10CHARACTERS I never really cared about the characters the story was to weird and the characters weren't that well developed, even Freddy was disappointing. 4/10 FREDDY THE GOOD His voice sounds really demonic THE BAD He looks horrible OVERALL This movie had that typical haunted house feel and a great soundtrack the only that ruined it was lack of character development and the fact that Freddy looked crap. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This sequel is kind of my first favorite compared to the first. The main reasons I liked this one is because where Freddy(Robert Englund) made that phrase that really was chilling. When he encounters Jesse Walsh(Mark Patton), he tells him, You got the body, but I got the brains! Freddy wasn't kidding. Mark was just his puppet for killing people. I liked the part in the seduction scene between Lisa(Kim Myers) and Jesse, where Freddy's tongue appears. Then all you know what breaks loose. Freddy normally kills in dreams, this time he kills in the real world. Man this is messed up. That's why it's called Freddy's Revenge. At least Jesse was able to fight his inner demons that haunted him thanks to Lisa. This movie was fine by me, there were some troubling scenes I noticed. Other than that, I liked it very well. Watchable, and enjoyable not the best sequel, but it's worth a try. Rating 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"This is the worst film in the saga","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After the master piece in the horror film worlds comes the worst film in the Freddy's saga.I know that Jack Sholder wants to take the saga in other way and this thing is good but it takes a risk ,you can't make a bad film.The main role isn't as interesting as Nancy and the role of the actress Kim Myers (the girl who looks like Meryl)isn't good,cause it has big mistake and it isn't natural.Robert (Freddy) is the only one who makes a good role.If I were Wes the genious Craven I make the second part with more time cause if the screenwriter took his time,The screenwriter could get better things and they made a better film.If you like the freddy's saga you could watch this film.For the rest I say that they will get another horror film "},{"Title":"Oh boy","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film has to be the worst sequel to a horror film ever made. Freddy Possess a BOY??? Ok, understandable, Freddy wants out, but I was under the impression the whole premise of Freddy Kruegur was that he could only come about within dreams. Here he is gatecrashing a party, rolling around the floor with a laydee and snogging with her too - purleese.Now that I have that off my chest In the first film Freddy was just a sinister, mysterious monster - stalking and terrifying his victims. He had very few lines and when he did strike we saw it from the victims friends' point of view. ie; He was invisible. From here on in they decided to develop him into a lovable, cheeky little guy with a sharp mouth and sense of humour. It doesn't work at all and comes across as a very bad black comedy.Having said that, Patton is very cute, Myers is the spitting image of Meryl Streep and Enguland is entertaining as always.   "},{"Title":".....Okay.","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Alright, it's a sequel, so it should be worse than Part 1, but not this worse. I know Part 1 was a great breakthrough film for the slasher generation and would be hard to follow up, but Jack Shoulder could have done a lot better than this. The film, however, might have been better if one large contribution had been made to it. You see, those who are like me and saw this one last notice something terribly wrong with this flick (besides it's a cheesy, badly acted, teen exploitation flick). If you watch the others in this series and then watch this, you will notice the main flaw is that it really doesn't feel like a Nightmare film. There are 3 major reasons for this feeling. 1) The music is different. 2) It gets off the point of the series, which, like Part 6, leaves too many stones unturned. I mean, the main point is Freddy's revenge on the Elm Street families, how does this help? Does Grady, Lisa, and Kerry live on Elm Street? They don't tell you. This change in direction causes problem number 3) Freddy doesn't seem to be Freddy. He isn't scary enough, he talks too much, he doesn't really start killing right out the gate like in all the other films (the exceptions being numbers 5 and 6, he takes a while in those ones also), he uses his razored-up hand instead of his glove for most of his kills, and most strangely of all, if it's a film called Nightmare on Elm Street, then why the hell is he killing his victims while they're still awake? However, give Jack Shoulder credit for one thing that became a Nightmare trademark; he kept the ominous tongue special effect. Other than that, pass this one up. It and number 5 had no real point to be made and don't really go along with the series.   "},{"Title":"Worst movie in the series","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really love Nightmare on Elm Street but man the second movie really sucked.  In my opinion that one should never had been made. The second movie did have some good parts to it.  Like the beginning with the school bus and the party are the only scenes I really cared for.  Don't waste your money on this one.  After watching the first one go right to the third and so on. "},{"Title":"This sequel was a Nightmare.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Nightmare On Elm Street, Part 2  Freddy's Revenge, was the worst possible follow-up to the original A Nightmare On Elm Street.  I seriously don't think the executives at New Line knew what they were doing when they approved the script.  They get rid on Heather Langenkamp after one film! One film!  I think the only battle worth watching during the entire series is Nancy Thompson vs Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund), but New Line didn't think so.  They introduce a new heroine, this time, in the shape of a male. Jesse Walsh, played by Mark Patton, moves into Nancy's house and starts having the typical Elm Street nightmares.  This time, however, Freddy wants to use the hero's body to murder instead of attacking the kids during their dreams.The story is lame, and the characters are just pathetic.  I don't care about Jesse, his girlfriend Lisa, played by Kim Myers, or any of their friends.  I wish they all died.  Aside from a weak story and poor character development, there is no Wes Craven behind the camera. That was the first sign that there was something wrong.I'd also like to point out a certain scene in the film.  I think it is one of the dumbest things I have ever seen.  Jesse leaves home at night, walks the streets, goes to a bar, orders a drink, is approached by his Physical Education teacher, who is draped in leather, is taken to the high school gym by the teacher and forced to run laps around the basketball court, and then forced to shower by the teacher.  That's not all.  The teacher is then attacked by sporting goods, which leads to him being dragged into the shower by a couple of jump ropes.  From there, he is tied to the shower wall and stripped naked.  Towels proceed to smack him on his bare @$$, and he is finally slashed to death by Freddy.  Jesse then walks the streets again, this time naked.  He is eventually brought home by a couple of police officers.  Like I said, it is one of the most stupid things I have ever seen.One of the only bright spots is that the film features a young Christie Clark, who was on the daytime soap Days of Our Lives and in one of the stupid Children of the Corn films.  She was also rumored at one point to be in the third Scream film, but of course, that never happened.  She would have played either actress Sarah Darling or Cotton Weary's girlfriend Christine.  Christie didn't do anything in the film, though, so that proves how bad Nightmare 2 was if she was a bright spot.No Heather Langenkamp.  No Wes Craven.  A completely stupid story.  Awful characters.  Some sick homosexual side-storyline that most gays and lesbians would probably find offensive.  I can't even begin to tell you how much I hate Nightmare 2.A Nightmare On Elm Street, Part 2  Freddy's Revenge receives * out of ****. "},{"Title":"Pants","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is one large steaming pile of dump. I completely disregard this film as being part of the elm street series as it is totally unworthy of its title. The actors were pants, the storyline was pants, the only good thing about this film was the special fx. Why Heather Langenkamp did'nt return as nancy baffles me. If she had been in it, at least there would have been one interesting character in the film. Besides that, freddy is supposed to be a psychotic child murderer, his asking jesse to Kill for me, or work for him is pathetic. My advice to anyone who intends to watch this film Dont, its tripe. Ignore this completely. Go straight to the third film, if you have a copy of this, burn it, urinate on the ashes, and let it blow away in the wind. This is THE worst film of the series. Period. "}{"Title":"Not the first sequel to the greatest film ever.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There never should have been any sequels to Nightmare on elm street.  It was a substantial and scary stand-alone in the horror genre.  Yet, greedy NewLine producers forced Craven to compramise his original finale to leave an open end and leave the movie vulnerable to a scarring case of sequelitis.  Now I have always been quite open and fair to the sequels, because frankly, I think Freddy Kreuger is a great character, but this is a pretty fragmented, bad movie. The narrative of this film revolves around the nervous Jesse, who is being tormented by Freddy; but he never really faces any danger, just a Candyman-esque plot about Freddy trying to take him over and kill in the real world.  Now, the first films premice was amazing; so why change the idea so much in only the second film.  Surely we should have followed Nancy, through college perhaps (like in Scream 2), but instead this film scars the whole idea irrepairably.  When we return to the original idea in number 3, the essence of the original is lost.  Still, this one has some original ideas that would have been great in a different story; this needn't have involved Freddy, it would have been an interesting stand-alone piece.  There's some good special effects from Kevin Yagher and some nice ideas, but the acting is poor and the good ideas do not link smoothly.  This sits uncomfortably in the early half of the series. A big disappointment.  "},{"Title":"It really is a nightmare","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You know i have seen some pretty crappy sequels to a movie. But Nightmare 2 really sucked.  There is no girl lead which makes it a little unreal and unoriginal .  They did try to do something new which earns at least that. I think they should of stuck to the basics.  Your on your own here but be really bored if you plan on watching it. "},{"Title":"Gets less and less interesting","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Contrary to my previous beliefs, the first half of Elm St 2 is actually quite good. It's a strangely enticing surrealist drama, with odd imagery, an interesting teenage-angst subplot and some truly unsettling moments. In retrospect, it is also by far the most serious of all the Freddy films.Sadly, as soon as Freddy irrevocably establishes himself in the real world, all credibility, interest and possibility of terror dissolves - it's just a boring slasher flick. Also, bizarrely, it ends about twenty minutes too early - where are the overstretched climactic finales that we later come to know and love? "},{"Title":"Did they even WATCH the first film... or any film for that matter?","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  All I can say about this film is WOW!!!!! It is not often that you see a film with such obvious disdain for not just the audience, but also for the creators of the original film.The first nightmare film was great, basically because it established the hard and fast rule that Freddy could only exist in the dream world. It then went and played with the audiences minds by never letting them know exactly when characters were dreaming or when they were awake. This piece of crap has Freddy doing a lame slice-and-dice job at a pool party for Gods sake!!!(and what was with the scene where Freddy causes the toaster to break... OH NO! Not only will he kill your kids but you will have to spend a fortune on replacing your small appliances!)And was it just me but did this film seem to have all the worst stereotypical trait of horror movie women being played out by the male characters! First there is Jesse and his high pitched screaming every time someone looks at him sideways... and then there is Jesse's friend Grady.We have seen that scene where the bimbo character (clad only in the skimpy underwear they are sleeping in for some reason) sees the killer/monster and just stands there motionless screaming for help because they are too scared/stupid to run, fight or do anything any normal human would at least try to don in an effort to survive.... but to the best of my knowledge this is the bimbo is a GUY!!!!That said they did try some inventive new ideas with this film... would Wes Craven have had the guts to film an entire  scene where one of the characters carries on a conversation with his mouth crammed full of food for no apparent reason? I think not! But then again Wes Craven HAS worked since this film came out.Of course the less said about the gay subtext (and at time just plain text) the better. So I will not talk about the S&M loving gym coach having his butt spanked with towels. Nor will I mention the scene where Jesse leaves his girlfriend on the floor of a cabana to ask his male friend if he can sleep with him. I DO want to ask this though... am I the only one who noticed a box with PROBE written on the side on the top shelf of jesse's closet (please tell me it is a game of some description!) "},{"Title":"What a Nightmare","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I hate this movie. I don't usually say the word hate but I hate this movie. Freddy is now somehow able to take over the body of a boy who now lives in the house where Freddy was killed in the first one. Where is Wes Craven and Heather Langenkamp when you need them? Robert Englund is once again perfect as the role of Freddy. Now all he needs is a good script. Avoid this movie, even if your a fan of the Nightmare series, have never seen this one and they are playing it for free on your favorite TV channel. "},{"Title":"The Start of Sequel-Mania.","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You knew it had to happen.  A Nightmare on Elm Street could have went down in history as a great horror movie, but no, they had to rape the success of the first original concept and make sequel after sequel, practically making it as cheap as the Halloween and Friday the 13th films.  Of course some of the upcoming sequels (i.e. Dream Warriors) are really good, but why bother?  Why not just make new and interesting horror films?  Not these cheap sequels that just carry on the story over and over again.  Or worse, just re-tells the exact same story, just changing minimal bits.That's what Freddy's Revenge, A Nightmare on Elm Street Part II does.  Instead of getting nice Heather Langenkamp (Nancy in Part  I), we get Mark Patton as Jesse Walsh.  A nice enough guy sure.  But as the lead character?  He couldn't hold the main role in this movie, perhaps if they got Johnny Depp back for this one it may have been better.  Even the actress Kim Myers as Lisa Webber doesn't get much sympathy for me.  At times in the film she did.  When she was worrying about Jesse in the beginning and didn't really understand this 'Freddy' character, I really liked her.  The film gets silly after that.  This film is does set one Freddy myth in motion though.  It is the fact that Freddy needs someone to bring him his victims.  A scene that has it's redeeming value is the bus scene.  Effects can't save this movie though as after watching it yet again I have the feeling that this was just one of those cheap direct to video releases.  What makes it worse is that it wasn't. "},{"Title":"Messy, stupid, and underlit","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I liked the first Nightmare on Elm Street. I'll admit it. It had the quality and intelligence that Friday the 13th lacked entirely. Was it great? Not at all. But it was enjoyable. Then there's the second. I had never heard much about it, and now I know why. It's a re-hash. Nothing original happens. Perhaps some of the rule breaking could be taken as movement in a new direction. Well, you might think that, until you realized every moment of the movie is for the convenience of the writers. How can we have this gory moment happen? Well, if we ignore this rule set down in the first... If it's established that he exists in dreams, then that's how it has to remain.That's all wasted thought, though. The movie exists purely to satisfy a need for violence, gore, and blood. And then it uses some of the worst lighting I've ever seen. Granted, the first was gloomy and dark, but this is simply underlit. When Freddy peels back his scalp, in the beginning, the only way we can tell anything has happened is because of some pulsating, wet looking movement on top of his head. The movie is dim. Oh, yeah, there are some characters, if I remember correctly. And there was a plot, I think. I tried to remember what it was, but all I could come up with was that Freddy wants to kill people. (Not just teens, any more, either.) He's going to use this kid as a vehicle. I suppose we're not meant to think about those things. There's a third movie in this series. It's amusing, it's got good effects, and it's sort of well written. Or, as well written as a Wes Craven movie can be. This is just a money maker. And it did. Oh well. If it were at least slightly scary, I would have given it some credit.  "},{"Title":"The WORST sequel","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was the worst sequel in the Elm Street Series. a new kid moves into Nancy's old house and starts having bad dreams him and his girlfriend find Nancy's Diary and reads it, they find out the killer is Freddy Kruger and eventually Freddy winds up using the kids body to kill people. Its the worst sequel, don't waste your time or money watching it. "},{"Title":"I paid to see this??","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Did I actually pay money to see this garbage?   I did pay money?? Oh, my God! Now THAT'S a nightmare! "},{"Title":"The first cull of the series...","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the second installment which should have been called 1B. It is totally derailed from  every aspect of the first. And if you're going to go through all of the movies in the series, be sure to miss this one (that is unless you enjoy being ripped off). None of the characters, events, etc., are even so mush as mentioned in the first or any of the later installments in the series.  The plot of the series is that he stalks you is your dreams/nightmares. But in this one he comes into reality. I'm pointing that out because later on in the series they try to use this as some kind of surprise. Maybe Wes Craven wanted to forget this one also.  There is some gore in this one, but it ultimately back fires. Take for instance the killing of the coach. He gets hit repeatedly by Basketballs, tennis balls, bowling balls, etc., and then is tied to shower faucets and popped with a towel. These are only childhood, elementary pranks.     So in closing, this movie is, and I'm sorry for sounding so trite, a flop, awful, and would not be recommended by anyone in their right mind.    2/10 (and I'm being generous)  "}{"Title":"Nothing special.","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After I was scared to death by the first Nightmare movie, I rented this with high hopes, even though Wes Craven had no part of it.  And let me tell you, it really showed that Wes had no part of it.  I was disappointed.  The acting isn't anything to look at, the characters are two dimensional, and the FX aren't all that great either.  Although there are some suspenseful scenes (one where Lisa is trapped inside the house with Freddy), that is not enough to save this movie.  ** out of *****. "},{"Title":"HORROR?","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  O.K., Where do I start? First, this is not a horror movie. Although all the Freddy films had some sort of dark humor about them, this one takes it too far and ends up as stupid, not even funny. Second of all, the plot is terrible, it has no originality about it. It just takes bits and pieces from loads of > old movies and hopes you won't notice. It isn't all bad, the acting does save it > slightly. Mark Patton is brilliant, as is Robert Rusler, Kim Meyers and Robert > Englund (as always). Only bother with if you're a die hard Freddy fan. "},{"Title":"Why, why, why?","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  So Jack Shoulder thought the script for NOES2 was better than the original?Shame he didn't turn it into a better film then.It's shot on low quality film, features no-one from the original cast (Freddy excepted) and completely misses the point of the original film by bringing Freddy out of the nightmares and into reality.There is only one redeeming quality in this whole film; Freddy is still played relatively straight and scary.But despite all its attempts to be original, this still rates lowest on my Nightmare Top 7 merely for the fact NOES4&6 were slightly entertaining; this is not. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the worst in the series.","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OK, so it was less corny than 4-6, but it was much worse than 1,3 and 7. When Wes Craven came back to write part 3, he did the right thing by ignoring the fact that this disgrace was ever written.The acting is quite horrid, and I didn't really tend to care whether the characters died or not.My advice to people who haven't seen any of the Nightmare series is to skip this tragedy and go straight to the Craven written Part 3. "},{"Title":"Just outweighed by a few major flaws","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The original 1984 classic film was a huge success and 2 years later, in 1985, we got our very first Nightmare on Elm Street sequel, titled A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 2 Freddy's Revenge. The film was a box-office success, but it received a negative critical reaction from fans and audiences.This is not a horrible film, but the direction and execution that it took could have done a lot better. The story is the first big problem the film takes place five years after the events of the 1984 original and the new character is a jerk. He does not even try to be a nemesis to Krueger.The other problem is Jesse. He's not Nancy Thompson. He was meant to be different, but it does not show in this film as he is being controlled by Freddy Krueger until he comes back in the real world through Jesse. The character of Jesse is just confusing and boring as hell. His girl screaming does not make this any better.On the positive side, I like the idea of Freddy Krueger needing to be possess someone to get stronger again. Freddy is also different here. He is no longer sneaking in shadows, he is just sneaky. Him controlling Jesse to get the kids afraid again, that shows nicely. He kills kids and in full view of people he kills, he just kills them, but the next movie he would be a less serious and more comedic Freddy Krueger, which I will get to.I will get to the acting. The acting is just dreadful, but the only performance that is worth mentioning is Robert Englund as Freddy Kreueger, and he does good job in the last fifteen minutes of the film. Mark Patton as Jesse is just dreadful, his performance was so over the top that I almost wanted to just take this movie out of the DVD player, but I could not because I wanted to see Freddy Krueger.The rest of the stuff in the movie is alright, but like I said the acting is just dreadful and Robert Englund really saved me from hating this movie.Overall, A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 2 FREDDY'S REVENGE does a few things right, but is just outweighed by a few major flaws. Now, if Wes Craven would have directed and written this one too, the movie would have been fine. "},{"Title":"Another horror franchise sequel that is just average to its first","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's truly sad to see when a promising franchise starter manages to shoot itself in the foot after its first sequel. Of course for Wes Craven's A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984), was not the only movie franchise in general to achieve mainstream popularity and have a sequel made right after it. Like many others, whether it be Part 2 or just labeled with the number 2 after it, its successor ended up financially blowing away its competition but lost its critical flare that the original had. The reason behind these flaws was either the lack of the creator's involvement with the further projects or the producers decided otherwise what should be the next step in the franchise. As of right now, there's only one horror sequel that manages to complete its narrative in two successful steps and that's John Carpenter's Halloween (1978) and Halloween II (1981).Here fans are introduced to Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton), the newest tenant living in 1428 Elm Street, the same house that Krueger appeared in 1984. After a few nights of some intense dreams involving Krueger (Robert Englund) wanting Jesse to kill for him, his friends Lisa Webber (Kim Myers) and Ron Grady (Robert Rusler) begin to notice and try to figure out what's going on. The sequel to A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) doesn't make sense in a number of areas. As his first writing job, David Chaskin didn't modify the script in any way to enhance the story that was told prior. His first mistake is the title; Freddy's Revenge? Who is Krueger getting revenge on? He got his revenge at the end of the first entry. This also completely puts into question what are Freddy's motivations. Why does Freddy want Jesse to kill for him? If its to avoid having people think Freddy Krueger is back, the reason seems pointless. Nobody believes what they don't see anyway. Jack Sholder's direction in the plot is interesting but if looked at deeper, it just doesn't add up. The only thing Chaskin does correctly is continuing to maintain connections to the first nightmare by introducing Nancy's diary, which gives the characters a sparknotes edition of the events before. Although even that may come into question because I don't clearly remember Nancy ever writing down anything about her experiences. The main actors do give believable performances for the situations they encounter but unfortunately, they aren't attachable. Mark Patton and his co-stars can portray emotion but they just aren't the same likable cast. The only actor who comes out unscathed is Robert Englund just because he's playing Krueger like he always has. The only difference here is that he no longer has a connection to these specific characters other than one of the individuals living in 1428 Elm Street.Even actor Marshall Bell has a minor role but for those who are familiar with Bell's other roles, they might already know where he's headed. The cinematography provided by Jacques Haitkin (who worked on the first nightmare) and Christopher Tufty manage to keep the look of the first with various lighting and colors. However, the creativity behind the dream sequences isn't as frequent anymore either. And when the scene shifts to a dream, the scenes focus more on the surroundings than what Krueger can do. Instead, the big thing going for when Krueger is around is that everything gets molten hot. That's nice because in some cases it did look good for the practical and special effects used. However more could have been done too. A good example of this is one dream sequence that is skin crawling. For a minute I actually thought it was real.This leads to the horror aspect of the picture. Is it scary? Well, for horror fans no but they should still have fun watching it. As for anyone else who's not used to Krueger already, they will be scared. The makeup on Krueger is still slimy and gross and his method of killing is still grotesque and ugly. Can you imagine being killed by rusty claws? Ewww,...at least clean them. The music produced by horror composer Christopher Young is an unfortunate let down too. Young who would later prove himself with Clive Barker's Hellraiser (1987) score, manages to only make the score to this sequel only creepy and not scare inducing. For some reason, Young also did not include composer Charles Bernstein's original theme from the first movie and its sad because Young probably could have enhanced such a unforgettable cue. Here Young does include drawn out clashing string tunes and one-two mystery notes. That's it and regrettably, this is Young's only score to this franchise. Sigh.The special/practical effects still look good and the story's direction is new but with little to no clarity, the reasoning barely makes sense. Although every actor is new other than Robert Englund, none of them give showings that are remotely memorable. Grievously, even with Christopher Young composing the musical score, he too cannot help the film be but only mediocre. "},{"Title":"Well Written But Relatively Scareless Sequel","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge is arguably a better written film than Wes Craven's original but it's nowhere's near as scary. It defined Freddy more as a character in no small part because of actor Robert Englund who was given more screen time and a chance to shine in the role. It also set the tone for the franchise with it's over the top set pieces and visual effects. Those moments when Freddy declares; You are all my children now. or when the school bus is precariously balanced on a crumbling tower of stone over a hellish chasm are powerful. Even the protagonist, Jessie (played by Mark Patton) is more well drawn than the teens in A Nightmare on Elm Street. For him, Freddy becomes a representation of his repressed homosexuality which emerges to cause chaos around him. For a low budget horror pic, it's quite sophisticated. Unfortunately, it's never as scary as it is engaging. Fans of the series will want to see it. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Elm Street series seems to have taken the steepest, quickest nose dive in horror history. the first was among the greatest horror outings ever thrust upon an unsuspecting world. but from 2 onwards the series dragged Freddy through the dirt and made a mockery of what is a good concept and a good movie.This movie is a mess the entire horror element is gone, the effects are laughable, the acting is a very noticeable step down from the first and it looks as if the budget is halved. the main problem with the Elm Street series is if you don't believe the effects the movie becomes a comedy only good in camp. and since this is not quite bad enough to be campy fun like 4-6 and not nearly good enough to be enjoyed on its own merits it just sits in a limbo of unenjoyable crap and anti-climaxes. "},{"Title":"One, Two...Freddy's trying to get inside of you...","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Without question, the most controversial film of the Nightmare On Elm Street franchise would be the second installment, Freddy's Revenge. This sequel sticks out amongst a pile of 80's horror because our lead victim is a teenage boy, instead of the usual girl-next-door. No doubt, you've heard the debate -- probably read about it on this very site -- so I'll spare you. Watch the film and draw your own conclusions.Jesse Walsh and his family have moved to 1428 Elm Street, five years after the events of the first film, and right off the bat, the dreams start coming. Morning after morning, Jesse wakes up with an ear-piercing screech and a cold sweat. He also finds himself wandering in the late hours of the night, popping up in his kid sister's bedroom, his high school and even an S & M bar. It doesn't take long until he discovers the legend that is Freddy Krueger and what he has planned. It seems Ol' Finger-Knives wants into the real world and is using Jesse to get that job done. Whether it's his classmates, an overly cruel gym teacher or a parrot, it seems no one is safe until Jesse and his girlfriend Lisa put the legend to rest.Freddy's Revenge, although entertaining slasher fare, sticks out like a sore thumb with the rest of the series. Truth be told, they didn't know exactly how to do a Nightmare sequel at this point, and it shows. So you can't really hold the fact that this film doesn't cling to any mythos against the filmmakers. At the end of the day, it's a Freddy flick, and at the very least, it's different from the rest, which means you're likely to watch it more than a few times if you are a fan of the series. Most of the film lacks suspense, but doesn't skimp on the gore. There are some pretty nasty visuals in the film that warrant a view from any horror fan. Consider it a guilty pleasure. If you can get past the odd story-telling and the lack of substance, you'll have fun with Freddy's Revenge. "},{"Title":"why this movie is utter garbage.","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" **WARNING HUGE SPOILERS THROUGH WHOLE PAGE DO NOT READ IF YOU HavenT SEEN.**I don't know where to begin with this horrid harpy of a sequel that started a trend for the horror movie genre.How about the very idea of this film freddy is defeated in the first but in this time frame, new line was desperate for money and it shows.they thought why not make a sequel to the awesome movie we put out in 84.WE can make a completely illogical plot, stupid characters,the worst sequel in the franchise,bad acting from all the actors other then Robert Englund.This movie is probably best known for having the highest body count in the series.Usually that is a good thing in the original the deaths were unique and stylise.In this one they are just unoriginal in the first freddy would like write a cool message in you in this one you just get stabbed, or even worse that very brokeback scene with freddy in the shower whipping some dude.The plot sucks freddies trying to get reborn into the world by a whinny little kid, and only his neighbours love can save him?And it's got all kinds of bad special effects Wes Craven was probably ashamed of like that exploding bird,weird dog face things,the freddy coming through the kid seen,a better villain for this movie would have been that stupid school bus.It's got an unclimactic show off in the boiler room which set up part 3 which is a great movie.In conclusion if you buy the box set throw this out and part 5,6, and with 4 I don't care .Just stick with 1 3 and 7. "}{"Title":"huh?","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" what went wrong???with the smash hit of the first instalment only an idiot could have messed this up.I'm guessing they found that idiot the plot was idiotic the whole idea of Freddy is that he attacks you in your dreams where u have no defense and he has total control over all your surroundings so just when you think you've got the upper hand he turns it on on its head.the acting was mediocre at best i would even go as far to say as the effects were far better in the first.and the idea that love is what beats Freddy in the final and appalling show down is laughable where they just making the story up as they went along?they seem to have ignored all of the great things we loved so much in the movie just made a film which makes no sense whats ever from what i can make out there seems to no attempt to create tension or suspense i enjoy the nightmare on elm street movies but what happened with this one?robert englund is the only saving grace but even his role is limited in this outing.can the people who made this film seriously sit down and watch this and say they made a good movie here?i somewhat doubt that.thankfully it got back on track in number but I'm left wondering what could have been of this film maybe following heather after leaving elm street and her struggle to control her dream.or maybe using the same principle storyline as the first but interweaving dead characters from the first film trying to warn the new batch of elm streeters of their inevitable fate.I'm ranting on now time to go "},{"Title":"`Hey Grady do you ever remember your dreams?' Only the wet ones","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's RevengeJesse has just moved to Elm street into the same house Nancy lived in and suffered at the hands of Freddy Krueger and yes its all happening again. This time Freddy is trying to posses Jesse so that he can kill in the real world. Only Jesse's girlfriend can save him now. I remember the first time I ever saw this film, I saw the first few minutes up to where Jesse's little sister puts the fingernails on from the cereal box, and was told by my mum that that was the end. For about 3 years I thought that the second Nightmare film was only 5 minutes long. The very first scene is superb and remains one of my favorite Scenes in the whole Nightmare series. Thats the bit with the school bus balanced on the rock thing. I don't really see what relevance this has with the story line but I'm guessing its just to show that Freddy is back. One thing that id bother me with the film is all the gay references. For one I'm pretty sure that the guy that played Jesse is gay. he seems very camp. Other references include the coach and his S&M fetish, what's with that? And the fact that Ron Grady says that the coach like pretty boys like Jesse. Then there is the thing with the coach getting the old towel snaps from Freddy. That really is one messed up scene. Next comes the bedroom tidying scene. How pointless is that scene? I really do hate that scene. I mean the terrible 80's music, the terrible 80's shirt he has on. god that is one bad scene. One last thing on this subject, why does Jesse sweat so much? The acting from Jesse is pretty damn bad but in a horror film acting never really bothers me to much. A few other things that I didn't like about this film was that a few things seem left unexplained, or maybe its just me not getting it. Like for one, why is the house so hot all the time? Is his to show that Freddy is about? Or is it something to do with the boiler in the basement. And how does the heat blow up a bird? But on the plus side the film has its good points. Freddy remains just a bad guy in this movie. None of his corny one liners here although I don't actually mind them. I think Freddy works well as a plain bad guy and with a bit of a comedy element to him. There really aren't many deaths in this so don't to much gore. There is one pretty cool scene where Freddy pulls the skin of his head to show his brain. The scene is a little to dark though.  The ending is defiantly a bad point. It builds up nicely with Lisa going into the place Freddy used to work, past those weird looking hell hounds. But then there isn't much of a fight and it just seems to end. So to sum things up the gay references, lack of gore, boring pointless scenes and bad acting bring the film down, but its not without its good points.5/10 "},{"Title":"A step down, but not that bad overall","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I must say I didn't really like this first sequel to Wes Craven's smash hit when I was young, and today I still don't think it's great. But it's kind of grown on me a little and I'm not afraid to say that I kind of dig it now. It really could've been worse; it could've been as disappointing as 'Freddy's Dead.' Pros A great, scary opening sequence. A game cast. Some really good special effects. A decent score from the same composer from 'Hellraiser I & II.' A fast pace. A still scary villain in Freddy Krueger. Good chemistry between the two leads. The pool party massacre is fun times. A feeling of dread hangs over the film thanks to the directing and lighting.Cons Not as scary as the original. A few cheesy attempts at scares, especially the scene with the killer bird. The central premise betrays the original. Aside from the central premise, nothing much new is brought to the mix.Final thoughts Not a bad film, but after a great movie like the original you'd think they would come up with something even better than this. But flaws aside, this is a fun, spooky sequel worth seeing.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Mediocre sequel to a horror classic","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I loved A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET. It was smart, scary, and original. In other words, it's everything A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 2 FREDDY'S REVENGE is not. From the weak opening sequence (which seems really cheesy today) to the disappointing finale, this mediocre sequel isn't even half the horror film the first was. It lacks tension, character development, and cleverness that made the first one so good. The big problem with the flick is that despite trying to do something different, it basically has the same premise as the original 'ELM STREET'. The only real difference is the protagonist here is a teenage boy instead of a teenage girl.As much as it sounds like I absolutely hated the film, I actually didn't. There are some pretty cool scenes and the acting from Mark Patton, Kim Myers, and Robert Englund is better than one would expect from the genre. There were also some memorable lines sprinkled throughout (Freddy saying, you've got the body and I've got the brain sticks out in my mind) and a decent score by Christopher Young. If you like horror movies and you don't mind a whole lot of homosexual undertones then A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 2 FREDDY'S REVENGE may be worth checking out as long as you don't expect it to be on par with the first 'NIGHTMARE'. I'm giving it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Bit the Big One!","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was not a good movie. It wasn't scary, the acting was virtually terrible, and the plot was tough to follow. Why they didn't get Craven back as the director beats the hell out of me! The deaths were so cheesy and the special effects looked so fake it was totally unbelievable. The school bus rides made no sense and you basically needed a guide book just to understand what was happening. The scenes were in a completely illogical order and got confusing way too quickly! Freddy didn't have his snappy one-liners yet which also didn't help the overall cause either. I personally feel that this film basically was devoid of any redeeming qualities whatsoever. It's one where I'd be constantly checking my watch (even though it was short in length) and I even broke up viewing it since I was becoming so bored with it. What's scary is this was rated higher than some of the other sequels so I can only imagine how bad they are. Take a strong word of advice to stick to the original and don't stray too far away or you could become lost in the kingdom of boredom forever!Final SlashMovies Ripoff!DVD Purchase No way, Jose!Rental I wasted my time. "},{"Title":"Boring, dull, and pointless.","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge, tells the story of a new family that's moved into Nancy Thompson's house from the first film. The teenage son begins having disturbing dreams involving Freddy Krueger, and throughout the film, Freddy gradually takes over the teen's body so he can continue his killing spree outside of the dream world. This movie doesn't even have the same style as the first film, and the deaths are more violent and more ridiculous than before.When the first Nightmare film was so good, it was hard to think the second film would be so utterly bad. The problem is that the script just doesn't have the same style and charm as the first movie. Wes Craven managed to create a creepy atmosphere, whereas this movie is like a joke. Freddy Krueger hardly appears throughout the film, and when he does, it's under the stupidest circumstances. There's one huge plot hole that bothers me. Why has this teenage boy who is moving into a house where bad things happened, on a street where bad things happened never heard of Freddy Krueger? Everything that was done right in the first movie was done wrong here.The acting is just awful. Even Robert Englund seemed weak in the role that made him famous. Then again, he wasn't in the movie very much.Overall, this movie is terrible and doesn't fit with the first film at all.1/10 "},{"Title":"Standard sequel - **","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nightmare on Elm Street 2, A Freddy's Revenge (1985) Mark Patton, Kim Myers, Robert Rusler, Clu Gulager, Hope Lange, Marshall Bell, Robert England, D Jack Sholder. Young Patton moves into the same house from the original (set five years later) only to have his body and mind taken over by Freddy Krueger so he can take his finger-knives into more teenagers when they're not dreaming. Blunt sequel has some good scenes and England, while cracking one-liners, looks absolutely terrifying as Krueger more so than the first time, but it just can't work up to the original. Ends with a cheap, poorly edited sequel setup. Running Time 83 minutes and rated R for gore/violence, nudity, and language. RATING ** (out of ****) "},{"Title":"Campy, yet awful sequel to great film","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Taking place five years after the first Elm Street film, Part 2 rewrites the premise of the series, having Freddy possess the teenage boy now living in the Elm Street house allowing him to kill people whether they are awake or asleep.This film is weak for a number of reasons, but the major one has to be the awful acting of the protagonist of the film. Where Heather Lagenkamp was able to convey a teenager dealing not only with the death of her friends, but severe sleep deprivation in the first film, Mark Patton (Jesse) comes off merely as a drama queen (even though it might be appropriate since the actress playing his girlfriend looks so much like Meryl Streep).The second major weakness is the abandonment of the premise of the first film (and later sequels), that Freddy can only get you if you are asleep. Instead Freddy is able to materialize whenever he wants turning him into just another teen slasher.Finally, the last weakness is the script. The characters are poorly developed, the plot ebbs and flows at random, and the vanquishing of Freddy is laughable.However, despite these weaknesses the movie has wonderful camp value. Whether it was intentional or not, the movie has a homo-erotic subtext running through it and when viewed through that light, Freddy's Revenge can be pretty funny. This happens in scenes such as when Jesse worries about Freddy taking him again, when Jesse goes out and meets his high school coach at a leather bar, or when Jesse abandons his girlfriend to spend the night with his male best friend. "},{"Title":"Almost unwatchable","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ever wanted proof of how an original movie (that is regarded by some as a classic) can easily descend into the realm of really pathetic sequels? Well, look no further than 'Nightmare On Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge'. You might not have expected it to be good in the first place, but thought it can't be THAT bad!. I did. I was so very wrong.Five years after Nina Thompson's battle with Freddy, the Walsh family moves into the old Thompson residence, without knowing why it was so cheap and why no one has lived there for the past five years. Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) starts having nightmares about Freddy, while his girlfriend Lisa (Kim Myers) finds Nina Thompson's diary. It turns out Freddy needs to possess Jesse so that Freddy can start killing again, but Lisa knows how to play Freddy at his own game.What's wrong with 'Freddy's Revenge'? Well, nearly everything. For a horror movie, it doesn't have much of anything to actually scare. There's no tension, suspense, or atmosphere. Freddy's crazy dream world rarely appears. You might expect a series of bloody murders to keep slasher fans happy, and even then there is not enough action to keep people interested. The script in the first film wasn't very good, but the second is terrible. The lead actors are rather poor and lines like animals don't normally explode for no reason make it almost unwatchable.'Freddy's Revenge' is only for Freddy fans / horror buffs. Some of those people might even find something like about this film, but I didn't - 1/10 "},{"Title":"I don't see how Freddy gets revenge","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   The hard to please critic A nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's RevengeWell first of let me say this movie sucked alot. The beginning shows a school bus going to no where and then all of a sudden its in the desert and you hear freddy laughing. Then the main character wakes up and relizes its a dream. Then he keeps dreaming. Nothing happens except freddy laughs. Then more into the movie he kills a phys ed teacher. But wait I thought he only killed KIDS in their DREAMS! But he killed an ADULT in the REAL WORLD! Then all the kids are at this party and Freddy comes and none of them are dreaming. Then the most idiotic ending. The main character becomes FREDDY! Then the whole bus scene is shown. I didn't think this had anything or made any sense with the original plot. This moive sucked a major load of balls.Overall Grade F "}{"Title":"Spontaneous combustion-parakeets!!","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You can't deny that Wes Craven's original Nightmare on Elm Street was horror of great significance and, although dreadfully overrated, it was a pretty clever and spooky film that introduced the legendary icon of Freddy Krueger. It was obvious right from the start that none of the several sequels would ever live up to the original and this first attempt immediately confirms so. Despite a dazzling intro, showing a school bus racing through a nightmarish wasteland with Freddy at the wheel, this is a very tame and soft teenage-horror flick, completely lacking coherence and logic. The story supposedly takes place 5 years after the initial Elm Street events and the house where Nancy lived has been sold to the Walsh family. The adolescent son Jesse begins to suffer from nightmares in which Freddy Krueger orders him to kill in his shape. The screenplay is a series of stupidities and continuity errors but the whole things basically is an excuse to show fairly impressive visual effects, so who cares about the story anyways? Jesse's transformations into Freddy Krueger are well staged and the murders he commits are decently gore. Several sequences and scenery don't make the slightest bit of sense (exploding parakeets, guard dogs with children's faces&#133;) and the suspense-elements of the original have vanished entirely. The acting is considerably good, even though the hero screams like a little girl and the heroine looks like Meryl Streep's younger sister. At least in this first sequel, Robert Englund doesn't constantly fire off unfunny and embarrassing one-liners. "},{"Title":"Just skip this one and go directly to part 3","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, what can I say? This is a terrible sequel and very clearly the worst of the elm street series. The acting is bad (even for a horror movie), the scares are cheap, and it's just plain boring. My main reason for hating this movie so much is that they broke Freddy rule #1 no one dies in their sleep. If nobody dies in their sleep, where's the fun in watching a Freddy movie? There are people who can forgive this but I just can't.There are arguments in defense in this movie like, at least Freddy is still dark and scary instead of being a joker like in some of the other movies. I guess I sort of agree with that, and yes, the scenes with Freddy are good. But when Freddy isn't on the screen it's dull. All of the other films at least had interesting scenes/plot lines without Freddy and characters you could actually root for. This one does not. At all. It misses that backbone, and that's why this movie ultimately suffers.So seriously, if you aren't a Freddy fanatic and could stand missing some of the incoherent entries in the series, by all means skip this one and go directly to part 3. You won't miss anything at all since part 3 picks up where the first left off. Freddy's Revenge stands on its own anyway, since it seems like a completely different movie!My Rating 1/10 "},{"Title":"Should've been some other movie entirely","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There's lots wrong with NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 2 &#x97; the whole, previously espoused-on gayness of it, and also how it manages to look and feel at least FIVE YEARS OLDER than the first one. It's seriously CARRIE meets SLEEPAWAY CAMP as far as the era depicted therein is concerned. That, plus it came on the heels of the hip, aggressive, and intelligent Wes Craven-directed original &#x97; so audiences were a little hard- pressed to get on board with some slow-ass, soft-focus Afterschool Special about a gay teen being menaced by a growly voiced bogeyman who may or may not be the hero's own repressed sexuality. Or something? I dunno.However, it's reasonably well-directed. I love the opening credits and some of that David Lynch-y boiler room action toward the end. The steadicam shot going up the stairs to the sister's room was pretty cool, too. Basically, I think it's like a really awesome TV movie. If it were some ABC Movie of the Week from 1978 that existed on its own, people would probably think it was pretty rad. Unless they were offended by the gayness. ;-/ "},{"Title":"Nightmarish first sequel.","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the first sequel to the Elm Street series, where a new family moves into the house on Elm Street, where the kids are having nightmares about deceased child murderer Freddy Krueger. The demon attempts to possess Jesse Walsh in order to continue his havoc onto the real world.The usual dreamy plot continues in this sequel, with lots of people hiding, slashing and screaming. The gore factor is on par as in the previous film and the acting was, like the first, pretty campy and sub-par. The overall atmosphere and cinematography of the film have this lazy, dreamy and emotionless feeling, probably wanting to give the audience the impression of a dream, but still somewhat dull to me.The plot is pretty fast-paced and you will get a few good screams out of this one, but, it is riddled with plot holes and ambiguous scenes. The acting can be campy at times as well, which gave the overall movie a somewhat cheesy factor. Grade C "},{"Title":"Rush to cash in","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) is the new teen moving into the Elm street home. He is soon haunted by Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) in his dream. This sequel was definitely a rush job for NewLine Studios to cash in. Only Robert Englund returns. No Wes Craven. None of the surviving kids. In fact, Freddy Krueger gains a new power by possessing somebody and climbing into the real world. It seems an unwise move as it would allow Freddy to be killed more easily. It is also noteworthy that none of the kids were stars and none of them has since broken out as big stars. That should indicate the caliber of acting skills involved. It's quite disappointing since normally we'd expect an improvement after a surprise hit. That's the best way to describe this movie a disappointment. There is also a latent homosexual conflict in the character. It would have been an interesting idea but it's executed horribly here. "},{"Title":"Body and brains....","Date":"15 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jesse Walsh and his family have moved into Nancy Thompson's old house on Elm Street.No sooner are they moved in than Jesse begins to have horrific nightmares - ones that feature a burned man in a dirty red & green sweater, with knives on the fingers of his right hand.His neighbour & new sweetheart, Lisa, discovers the truth behind Fred Krueger and his horrible murder spree.Freddy vows to take over Jesse's body to continue his vile crimes against the Elm Street residents.Soon, people close to Jesse start dying violently. Will Lisa's love for Jesse be enough to help him overpower the demonic presence inside him? For some, this is the weakest entry in the series, thats number four for me, but this is surely the one with the most homo-erotic innuendo.Jesse has to be the campest hero ever seen in a horror movie, and his screams are something straight out or a Vic Reeves sketch, and the fact that he has a crush on an actress who looks like Meryl Streep just makes it worse.It's such a weird movie though. Birds explode, Jesse 'comes out' to his friend in his bedroom (quite literally)and the fact we hardly see Freddy is the biggest criticism of them all.It's not all bad.Freddy towel whips a man, There is some really camp bedroom disco dancing, And the funniest part of all, at a party, the parents decide to go to bed just a few feet away, and the kids think that playing music very loud is a good idea.Watch it for the amount of gay innuendo, and you will appreciate it just that little bit more. "},{"Title":"Ohhh so Freddy's Revenge was to make a horrible sequel...I get it","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You have to try pretty hard to disappoint me in a horror film. Considering the greatness of the original film they must have really screwed up the recipe for this barely watchable sequel and there are some glaring fatal flaws that made this one simply bad. First of all if they couldn't get Nancy (Heathen Langenkamp) to come back they should have waited until they could. This film barely ties into the first film and they really have to try hard to tie that into together but using Nancy's diary from 'five years' earlier. Second of all...where in the hades was Freddy? Freddy Kreuger, the legendary killer, the focus of all these films is hardly in this movie. He spends the whole time terrorizing and possessing the main character that you hardly every see Englund in his classic role. In the entire movie Englund's Freddy is in thirteen minutes of it?!?! That is a terrible decision on the film makers part. Thirdly they completely eliminated the haunting melody of the Nightmare On Elm Street theme that was used in every single other instalment. So instead of the horror film we all love we get to watch a sub-par over actor run around whining and screams for 80+ minutes.God bless Mark Patton for not carrying on his acting career too far after this. Patton plays Jesse the possessed youngster who apparently is only a target because he lives in Nancy's room. He has the body, Freddy has the brain as he says in one of the only memorable moments in the film. Patton takes emotions to new levels but not in a good way. He cries and screams and whines and its overwhelming and you want to slap him. Premiering in this film is Kim Myers as Patton's girlfriend. She looks so dazed through the whole film and has very little personality and chemistry with Patton whatsoever. Robert Rusler is at least a little better as the cocky future victim Grady. Rusler should have been given more time on screen and also the lead role because I think he would have done better. Sadly I can't even comment on Robert Englund's performance as Freddy because his role is barely a cameo and yet the entire film is supposed to be about him? I can't say he was good or bad because he just wasn't even important in this and that's sad and stupid.Wes Craven outright refused to come back for this and that's a shame because maybe he could have saved it. Then again it bodes well for future instalments that they did the worst one right off the bat. Jack Sholder wasn't a stranger to horror so I guess we have to blame someone else. I mean he could only do so much with the script. Now the reason I am giving this film some sort of redeemable score is because there are still some really solid special effects in the film that I think A Nightmare On Elm Street series should be applauded for because they often did it on low budget and minimal CGI unlike nowadays. There is still some pretty gruesome kills but its also completely twisted to have the main character and 'hero' also essentially be the killer. If you're a fan of the series or if you're just determined to watch them all then you have to watch this. If anything it'll make you look more highly on future instalments. Truth be told though you could literally skip this entirely and not miss anything whatsoever because the real #2 sequel in my mind was actually part 3 but we will get to that. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The first name in terror returns...","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Freddy Krueger's back and still out for revenge. The story unfolds five years later, as Jesse Walsh, a new teen in town, moves into the house that previously belonged to Nancy. Jesse remains blissfully unaware of the supernatural presence haunting the house -- until Freddy starts invading his dreams. The undead creature wants to take over Jesse's body and renew his murderous vendetta against the local kids. In a last, anguished attempt to save his own and his friends' lives, Jesse gathers his pals together to fight Freddy off and destroy him, once and for all.ANOES 2 is one of those films that COULD have been good but was effed up in the writing stages of pre-production. This film is BAD and I stress the word bad. This sequel to the franchise seems to be the one that connects with the franchise the least because everything is so very different and seem to completely ignore what happened in the first film with the exception of Freddy Krueger.However, the best part of the film is the first scene, and that's a bad sign. It's a nightmare sequence involving our protagonist in a bus with two other students. It turns out Freddy is driving the bus and all hell breaks loose. I won't spoil what happens in this nightmare sequence because it is done so well and it's one of the best nightmare sequences in the entire franchise. For a film that starts off so well, one wonders how it quickly goes downhill.This is the only film in which Freddy possesses a teenager in order to kill other teenagers. Now, this may sound good because it's actually different, but it's done so badly. There's also a sense of homo-eroticism running throughout the entire film, most of it having to do with our main protagonist being half naked almost in mostly the entire film. There is also a scene that takes place in a locker room where a male character is stripped naked and slapped in the butt cheeks with a towel. I don't know. You make up your own mind.Mark Patton is our new protagonist and he does, I'll admit, a decent job. I seriously don't remember much from the other characters except Robert Englund, but that's basically a given. ANOES 2 disappoints because it had so much potential given from the first scene and movie. Skip this or just watch the first scene of the film. ANOES 2 is the worst in the series. "},{"Title":"Freddy's real revenge is making you watch this. You'll have real nightmares.","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, this shouldn't be a big surprise follow up an inventive and original idea with a lame, horrid sequel.A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge is an abomination, even in 1980s horror franchise sequels. It's incoherent, irresponsible, inconsistent and just plain horribly made.Five years after the event of Part 1, or just one in real life, a new family moves into the Elm street house where Nancy supposedly went crazy after watching her boyfriend get butchered across the street. I'm going to stop here and say here's one of the biggest problems of the movie. Did the writer or director even watch the first one? She did NOT see her boyfriend die, just heard and knew about it.Anyways, Jesse (Patton) is a very troubled, wacky and overheated teen who befriends a girl, Lisa (Myers) and a thug/jock Ron (Rusler) while having bad dreams. Apparently, he's inherited the spirit of Fred Krueger since he lives in the original movie's house and Fred wants Jesse to kill for him. Why? No real reason other than Fred likes to kill.See, the original made sense. It was a basic revenge type story whereas Fred Krueger murdered children, the parents took matters into their own hands and burned Fred to death. Only, Fred came back in the form of nightmares to seek vengeance against the children of the parents responsible. Here, he only wants to kill just about anyone.And here in lies one of the most troubling aspects Fred(dy) Krueger wants to use Jesse as a portal to kill others, but he seem to be doing fine on his own. Such as, moving objects, windows, doors, gym equipment without the use of a host. Why, oh why, did he need Jesse? And where was the real aspect of the nightmare presented carefully in #1? A Nightmare part of the title really only suggests that sometimes Jesse dreams of Fred, but basically the majority of the movie takes place in the real world.Again, I ask, did they actually watch the first movie? No journal was mentioned in #1, but they conveniently brought one in here. The mother died (or did she?) in the first one in BED, UPSTAIRS and not in the living room as mentioned here. And Freddy has to be pulled out of a dream, he literally cannot cut himself out as this new myth states.I realize I am looking too deep into this movie, but as a true Freddy Krueger fan, I am ashamed this one is part of the series. Let's look at the idiocracies in this feature I'm supposing it was ghost form, but Freddy locks all the doors at Lisa's house in order to attack. Why the heck would there be a lock on the outside of the parents' bedroom door? Sure this might sound petty, but to me, this was just lazy film-making. They didn't even try. Also, why go after the gym teacher? Was Freddy homophobic, or just the writers had something against gays? In one scene, Jesse wanders from his house into a bar, I'm assuming is a gay bar, but there's other things happening there as well. Next thing you know, Gym teacher is making Jesse do laps and take a shower in the middle of the night. Why? Well, I guess the writer equates homosexuals with pedophiles. That's always a huge misconception and just plain ignorance. Regardless, it just doesn't make sense, like the rest of the movie. Especially the love conquers all ending. Seriously? Wes Craven stated he wanted nothing to do with this mess. I don't doubt that and I am proud of him for that. The special effects were awful (including some off the wall baby/dogs???), the great score of the original was gone (always a mistake during a franchise,) the acting was horrible and way, WAY over the top, the homophobia was rampant and unnecessary and the climax and finale were just terrible.There are NO redeemable qualities of this picture (see the 1980s Marty Mcfly dance segment) and I am very glad to say that some people still had faith in Freddy, i.e. they went ahead and made #3 which was 30 times better. (On a side note despite all previously stated, this is still not the worst one &#x96; SEE, well actually, Don't SEE #6 Freddy's Dead. Nevertheless, any true human should watch #1 and leapfrog over this to #3 and continue.) "},{"Title":"Freddy's latest victim found hidden in closet?","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although it tries to hold on to the reputation of the first movie, this installment of the Elm Street franchise barely touches upon the standard accepted Freddy mythos and is eminently forgettable when compared to the other, more entertaining, sequels. Yes, this may have been the last movie to keep Freddy in darkness and away from the majority of the one-liners (though there are a few present) he would later blurt out but it's simply not good enough in every other aspect.The story concerns young Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton). Jesse's family have recently moved into the house that Nancy and co. inhabited in A Nightmare On Elm Street and, unsurprisingly, things are getting weird. Overheating rooms, agitated pet birds, the discovery of Nancy's diary - it all points towards one particular, burned bad guy trying to get his power back. This obviously complicates Jesse's attempts at having a love life (with Lisa, played by Kim Myers) and also his ability to keep friends (including Grady, played by Robert Rusler who I have always enjoyed since his appearances in the likes of Weird Science and Vamp). Freddy doesn't care though, he wants back and if he has to use, confuse and abuse Jesse to do it then he will . . . . . in a number of scenes that play out startlingly like a teen-aged lad struggling to come to terms with his sexuality.That's what this movie IS - it simply uses Freddy and his attempted emergence into life as a metaphor for sexual confusion. Whether it's Jesse's late-night dreamwalk into a gay bar, his dangerous sleepover with close friend Grady or his apparent inability to move forward in his sexual activity with Lisa. How bizarre that one of our most identifiable slasher icons was used in this way and how amazing that the series ever got back on track afterward but, even if this is just my own twisted way of viewing things, I stand by my comments and actually feel that the movie is more enjoyable when viewed from this point of view.Do not rush to view this as an essential entry into the Elm Street canon but, rather, treat is as you would Halloween III Season Of The Witch. That way you should be less disappointed with the end result and may even enjoy some of it, as I am now able to.See this if you like Monster In The Closet, Halloween III Season Of The Witch, Nightbreed. "}{"Title":"Revenge for what?","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know that sequels are suppose to be bad but this one is really bad. Especially after following one of the greatest horror movies of all time. This movie doesn't even compare to the first and the acting is so painful to see. The sad thing is that even birds were in it and the birds had nightmares. The only part that I liked was the part where Freddy said that he had the brains and then ripped off his scalp. Other than that I didn't see much of Freddy until the end. It's about this nerd guy who Freddy is making kill people. I am pretty sure that Freddy can do that himself. Then there is this really strange love scene with Lisa. Ugh. I am just glad that this was a sequel because it's now over shadowed by the first one. What is Freddy getting revenge on? This sequel being made. "},{"Title":"Mercifully short","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Another fairly predictable Nightmare on Elm Street story finds young Jesse Walsh trying to fight off a very rude intrusion by Freddy Krueger. David Chaskin has taken Wes Craven's original characters to create this new tale for director Jack Sholder.This film is viewable thanks to a good performance by Mark Patton in the role of Jesse Walsh. Kim Myers also starred. Over all, the content is still trashy and the level of entertainment is still average. Elm Street Two is one of the shortest films I have seen in a while. Running time is only eighty minutes. However, I guess we should be grateful for small mercies.Tuesday, September 17, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"Unintentionally Hilarious","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After a promising opening sequence, Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge, goes straight downhill. It takes everything that the original had to offer and turns it into a complete mess, nearly ruining a long time classic. It takes some of the original characters from the film and completely changes them through some quotations read out by some acne scarred teen, who happens to be the supporting actress of this dud.Its plot involves some random teen named Jesse who horrific nightmares, only to wake himself up with his freakishly feminine screams. Soon Freddy himself appears, and informs Jesse of his evil plan, which is to possess Jesse so he can unleash hell on the real world outside dreamland. It seems like an okay plot, but bad directing and a bad script does a great job of ruining it.But its not all that bad, its filled with great laughs, (none intended) ranging from a insane parakeet who spontaneously combusts (the dad later accuses Jesse of placing a bomb inside it) a nude wrestling fight in the mud, the mean school gym teacher being stripped naked and spanked to death with a wet towel, (after previously turning up dressed in leather at a gay bar in Jesse's dream) and of course Jesse's little bedroom dance, which includes him shutting cabinets with his butt while dressed up as some sort of spaceman.The film itself was a huge disappointment to fans. It strongly lacked in gore, and the dialogue was painfully bad. Some of the scenes were pointless and made no sense, like Jesse's girlfriend bursting into tears and hugging Jesse after seeing a rat. And while I'm at it, what was up with Jesse's girlfriend? Not only was she ugly, she couldn't act to save her life. If you're going to have a untalented actress, at least pick an attractive one. The ending was a joke, Freddy being defeated by The Power of Love was just pathetic.2/10 - If you haven't seen this movie I suggest that you leave it at that. Forget it ever existed and go watch Dream Warriors "},{"Title":"Bleh","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was horrible. The only thing I enjoyed about the movie was Jesse and Lisa finding Nancy's diary, because it was referring to the first movie. The few killing scenes in the film... was some of the stupidest piece crap I have ever seen. And lets not forget the demon baby masks strapped on the devil dogs. ugh.What ticked me off the most was how Freddy (not Fred as he is called in the movie) did not have a glove, but steel claws growing out of the tip of his fingers. What the heck is that? The ending was such a let down for me. Freddy was easily killed by just Lisa's love and belief that Jesse was still alive, inside of Freddy. Lame. It seemed too easy to be true.However, Robert Englund does a magnificent job of playing Freddy, every time. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This new review system is great! Unlike this film!!Genius. Anyway, part 2 introduces a new set of characters and barely links back to the first film, except that one of the characters hears that a girl went mad in the house Jesse, the main character, has moved into. The whole film could conceivably be someone else's nightmare, perhaps Nancy's, or an unknown character, at least then it would make more sense.Jesse has been having nightmares, and some of his friends have been dying in ways somehow connected to his dreams. It seems old Mr. Krugger is up to his...old...tricks, and is taking over Jesse's body and mind. Who will win? The film has this interesting idea, some nice effects, but that is all. Some average acting, poor script, some awful music and awful homo-erotic 80's fun and games. The original deserved a much better sequel "},{"Title":"Even Robert Englund has stated this is the worst Nightmare","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have been to several Fangoria horror conventions where Robert Englund (Freddy) has even said himself that A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 is the worst in the series. If you ask me none of the films are masterpieces, they are great bloody popcorn flicks but Nightmare 2 sticks out as by far the worst. Come on, the bus at the end drives off into the desert? Its friggin Illinois... but then again there were palm trees everywhere in part 1 (lol)...but even if its a dream... the bus just drives away, it doesn't explode or burstinto flames... are we supposed to think that they're merely taking a field trip to Freddy's hell....sorry I am rambling. "},{"Title":"Venom.","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film is an insult to the previous film. Firstly its more of a 're-imagining' than a sequel, this is arrogance in the extreme when you consider the dross that was produced. It takes everything that makes the original great and just abandons it, its almost like the 'film-makers' responsible thought, 'Gosh, all that atmosphere and tension has got to go, and that Freddy love hes just soooooo mean and scary, lets change him from a child killer to a homo-phobe'. The films homo-erotic undertones/overtones are very strange to say the least. Puzzling almost, you wonder what they thought they were making. It shatters the very cool premise of the original into a bazillion pieces, breaks EVERY rule set down. The acting is third rate, even Englund. For an example of what a proper sequel should look like watch Wes Cravens New Nightmare. "},{"Title":"Awful!!!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It sucks till it can suck no more!!! This particually bad horror movie... wait was it horror? Couldve fooled me! This bad comedy movie tells the really boring tale of Jesse Walsch a kid who is having nightmares about Wolverine a.k.a. Freddy Krueger. Freddy instead of killing this boy wants to possess him. Jesse as scared as Laurie Strode in Halloween tries to get help from his friend Ron Grady and his girlfriend Lissa. In the end  Lissa defeats Freddy but as usual he comes back in some unexplained way. I dont like this movie. It had plotholes, bad acting, and unexplained parts. If you like those things by all means watch it. But diehard Freddy fans dont say I didnt warn you. 2 out of 10 stars. And Im giving it 2 stars for Freddy "},{"Title":"Gay Bar,Eh?","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  SPOILER ALERTNightmare 2 is the turd of the series. The writer of the story must have been gay, nothing against him, but why in a horror film do you go sleep walking in to a gay bar, Eh? Or even, Death by towel whipping on the ass. I would sure like to smoke whatever the writer's on, because im amazed how New Line got the Damn film on our screen.The only time anything got scary was when we saw a gay gym teachers ass. Only watch this film if you want a slap in the face and a portion of homo on a disc!!Freddy is hardly in the damn film, for god sake!! 0 out of 5 "},{"Title":"You are all my children!!!","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is the weakest in the series.Really!!!And that says everything.When I started reading a newspaper after an hour it's not a good sign.I think the best one is NOES3,than NOES1 and this one is in the bottom.Especially I don't like the idea that Freddy was in the real world.He must be only in the dreams.How he get to the real world?Nobody explains that.So enough.3/10 "}{"Title":"A Gay Freddy?","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  All right,we get gay Freddy in this chapter. Jesse is haunted by the elm street ghoul. Whos got a job for him. We don't get much scares. And it takes a gay side in this film. I don't know,but I don't really think that is nessecary in a ANOES film.2.5/4 "},{"Title":"DULL","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first NOES was a classic film and a milestone in the horror Genre. NOES 2 Freddys Revenge is neither. Stupidly set 5 years after Nancy's encounter with the dream demon (where time appears to have stood still in elm street), it follows the life of Jesse who with his family has just moved into the old house which Nancy witnessed her mother die in. Freddy uses Jesse to kill for him.....oh PHUQ it this film doesn't really deserve explaining. Skip it, unless you are a hardcore freddy fan. The cast are forgettable and dull, the acting is lifeless compared to the first and the scene where Jesse is forced to tidy his room instead of going swimming round his girlfriend Lisa's house examplifies how dire the 80's actually were. I mean the music, the shades, the cap the embarrassing dancing....please. That is not a nessecery thing for me to say, i just had to vent that anger cuz that scene is the lowest point the NOES series and probably the only thing worth talking about in this film. i'll give one good pointer 'bout this film, Freddy is Evil. More evil looking and sounding than in any other film, oh and the first scene on the bus is pretty cool too. 'Freddys Revenge'should be taken out on the production team for this film!  "},{"Title":"Amusing sequel","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I didn't pay much attention to the film's flaws while watching it, being that I just wanted to be entertained.  And the film is entertaining.  But there was something about it that I found a little confusing.  And after I watched the behind-the-scenes interviews on the DVD, it became more clear to me.  In this one, Freddy was not just haunting the main character, but everyone around him.  In the first Nightmare Freddy basically haunted those who he invaded in their dreams.  In the sequel, Freddy's crashing a pool party, trying to kill everyone in sight.  It was mentioned in the interviews that Freddy was actually brought out of the dream state and into the real world.  That's what perplexed me, because I found it a little implausible for him to be terrorizing so many people in the main character's dreams.  And I really wish I didn't hear that this was regarded as the most homo-erotic horror film in a gay magazine.  The director mentioned that the main character/actor had a certain feminine quality to him, and there are homosexual overtones throughout the film.  I didn't catch onto them while viewing the film, but those ideas are now implanted in my head for when I watch it again.  Thanks a lot!  But as far as first impressions go, I liked the film, though it contains nothing special.  It is a decent sequel and does fairly good justice to the original, despite its flaws (which is why Wes Craven chose not to direct).My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Plot-thin but spooky.","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not content with merely haunting dreams, this sequel finds Freddy Krueger attempting to emerge from dreamland and overtake a teen's body, and make the young man (named Jesse) kill for him.  Inferior sequel relies on shocks to pass itself over, and for the most part, does pretty well, though ultimately cannot sustain the scant plotline.Meryl Streep-lookalike Kim Myers is attractive and appealing as the caring girlfriend who tries to help Jesse.** out of ****MPAA Rated R for strong horror violence/gore and some language. "},{"Title":"Three, Four--Better Lock Your Door!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        A school bus is dropping off high school students until there are only three left on the bus. One of them was a boy named Jesse Walsh and two girls. Suddenly, the bus picks up speed and heads into the middle of the desert. Freddy Krueger appears at the wheel and the whole experience ends in a cliffhanger. Literally. Jesse awakens screaming in bed. Jesse, his parents Ken and Cheryl and little sister Angela are new to Elm street. Jesse hasn't even unpacked his room yet and has trouble fitting in at school. The surly Coach Schneider makes him and troublemaker Ron Grady run laps and do push-ups. Jesse has a friend, Lisa, whom rides to school with him. That night, Jesse has a dream and is confronted by Freddy Krueger who tells him to kill for him.        The next day, Lisa comes over and helps Jesse unpack. That wasn't initially planned but Ken said Jesse couldn't go anywhere until his room was unpacked. Lisa found an old diary in the closet that belonged to the previous owner of the house Nancy Thompson. Jesse and Lisa read about Nancy's encounters with Freddy Krueger five years ago and how she saw Glen Lantz brutally murdered across the street. Freddy visits Jesse again that night. It seemed Freddy wasn't out to kill him but rather take over his body so he could continue his bloody rampage in life. At school he told Grady about it, but Grady assumed Jesse was nuts. He also spoke ill of Coach Schneider who over-heard him and made he and Jesse do push-ups. That evening, something strange happened. Just as Cheryl dropped the cover over the birds' cage, one bird kills the other one then swoops around the room, trying to attack the family then it suddenly bursts into flames and crashes down dead. Ken blames Jesse for that. That night, Jesse sneaks out and goes to a night club. Coach Schneider discovers him there and makes him run laps around the gymnasium then told him to hit the showers. Then suddenly, basketballs, tennis balls, medicine balls, volley balls and weights fly at Coach, then he's dragged to the shower room, his hands are tied to an overhead pipe by a jump rope, then towels snap him. Freddy then appears and slashes him to death and he accomplished it in Jesse's body.        Jesse thinks he's going crazy. That morning, the toaster caught fire which was strange considering it wasn't even plugged in. He and Lisa travel to the old Springwood power plant where Freddy worked in life and learn his grisley past. Soon, Lisa throws a party one night. Everyone from school comes except Grady. Jesse wasn't having much fun for he knew Freddy was inside him and was just waiting for the right moment to strike. He ran to Grady's and asked for him to watch him as he slept so nothing strange would happen. Suddenly, Jesse transformed into Freddy who killed Grady. He then went to Lisa's party and terrorized some teens and killed others. Lisa knew Jesse was still alive within Freddy and had a showdown with him at the power plant. She ovethrew Freddy who melted away and Jesse was back! Things were finally back to normal. But Freddy was far from being vanquished permanently...       Though not as good as the original, A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge is still interesting. Robert Englund is back as the maniacal Freddy Krueger. Why do they keep calling him Fred? I think Freddy Krueger sounds much better. It just rolls right off the tongue. Jack Sholder takes over the director's chair in this one, though Wes Craven did a great job last time; I hear Freddy Krueger and Jason Voorhees will go one on one in Freddy Vs. Jason this summer. I can't wait! Until then, check out A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge! Fans of the first will love it!- "},{"Title":"Were they serious?","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Undoubtedly THE worst movie in the series, they took you from watching Freddy get sucked into our world, and meeting his match(yet getting his revenge anyway), to being way to easily defeated by a badly acted teenage couple. Besides, what ever happened to the rule for sequels that says the body count must be higher? Thank God for the rest of series to redeem them.The Movie Guy "},{"Title":"Not as bad as most people make it out to be","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It seems alot of people hate A Nightmare On Elm Street Pt 2 Freddy's Revenge.While it just might be the weakest of the series, it's still not that bad.Five years have now passed since the original Elm Street.A new Family movies into the house where Nancy From the first Elm Street lived.Jesse(Mark Patton) is the new kid on Elm Street, and he is being haunted every night by gruesome dreams of Freddy Kruger(Robert Englund)Freddy wants to take over Jesse's body so he can live again.Each day that passes Jesse is starting to go over the edge as Freddy messes with his mind.Jesse's girlfriend Lisa(Kim Myers) is trying to help Jesse rid Freddy from his dreams.While Elm Street 2 is nowhere near as good as the original it still works.The movie starts off good, but is a bit slow not much action early on in the film.But it holds my interest.The pool scene was the best scene of the movie.Watch for the guy who tries to reason with Freddy, now that was funny.Director Jack Sholder does a decent. I'll give him the passing grade.Like i said Elm Street 2 is probably the weakest of the series but it's still pretty cool.I give A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's revenge6/10 "},{"Title":"Second installment in A Nightmare on Elm Street series is perhaps the weakest.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Second installment in A Nightmare on Elm Street series is perhaps the weakest.  Set five years after the first film, Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) tries to possess a wimpy teen (Mark Patton) so he can murder all the Elm Street kids. Some good special effects make up for poor hand-me-down script and acting (if you want to call it that).  Understandably, Wes Craven refused to direct this sequel.  My evaluation *½ out of ****. "},{"Title":"Based on a male??????? GAY!!!!!!!!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is gay literally. As much as i hate to accept it it is. Now being a huge freddy fan this movie does have some pretty good scenes except for the shower secene. But it still sucked. Where is freddys glove. In half of the movie he has no glove. so i do not approve of this movie "},{"Title":"Interesting idea with less than interesting results.","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *May Contain Spoilers*Instead of being just a rehash of the original (more dreams, more kills, same movie), NOES 2 attempted to add a different story with Freddy wanting to take over a body and kill in the real world. This is an interesting idea, but it creates a very average, maybe even sub-average horror film. The movie only has one true standout scene, where Freddy terrorizes the pool party. The male lead was uninteresting and I didn't really seem to care about his problems. Heather Langenkamp pulled off disturbed teen with nightmares who everyone thinks is crazy very well in the original Nightmare movie, but the actor in this film does not. The ending, with I love you Jessie! killing Fred was kind of a let down too.4 out of 10, because the scene where Freddy terrorizes the party is cool and they didn't try and be a bigger version of the original, but the movie they made just isn't that good. "}{"Title":"A letdown","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As every self-respecting horror buff knows, Wes Craven directed the original Nightmare, which was a box-office smash. However, before the film had met with financial success, he sold the sequel rights, a move he has long regretted.Freddy's Revenge is not a disaster, but it pales in comparison to the original. The story is pretty routine stuff, empathizing special effects and gore over plot. However, the central concept is fairly intriguing, and makes for some scattered good moments. Mark Patton is not a thespian, but he generates sympathy as the central character, a young man trapped by dark forces.Robert Englund, reprising his role as Freddy Krueger, is as engaging as charismatic as ever. The character is a creation of modern makeup effects (kudos to Kevin Yagher), but without Englund, he wouldn't be much more.As the parents, Clu Gulager and Hope Lange are okay, if unexceptional. However, the film's worst, most thankless role goes to Marshall Bell as the sadistic Coach Schneider. His character is yet another stereotypical high school coach. The homosexual undertones (the guy even hangs out in a gay bar!) certainly don't help.With some imagination, NOES2 could have held its own with the original, but it becomes yet another victim of lazy screenwriting. However, that didn't seem to hinder its financial success. Part 3 was inevitable.** (out of ****)Released by New Line Cinema  "},{"Title":"Not worth the time","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Horrible, horrible, horrible.  I can't stress this enough.  The story didn't even go by the Elm Street guidelines.  The kids of the parents that killed Freddy were supposed to be the targets and then they throw this at us.  Reminds me of the movie Halloween 3 which is another movie that has nothing to do with the others in the series.  Grade...2 "},{"Title":"Not good. Very bad. The typical sequel.","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WARNING THIS REVIEW MAY OR MAY NOT CONTAIN SPOILERS THAT MAY NOT BE EXCLUSIVE TO THIS FILM. PLEASE READ AT YOUR OWN DISCRETION.A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge. Ah, that epitome of emptiness and boredom. Why was this film so bad, of course, there's the answer, it was a sequel. Sequels were born to be bad.First, my views on the series. I HATE the Nightmare on Elm Street films. I pretended to myself for so long that I liked them that I even got the DVD Set after I bought all the VHS copies. But there can be no other word for it, the series, after Part1, was rubbish. It was so bad it could not figure out that if Nancy's parents killed Freddy Krueger, they would still be living in 1428 Elm Street, so where did Freddy live? In Nightmare 6, Maggie goes to the back yard of 1428 and finds the water tower, telling her that this is where she used to live before Freddy was burned. That is crap! How can that be? I'm not even gonna waste any more of my time or money on this waste of good film.  "},{"Title":"More Like A Comedy Than Horror","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Freddy's revenge is a bad movie. It is typical 80s schlock, the only real redeeming quality to the movie is Freddy, he maintains a dark aura about him in this movie(still not as good as the first). The acting from the other lead actors was horrible, and the ending was laughable rather than suspenseful. I noticed this seemed to be a trend with the Nightmare films, as the first one also had a disappointing ending. There are worse movies than this and it is fun to watch just to waste time, or if your a fan of the series, just don't expect any scares or suspense here. "},{"Title":"Very weak sequel...","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Jack Sholder-this guy can't make a good,scary horror movie.Alone in the Dark-very average slasher with quite surprising twist at the end;Wishmaster 2-Evil Never Dies-one of the worst horror movies of the 90's full of lame jokes and stupid characters.And finally we've got the second installment of the Freddy Krueger series.It's simply a let down in comparison to Wes Craven's masterpiece.The cast is awful and very unappealing,the script is putrid and the film isn't scary at all.To be objective,some of the special effects made by Mark Shostrom(The Mutilator,Phantasm 2etc.)are cool.Watch this sequel only in case,if you are a fan of this series. "},{"Title":"A big bucket of crap","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Warning The following comment contains spoilers (although this movie's already rotten- ba-da-bing!)This movie edges out Freddy's Dead as the lamest entry in the Freddy Kreuger oeuvre of films. Don't get me wrong, it contains the scariest scene in any of the Nightmare flicks-  unfortunately, it contains our teen protagonist donning a pair of Elton John sunglasses and dancing to vintage eighties music while shutting drawers with his butt. Oh, the horror.Thankfully, the sequels that followed this piece of garbage ignored this one, which includes Freddy living in a power plant (huh?) and trying to possess the aforementioned bland youngster, who dreams of a Freddy-driven school bus.There are only two kills, and one is a middle aged, S & M loving gym teacher who is tied up with jump ropes and has his bare bottom slapped with towels until it is blood red. Lethal horseplay? Thank you, Freddy.There are a few good bits, including the great Clu Gulager in a supporting role. You also get to see Freddy bursting out of a guy's body and a truly disturbing shot of some dogs with child heads, but by the time these parts come about you'll be asking Is this movie over yet?!?Also enjoy the scene where Freddy runs around a party chasing teenagers as beer cans explode. It's like a Spuds Mackenzie commercial gone horribly wrong.  "},{"Title":"They doubled the budget and halved the quality, thanks a lot!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The good thing about the second installment in the series is that it got very difficult to make a sequel that is even worse than Freddy's Revenge and so this is definitely the worst in the whole series. It seems to me that they took the original and subtracted plot, suspense, logic and acting. They did almost everything wrong that could be done wrong.There are some basic mistakes which ruin everything the original built. The fundamental thing about Freddy is that he can't get into real life by himself. The pool scene contradicts to everything the first movie was about. I suppose that the writer of the screenplay didn't even see A Nightmare on Elm Street.The acting is terrible too (especially Mark Patton in the leading role). The homosexual allusions really bugged me (what the heck is the matter with the people who come up with this stuff?). And why did Freddy kill the coach? He never killed at random before. To complete this mess of a film they took away Freddy's glove.There are few good things though. The effects are good (not as good as in the original) and the movie was very dark (good atmosphere but no real suspense or scares). Freddy was still enjoyably sadistic and not the joker he was turned into later on in the series. As far as it concerns the rest of the film there's not much worth seeing it except for two, maybe three slightly entertaining scenes.I guess I have to blame the screenplay.My rating 4/10 (Part 3 Dream Warriors is much much better!) "},{"Title":"NO WHERE NEAR THE GREATNESS OF THE ORIGINAL!!","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This isn't the worst of the sequels, but it is no where near the greatness of the original. In this edition the makers tried to make freddy funny, and this took away a lot of his menacing, dark and evil side. Instead of being scared of Freddy the audience were thinking what is this guy doing. At least in this one he is still a little bit evil he gets more and more of a comedic character into the series until Wes Craven fixes all that with New Nightmare. Stick to the original and New Nightmare. "},{"Title":"Truly a big mistake","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is one big mistake, it's awful, ridiculous and isn't a horror movie at all !!! It has more potential as a comedy. But the horrible fact is that there are many faults in this part and that there is no plot at all! Why does Freddy kill the kids, for example ?? Well, if you're a diehard fan (like me) see it, if not.....loose it.By the way, I gave it a 3 because there is always worse. "},{"Title":"Almost the Worst of the Series","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Nightmare 2 is a very bad movie.  It's not the worst of the series ( I reserve that distinction for Freddy's Dead), but it comes damn close.I think it basically boils down to the studio trying to make a buck off the surprising popularity of the original.  The principal problem with the story is that it breaks every rule set by the first movie and followed by every other movie in the series (including Freddy's Dead).  Freddy was never meant to be in the real world.  It's that simple.However, there are some interesting things in this movie.  The pool party sequence is interesting only because it proposes the question what if Freddy faced off against twenty or so teenagers?  That question is never answered, and the rest of the movie doesn't make much sense (why does Freddy kill the coach?).I guess maybe die-hard fans of the series will find something worth watching, but Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge is more of a curiosity piece than anything else. "}{"Title":"What an unnecessary piece of trash!","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film should not have been made. It was the same mistake like for Halloween 3,and Friday the 13th 5.Why did they make this trashy film? I wouldnt call this a nightmare film,compared to the other parts this was crap,but it was better than part 6.The script and plot was totally unnecessary,the acting was fair.Freddy was very mean in this,i like no humour,but why bother on this film!They tried something different,but this was unimaginable.The plot was rather simple,Freddy comes to life (no longer in dreams,for a stupid reason),goes into a guys body and takes over him killing people.Boring death scenes,even kinky ones that were really stupid.I hope this is the last mistake England has made,Freddy VS Jason better be a hell of a ride,as for this....Id throw it down the loo and flush it.I rated this piece of garbage 2 out of 10.Bad points about film-Boring death scenes,stupid plot,bad acting,poorly written script.Good points about film- None Available "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film was a god-awful waste of film, and that is NOT a recommendation. Basically it is a rehash of the original, minus the plot, suspense, scares, laughs, drama. Hell, the best effect in this movie is an exploding parakeet. The dialogue is even more inane than Titanic's.  Easily the worst thing Robert Englund has been involved in (including 976-EVIL). I would normally be insulted that such a movie exists to give the horror genre a bad name, but the fact that it exists as a sequel to one of the classics of the genre, is sickening.    "},{"Title":"AWFUL","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ten reasons that make this movie the worst movie ever made. EVER!1) It is supposed to be a horror movie but you don't scare AT ALL2) It changes badly the original story3) It shows much gore without any reason4) Freddy Krueger doesn't have a glove / blades (the blades come out -automatically-  of his fingers) , neither a hat5) The story has almost nothing to do with nightmares6) The end of this sequel is much sillier than the ending of the first movie7) The direction is REALLY bad8) The characters aren't the original ones9) Why does Freddy want to kill those children? (No reason)10) When I watched it with my brother we hoped that it would  give us some answers about the end of the 1st Nightmare. It actually created more questions.(I could continue giving much more reasons)I put 1/10 My advice DON'T WATCH IT!!! "},{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the worst Nightmare. It's stupid, It's boring and it's not scary! It has nothing to do with the first and has nothing to do with the rest! If you're gonna watch it, Watch it last otherwise AVOID! "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the original","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The second Nightmare features some very good scenes and plot arrangements, however, the basic system on which the first Nightmare stood was broken by Freddy`s killing a few people in reality without their being asleep. This produces a lot of confusions and unclear moments throughout the film and spoils the whole impression. But it is still very thrilling and scary unlike the fifth or sixth Nightmare.  "},{"Title":"NIGHTMARE 2","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge is usually hounded by critics.  I would have to agree with them for once.  The film is about a teen boy (played by Mark Patton) who moves into the Elm Street house and falls prey to Freddy Krueger.It's not very good at all.  The story is as slow as a snail. The actors are not all THAT bad but the script by David Chaskin is lacking both purpose and originality.  It doesn't rip off the first but at times you wished it would. Needless to say, this utterly forgettable film is not the best in the series.One last note That Patton kid sure screams like Heather Langenkamp.  Geez!  "},{"Title":"I honestly hated it.","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is ridiculously inferior to the first movie. I wasn't expecting it to be good, but I didn't think it would be this bad. The writer obviously doesn't know how to write a feature length script because he adds random bullcrap to make the movie longer like that pointless dancing scene. The characters are unlikable and despite Robert Englund's good performance, he wasn't scary like he was in the first movie. What also ticked me off was that guy telling Freddy Krueger to relax. Does he honestly think he can say that without getting killed? The final sequence with Freddy Krueger saves this from being a complete waste of time, but this is an insult to the franchise and you might as well count A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 as the second one and pretend that this one never happened. "},{"Title":"Better then Freddy Dead","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love nightmare on elm street, it's one of the best horror movies to come in the 80's, It gave us the new horror Icon Freddy.The plot A new family moves into the house on Elm Street, Not before long, the kids are again having nightmares about deceased child murderer Freddy Krueger. This time, Freddy attempts to possess a teenage boy, to cause havoc in the real world, and can only be overcome if the boy's sweetheart can master her fear.What I didn't like about this, is that there was just to much talk talk going on with everything, somehow they still made it entertaining to watch.The acting is this movie was really dreadful from the whole cast, Freddy Himself didn't even seem to be that scary or creepy at all in this movie.Which bring me to the deaths, there are only two deaths in this movie (which was let down) and both of those deaths were terrible done not gory or nasty.This movie is not the worse of series but I am not saying it's a good movie but it is a least (Just about) watchable.I give this a movie 4/10 "},{"Title":"Freddy's Back... In A Rather Lame Sequel","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wes Craven's immensely popular Nightmare On Elm Street was, without doubt, a highly inventive and creepy film that every Horror fan should see. This is not the case with most of the sequels, however, and while this first sequel Freddy's Revenge is, in my opinion, not the absolute worst of the series (as some people seem to think), it is anything but memorable. Five years after the incidents from the first film, new families with kids have moved into Elm Street. One of the teenagers who are now living on elm Street is Jesse, who soon has some unpleasant dreams... about our old friend Freddy Krueger.The second film in the series is not the total disaster it is sometimes labeled to be, but it is certainly a pretty lame sequel. While there are some good elements (the famous opening sequence, occasional gore...), this entirely lacks the creepiness and atmosphere of the first. The characters are unlikable and quite hard to care about, and the film never gets really scary. Apart from Robert Englund and Hope Lange the performances are entirely forgettable. What I liked about Freddy's Revenge is that it is does not yet feature a load of 'coool' moronic gags, as it is the case with some of the later sequels. This is not completely awful, but the only people I'd recommend it to are hardcore Freddy Krueger enthusiasts. All others, watch the original and the third part The Dream Warriors, and skip all the others. "},{"Title":"A Nightmare on Gay Street","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Oh, no. What the hell is this? I love the original Nightmare on Elm Street, it was scary, with an original plot but this one is&#133; let's star. The good things are -The music is not the same as the original, but its OK. -The First bus scene is the best beginning in the series. -Freddy Krueger is still bad and scary. He wasn't a clown like in the other sequels. An the bad things are -The whole homosexual plot. It wasn't necessary at all. -The deaths are not very creative. -Freddy kills a lot of people who's awake. It doesn't live up to the original plot. -Those stupid things about a bird on fire and a lot of worthless things.This is an enjoyable movie but doesn't deserve to be part of the series. It's more of a homo/comedy/horror movie with a scary Freddy. Ah, and the Fred Makeup looked horrible. And the ending sucks&#133;. I Mean (SPOILERS!!!) it makes no sense, if Jessie has a car and his girlfriend too then why the hell do they take the bus?????? "}{"Title":"A Poor Sequel To A Great Horror Movie","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is not often that you see a film that opts to express obvious disdain for not just the audience, but also for the creators of the original film. The first nightmare film was a great horror movie of its time, because it established the hard and fast rule that Freddy could only exist in the dream world. It then went and played with the audiences minds by never letting them know exactly when characters were dreaming or when they were awake. This milk the cow sequel has Freddy doing a lame slice-and-dice job at a pool party in the real world for Christ sake!!!This is without mentioning the scene where Freddy causes the toaster to break. OH NO! Not only will he kill your kids but you will have to spend a fortune on replacing your small appliances.For a horror movie, it doesn't have much of anything to actually scare. There's no tension, suspense, or atmosphere and Freddy's crazy dream world rarely appears. You might hope to expect a series of bloody murders to keep slasher fans happy, and even then there is not enough action to keep people interested. The lead actors are rather poor and lines like animals don't normally explode for no reason make it almost unwatchable. I can go on and on about all the problems I have with the film. I can also say that the director of this has a bad resume with Wishmaster 2 and Supernova and if I could I would have this guy arrested for making bad films.A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 is a poor sequel to a great horror movie, The first mistake was switching the hero's sex and the second mistake was the lack of Wes Craven. "},{"Title":"Pointless Sequel","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, the title says it all. Guess who is back in town to terrorize the young, coming of age youth living on or near the vicinity of Elm Street? If you said Freddy Kruger, you'd be right! Nothing unexpected here except as sequels go, this one is really pretty weak. A new family move into the house where a girl had previously gone mad. The teenage boy, played with little conviction by Mark Patton, starts to see visions of Freddy who wants to recruit him to kill. We see lots of the same images as in the first one, but what we don't see is any of the sense of style, menace, or suspense that was used in the original. Why? This film was directed by Jack Sholder - not a household name nor a very competent director at this stage in his career. Wes Craven did not make the sequel and it shows. The death scenes are not very graphic or even scary. There is a bizarre wrap-a-round story about Freddy driving a bus, a huge party at a house with loads of stupid teen stereotypes, and a sadistic coach that spends his nights at a gay bar wearing leather. OK, I guess. Kim Myers plays the female love interest, and she is very easy on the eyes if nothing else. None of the actors - including Robert Englund - stand out. Clu Gulager and Hope Lange(my, how the mighty have fallen) appear as the parents of Patton. Englund doesn't have a lot of meat in this role. Some of his lines seem very strained. Although populated with ridiculous scenes a plenty, two stand out for me. First, the coach is in a locker room where all kinds of physical equipment start moving all over the place. It's a real hoot - not even close to being scary. The zenith; however, of ridiculous scenes is when Patton and family, after having just covered up what appear to be two lovebirds, see the cage rock back and forth and the birds spontaneously combust. It looked like an interactive game of asteroids! The most amazing thing about this film is that it did not kill this series. Had it been able to do that, then I could say something nice about it! "},{"Title":"An Insulting sequel to a fine Horror Flick","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't know why Wes Craven, didn't Direct this, but without Freddy's creator, it simply insults the original with its attempts to break the boundary's set out by Wes Craven in the first movie. Freddy now seems to be able to interfere with others through the power of dreams, not the just the person that has the dreams, and it comes across as contrived and tacky.Freddy is still a good character, although more laughable than Scary in this outing, he was humorous in the first movie, but not at the expense of the Horror.Don't let this movie be your guide, The original Nightmare wipes the floor with this second rate follow up.4/10 "},{"Title":"The best film in the Nightmare series","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Many have claimed FREDDY'S REVENGE to be the series worst instalment & quiet frankly I disagree with that statement entirely. In fact it's my favourite film of the entire series, personally I don't know why, maybe it's because it was the first Freddy movie I ever saw when I was little, maybe my feelings would be different if I had seen one of the other ones first. Now I understand why many NIGHTMARE fans are disgruntled with this one, it's the only one in the series that tends to bend the rules established in the first movie & carried over in the rest of the sequels after this, such as Freddy entering into the real world & being no longer confined in the dream world, but has rather possessed a young teens body. Oddly despite Freddy entering our world, he still retains all of his supernatural powers that technically he should have lost, like being invincible to being stabbed, having the supernatural strength to pop through patio decks & disappear into a wall of flames etc. another thing that fans have pointed out to over the years is the strong homosexual subtext running through the film, such as Jessie walking around with his shirt open, bearing his chest, sleeping over at Grady's house, when he could be staying with his new girlfriend Lisa, balls flying at a gay gym coach, Said gym coach being tied by the wrists & strung up in the shower stalls & having his clothes supernaturally ripped off & getting slapped in the buttocks with towels by Freddy. Numerous scenes of guys taking showers & walking around shirtless & sweating, Jessie going into a gay S&M bar, only to meet his coach who is decked out in black leather pants, a vest & no shirt, who takes Jessie back to the gym & makes him hit the shower, a NO CHICK'S ALLOWED sign on his bedroom door, the fact that Jessie keeps stating that Freddy wants to take him again & that he owns him & that something is trying to get inside his body & the fact that the lead actor cast in the role of Jessie is in fact gay in real life. In fact The film-makers have stated they never set out to make a film like this, it just sort of happened. Weather or not they did is still to this very day, hotly debated by fans of the series, some who agree with the film-makers & others who don't. FREDDY'S REVENGE is more of a haunted house/possession flick, with many supernatural elements such as exploding parakeets, house hold appliances that catch fire, boiling pools, gym equipment attacking a gym coach. I loved the characterization & thought that the direction by JACK SHOLDER was really good. I loved CLU GULAGER's performance as Jessie's Wall Street reading dad, who tries to find a reason for all the weird going on's & his son's odd behaviour merely to him taking drugs & the late HOPE LANGE as Jessie's worried mother. Freddy is dead serious here, with ROBERT ENGLUND being really scary as Freddy & this would be the last time we would see him as a dark & dangerous entity that hid in the shadows & delivered his one liners dead serious & straight. After this the character would become more jokey with his one liners & nowhere near the scary presence he was until WES CRAVEN'S superb NEW NIGHTMARE many years later. I loved the score by CHRISTOPHER YOUNG & the acting was surprisingly really good. Plus the film has one of my favourite characters of all time (minus Freddy) Ron Grady (played by the talented ROBERT RUSTLER) I mean seriously who wouldn't want a friend like this guy? In fact, if I could have only one friend ever in my entire lifetime, I would want it to be this guy! Loved the FU MANCHU reference with the breakfast cereal, which adds a bit of dark comedy to the proceedings, as well as the odd moment where we see a picture of Tina (Freddy's first victim in the original film) hanging up on the basement wall, we also get weird special effects moments such as a human/dog crossbreed & a mutant cat monster that swallows a rat using a long tongue. Look for Producer BOB SHAYE as a bartender. In the end, what I am finding lately is, much like other films released & loathed upon their releases such as HALLOWEEN III, Friday The 13th Part V A New Begiining/Jason Goes to Hell The Final Friday, DAY OF THE DEAD etc. the hatred amongst fans for FREDDY'S REVENGE, is starting to subside & it's actually being throughly enjoyed more these days, as well it should be, FREDDY'S REVENGE for years has been the series most criminally underrated entries, it's got great special effects, a terrifying villain that keeps himself confined to the shadows, great characters & direction & acting, moments of suspense & tension that are expertly well done & milked for maximum impact & enough weird moments & a fresher take that is not a complete re-tread of the first, & a great soundtrack & is so much better than a lot of the sequels that followed after it, which got more jokier & mediocre as they went on. Highly recommended! Followed by A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 DREAM WARRIORS**** stars "},{"Title":"What the heck was I thinking as a kid?","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When they rereleased all the Nightmare on Elm Street movies again, I was glad to get my hands on number's two, three, and four in the series. No sooner did I watch them, did I wonder what the heck I was thinking when I was a kid? Number two is the worst.I think I used to like the idea of Freddy possessing some weirdo kid. But geez, that might've been a fine tale to tell if the actors weren't such giant nerds, especially the lead, Jesse Walsh, played by Mark Patton in what has to be the most forced bit of acting I'd ever seen. And that really spoiled everything from the start, especially as he takes loud gasps between dramatic dialogue. Save maybe Robert Russler who plays Ron Grady, this movie just isn't worth the time. It is indeed the worst of the series (and there were quite a few bad ones). The story is that Mark Patton and his family move into the house where a girl was murdered. Mark, and his annoying girlfriend Lisa Webber (Kim Meyers), know this because they find her diary hidden somewhere in his room. But what's this? Living in the house and reading the diary unlocks the story of Freddy Mr. Invincibility Krueger. And soon, Mark starts to become Freddy as the guy has possessed his body, and forces Mark to carry out his dirty deeds. Like Freddy used to say, You are all my children now. Too bad Mark is such a little girl when it comes to misbehaving. There's no point in going on, the movie is just stupid. Actually, if you're looking to watch the series, I'd recommend Nightmare on Elm Street 3 probably the best in the series, and the one with arguably the best special effects.  "},{"Title":"A real B&A show for Mark Patton","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Lousy movie but terrific basket and ass (B&A) shots of Mark Patton in his whities and especially in his tight 80s jeans. Cute guy, nice bod, big basket, and great ass. Patton was also good as the gay rape victim in Come Back to the Five and Dime with Cher, Sandy Dennis, Karen Black and Kathy Bates. Too bad he didn't do more film work. Patton rivals Robbie Benson in the basket sweepstakes from the 80s. YUM YUM YUM!!!! Wasted are Kim Myers, Hope Lange, Clu Gulager, Robert Englund and Marshall Bell in a homoerotic nude shower death. We also get to see Patton's sweats pulled down to expose his smooth white ass. Patton was certainly a boy wonder of the mid-80s.  "},{"Title":"probably the worst","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a poor sequel. Its possession storyline is silly and pointless.it doesnt even feel like a freddy movie. The acting is dire.Easily the poorest of the freddy films.skip this and watch part 3 much more fun.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"easily the worst of the series.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  one of the worst horror films of all time as well as the worst film of the elm street series.after watching this piece of crap, it's no wonder that wes craven refused to have anything to do with it and waited until the third film to return to the series.the only reason i rank this a 2 instead of a 1 is the opening nightmare sequence with the bus on the edge of the cliff. quite a terrifying scene.stay clear of this mess and only worry about the 1st, 3rd, 5th and 7th films.rating2 (just barely) "},{"Title":"underrated but one of the worse ones","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Rated R for Violence/Gore,Language and Some Nudity.The first Nightmare On Elm Street is one of my favorite horror movies.It had an original plot and was very entertaining.Now this is the first of the many sequels that followed it.Sure its not as good as the first and its the second worst one in the series(in my opinion).But its still an entertaining and good 1980's slasher flick.The cast is different from the first film and neither of the actors or actresses from this film return for any of the sequels.In this film, a family moves into the house that Nancy lived in during the first film.Freddy possesses the teenager who lives in the house and makes him do his killings for him.With the help of his girlfriend, he must stop Freddy.Though the sequels are known for their comedy, this film wasn't meant to be a comedy.Yet there are a few laugh out loud scenes in it.Nightmare On Elm Street 2 is an alright sequel that slasher film fans should enjoy. "},{"Title":"Don't bother. The plot is awful.","Date":"2 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Right off the back I would like to warn you, this movie is nothing like the other entries. It's plot and script are very bad, and also pretty weird (there is, no joke, a scene where Freddy towel whips a nude man). On the good side, the movie has great special effects, including many realistic gory deaths and some pretty cool paranormal attacks. The acting is actually pretty good, and so is the camera-work. But sadly, these things can't help but make you mad, just teasing you about how good this movie could have been if it had an even halfway decent script. I understand why Wes Craven had nothing to do with this. You just really can't have a good scary movie with such an awful script. So if you saw the first one and liked it, skip to part 3, part 2 has nothing to do with the others. So in all I give A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge 4.4/10, or two stars out of five. "}{"Title":"Whose Nightmare?","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Whatever writing influence Craven had on this, it wasn't enough to save it...not enough to overcome the TV-quality eye of director Sholder.The value of these movies is found in what degree Craven can have fun with us by making Freddy have fun with his 'victims'. The first one was mildly clever in how the line between 'real' and 'not real' was blurred. This time, the acting, props and editing are much improved. The narrative smarts are absent, though. It's too slow and it can't find its own center. What's the scary part, the villain? The house? The fear of possession? So it resorts to the cheap device of borrowing from other movies; the high school dynamics from Grease, Fast Times..., and Risky Business; the horror from John Carpenter's films and The Amityville Horror; the noir from Hitchcock's Psycho and The Birds.This is forgettable, so it has accordingly been forgotten. "},{"Title":"Utter nonsense...","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I always use to wonder what these 80s-90s horror movies had in them that production houses use to go for sequels one after other. But after watching movies like Nightmare 1 & 2 and Friday the 13th (don't remember the parts, have seen at least 3 of them), I am sure these movies were nothing short of crap, taste of ppl in the 80s-90s was so bad that these movies went on to become super successes. If these movies were released somewhere in the late 90s or current decade, all these wud have flopped badly.Now coming to the movie in question, I had a lot of expectations from the Nightmare movie series, so I got the first 3 parts in the series. After watching the first, I was like what was the director trying to show, I cud hardly under the movie, especially the climax and the scenes where Freddy comes out of her dreams... I am still guessing was it all just a dream? But did not hate the movie coz the movie had a fresh idea... not tried by anybody before this movie.But the second one was so disappointing, firstly a character like Jesse, they should have used some girl character instead that would have added some value to the movie. Just because they wanted Freddy to takeover some human body, they mite have chosen a male character, else I don't see any reason for using a male central character.The story was so bad, in fact there was no story at all, something that exists only in Dreams and can only be effective if U fear him, comes out to the real world... cant digest that.Then all the scenes after Freddy takes over Jesse are horrible, the love scenes, the pool party, then the boiler room scene (climax)... oh my god, i was feeling like sleeping throughout the movie. It was just horrible, where was the thrill, the scare in the movie, showing some cheesy gfx does not make a movie scary...That's it guys, it was horrible... will never get any other Nightmare or Friday the 13th movie again in my life... "},{"Title":"There will always be Freddie","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's just hard to make a sequel as good as the original, simply because all the good ideas are used in the first one. That's pretty clear in this pretty uninspired sequel. Nancy is nowhere to be seen in this movie, because apparently she's in an asylum. Which is fancy movie talk for the actress lost interest. The main guy apparently made everyone's gaydars go of, yeah I guess I see it. The plot develops in a pretty boring direction, minor characters start piling up. There's one scene I could actually call good and it involves Freddie crashing a pool party, causing mayhem, attacking stuntmen. The ending however is simply unforgivable. That really just wasn't very cool, it looks like they were out of money mid-production. But the redeeming factor in this movie is that at least they kept the atmosphere of the first one. It's still horror without trying to be anything else. Also, as long as a movie has Freddie it's still somewhat watchable, even though this screenplay blows. One for the fans I think. "},{"Title":"It's Just The Way We Are When We Come Down.","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A quickie flick to cash in on the success of the original, Freddy's Revenge suffers from lack of originality and purpose. The only reason's to watch this movie are for some carnage and because of Robert Englund's gleeful performance. If there is one constant that has always been strong in this series, it has been Robert Englund. The rest of the cast is basic horror movie fodder. There is a very creepy dream sequence at the beginning that plays into the fear of where that yellow bus really takes you and a real fun pool party, nightmare style. There could have been a really good movie about how a person transforms in high school. There is a start in this movie, but then all that happens is killing of the brain cell kind. "},{"Title":"Don't let the Fredbugs bite! HA!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  WOW that was clever. So anyway, as I go back and watch all of those classic old horror films, I increasingly find myself wondering if there is ever again going to be a time when they can be scary again. Sure, today's horror films have had something of a numbing affect on modern audiences, at least as far as being affected by the films of the 80s, but surely those movies were scary back then. I just find myself wondering how that ever was.Now, it's obvious that there are a lot of things that have to be overlooked in order for a film like A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 to be scary again, not the least of which is the difference in high school fashion, which is bordering on being actually shocking, as well as the acting, which was clearly not high on a filmmaker's list of objections back then. The problem, I think, is not things like that, but rather things that I assume were meant to be taken as normal by earlier audiences.Let's say, for example, that you are able to look past the 80's-ness of  the music that Jesse Walsh puts on when he is forced by his father to go up to his room and unpack in the house that he hates so much. The much higher obstacle is the antics that he engages in while cleaning his room. He puts on some sunglasses that I won't take the time to describe since my words can not do justice to the goofiness of them, and then he proceeds to dance around his room, singing into a broom handle and throwing his clothes into his drawers (pausing momentarily, as though proud of this monumental act of defiance) and then tapping the drawers closed with his butt as he dances. WOW. Did kids really do stuff like this? Or is this something like the American Pie movies, where movie executives create movies with teenagers acting the way THEY think they should act, whether because this is how they think kids are or because they think this will bring in the biggest profit (my money's on the latter, by the way)? And either way, is there really any way that you can watch a scene like this and then be actually frightened by anything that happens later in the movie? Or how about this. Jesse's gym teacher is evidently really into dressing up in leather and then hanging out in bars where high school boys are able to walk in and order a beer without showing any ID. I'll leave aside all of the immediate red flags that pop up about the teacher dressing in leather in a joint that is apparently full of drunk teenage boys. We soon see this teacher (still dressed in leather) punishing Jesse by making him run laps around the gym back at school. How we got back to campus, I can't say I noticed. After telling Jesse to hit the showers, he heads back to his office, and then calmly watches as basketballs and tennis balls and whatnot fly off of the walls at him like bullets. Okay, so I was in hysterics BEFORE the jump-ropes tied themselves around his wrists and dragged him into the showers, his clothes ripped off along the way. Just the balls flying at him was funny enough, but then he finds himself tied up naked and facing the walls, and get this, towels pick themselves up and start whipping his bare ass!!! Can you imagine??? This HAS to have been a joke. I understand the need for comic relief in the movies, but I don't know, that's a little too low-brow. It was bad enough to ask the audience to look past that dancing scene a little earlier and then still find something scary in the movie.So that being said, I'd like to go on and talk about what it was in this movie that frightened me out of my chair. Or maybe I should just talk about the uncomfortable scenes. A review of the things that are still scary would be about six words long (and by the way, those six words can be found in the summary line above). The thing that I liked about the first sequel in this seemingly undying horror saga is the way that it adds more to the psychological element of the original premise of the films. Having a horror movie villain that resides in the dreams of his villains is a very good way to avoid the trap of having a stereotypical knife-wielding killer who relentlessly purses his victims, a genre that was started on a large scale with Halloween, and which went precipitously downhill from there. Jesse Walker and his family have moved into the house from the original film, and Jesse finds the diary of the girl who lived in his room, who you might remember from the last film. They throw in another little obstacle for the scariness of the rest of the movie, asking you to believe that even the most basic police investigation failed to turn up the DIARY of the girl who went CRAZY. But I guess it WAS pretty hidden, sitting there in plain sight on the shelf in the closet. So anyway, Jesse finds the girl's diary, reads it for fun, starts to get creeped out when it starts talking about Freddy and the kid getting killed across the street and how now Freddy wants to come and kill her. Surely her psychologist would have been interested in reading this. (spoilers) So Freddy now begins to get into Jesse's head and thus begins a spiraling whirlwind of madness as he struggles for his life and people start turning up dead all around him. But there is a definite level of cleverness in this sequel, which is impressive because despite the fact that almost every element of the film itself is obsolete by today's standards, such cleverness was not very necessary to the horror movie audiences of the 80s.In the original film, Freddy turns up and is able to attack his victims in their dreams while they sleep, killing them in real life at the same time. This is an extension of the old saying that if you have a dream that you're falling and you don't wake up before you land, you'll die in real life because your body will think that it's dead and your heart will stop or something. This isn't true, by the way. I've had dreams where I'm falling off  a huge building to the sidewalk below, landed on my back and then looked around as people gathered around me, probably marveling that I was still alive and awake. I even had a dream once that I fell off a ship, sank like a stone to about 150 feet in crystal clear water, watching the ship get smaller and smaller on the surface of the water above me, landed on my back, and lay there staring and the ship and marveling at my sudden ability to breathe underwater. Okay, so back to the movie. Rather than turning up in dreams to kill his victims, Freddy has gotten into Jesse's head and has managed to take control of his body. Jesse finds himself witnessing horrible murders, and then when they're over, he finds the blood (as well as the Edward Scissorhands glove) on HIS hands. I think it would be useful to point out that not only is this a sequel, but a horror movie sequel, and a sequel to a horror film that was a huge success. Failure is almost prescribed. But I have to give credit for this clever twist on the original premise, which opens up more than enough possibilities for a whole second film to be made. I think that a lot of the reason that sequels to successful films so often fail is because they try so hard to extend the success of the original without adding enough new thought or ideas to make a second films worthwhile. See the Austin Powers films for a perfect example. A Nightmare On Elm Street 2, however, while undeniably a cheesy 80s horror film, is a goofy horror movie that is notable more for defying the almost inevitable cheesiness of the films of the time than for succumbing to it. "},{"Title":"An abomination","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  To understand how bad this film is, one has to only look at the other two famous killer movies from the 70's and 80's.  First came Halloween in 1978.  Then Halloween 2 comes out three years later.  Halloween, like Nightmare on Elm Street was one of the best horror films ever made.  It was tense, horrific and superbly directed.  Halloween 2 was almost as good. The story was actually furthered perfectly as it took place the very same night right after Loomis shoots Michael off the balcony.Then there was Friday the 13th.  I personally thought that part one was a decent start to the series, but it was the weakest of the first four. Nonetheless, it started the series and when Cunningham passed the reigns over to Steve Miner, to me it got better.  I am not saying that Friday the 13th is anywhere near as good as Halloween or Nightmare On Elm Street, but it certainly is quite well done, which is proved by it's longevity.  Part 2 took a natural progression into the story and introduced Jason Voorhees, ruthless killer, to the film world.  He follows in his mothers footsteps and seeks vengeance for her death.  Makes sense to me.Now, part two of the Nightmare series is not even of the same mind.  There is not a modicum of similarities between this one and Wes Craven's original. Fred Krueger was a sinister, dark, evil character.  When he tried to be funny, he did it so that he could taunt his victims.  When he laughed, you felt chills.  When he told you that his finger knives were God, you somehow believed him.  He was the epitome of evil.  Craven and Robert Shaye did it right in the first one.  In this abomination of a follow up, Fred Krueger is more like a stand-up comedian.  He would rather tell jokes that scare his victims and his audience.  He would rather make us laugh than make the hair on our skin stand up.  And you know what?  That p***es me off.  Perhaps it shouldn't, after all it is only a movie.  But it does.  Why would you mess with success?  Why would you take all that is holy and turn it into a circus?  I guess you can say that the formula worked because the franchise has been awfully good to New Line and Robert Shaye, but that is of no comfort to me.You see, I love to be scared.  I love it when that special film comes along and actually freaks me out.  There are so few films that can do it and Nightmare On Elm Street did to me.  Then it suckered me into the theater back in 1985 and it played a joke on me.  I saw every Nightmare that was released hoping that it would somehow get better.  But they didn't.  Every one of them were bad except for Wes Craven's New Nightmare.  Craven wanted nothing to do with this garbage because he knew that it was a sellout.Perhaps I am a bit of a hypocrite for lambasting this film because I am usually one that understands the bottom line in Hollywood is to make money. Films like Armageddon and True Lies and The Perfect Storm are there to turn a profit.  And they do so by following a certain formula that will almost guarantee then success.  Perhaps Robert Shaye thought that to make a franchise of a character he had to give him more of a personality.  So they made Krueger Jerry Lewis.  But my anger stems from the fact that there are so few films that truly frighten me.  I love horror films but to do it right is a work of art.  Halloween, Evil Dead, Blair Witch Project, Jaws and Nightmare On Elm Street are films that get inside of you.  They twist you and manipulate you.  This one just manipulated my wallet for a few bucks. That's it.  And that is sad.0 out of 10-  Everyone behind this film should be ashamed of themselves. "},{"Title":"What the HELL!!!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After a classic 80's goreflick, we get this watered down pile of garbage from the depths of cheesy movie Hell. This time a family moves into the house from part 1 where the eldest kid is stalked and eventually possessed by the infamous Freddy Krueger. The only good thing about this failure is the opening scene on the bus, the rest just plain sucks. Extremely boring, terrible story, acting, and effects, but again a good opening scene. *1/2 out of *****. Just skip this and go to part 3, you won't miss anything. "},{"Title":"You've got the body and I've got the brain.","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge is the worst in the series and an insult to the original film.  I'm convinced that Jack Sholder is one of the worst directors working today.  He just has a knack for taking something with potential and turning it into a sh*t-storm.  Have I mentioned that I don't like his work?  I guess a large part of the blame lies on the writer as well.  This is a pretty damn dull movie and the kills are lame.  The effects are still great and Robert Englund is as evil as the script will allow him to be.  There's one moment in particular during the party scene where he says You are all my children now. that really shows his screen presence and body language.  He's not enough to save this movie though, he's barely in it it seems.  I need more than exploding hot dogs, killer gym equipment, and crazed parakeets in my Nightmare on Elm Street.  I'm amazed that this film wasn't the death of Freddy Krueger. "},{"Title":"Oh Puke!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Eeek! Not a pretty sight! Man, I had heard so much $hit about this 1, & I knew it wouldn't be as good as the magnificent original, but I decided I should see it at least once. Thus, I rented it, disengaged my brain, & sat down for a good time.I almost vomited while watching, & the only other film that's given me that feeling is The Color Purple, the worst movie in human history & adapted from the worst book ever written; however, this 1 was almost as bad! Let me go through all the flaws. This might take awhileWhy on Earth would Freddy ever wanna return to the real world? His powers seemed to be pretty much intact, but if I were him, I'd just stay in the dream world; it's much better that way.Why, out of all the teenagers on Elm Street, did Freddy have to pick that sniveling little creep? Jesse was 1 of the least sympathetic characters in the history of film, mainly because he didn't even try to solve his problem.There were tons more awkward moments than in the original.Was there any character development at all?They could've at least made Lisa hot. I don't know about you guys, but Meryl Streep look-alikes just don't do it for me.She tells Jesse she loves him, & the boiler room bursts into flames?! What the Hell is that about?! The writers had probably run out of ideas, so they pulled something out of their collective @ss & got that excuse. Of course, that theory's suggesting that they actually had some ideas in the 1st place.They didn't resolve the 1st 1 at all! And what was up with that stupid ending?! I mean, can't we have at least 1 horror movie that actually ENDS?!Why in Ford's name was everything so gay? It's been suggested that they were probably trying to send a message of some sort, but whatever the message was, it didn't come across. Also, horror films are the wrong kinds of films to send messages with.Now the grainy photography, OK music, good special F/X, & the incomparable Robert Englund contributed the best parts of the film. But it was just too little to save this misbegotten piece of trash. If they had hired a competent cast & crew & jettisoned all the gay $hit, it could've been a worthy successor to its forebear, like Halloween 2; sadly, it will forever remain as a big, fat P.O.S.But I forgive Englund because he's The Man! "},{"Title":"Revenge, not so sweet meat","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Freddy is back and possesses a young man to carry out his revenge on the teens of Elm St.It's of it time, the Freddy's make-up is worthy of note and some of the effects though of their time deserve a nod of ingenuity credit.Unfortunately the few good scenes directed by Jack Sholder are out weighed by an abundance of mediocre ones, a killer exploding bird, press-up on press-ups, Freddy running amok at a pool party to name a few. Writer David Chaskin presents some interesting idea's for example the temperature representing the heat form the boiler room, the homosexual edgy undercurrent and Freddy using Jesse Walsh as an instrument to carry out his killings. But they are never fully explored or slot in to the Freddy mythos that appeared to be laid down in the first by Wes Craven. You feel short changed from the outset even by the title as it's really not about Freddy Krueger wanting revenge it about Jesse Walsh's revenge.The tone is warm, there's little suspense and at times it reeks of the mid 80s Brat pack stereotypes inside a kitsch horror. Meryl Streep look alike Sydney Walsh as Kerry gives a solid performance but sadly isn't given enough to do. Poor Robert Rusler's talent and character is wasted. Some characters feel frustratingly poorly written seemingly to change in a blink of an eye to suit the muddled motivations and storyline. Mark Patton plays Jesse Walsh the unsure oddball perfectly but the scenes, situations and dialogue are so campy that everything including the supporting cast no matter how cute or talented become laughable. To Sholder's credit the bus scenes which bookends the film are probably the most effective and well executed.Revenge's success may be due to riding on the coat tails of the originality of its predecessor. If it were a B film parody it may have had some sort of cult allure but given budget and as successful as it was at the time in retrospect it really isn't that good. In fact it stinks. "}{"Title":"better production values, less filling","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This film had better production values than the original done by Wes Craven (who moved on to other things fairly quickly). As such, the special effects are better, the shots are better, the music is better than the cheap synthesizer used in the first film. What is lacking is better acting. The Hero of this film never worked again, and you can kind of see why.The plot, such as it is, is that Jesse's moved into Nancy's old house, and Freddy is haunting his dreams, trying to take over his body so he can resume killing in the real world. Unlike the last movie, where Freddy could only attack people who were dreaming, in this film, Freddy can interact with the real world. WHich makes you wonder if the writers understood what occurred in the first film.This is still not wise-cracking Freddy. This is still creepy, menacing Freddy, the child killer. So Freddy himself isn't fully evolved yet. "},{"Title":"Revenge for what, anyway?","Date":"31 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Five years after(which makes it strange that hardly anyone seems to remember or look for warning signs) the events of the first, a new family has moved into Nancy's house. The teen is Jesse, and he is stalked in his dreams by something familiar to the audience(and he's still not taunting or talking much)... but he has different plans this time. He wants into the real world, and all he needs is a vessel. Sound different? It is. The concept is actually my favorite thing about it. With a better execution, this could have been amazing. This has few nightmares, and only one of them is memorable(and it's burned off as the opening). The approach is that he is scared and doesn't want to be taken over, and I think the way it was in Christine would have been better, and easier to get into. With that said, the way it's handled leads to strong, chilling moments of psychological terror. If the relationships and the characters(and if they were less obnoxious, the only ones I liked were the two leads, and just barely at that) were developed more than the bare minimum(as in the original), they would be greater, and there wouldn't be so few of them. This has the same director of photography, and it is filmed well. The script isn't bad for how fast this came(only one year later), and this is creepy, with occasional disgusting and sexual traits, if it is also at times merely bizarre instead. It can be genuinely funny. The eerie theme is gone. This doesn't build an atmosphere or surprise you the way the '84 one did. The running time is only 79 minutes sans credits, and it didn't grab me for a third of it. There is a lot of disturbing content, a little brutal, gory, bloody violence and a tad of swearing. The Ultimate Collector's Edition 7-Disc DVD set comes with the original trailer. I recommend this to fans of the idea behind it and of fantasy horror; those who like the Craven version of the tale and the being would do best to skip this. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Nothing too bad.","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You can pretty much expect this sequel being much weaker than the original. But it doesn't mean that this movie is a complete waste of time. It definitely has some entertainment value and is watchable as a sequel to the 1984's A Nightmare on Elm Street.The movie perhaps picks a strange approach with its story. It's however obvious that they at least tried to be original with it, making this movie different from its original. It still has pretty much the same atmosphere though, which is a good thing. Yet at the same time it's story just isn't ever convincing enough to allow the movie to work out.As an horror it's also really lacking in some good scares and some well staged gore. The movie is lacking in its moments but luckily there is still Freddy Kreuger who compensates for this and adds some nice touches to the movie. He still is one of the best villainous characters ever appeared on film. Without his presence the movie would had been just extremely poor. It shows how great Robert Englund is with the character!Of course it's a rather pointless sequel but as a movie this one really isn't too bad to watch. It's an average typical genre movie from the ' 80's, that is watchable enough by all standards.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The worst Elm Street movie ever!","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Five years has passed since the incident involving Nancy Thomas and the nightmare murders for Nancy has moved on, a new family has moved to the house. Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) is a 17 year old boy who has been having unpleasant dreams and noticing strange funny things going on in the house such as one of the parakeets going nuts then literally exploding. His girlfriend Lisa (Kim Myers) starts to suspect that he's going nuts, however the evil Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) has sneaky plans as he starts to possess the young boy into murdering other people such as the perverted couch (Marshall Bell) but could Jesse stop his new alter ego from terrorizing more of the town? The worst movie of the franchise! this movie spits on everything the original movie such a unique masterpiece in horror fantasy. The plot isn't too bad but the acting is pretty bad here as there's even some holes in logic and continuity, the film does co-star Clu Gulager (Return of the Living Dead) and Hope Lange in not too bad roles. The film is known as the Homoerotic Nightmare on Elm Street and they ain't kidding'! this movie has so much gay subtext that it's hard to know what it is from a gay coach who's desires Jesse as he's also into S&M, Jesse's secret with Freddy and others including the infamous dancing in the room sequence. Although Kim Meyers is quite a hot redheaded babe, nothing could save this total disaster of a movie and not even the imaginative opening sequence or Kevin Yagher's make-up effects. "},{"Title":"It has a 3...but it's not bad for the series.","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Robert Englund and Marshall Bell.Fred kills and spills. The helpless kids try to run, but unfortunately his metal claws are pretty strong. This is a stupid film, but it's okay. I take away 3 points for a stupid plot. I take away 2 for bad acting and I take away two for the bad scripting, leaving it with three. Anyway, Freddy trys to take over a teenagers body and kill the kid's friends. Pretty lame effects and pretty cheesy all around. I recommend it if you are in the mood for a silly horror flick.my review-1 out of 4(or a D minus). R for violence and nudity.79 minutes. "},{"Title":"The worst in the series","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Freddy's Revenge seems to be to bore his audiences to death this time around.This sequel centers around a family who moves into the old house from the first one and their teenage son, who not only has dreams of Freddy but it seems that Freddy is going to enter the world through him, that is, use him as some sort of host, I guess.This is a lesser film to the original in every department. Apart from a solid opening act and one tense scene (involving some great special effects) this film truly is a stinker. The main character is a total bore (I actually wanted him to be killed gruesome ways), the film is virtually suspenseless, it's horribly written dialouge-wise and I don't think Jack Shoulder is a very competent director. In fact, every character is either boring or horribly acted and the shock ending, while being utterly predictable, fails to inject any life into an overall thoroughly rotten movie.The worst in the series. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, inferior sequel.","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It had promise, but all you really see is what it could have been in comparison to what it was. This is far inferior to the original. But don't give up on the franchise yet! The Third installment is much, much better.I have to say this was a serious let-down after the first. Freddy's Revenge just lacks too much in the way of story in comparison to the original. Jesse Walsh has moved into the Thompson house with his family, they find Nancy's old diary and it's just terribly predictable from that point on. There are a few cool effects and some decent one-liners, but this movie is so far beneath the original that I can't praise it very well here.It is not possible to miss the fact that Wes Craven neither wrote nor directed this little stinker. His trademark signature is absent, and so is his creativity.SPOILERS AHEAD! This is the installment in which Freddy attempts possession of a victim, rather than the oblivious destruction of him. And through his possession, he attempts the cross-over between the Realm of Dreams and this one. It works for him, but unfortunately, not the movie.One of the major flaws with this chapter is in the prolific use of special effects which in no way begin to hide the obvious and notable lack of story, dialog and/or anything else of worth. To make it better would have been to explain things more; any things. Oh, it's not that the movie was difficult to follow. A child could have followed THIS story line. It's more that the story had potential which, due to lack of care and nurturing, was left to die on the vine. Actually, a film inspector, David Chaskin, wrote this Nightmare, due to a lack of funding and access to more creative people, according to the Nightmare on Elm Street Encyclopedia. New Line was still a fledgling company and they had no resources. Wes Craven had nothing to do with this one, and indeed, passed on it because of the low quality of script and overuse of special effects.I think the point of Nightmare 2 was let's get a film going quickly. Rachael Talalay, Production Assistant. This is the second red flag for this movie. Aside from not having real talent to do the film, it was rushed into production without a female lead. Instead, they brought in a feminine male lead, causing this film to be billed as a homo-erotic horror, which did little to boost ticket sales in the US.Flaw # 3 is that they broke the mold Wes Craven established and they produced a vastly inferior finished product. They tried to drag Freddy out of the Realm of Dreams and into this reality, thereby taking Craven's Freddy Bible, if you will, and tossing it out the window.Even Robert Englund, the STAR of these movies, clearly states that the whole idea was ludicrous.Now, to its credit, without Craven, they still managed to hold onto the franchise. It wasn't totally obliterated with this installment, and indeed, if you're not a die-hard Freddy fan, you may still enjoy watching this one for its campier moments. The First NOES was relentlessly suspenseful. This second NOES was nothing more than a mediocre popcorn movie.I, however, am a Freddy fan, and still can't give it more than a 4.2/10 and feel right about it.the Fiend . "},{"Title":"That didn't take long.","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Um, good points . . . this movie has Robert Englund in it?  It has a few good ideas?  It had Chris Young? Bad points?  Everything else.  I mean, usually a film is never as bad (or as good) as its reputation/hype, but this is one of the few that does manage.  New cast of characters, and the only guy coming back is Krueger, and not one character gets much sympathy, really.  Let's count the cliché cut-outs-no wait, let's do something faster let's count the non-cliché characters.  Umm&#133; nevermind, screw it.I think the highlight of this whole film was the concept of Krueger possessing someone (despite it's poor execution), and Krueger cutting his way out of a body.  Krueger crashing a party &#150; yeah, that was fun too. However, too many elements are going against it to make those highlights even worth seeing with a rental.  The shower kill . . . the annoying characters . . . the school bus part . . . the annoying characters . . . the cheesy romance story.  You get the idea.  How far Elm Street fell in so little time . . . "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Fast paced, exciting sequel finds Freddy (Robert Englund) returning yet again, but this time around instead of wanting to kill teenagers in their dreams he is intent on possessing a teenager (Mark Patton) and killing people in real life. The characters are just as cliched, even more possibly, as the original, but this time around the make-up effects and Englund are far more terrifying. Film also manages to take full advantage of its scary premise. The pool party scene is a definate highlight. All in all, an improvement on the original. Rated R; Mild Sexual Situations, Extreme Graphic Violence, Profanity, and Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"They doubled the budget and halved the quality, thanks a lot!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The good thing about the second installment in the series is that it got very difficult to make a sequel that is even worse than Freddy's Revenge and so this is definitely the worst in the whole series. It seems to me that they took the original and subtracted plot, suspense, logic and acting. They did almost everything wrong that could be done wrong.There are some basic mistakes which ruin everything the original built. The fundamental thing about Freddy is that he can't get into real life by himself. The pool scene contradicts to everything the first movie was about. I suppose that the writer of the screenplay didn't even see A Nightmare on Elm Street.The acting is terrible too (especially Mark Patton in the leading role). The homosexual allusions really bugged me (what the heck is the matter with the people who come up with this stuff?). And why did Freddy kill the coach? He never killed at random before. To complete this mess of a film they took away Freddy's glove.There are few good things though. The effects are good (not as good as in the original) and the movie was very dark (good atmosphere but no real suspense or scares). Freddy was still enjoyably sadistic and not the joker he was turned into later on in the series. As far as it concerns the rest of the film there's not much worth seeing it except for two, maybe three slightly entertaining scenes.I guess I have to blame the screenplay.My rating 4/10 (Part 3 Dream Warriors is much much better!) "}{"Title":"Uh, can we say bad?","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was a ludicrous movie, with nothing to it. It was dumb, and not scary. I give this turkey a 3 out of 10. Rated R for strong horror violence and gore, language, sexuality, and nudity. "},{"Title":"A disappointing sequel to Craven's original.","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After a promising opening sequence, director Jack Sholder completely fumbles the ball and ultimately delivers a shoddy, incomprehensible mess that besmirches the good name of Wes Craven's original masterpiece. David Chaskin's poorly devised script completely ignores the rules laid down by Craven in A Nightmare On Elm Street, allowing Freddy to possess the body of teen Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) in order to wreak havoc in the real world.With numerous unintentionally funny scenes (check out the exploding parakeet, the 'tidying the room' scene, and the attack on Coach Schneider by sporting equipment!) and plenty of homo-erotic moments (male bonding, S&M leather bars and the coach being whipped on his bare butt with a towel), I really don't think this is what fans expected from a sequel.Although the film may be enjoyed if one views it as camp trash, it is easy to see why this film is one of the most universally reviled horror sequels of all time; with its tedious pacing, lack of decent gore or scares, and a total cop-out ending that sees Krueger defeated by 'love', Freddy's Revenge is very disappointing.Fortunately, the franchise improved big time with the release of part 3, Dream Warriors, but part 2 will always be there to remind makers how not to make a Freddy Krueger movie. "},{"Title":"Not too good","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You know, if you compare this film to the original, you will see an incredible drop off.  First off, the plot isn't good, the director is not Craven (he wouldn't return as director until part 7) and Freddy isn't as real as in part 1 (if being in dreams is real).  I couldn't even follow the plot, which says something and the main character is stupid.  If I were anyone else out there reading this review, please stay away from this movie- unless you are a rabid fan of Nightmare on Elm Street. C- "},{"Title":"Not the best.","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge starts as Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) has a terrifying nightmare from which he wakes up covered in sweat, the nightmares continue & become more vivid. Eventually he wanders into his basement & in the furnace finds a glove with razors for fingers that belonged to child killer Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund), Freddy plagues Jesse's nightmares & Jesse's fear of Freddy gives him power. The power to take over Jesse's body & kill for him, Jesse doesn't know what to do as the bodies start to pile up once more on Elm street...Directed by Jack Sholder this is standard teen horror fare that doesn't really come close to some of the other entries in the series. The script by David Chaskin has an OK central idea to it as Freddy tries to possess Jesse so he can carry on killing but the whole film is misjudged & ends up a bit of a mess. For a start there's the often mentioned homosexual references & feel to it which are quite apparent if you look out for them, there's the fact some of the set-pieces are far from scary & in fact come across as ridiculous especially the killer budgie scene which had me in fits of laughter as it attacks it's owners & tries to be menacing before it explodes in a flash of feathers! Then there's the bit when the gay coach who is attacked by killer tennis & basket balls before he is tied to the showers, stripped naked & has his bum whipped by towels! Then there's the terrible 'love conquers all' ending in which Jesse's girlfriend admits her love for a scarred Freddy & even kisses him to try & get the 'real' Jesse back. The kills are boring, there's not much of a body count, the plot is all over the place & the line between dreams, hallucination & reality in this one is never really established that well. Having said that it moves along at a reasonable pace & is watchable if only for the unintentional laughs & Freddy in this one is used sparingly, he is still portrayed as a scary villain rather than some comic anti-hero & as such doesn't have lots of one jokey liners.Director Sholder does OK & this has a great opening sequence which lulls you into a false sense of security by starting off like a normal day as a school bus picks up & drops various pupils but then turns nasty as Freddy suddenly ends up driving the bus through the desert, it's the most effective part of the film in my opinion which the rest of it doesn't live up to. The scares just don't really work here & the gore is nothing special, there are a few slashings, Freddy rips the top of his head off to reveal his brain & there's an OK scene where Freddy literally rips himself out of Jesse's body. There is far more naked male skin on show than female & far more scenes set in the boys locker room than the girls...With a reasonable sounding budget of about $3,000,000 A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge is well made & has decent enough production values although there's not too much style to it & overall it's a tad forgettable. The acting isn't great, I'd say average at best.A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge is probably as low as the entire series got, it's maybe just about worth a watch but it's nothing special. Followed by the much improved A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987). "},{"Title":"Remember what they said in Scream?","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In Scream they said that the original Nightmare on Elm Street was neat but the sequels sucked. Of course, it's practically a given that sequels will suck. Still, Robert Englund in his most famous role is always good for a laugh. A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge features pretty much the same things as the original, except that it's now getting played more for laughs. I can't help but wonder why they made so many sequels, right up to Freddy vs. Jason. Oh well, they're all cool for what they are, but the first one was definitely the best. Robert Englund may be the coolest horror actor alive today, and Wes Craven may be the coolest horror director alive today. "},{"Title":"Not Good At All","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 2 Freddy's Revenge is really quite shocking. Considering Wes Craven's 'Nightmare' was a masterpiece I thought this would be at least decent sequel. The plot was interesting and the ideas could have gone somewhere instead of down the toilet.This is set five years after the original. A new family has moved in to 1428 Elm St and has settled down nicely. Jesse (Mark Patton) has started to have nightmares of the child killer Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund). He is convinced that Freddy is trying to possess him so that Freddy can kill in the real world.The acting in this movie was terrible. None of the actors could act their way out of a wet paper bag (bar Robert Englund). Mark Patton really does a terrible job as the main character and he screams like a dying old woman. The dialogue is poor, the music predictable and cheesy and the deaths/gore are lame and don't have any impact what so ever.I can only give this 1/5. A real low for the Nightmare series. "},{"Title":"Rather dull sequel to Nightmare.","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It had its moments for the most part, but in the end it was a rather dull movie.  It did have Freddy act dark and scary still, unlike later episodes where he was a comedian, but alas he wasn't in this one all that much.  What gets me is that this movie is said to have a lot of gay elements.  Really?  I only saw the movie a few times as a kid so I guess I couldn't pick them up, so I can't really comment on them.  Though I do remember the main character Jesse had a girlfriend who tries to save him.  The trouble I had with this movie as a kid is that it is a bit boring as there aren't many dream sequences in this one and it isn't as menacing as the first one.  What passes for horror here...a bird escaping and going crazy?  No, this one just doesn't have the style and atmosphere the first one did.  The only real dream sequence that was even memorable was the first one in the bus.  It may be worth a look, but I won't recommend it. "},{"Title":"A Promising Idea Is Destroyed Almost Immediately","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 may be the weakest in a series that is far from classic fare.  This time a new family moves into the house of the primary character from the first film and soon the teenage son is having dreams of Freddy.  Freddy's plan is to possess this boy so he can reappear in the real world.  The screenplay sounds promising, but the film never does get off the ground.  The direction is horrible and the characters are worse.  Robert Englund does pretty much what he did in the first, but he is so dark and mysterious that this film would have been about the same without him.  This film disappointed me because the first 10 minutes on the school bus are very creative and it appears that the film will be a sequel that is as good as the first.  However, when the characters actually start talking the film goes into a tailspin.  A pure mess.  Turkey (0 out of 5 stars).   "},{"Title":"The Worst of the Freddy Movies","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was my lowest-rated of the Nightmare On Elm Street movies, of which I believe there were seven in all. If you've watched all of them you get an appreciation of Freddy's sense of humor. However there is none of that in this film. No humor, no people to like and only one good (entertaining) horror scene. That scene is the opening one in which a bus winds up atop a giant rock formation. But after that, none of the famous dream scenes are memorable. They don't have the imagination, humor and horror the others did in the other films.Meanwhile, the kids in here are the same profane, sex-crazed high school kids....hardly the girl next door. One of them, Kim Myers, looks a lot like a young Meryl Streep. "},{"Title":"Crappy sequel to a great film","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 is a crappy sequel to a great horror movie. The film does have some scary moments but overall it sucks ass. The first mistake was switching the hero's sex and the second mistake was the lack of Wes Craven.Skip this one and go to Part 3. "}{"Title":"A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I had previously watched all films in the Halloween and Hellraiser franchises, and I knew at some point I would want to watch all films in the A Nightmare on Elm Street franchise, i.e. with iconic villain Freddy Krueger, so this was the first sequel, from director Jack Sholder (Wishmaster 2 Evil Never Dies). Basically it has been five years since the events on Elm Street, and seventeen year old teenager Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) and his family have moved to the neighbourhood and into the house formally occupying Nancy Thompson. Soon after moving in Jesse starts having nightmares, appliances and objects in the house are going berserk and gaining a mentality of their own, and pets are attacking that before would never have. The young man turns to his new girlfriend Lisa Webber (Kim Myers) to help him, and together they find out the terrible events that happened before, including of course the murders of child killer Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund), burned alive but coming back to life in dreams with razor hands. It gets worse for Jesse when not only are his nightmares becoming more intense and terrifying, but he feels Freddy manifesting within him, he in one dream witnesses the brutal killing of gym teacher Coach Schneider (Total Recall's Marshall Bell), and this is in fact reality. He cuts himself off from his family knowing the danger he could put them in if Freddy comes, this even happens while Lisa, and trying to get friend Ron Grady (Robert Rusler) to watch him sleep doesn't help either as he ends up victim too. Finally one night during a bad dream Freddy is strong enough to take full control of Jesse and get his revenge, Jesse and Lisa are also children of the parents who burned him to death, the psycho even causes rampage at a pool party killing many random young people. Lisa leads Freddy inside of her boyfriend to the old power plant Krueger worked in, and she manages to set his body on fire, which slowly brings Jesse back from his possessed state, but of course the next day when it looks over a bad dream of a bus crashing becomes reality when Freddy reappears. Alsop starring Clu Gulager as Ken Walsh, Hope Lange as Cheryl Walsh, Melinda O. Fee as Mrs. Webber and Tom McFadden as Mr. Webber. I can't really say that much good about Englund in this film, even though he does his best to remain cheeky and vulgar like the original and great film, the dream based sequences are ridiculous, not in an inventive way, the blood spill lacks style, and there is nothing in the story or attempted scary bits to grip you, it is a highly disappointing and terrible horror sequel. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"A Different Type of Horror Film","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2, A (1985) * 1/2 (out of 4)The first sequel has teenager Jesse Walsh (Mark Patton) having nightmares about a burned man wearing a bladed glove. He tells his girlfriend about these dreams and soon teens are dropping dead all around them. They soon learn about Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) and Jesse feels that the killer is wanting to use his body to carry out his evil deeds. This sequel has been called everything from the worst in the series to the all-time worst sequel to any of the sequel-happy slashers out there. As incredibly bad as this movie is, the train wreck is so bad that in some ways you really can't take your eyes off the screen for a couple reasons. One reason is that this is without question an original feeling movie as there's a certain atmosphere running throughout and the badness manages to reach a camp level that will leave you scratching your head and wondering what the producers were thinking. The film has also come under fire due to the various homosexual aspects to the film and their inclusion in a mainstream horror film was certainly a first (and perhaps last). The movie features some bad acting, a rather poor story and some silly special effects and this is what really ends up killing the film. I think the biggest problem with the screenplay is that the Jesse character just isn't very likable. I've never really cared what happened to him and it never really bothered me that Freddy would be wanting to possess him. I also never really understood why his girlfriend would like him in the first place let alone be willing to give her life to save him. The entire possession thing doesn't really work but it was a decent idea at least. Patton really isn't too strong in the lead and quite often gets a few laughs because there are countless times where he's just looking all over the place not seeming to know what to do next. Robert Rusler plays the best friend and gets a few laughable moments as well. Kim Myers isn't too bad as the girlfriend but the screenplay never does her any favors. I think Clu Gulager (THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD) and Hope Lang (DEATH WISH) as the parents come off the best. Englund is back as Freddy but the screenplay really destroys the character and never makes him very menacing or interesting. The make up effect on Freddy has never been one of my favorites either. There are a lot of bad things to be found in this movie yet I can't help but want to watch it ever now and again. Perhaps it's the strange atmosphere or just the train wreck vibe but it's certainly unique on some levels. "},{"Title":"the gayest mainstream horror film until Victor Salva went into directing","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's 5 years later and a new Scream Queen, Jesse (Mark Patton) move into Freddy's old house. Forsaking the dream logic of the first, Krueger seeks to posses Jesse's body (not that there's anything wrong with that, as Seinfeld would say). This is hands down the worst of the Nightmare on Elm Street movies and not because it's the gayest horror film that wasn't directed by Victor Salva, but in truth that doesn't help in the least. No, this movie sucks (no pun intended) because it doesn't seem to care about a little thing called continuity. Freddy exists in dreamland and by blatantly disregarding what the crux of the first film was, this movie defecates all over it (again not that there's anything wrong with that) My Grade D- DVD Extras Cast and Crew Bios; and Jump to a Nightmare option (more extras for the film can be found on the seventh disc of The Nightmare Collection DVD set)DVD-Rom content Trivia game; Screenplay; and web link "},{"Title":"Arguably the worst.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Arguably, the worst film in the series (I say arguably because Part 5 is a mess, too). This film really misses the mark, and the essence of the first one, quickly turning into a run-of-the-mill horror pic. But it deserves 4 out of 10, because the effects are adequate. "},{"Title":"Turd.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The first Nightmare on Elm Street is rather overrated,but still pretty good and entertaining horror flick(I still think that Krug and his companions from Last House on the Left are infinite times scarier than this so-called horror icon Freddy Krueger),but this one is beyond lame.Fred Krueger(Robert Englund)is back in the dreams of Springwood teen Mark Patton,and uses the sulky youth to bring him more souls.Credit must go to the effects team for some fine work,but otherwise,this entry from the director of Alone in the Dark is extremely weak.The acting(especially from Mark Patton-gotta love his laughable scream!)is hysterical and the film is full of homosexual overtones-what kind of crap are we dealing here with?So if you want to amuse yourself check out this laugh-fest,but if you want to be scared steer clear. "}]