[{"Title":"A slick film","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  F/X beats most Hollywood action films. It stands out with a slick basic idea developed to a proper script that offers twists and surprises all the way to the end, but luckily not as much as Mission Impossible did.Bryan Brown is just the right man for the part of Rollie. He and Brian Dennehy make a great pair, although they don't appear together until the end of the film.Refreshingly original and highly recommendable. "},{"Title":"a fun little movie","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  F/X is a movie I had been hearing about for years, so I finally buckled down and rented it, and I was pretty surprised. It's a good, suspenseful movie with nice effects, a decent story, and some good performances (except for the girl who plays the effects assistant, though she's not on-screen a lot). Bryan Brown plays Roland Tyler, a freelance special effects artist who seeks revenge after some shady Justice Department guys set him up to be the fall guy in a staged execution they had hired him to pull off. Brian Dennehy doesn't enter the film until nearly forty minutes into the picture, but once he does, he's as good as always, even if his character just sort of moves from place to place and effortlessly picks up clues along the way. I would have liked to seen the two stars have more scenes together, but they never even meet up until the final scene of the movie. Cliff DeYoung does his usual weasel villain, though he mysteriously vanishes from the film without explanation, and Jerry Orbach is good in a supporting role as the mobster whose execution is staged. The effects used by Tyler aren't as spectacular as I had thought they would be (disguises to avoid police, smoke bombs, fake blood, etc.), but they're used effectively. F/X is an entertaining little movie with a fair amount of suspense and some good action. Oh, and what I wouldn't give to have that home security system Tyler has inside his front door. The sequel's not bad either. "},{"Title":"Special-Effects Always Fun","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This was an excellent thriller, a story that grabs and holds you all the way. In a nutshell, it's about a special-effects expert being set up and how he then tries to get out of the jam he's in. Bryan Brown plays the good-guy Rollie Tyler while Cliff De Young and Mason Adams are the bad guys. De Young has the kind of face and attitude that makes you want to slap that sucker every time you see him! All three actors are convincing in their roles. Brian Dennehy plays his usual profane, tough cop role and Diane Venora is kind of unmemorable, to be honest, as Rollie's girlfriend.The inventive story is the best part of this film, which was even more interesting when it came out because ever since James Bond, special effects were still something pretty new to most of us movie viewers and it was fascinating to see how certain things are rigged. Nowadays, special effects are something that seems to be a normal part of movie-watching, although cool gadgets are always fun. Still, there a some very clever things in here and the movie provides good suspense and excellent twists. You never know what to expect. The film was popular enough to spawn a sequel. "},{"Title":"It's Just an Illusion What good 80s action movies were all about (minor spoilers)...","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  There was something about 80s action movies that recent films in the genre haven't been able to capitalize on. I think a lot of it has to do with lack of originality, as the genre has been notorious for an excess of remakes of old action movies or Hollywood versions of foreign action films, new or old. But, there's just something about them that aren't exciting, anymore. At least not all of them. The 80s, for me, seemed to have some of the best of the genre--The Terminator, the Mad Max trilogy, etc. F/X is one of them. A cool story with good action sequences. Rollie Tyler (Bryan Brown), special effects genius, is hired by the FBI to use his expertise in a setup to fake the death of mobster Nicholas DeFranco, who they claim is going to be their informant. However, as Tyler will soon become very familiar with, the arrangement is a hoax and the agents aren't who they seem. Unfortunately, Tyler, who thought he was doing something good, and reluctantly so, he is caught in the middle of a game of cat and mouse because he is considered loose ends. They kill his girlfriend in the scuffle, and Tyler soon realizes who he's up against because these guys will stop at nothing until he's dead, regardless of who they kill in the crossfire. But Tyler is no dummy. He gets smart and uses his special effects genius to keep one step ahead of the paranoid agents who want him dead. In the meantime, our middleman is Brian Dennehy as the smooth-talking detective, Leo McCarthy. He's the only one with any guts to sense foul play is afoot and the only one really willing to help out Rollie. The object of the game is to find out what kind of dirty business those crooked agents Lipton (Cliff DeYoung) and Mason (Mason Adams) are up to, and what it has to do with faking the death of a notorious mobster (Jerry Orbach). The movie has some pretty good action and chase sequences, and the finale is a cool idea as Rollie Tyler has to use some clever special effects to put a stop to enemies. He's got a pretty big bag of tricks up his sleeves. Though a little slow at first, the real fun begins once Rollie is hired by those mysterious agents to do a job. Overall, it's a pretty cool movie with a great idea for a story. If you enjoy this movie, you'd probably like the sequel, F/X 2, which is quite similar, using the story of Rollie Tyler being set up for another mysterious cop scheme. Only with all the corruption going on in that story, Tyler's mishaps in the first look like small potatoes. Plus, Dennehy gets a bigger part, this time teaming up with Tyler (you'll see why in the finale of F/X part 1). They're both worth a try.  "},{"Title":"Fast pace , action , suspense and lots of  amusement","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" F/X is a great movie because of the idea of a special effects artist trying to get himself out of a mess. It deals with F/X man Rollie Tyler (Bryan Brown) as expert craftsman . FBI agents (Cliff De Young, Mason Adams), ask Rollie to help him to make a setup for hide a mobster named DeFranco (Jerry Orbach) about to enter the Witness Program of Recolocation and Protection . As he accepts thirty thousand dollars by execution the phony work . And the operation was going well when Tyler allegedly kills the mobster . When the agency double cross him on the staging the fake assassination Rollie finds himself embroiled in a deadly cover-up and he uses his special effects to trap the corrupt agents . Obviously FBI is involved with gangster's death, but when the things get worse he calls on Andy (Martha Gehman). The whiz Rollie and Andy team up once more to use their special effects to find those responsible for the death of gangster . Rollie must use his movie magic and wits to discover the true guilty and survive . Meanwhile an obstinate detective named Leo McCarthy (Brian Dennehy) and his helper (Joe Grifasi) are investigating the deeds. As far as the story goes , it involves a bigger scale of corruption in the law enforcement circle .Entertaining but typical 1980's-type action thriller that has great potential as is fast-paced and well acted film . It has Inspector Dennehy and FX wizard Brown in fine form , and good secondaries Diane Venora, Joe Grifasi , Cliff De Young, Jery Orbach , some involved on corrupt business ; furthermore Angela Basset film debut . Some parts were predictable , but for the most part, it was nicely-paced with some good intrigue and mystery . There are some very exciting scenes as well as some ingenious special effects, including the initial setup that figures prominently in the argument. The cinematography and editing are functional . Action is pretty nicely done and fast moving with some engaging gimmickry . The motion picture is professionally directed by Robert Mandel (The substitute, School ties). Decent if somewhat belated followup to this 86 surprise hit was realized in 1991 titled ¨FX2¨ that does have suspense , however, the entire thing is nowhere near as engaging or thrilling , it was directed by Richard Franklin with similar players and followed by an amiable TV series . "},{"Title":"Special effects in New York City","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A movie special effects man is running for his life in F/X, a 1986 film starring Bryan Brown, Brian Dennehy, Jerry Orbach, and Mason Adams. Strangely enough, the movie also features two actresses from my alma mater, Diana Venora and Josie de Guzman.Rollie Tyler (Brown) takes on a rush job for the government - they want it to look as if their primo informant (Orbach) has been murdered to take the danger out of getting him to the courtroom and protecting him afterward. But like Rollie's work, things aren't what they seem, and Rollie finds himself on the run.Despite its name, F/X isn't a big movie, and the special effects are things you can see on any television show. What makes it unique is the way Rollie uses his wits and skill to elude those after him. One of the most exciting scenes occurs as Rollie, in his F/X van, careens through the streets of New York, using every trick he knows to get away from the police. Not your average car chase.Australian actor Bryan Brown, who achieved fame and a beautiful wife from the miniseries The Thorn Birds is terrific as the desperate Rollie. Brian Dennehy plays a rogue cop - he's funny and effective, and the late Jerry Orbach, whose career spanned stage, films, and television, is the perfect mob informant.F/X inspired a television show of the same name starring Cameron Daddo and also a sequel. For a little movie, it did quite well, managing to entertain with drama, humor, and thrills. It's a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"A child of its time","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is very much an 80's action flick. It's got the tough cop who doesn't play by the rules. The unexpected hero. Car chasing, shoot-outs, and a theme song concocted to perfectly match with the movie it's for running over the end credits. Not every last one of those are good, though they tend to be entertaining. Fortunately, this one is both. And quite original and creative, too. Brown stars as Rollie Tyler, a special effects genius who is hired to help fake the death of a mobster, Orbach, who's going into a witness protection program. However, something goes wrong, and our lead now believes that he accidentally did kill him. The plot holds several surprises and twists, and it's carefully written enough to keep you guessing, without being pretentious or overly difficult to follow, and the pieces of the puzzle fit together nicely after you've seen them all. This has great pacing, it never slows down or is in a hurry. The suspense is quite excellent, and you may find yourself on the edge of your seat numerous times. This is 100 minutes of pure fun, and it never fails to deliver. The humor almost invariably works. Acting ranges. This has incredibly memorable moments, and dialog you can quote. The DVD only holds a theatrical trailer. I recommend this to any fan of this type of film, and/or anyone involved in making it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"This Thriller Hits A Home Run...","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!!!! It's a well-known fact that a rivalry has existed between New York and Hollywood, virtually since the first images flickered across a large screen, and that the myth has always been upheld that good movies can only be made with any sense of professionalism or competence in L.A. If F/X didn't finally put that lie to rest, then no other film would, but we all know how that turned out...A Hitchcock-flavored vehicle for hot Aussie heartthrob Bryan Brown, his charm, good looks and machismo are used to maximum advantage to portray special effects whiz Rollie Tyler, who is hired to stage a murder by the guys at Witness Protection, to  enable former gangland kingpin Nicholas DeFranco to testify before a Grand Jury against his one-time associates. In the finest tradition of anything the Master of Suspense ever did, special effects are used as a metaphor for all of the characters and situations that Rollie encounters throughout the film. Nobody turns out to be exactly who or what they appear, most of all, Our Hero...Brown does a great job with the lead, but the most remarkable and enjoyable part of F/X is the support he gets from some of the finest actors to ever walk across a stage, or in front of a camera. Brian Dennehy gets one of his first breakout roles as the cantankerous but canny detective Leo McCarthy, who is one of the first people to navigate the twists and turns of what's happening (eagle-eyed viewers will remember his role as Chevy Chase's partner in the '70's comedy/mystery FOUL PLAY); seasoned stage vet Jerry Orbach (TV's LAW AND ORDER) makes a fine cad as mob boss DeFranco; Mason Adams (TV's LOU GRANT) and Cliff De Young are also terrific as the not-so-intrepid government guys.Diane Venora (WOLFEN) gives a much more fleshed-out portrayal of Rollie's actress/girlfriend Ellen Keith than what was probably on the script page, and Martha Gehman as Rollie's assistant/sidekick Andy gives a quirky, naturalistic performance that would seem out of place anywhere else, but works fine here.Even the bit parts are rendered by some of the best character actors to be plucked from the Big Apple's talent pool Jossie De Guzman, (whose on-screen chemistry with Dennehy would be criminally wasted in the so-so sequel); Joe Grifasi as McCarthy's partner, Mickey; Roscoe Orman as Leo's gruff boss, Capt. Wallinger (from CTW's SESAME STREET, believe it or not, the same company that would produce Morgan Freeman); M'el Dowd, Trey Wilson (RAISING ARIZONA and A SOLDIER'S STORY) and Tom Noonan (MANHUNTER, ROBOCOP 2). Even future leading lights Angela Bassett and James Pickens Jr. (X-FILES, THE PRACTICE) put in some early appearances.With all this rich casting, plus a great script by Greg Megginson and Bob Fleeman, taut direction by New York-based vet Robert Mandel and a fantastic Bill Conti score, F/X predicted a long and prosperous future for many more Manhattan Projects.And though the effects technology seems dated now, the tricks of the trade, which were state-of-the-art for the time, were supervised by John Stears. Name not familiar? John was one of the many effects people who cut his teeth on a little independent film you may have heard of, called STAR WARS. And makeup designer Carl Fullerton would go on to apply his talents to many films, including some of the FRIDAY THE 13TH sequels, (probably the best part about those.)A highly recommended piece of movie entertainment. "},{"Title":"A neat idea for a film","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"17 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  F/X was a neat idea for a film. The story revolves around a special effects man recruited by the government to fake a mobsters death. The effects man is played by BRYAN BROWN and he meets the task with the enthusiasm he would for his film work until things go sour and hee gets paired with a cop named ROLLIE played by BRAIN DENNEHY. F/X works well and the inside look at the effects business works well also. Neither pretentious or boring the film gives us a hero who doesn't use a gun and instead uses a bag of special effects to battle crime. I liked F/X. I found the film to be both attention holding and imaginative; with just enough grit to make the police subplot work. The premise of the film itself is original and one of a kind. I recommend this film to fans of adventure films or a person looking the video store shelves for something different.  "},{"Title":"Good film - finally saw, by accident","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I missed this movie when it was originally issued, and after all I read and heard about Cocktail (in which Bryan Brown starred a couple of years later) I had no desire to seek it out. But upon just surfing to cable's AMC channel one weekend morning, and finding it having just begun - I watched for a couple of minutes and found myself absorbed in it. After looking at some of the previously-posted comments in this section of IMDb, during commercials, I was even more interested. First, my regard for Brown is heightened. Anyone married to Rachel Ward, for 23 years, has to have a lot going for him - even beyond what you see on-screen. And actors with British/Australian accents all provide effective men-on-the-run, harried, danger-beset characterizations. The acting here is all good. The late Trey Wilson, as Denehy's unctuous NYPD colleague evokes memories of his small-but-key, scene-stealing roles in Twins and Raising Arizona. Cliff De Young, as the even more unctuous pursuer/would-be killer of the endangered Brown, could (from this and prior roles) be Hollywood's solution to replace Dabney Coleman as the quintessential, smarmy, horse's ass, now that Dabney is getting well-along in years. As with all his roles, Mason Adams gives a good performance - but I can never watch him without expecting that any moment he is going to take a Smucker's jar from his pocket and begin a spiel. Brian Dennehy is always fun to watch, and his gruff-but-still-likable persona was never better-suited to a role than here - he's the only one (except for one assistant) who has a clue, literally and figuratively, of the shenanigans occurring and besetting poor Rollie (Brown). Give this film a solid 8. Enjoyed the final minutes and the ending. I'm looking forward to getting a copy of the sequel. "}{"Title":"F/X is what good 80s action movies were all about. (minor spoilers)","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  There was something about 80s action movies that recent films in the genre haven't been able to capitalize on. I think a lot of it has to do with lack of originality, as the genre has been notorious for an excess of remakes of old action movies or Hollywood versions of foreign action films, new or old. But, there's just something about them that aren't exciting, anymore. At least not all of them. The 80s, for me, seemed to have some of the best of the genre--The Terminator, the Mad Max trilogy, etc. F/X is one of them. A cool story with good action sequences. Rollie Tyler (Bryan Brown), special effects genius, is hired by the FBI to use his expertise in a setup to fake the death of mobster Nicholas DeFranco, who they claim is going to be their informant. However, as Tyler will soon become very familiar with, the arrangement is a hoax and the agents aren't who they seem. Unfortunately, Tyler, who thought he was doing something good, and reluctantly so, he is caught in the middle of a game of cat and mouse because he is considered loose ends. They kill his girlfriend in the scuffle, and Tyler soon realizes who he's up against because these guys will stop at nothing until he's dead, regardless of who they kill in the crossfire. But Tyler is no dummy. He gets smart and uses his special effects genius to keep one step ahead of the paranoid agents who want him dead. In the meantime, our middleman is Brian Dennehy as the smooth-talking detective, Leo McCarthy. He's the only one with any guts to sense foul play is afoot and the only one really willing to help out Rollie. The object of the game is to find out what kind of dirty business those crooked agents Lipton (Cliff DeYoung) and Mason (Mason Adams) are up to, and what it has to do with faking the death of a notorious mobster (Jerry Orbach). The movie has some pretty good action and chase sequences, and the finale is a cool idea as Rollie Tyler has to use some clever special effects to put a stop to enemies. He's got a pretty big bag of tricks up his sleeves. Though a little slow at first, the real fun begins once Rollie is hired by those mysterious agents to do a job. Overall, it's a pretty cool movie with a great idea for a story. If you enjoy this movie, you'd probably like the sequel, F/X 2, which is quite similar, using the story of Rollie Tyler being set up for another mysterious cop scheme. Only with all the corruption going on in that story, Tyler's mishaps in the first look like small potatoes. Plus, Dennehy gets a bigger part, this time teaming up with Tyler (you'll see why in the finale of F/X part 1). They're both worth a try. "},{"Title":"FX before they were giving 'everything' away...","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Here is an eighties hit, of a great time. Man this 'story' has a lot! Two Brians, a Diane Venora, who is unconditionally into her roles, she really puts talent into her characters. Even when her 'Ellen', Rollie's friend was cut short. Rollie Tyler, is the man for special effects. He is smart and can set up the 'Set-up' with moderate to no trouble. Then comes the Wit-Sec Program people with a simple request. Put together a murder in a restaurant that would seem real. To get the Mob, off of this mobster in Wit-Sec's Back. Jerry Orbach, Nick DeFranco is the man who needs a 'Pardon' from his past. Rollie even after some thought thinks he can pull-it-off, so to speak. This is the beginning of Rollies troubles. I don't recall Orbach in a lot of tough or badguy roles, but I liked him as the wise-cracking 'wise guy'. Entering into the party mess, Leo (Dennehy) an aggressive New York cop, who doesn't like no for an answer and he doesn't like tricks. He is now on the case of the trick master. (Mason Adams) Col. Mason was quite an inter agency man. I had never seen Adams in a role like this and he creates more intrigue. His assistant and partner 'Lipton' (Cliff De Young) was a sort of trick inter agency man as well. Plays dumb really well, all the while watching everything and everyone, like a crocodile. The ending of this was a surprise as well for me and then as the closing scenes were being shown, they played the best song, I can't find it anywhere anymore. One of those superb 1980's films with a perfect wrap-up. Beautiful scenery and that 'tall' looking cinema scope effect at the movie's ending.I recommend to those who like action, mystery and the 80's too. This is a thrill of a great time for me. (****) "},{"Title":"Slick fun","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" F/X Murder by Illusion is a well-written, intriguing film from the pens of Gregory Fleeman and Robert T. Megginson. Their sharp narrative constantly keeps you guessing throughout the 109 minute running time. Special effects (F/X) are always entertaining, as is the cast including Bryan Brown and Brian Dennehy, who are always believable, in a clever, quick-witted movie.Robert Mandell never lets anything get out of hand, which he very easily could have given the nature of the film. Original music by Rocky composer Bill Conti is also very effective. I am looking forward to seeing the sequel.Wednesday, June 26, 1991 - Video "},{"Title":"crafty movie","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A great cast and plot twists keep F/X moving brilliantly along. Though Bryan Brown is the star and deserves a hell of a lot of credit, his supporting cast makes the most of their small time on screen. Just departed Mason Adams, Brian Dennehy perfectly cast, Joe grifasi, Diane Venora, the guy from Sesame Street. We've all seen them before and they prove their worth here. A classic 80s movie that is enjoyable every time I see it. Not many movies shoot on location in New York City anymore. The summer locale gives the movie a familiar feel. Also, was the final scene filmed overseas and if so, why the expenditure for such a small scene? I'm not complaining, maybe the production crew and cast went on vacation to celebrate. "},{"Title":"Great actors in traditional thriller with an FX kicker","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Roland Tyler (Bryan Brown) is a movies special effects master. One day, he's contacted by justice department agents to fake an assassination of a mobster. When the job was done, he finds the people who hired him are now trying to hunt him down. Now he must use all the tricks of his trades to survive. Investigating all the killings is no nonsense Lt. Leo McCarthy (Brian Dennehy) who is just starting unraveling the tangle of corruption.The only thing that concerned me were the red flags that Roland passed right thru. It seemed kinda naive for Royland not to notice that he was paid in cash, and the hit was in public with his face uncovered. You'd think he was smarter than that. But then John Chambers helped out a CIA operation. It's not unheard of.The bits and pieces of special effects insights were fascinating especially for its times. Brian Dennehy and Bryan Brown are great actors. They're able to put believability into this film. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Couldn't believe I had never seen it","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I had this movie on my Instant Queue for a long time and never watched it for some reason. Anyway I just got done watching it and loved it! It was way better than I expected. I saw it had a 6.5 before I watched it so I thought it would be good, but it was really good to my surprise. The idea was original and exciting. If you haven't seen it the story is a Special Effects guy is asked by the government to help fake a former Mob members death so the Mob stops going after him. It turns out that wasn't the whole story and Roland(The main character) is in for a wild ride. It keeps you thinking and it actually has a good bit of action.If you have not seen it go watch it, I promise you will like it. "},{"Title":"Great and original movie","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" F/X is a underrated little movie from the 80's , that I believe deserves some kind of recognition. It manages to entertain with drama, humor, and thrills. It's a lot of fun. I wouldn't call it an action movie. I agree there is some action here , but personally I think this movie is more of a thriller.The idea for the story is very original - a special effects expert gets involved with a police and mafia . F/X is a great love letter for all those special effects guys (and girls) that were some kind of magicians in the past , when computers weren't involved in creating the movie magic.F/X feels like Home alone for adults. The whole movie is basically Rollie Tyler using his skills and toys against his enemies. Bryan Brown (Cocktail) is great as Rollie , the main hero .He's got a down to earth, normal guy attitude that makes us like him. There is also another Brian - Brian Dennehy (Rambo  First blood ) as the smooth-talking detective, Leo McCarthy. He's a good supporting character , the only one that suspects what is going on.The special effects are good. It's not strange , since this movie is a tribute to the movie wizards that help us make our dreams come true (at least on the screen). Action scenes are done well . The acting is good. There are nice twists and good ideas are along the way . There's a great song at the ending credits of the movie - Imagination  Just an illusion.F/X inspired a television show of the same name starring Cameron Daddo and also a nice sequel. It's a good , fun movie. It shows that originality means much . I miss the 80's movies with their originality...I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Fun little thriller with plenty of action and unexpected twists","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Movie special effects man Roland Tyler (Bryan Brown) is hired by two Justice Dept agents (Cliff DeYoung and Mason Adams) to fake the killing of a mobster (Jerry Orbach!) who's in the Witness Protection Program. He agrees but the mobster is actually killed by mistake. Soon Roland has the FBI AND the NY police led by Lt. Leo McCarthy (Brian Dennehy) on his tail...but he has plenty of special effects (F/X) tricks to fool them.If you stop to think about this for one moment the plot has HUGE loopholes and some of the F/X Roland pulls off could never happen in real life...but the movie is SO entertaining you won't care! It moves quickly with a particularly vicious fight scene and a long exciting car chase thrown in. The F/X Roland uses to fight back are a lot of fun if totally implausible. The acting is (with one exception) very good. Bryan is handsome, muscular and lots of fun in his role. His Australian accent somehow helps. Dennehy plays his umpteenth cop role but he's still very good and lots of fun. DeYoung and Adams are great as the slimy villains and Orbach plays a role you've never seen him playing before--a villain! The only debit--Martha Gehman as Roland's assistant. The woman is a TERRIBLE actress and basically shrieks all her lines. Still this is a fun, quick little thriller well worth catching. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"All they care about is special effects.","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Bryan Brown and Brian Dennehy star in F/X , which turned out to be a fine, inventively sophisticated on-the-run thriller with some outstanding make-up FX work, rock solid performances and compelling writing in which a highly regarded special effects artist Rollie Tyler is hired by the justice department to stage an assassination of an important underworld figure. Unknowingly to him, the department is trying to destroy any evidence of the scheme and another loose end includes him. Double-crossed, he goes in hiding and soon he's being pinned for the murder. So he reverts to his bag of tricks to uncover the truth.The gimmicky props amuse, but the elaborate story (while at times too convenient in its developments) keeps a good pace and stays on the move. The mysterious build-up does peter out into standard on-the-run mechanisms. Brown is suitably good in the role as Tyler and Dennehy is perfectly pitched as the grizzled cop on the case. The support cast has the likes of Cliff DeYoung, Diana Venora, Mason Adams, Jerry Orbach and Tom Noonan. Robert Mandel's direction is well-oiled, but quite formulaic with its old fashion suspense and cat-and-mouse thrills, as it seems like life goes onto imitate art. Bill Conti' scores the enchantingly characteristic music to good effect. F/X  is showy and implausible, but conventionally exciting. "},{"Title":"A memorable 80's Thriller. ***1/2 out of *****","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" F/X is one of the few Movies from the 80's that I remember because of it's inventive premise.It Stars Aussie Actor Bryan Brown (An actor who never really made it to the big-time) who plays Special FX Expert Rollie Tyler who works on various Low Budget Slashers and becomes well known to the Department of Justice which hires him to perform a fake assassination of a Gangster on the Witness protection Program (Law & Order's late Jerry Orbach)...But things very quickly become complicated as Tyler finds he's being double crossed by the very people who hired him (Mason Adams & Cliff De Young)Co-Starring Brian Dennehy as the veteran cop Leo McCarthy who tries to find out who killed who and why.It was a minor hit on it's original release back in '86 and was followed by a Sequel in '91 and a TV series from '96-'98.***1/2 out of ***** "}{"Title":"Great Cast In Crackerjack Fake Assassination Action Thriller","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Rollie Tyler is a special effects expert who is approached by the Justice Department to stage a fake assassination of a big-time mobster turned informant. Reluctantly he agrees, but after the hit the secret service guys try to kill him and he has to use all the tricks of his trade whilst on the lam to clear his name.This is a great thriller, distinguished by a terrific premise, a first-rate cast and a fantastic script by Robert T. Megginson and Gregory Fleeman which keeps coming up with novel scenes and wringing plenty of new twists on some old ones. The basic idea is a gem; if you wanted to stage a fake murder in public who would you hire - somebody who does it for a living. This is just the start of the story's ingenuity; once the phoney murder is done and he's become a liability, Rollie isn't sure whether or not he really killed the mobster, every law enforcement officer in New York is after him and he can't risk endangering the lives of his friends. The movie has an enjoyably offbeat take on conventional thriller scenes; the standard car chase involves a van full of slippery tricks, the cops break down a door to be confronted by a snarling marionette and the hero disposes of a clutch of goons using radio-controlled gadgets. Brown is excellent in the lead, and Dennehy is sensational in possibly his definitive, nothing-to-lose, wound-too-tight, bulldog copper performance, but everyone in the cast is good. I particularly like Venora (for more of her see Bird and Heat) who gives an earthy, kooky depth to the normally-thankless girlfriend role, which makes her sudden death at the start of the second act much more shocking, and Orman (better known as Gordon from the TV show Sesame Street) as Dennehy's weary boss - check out the nicely-timed variation on the I'm-putting-you-on-suspension scene. With suspenseful location photography by Miroslav Ondricek and great stuntwork by Frank Ferrara and Victor Magnotta, this is an innovative, funny and exciting action thriller all the way. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Even the Art of Illusion could stand a little plausibility...","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" New York City crime boss, soon to go on trial against his cohorts, needs to be eliminated via simulation to distract the Mob; two government agents enlist the aid of a special effects movie-wizard to set up a phony assassination--though the 30 G's they pay him consequently includes the movie-man also pulling the trigger. This original screenplay by Robert T. Megginson and Gregory Fleeman would appear to be a real pip, at least until common sense prevails and the whole thing begins to look like a house of cards. Bryan Brown is fine in the lead, giving us a good sense of his fear and paranoia without losing his dignity, but the rest of the players do not fare as well. Brian Dennehy--portraying one of those put-upon police lieutenants always on the verge of being forced into turning in his badge--slips into wily caricature, while the ladies in the cast are used as either targets or gophers. The film has ingenuity but no spirit, and the final game of cat-and-mouse (though possibly satisfying for those attracted to movie-shorthand) strains credulity. A sequel featuring Brown and Dennehy followed five years later. ** from **** "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This was close to a 7 vs an 8, but I decided to give it the benefit of the doubt. And, the single reason why was because it was a new idea.Like any action movie, there are parts of it that are implausible and probably ridiculous. However, as this movie was predicated upon the good guy being an expert at misdirection, smoke and mirrors and pretend, it was relatively easy to accept many seemingly absurd events. My typical objection is when someone that is a middle manager by day gets in trouble and suddenly figures out how to wire a nuclear bomb. At least as an FX expert, you assume he can do just about anything with special effects.Consequently, the action was good, the story was fine and the acting was adequate. Personally, I felt that the acting job by Brian Dennehey was exceptionally good and I felt he stole the show.I would have liked to have seen a little tighter ending. I have NO idea how Brown knew where to go at the end of the movie. I felt that he was making major assumptions when he attacked the guy in the park - how did he know there weren't more of them? I can't imagine he would have hid in the boat store rather than nearby. And, so forth. But, that is par for the action course.All in all, not bad. Certainly well worth the time on HBO. "},{"Title":"entertaining suspense movie","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is fun. Brown (the star) and Dennehy (introduced later in the film, but who ends up being more of a co-star) turn in very good performances (especially Dennehy, who has made quite a few movies work by his presence). The movie is tricky enough to be fun, and superficially plausible enough to not be distracting while you watch it. The effects are a little dated now, as is the general look of the movie, but it holds up well overall. Also, despite the high body count, it's not a mean-spirited movie. And you know who the good guy is and you get to root for him... "},{"Title":"A great mix of action, drama, and comic moments.","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I've always thought that this movie was very unique in that the main characters don't meet until the end of the film.  This was the first film I saw with Brian Dennehy and it made him one of my favorite actors.  To be sure though, he and Brown were cast very well in the lead roles and the supporting cast (with little exception) all helped in taking a strong script and turning it into a truly great film.  The movie is anything but formulaic or predictable and because of this, it stands above so many movies. It will keep you guessing and glued to the screen until the very satisfying ending.  "},{"Title":"Why you shouldn't trust authority","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Provides a cautionary tale of trusting authority figures. One of the most unique and entertaining movies I've seen. Solid performances from Brian Dennehy and Bryan Brown. The ending is just and logical, although not to the old Code.  "},{"Title":"Inventive movie and very entertaining","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  F/X is a highly enjoyable movie.  It's not the best movie ever to come out of Hollywood, but it is original, fairly well acted and very entertaining. The only exception being the young blonde actress who plays Rollie's assistant.  She is quite literally the worst actress I have ever seen. However, in its own strange way, that adds to the entertainment value of the movie.  If you missed this movie when it was out, it is well worth the cost of a rental to catch it now.  "},{"Title":"Unpleasant Journey with Unpleasant Companions","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Given the glowing reviews for this movie, I am surprised at how much I disliked it. The movie has more than its share of glaring plot holes&#151; some reviewers warn against examining all plot elements too closely. This is an indulgence I will (reluctantly) respect since the movie, in my opinion, has a much more serious and grating problem.What I found off-putting about the movie is that, except for Diane Venora's brief role as Bryan Brown's girlfriend, there is not a sympathetic character to be found anywhere. Brown's character&#151;the heart of the story after all-- starts off a likable everyman. but becomes increasingly less so as the story proceeds until he devolves into a cold-blooded killer, indifferent to the carnage he is creating around him&#151;- not every federal agent has to die-- and corrupt, too. In the van chase scene, he is oblivious to the public menace he is causing in using his f/x tricks. (This could have been mitigated with a single line of dialog or a look of concern; but, never mind.) I wanted to like Martha Gehman's character as Brown's assistant, but she lost me with her gleeful I wish I could have seen the look on his face when she tricked the pursuing detective into thinking he had run over a woman. Finally, the transformation of Brian Dennehy's character into just another corrupt cop left me with a distinct sour taste at the end of the movie. After everything is said and done, for Brown and Dennehy it's all about the money. Even Schwarzenegger was never this cynical in his movies. The last thing that bothered me is that I always presumed movie special effects were to keep the actors safe. Since here they are used to kill, it seems like a betrayal of their purpose.On the positive side, I had no problems with the casting or acting. Maybe things improved in f/x 2. I can only hope. "},{"Title":"Is it illusion or is it reality?","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" F/X was one of my favorite thriller of the 80's, a genuinely fun action film that takes itself just seriously enough to make its story credible but at the same time remains blissfully free of the delusions of grandeur that have led to so many overproduced, ultimately empty headed and painfully dull thrillers over the past couple of years. In short, F/X is the type of unpretentious, engaging film that could never be made by a Michael Bay or most of the other directors produced out of the Jerry Bruckhiemer.The film's main strength comes from the cast who all seem to be having a good time on screen and bring a surprising sense of conviction to roles that could easily have been played as B-movie stereotypes. Bryan Brown is one of those charismatic, obviously talented leading men who rarely gives a bad performance yet for whatever reason (though making movies like Cocktail probably didn't help) has never become a bona fide star. Playing the lead in this film, he proves that he did have the talent and the charisma to be a leading man and indeed, his low-key but likable lead performance is responsible for a great deal of F/X's strength. As the gruff police detective who becomes Brown's ally, Brian Dennehey is well, he's Brian Dennehey and, as always, that's more than good enough. That said, he also brings a welcome sense of humor to the proceedings and he proves once again that nobody in the 80's delivered profanity as wittily and skillfully as Brian Dennehey. The rest of the cast is full of character actors who all turn in nicely quirky performances with the standouts being Diane Venora who is sweet as Brown's girlfriend (whose ultimate fate if predictable is also well handled and rather sad), Cliff De Young who gives perhaps his best variation on his standard Yuppie henchman role in this film, Joe Grifasi as Dennehey's put upon partner, Mason Adams who perfectly captures the essence of everyone's kindly but kinda strange uncle, and the great Jerry Orbach who, playing a mobster with an all-important pace maker, overacts as if the world depending on it but is still a lot of fun to watch because, after all, he's Jerry Orbach. Still, there a some very clever things in here and the movie provides good suspense and excellent twists. You never know what to expect. The film was popular enough to spawn a sequel.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great suspense film","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" F/X was an unexpected surprise for me. I found the title late one night, and the description drew me in immediately. I don't know of any other films with a special effects guy in the lead and I can guarantee there aren't any about said special effects guy faking a murder and being caught up in the subsequent fallout. The direction from Robert Mandel was sharp and intelligent. I enjoyed his use of longer shots, and the special effects of the movie itself still held up decently today (can't say that for much of the 80's). Mandel kept the action taut, and the suspense high. Performances in the film ran both ends of the spectrum, Megginson carried the movie well as the slick and clever Rollie. I found him to be a much more effective physical actor than an emotional one. Dennehy gave a great performance of a cop on the line, and became the one I really rooted for during the film. On the opposite end, Rollie's right hand girl Andy (played by Gehman) was poor, some of her lines were painfully delivered.F/X took a novel idea and turned it into a great suspense film. This could have easily turned out into a spoof or a comedy film, but it was a wise choice to keep it earnest and visceral. This is on my short list of top suspense films for sure. "}{"Title":"If Hitchcock had lived to the 1980s, this is the kind of movie he would have done","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Great latter day film noir/ mystery flick has an arrogant special effects man Rollie Tyler (Bryan Brown) in NYC being hired by the FBI to fake the death of a mob informant. Things don't go according to anyone's plans.There's murder on the rain-soaked streets of Manhattan, trenchcoats, false moustaches, mistaken identities, a good looking sacrificial lamb (Diane Venora) , hard-headed stooge cops hilarious in their incompetency, and a great twist ending. Film also has a bit of a 'behind the scenes' feel to it, as we see some of the creation of the makeup and some of the effects.Screenplay leaves a bunch of open ends and unanswered questions, but that is part of its appeal, its mysteries are never solved. Yet, the film is very well written, with the screenwriters employing the theory of Checkhov's Gun many times throughout the rain-soaked streets in the opening scene set up the later rainstorm, which was necessary to get Tyler in the doorway and undetected by the cops trying to kill him; Tyler's latex wrist makeup in an early scene is used to his great effect at the film's end; we are discretely shown Mason's earpiece several times early on, which also plays a role in the film's climax; DeFranco's pacemaker, and on and on. A great little obscure thriller, with a great fight between Tyler and gunman in the apartment one of the highlights. Another highlight is Tyler's burglar alarm. "},{"Title":"Not so Special F/X","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" There's some great potential in the basic premise of this 80s cult hit conspiracy thriller, but unfortunately its wasted by its rather shoddy execution. The first act is fairly intriguing, but things quickly begin to unravel after the plot has been hatched and by the end there are plot holes big enough to drive a semi-truck through.Bryan Brown never quite finds his footing as our supposed hero, and then suddenly the film shoves Brian Dennehy into the mix and Brown's character suddenly finds himself in a timeshare that serves to undermine not only his character, but the entire story.The final act fails to tie the whole conspiracy up in a satisfying way, and the end is flat-out ridiculous. All in all, 'F/X' is a big disappointment that doesn't live up to its hype. "},{"Title":"Darker then I remember","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Bryan Brown and Brian Dennehey star in this tale of an FX man hired to fake the death of a mob boss. But when the 'hit' is carried out was it really a fake? Our hero is left to find out using his FX skills to investigate.I hadn't seen this movie for a number of years but caught it on TV a few nights ago and the first thing that struck me was how dark and serious this movie is in places. I won't spoil it but there are some surprisingly violent scenes and there are a couple of fatalities you just don't expect. Its a gripping movie and the suspense keeps up through out Bryan Brown makes an engaging and down to earth hero the FX tricks are pretty cool if a little silly at times. Brian Denehhey is as ever reliable in the supporting role whats surprising is that I didn't realise how little time Brown and Denehhey appear together on screen in this film.The main cast returned for a sequel which was entertaining but not as good as the first.Definitely worth a watch 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"F/X (1986)","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  F/X is a strange little thriller about a superb special effects maestro (Barry Brown) on the run from two FBI agents, who double crossed him after they recruited him to use SFX wizardry for the Witness Protection Act. (Phew!) Okay I admit I couldn't follow the plot 100% of the way through because it was late at night and I was really tired. But what I did see of it didn't seem too bad, but I did find the ending a little odd. Rating 2/5 "},{"Title":"Intriguing","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great movie considering that it's slightly dated. The clever plot has you constantly guessing. You really don't know who to trust. Even though the special effects are minimal compared to today's standards, they are carried out rather well and are quite believable in some instances. Good stuff here...watch it for what it is not when it was made! "},{"Title":"Great Special effects movie!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I love how well reality and illusion are blurred in this fast paced, thrill a minute movie.  The only way it could have been better is if Dennehy put more feeling into his part.  Bryan Brown, Mason Adams, and Cliff De Young really stood out.  A GREAT movie! "},{"Title":"It's no illusion...this is a good flick!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Pop a bowl of popcorn (plenty of butter and salt please), sit back, and prepare to be entertained by this tale of a special effects master who's conned into arranging the murder of an underworld figure. This movie surprised me when I first viewed it, and somehow it continues to have staying power. Bryan Brown is an engaging actor, and Brian Dennehy has got to be one of the most underrated actors in the business. Together they make a great team; had the short-lived TV series managed to get them back together chances are it'd still be on the air. "},{"Title":"Great film.Keeps you guessing what's gonna happen next","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A great film. It kept me on the edge guessing what was gonna happen next. The cast was great and watching Bryan Brown in one of his best films do the special effects thing was great. A great, entertaining film with a great ending.  "},{"Title":"Surprise!","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen this one, and considered it somewhat mediocre. I have the F/X on video, but never bothered to put it in my VCR again. Yesterday I saw it in TV and was stunned. It has more to it than simple 13 years special effects. It has Jerry Orbach, who never dies. It has Brian Dennehy, the Bad Lieutenant. On the other half, . But the screenplay! It is excellent! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This must be one of the best films of all time.  I know that it is a typically eighties movie (which you can see by the style of it), but nevertheless I think that everyone will enjoy it.  With the following of the equally brilliant F/X 2 in 1991, I really enjoyed that too.  The series (and the pilot for the series) doesn't do the film justice.  It was, nowhere nearly as good as the original.  There is no replacement for Bryan Brown or Brian Dennehy as Rollie and Leo. "}{"Title":"Fun","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" F/X is a fun film concerning a special effects expert who is hired by the CIA to supervise a sting operation concerning a slimy crime boss. Unfortunately for him he's being set up as the patsy in a plot by the law officials themselves.Good story in an entertaining thriller that doesn't take itself too seriously and throws in a lot of humorous situations to lighten the mood. Bryan Brown and Brian Dennehy are old pros who could sleepwalk through roles like these and their presence gives the film added value. Jerry Orbach is always fun to watch and he delivers in the bad guy role. The script is well written and original, the movie is fast paced and suspenseful and wickedly funny at times. It's not hard to recommend this film. "},{"Title":"outdated pre-CGI fun","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A clever idea becomes, under director Robert Mandel's pedestrian supervision, a mechanical thriller able to stay one short step ahead of the viewer. The best way to appreciate it (and this is obvious very early in the film) is to simply throw disbelief to the wind and settle back to enjoy watching movie special effects (F/X) wizard Bryan Brown use his trade to evade corrupt government agents who want him dead to remove all evidence of&#x85;but why go on? None of it makes any sense, least of all the incongruous aerial tour of the Swiss Alps over the end credits. But the film is quick, has an engaging protagonist, and features reliable scene-stealer Brian Dennehy in the requisite cop role. If it all seems a shade too conventional just remember the telltale exchange of dialogue in the opening scene, when Brown's actress girlfriend sighs, No one wants to see movies about people anymore&#x85; You don't say. "},{"Title":"Fairly Effective","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What we have here is a classic noir arrangement -- characters are ground up in the machinery of fate. But there are several interesting embellishments.Overtly, it is a movie about movie-making; underneath this, there is a effortless feel to how it alludes to its genre components monster flicks, sci-fi, slasher/horror, gangster shoot 'em ups. The opening 'movie within a movie' sequence references The Godfather and forms the template for the 'murder'. Scarface (both of them) is heavily quoted.The premise is largely the Mission Impossible TV series -- everything revolves around actors playing characters who assume identities and then abandon them; identities defined by cosmetics.The parts that engage are the detective genre borrowings carried by Dennehy. He is our surrogate within the story. Both he and Brown defeat the noir machinery, mostly by prestidigitation and illusion. The main story and the detective story dovetail together quite neatly.What held this back is the mediocre visual narrative - it doesn't assume its life as a director's vision, but as a written work. Mandel isn't up to the task - this could have been special in the right hands. "},{"Title":"Good concept, flawed execution","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It's refreshing to see an action movie that doesn't limit itself to guns and bombs. The moviemakers deserve an awful lot of credit just for that simple idea, which has alluded so many others.The actors are all good in their roles. The ending was a pleasant surprise.However, a bit too much suspension of belief is required for my taste. For example, when the police officer is investigating the case he finds that the men arrested for killing the man in the phone booth have sequential social security numbers. But how and when were they arrested? The movie never shows us, and it's hard to surmise that they were caught.Secondly, antagonist Mason seems to have ten or more co-conspirators, which would significantly dilute the shares of the $15 million that they all expect a piece of. In the IMDb credits, some of these co-conspirators are billed as Mason's henchman, which puts me in mind of Batman.Finally, it's a stretch to believe that a special effects man, whose forte is illusion, can so easily use his craft to kill people instead. In the final sequence, when he kills six or more of the bad guys, he shows none of the angst or remorse that any ordinary person would feel had they done the same thing.Granted, movies like this one deserve a little more slack in terms of suspension of belief than certain other genres, but a little too much is taken for my tastes, particularly when it comes to the protagonist killing without an emotional reaction. "},{"Title":"What is the end music?","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed this film today on TV & loved the final piece of music. I remembered it from years ago but cannot remember the artists name. I looked on the cast and crew list on this site and that did not help me find the artist. The plot really kept me guessing & I was often pleasantly surprised by the twists and turns.What a pleasure to see Gerry Orbach.Can anyone help me find out who the artist is?I've tried searching on the internet, iTunes, eBay & Amazon but failed so far.Many thanks, Martin "},{"Title":"Gimmicky but interesting.","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Bryan Brown is a special effects expert hired by federal agents Cliff De Young and Mason Adams to arrange a phony execution for the state's valuable witness against the mob. When the fifteen million bucks that hangs in the balance is recovered, the cooperative witness, Jerry Orbach, will be spirited away and put in a witness relocation program.The problem is that it's a scam. De Young and Adams and Orbach are in cahoots. An innocent man is assassinated and Brown is framed for the job. Instead of being killed himself, by De Young, as planned, Brown makes his escape and hides in the apartment of his girl friend, Diane Venora. This is a fine place to hide, what with the gorgeous and sexy Venora slinking around in her slip. But the evildoers locate her place and she is killed accidentally. Bryan manages to off her murderer after a brutal fight in the apartment.The NYPD in the person of Brian Dennehy are called in on the homicide. Suspicion immediately falls on Brown, but Dennehy has grave doubts about his guilt and suspects the Feds are bent. I think this is one of those movies in which the FBI are called by some other acronym -- the PDQ or the QED or the OMG or something.Dennehy is one of those aggressive cops with an abundance of self confidence and an abrasive attitude towards his superiors and he's forced, in a ritual scene, to hand over his gun and badge. Nevertheless, he continues his investigation, as suspended movie cops are wont to do. Bryan Brown is investigating from the other end.This, I believe, is one of those movies called high concept. That is, the plot is built around a particular idea -- a location, a new machine (Robocop), or some other device. In this case, the gimmick is Brown's expertise with special effects. He uses squibs, prosthetics, blank cartridges, bottle rockets, smoke bombs, dummies, and other fakery to outwit his enemies. Sometimes the tactics are pretty low tech. He dumps some oil out of the back of his van during a pursuit and the cop cars skid into one another.Otherwise, it's a rather routine thriller with a couple of worthwhile high spots.Brown's visage seems more suited to light comedy than to drama. Dennehy is stolid and admirable in the firmness of his convictions. Venora is scrumptious. The pace is fast, the movie sufficiently involving, and afterward forgettable. "},{"Title":"Fine but not a very good one.","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Quite a good movie but the story getting bored and bored through the end. It seems that the suspense has disappeared from early beginning of the movie.The first part of the movie is excellent. The audience probably do not understand what happened. If the rest of it can be done similar way. It will be a totally worth watching story. "}]