[{"Title":"Something about your face makes me want to slap the sh*t out of it!","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers!From the very moment I saw a local film critic trash this movie in a review on the 1000 news, I wanted to see it. I don't remember who it was, or which local Omaha newscast carried the review, but the critic was very insistent that this film was way too sleazy for the average church-going Nebraskan. They showed a snippet from the scene where John Glover is about to kidnap Ann-Margret when she's swimming in the pool. Glover's character is commending her on how nice her body is and so forth, using many words that the local station felt necessary to edit out. I was hooked. There was one problem, though. I was only 13 years old at the time, and I had to wait a year until it came out on cable. Let's just say, it was worth the wait!If ever there was a guilty pleasure of mine, this movie is it. To call this film sleazy would be a huge understatement. The film centers around a successful businessman who is blackmailed by three small time scumbags after an affair with a young woman. Roy Scheider, who is as effective as ever, plays the poor guy who just wanted a little fling and now finds himself at the mercy of three terrific villains. John Glover's character is one of the most memorable scumbags of all time. He's sleazy, funny at times, and always on the brink of doing something crazy. Then there's Robert Trebor's (nice name, by the way!) character Leo who is clearly in over his head with this blackmail scheme. He is a whimpering, sweating, coward who runs a peep show place with live nude models. Then, you have Clarence Williams III as Bobby Shy, a brooding sociopath who everyone is afraid of with good reason. Who could forget the wake-up call he gives Vanity with the giant teddy bear?After dealing with the initial shock of realizing what he's up against, Scheider turns the tables on these creeps and takes control of the situation, that is until Glover goes after his wife! The conflict is played out brutally, with virtually the entire cast getting shot, raped, or blown up. I don't know why I love this movie so much. It really should creep me out, but it doesn't. Maybe it's because these characters are all interesting, and the story takes plenty of chances that most films today would never try. It's scary to think that the adult film industry probably has more than a few characters like Glover's running around out in L.A. looking for trouble. Just thinking about his voice is enough to make me chuckle. Hey sport, have a nice day!This film has plenty of shootouts, cool cars, great dialog (like the line in my opening statement), and decent acting. Plenty of cameos by real life porno stars. Look for Ron Jeremy frolicking around in a hot tub with two chicks in a party scene at Glover's place. Another thing I must add How hot are the women in this film??? Wow! Travolta did right by marrying Kelly Preston. Yum! We also see Vanity get nude in a time before she became a born again Christian. And Ann-Margret. What else could you say about her except that she is the quintessential American Beauty. 9 of 10 stars.So sayeth the Hound.Added Feb 14, 2008 RIP Roy Scheider! "},{"Title":"Underrated Film of 1986","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Seems out of place in time where the main emphasis in American films were on action and horror.  52 Pick Up(1986) is a film that's more suited to the middle years of the film noir genre during the mid 1940s.  Many old and modern themes are put together to create a gripping and well acted thriller.  Its roots are deep in Film Noir traditions and notions.The main villain is one of the most memorable heavies in thrillers of the last twenty years.  What makes the film so compelling are the realistic behavior of the villains who are into to something that's way over their heads.  The main villain, Alan Raimy is a cool talking but vicious blackmailer and murderer who goes into a war a nerves with nemesis, Harry Mitchell.  He is truly a frightening villain unlike in many crime thriller who's can explode at anytime or any second.52 Pick Up(1986) is based on a novel by Elmore Leonard whose work has been adapted into the big screen or television.  In the 1980s most of the Elmore Leonard based features were noirish, serious, and violent films..I.E., 52 Pick Up(1986), Stick(1985), Glitz(1987), and Cat Chaser(1989).  During the 1990s films based on Elmore Leonard's work tended to be more lighter and less sleezy and serious like for example, Get Shorty(1995), Jackie Brown(1997), Touch(1996), Out of Sight(1998), and the made for TV movie Pronto(1998).  52 Pick Up(1952) is one of my favorite films based on the crime novels of Elmore Leonard.The snuff murder sequence involving the murder of Cini played by Kelly Preston is chilling presented.  Similiar to the scenes of snuff that the main character sees in 8MM(1998).  A disturbing moment as disturbing as the Family massacre and torture home video of HenryPortrait of a Serial Killer(1986) from that same year.  Realisticly directed with emotional impact by director, John Frankenheimer.Filled with a good or excellent plot twist at every turn of the story.  The Plot twists in 52 Pick Up(1986) unlike in Reindeer Games(2000) are more believable and well toned.  Its the kind of plot twists shown in 52 Pick Up(1986) that shows Elmore Leonard's strengths as a writer and a master of surprising plot twists.  My favorite plot twist ocurrs at the end of the motion picture.Many of the actors of this motion picture give tight convincing performances that supplements the brilliantly crafted direction of John Frankenheimer.  Roy Scheider gives his character of Harry Mitchell a combination of human vererability and mental toughness.  Ann Margret pulls some surprises as the dissappointed but understanding wife, Barbara Mitchell.  John Glover puts on a charismatic performance as the ruthless but suave Alain Raimy.Carried by mood and attitude for the whole duration of the motion picture. Strong mood is what makes or breaks a Film Noir or crime thriller.  52 Pick Up(1986) has enough mood to last two films.  The mood in here is so tense to the point of glass breaking and walls shaking.There are no heroes in the world of 52 Pick Up, only Criminals and survivals.  Harry Mitchell is the ultimate anti hero that is part of Film Noir lore.  He is akin to many anti heroes played by Robert Mitchuim, Kirk Douglus, and other tough guys of the Film Noir period.  The toughest of tough guys portrayed by Roy Scheider in his long career.Clarence Williams 3 plays a character which he would do a varation of in the horrible Reindeer Games(2000).  He was much better in 52 Pick Up(1986) than he is in Reindeer Games(2000).  The blackmail aspect of 52 Pick Up(1986) appears in Reindeer Games with pathetic results.  Directed with gritt and intensity by the talented but inconsistent John Frankenheimer.Kelly Preston brings to her role a sense of naivity and tragedy all in one package.  The final moments are nail biting in the tradition of nail biting crime thrillers.  Overlooked film that is the type of film rarely made today in Hollywood in our PC world.  52 Pick Up(1986) shows that a crime thriller is more than action set pieces and flashy actors. "},{"Title":"Sleazy and effective thriller","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I've always liked this John Frankenheimer film. Good script by Elmore Leonard and the main reason this wasn't just another thriller is because of Frankenheimer. His taut direction and attention to little details make all the difference, he even hired porn star Ron Jeremy as a consultant! You can make a case that its the last good film Roy Scheider made. I've always said that Robert Trebor gave just a terrific performance. Clarence Williams III got all the publicity with his scary performance and he's excellent also but I really thought Trebor stood out. Frankenheimer may not be as proud of this film as others but it is an effective thriller full of blackmail, murder, sex, drugs, and real porno actors appear in sleazy parts. What can you say about a film that has Ann Margaret being shot up with drugs and raped? A guilty pleasure to say the least. Vanity has a real sleazy role and a very young Kelly Preston makes an early appearance. A classic exploitive thriller that shouldn't be forgotten. "},{"Title":"Hard boiled thriller. Brutal and rivetting.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I must have passed this movie in my local video store a dozen times without picking it off the shelf, thinking from the packaging, the era the movie was released in, and the presence of Ann-Margret and Tiffany, that it was just another generic action movie like an 80s Stallone, or 'Action Jackson'. Luckily a savvy movie buff recommended '52 Pick-Up' to me, for which I will be forever indebted. Closer inspection reveals the team behind this hard boiled thriller to be underrated director John Frankenheimer ('The Manhurian Candidate', 'Seconds') and crime fiction master Elmore Leonard. (hits forehead! WHY didn't I already KNOW this?!).Apart from the aesthetic LOOK of this movie, and a cheesy score, it in no way resembles your standard 80s action fare. It is a lot grittier, morally ambiguous and less predictable than that, and closer to the best 70s crime movies. Roy Scheider is solid as usual as a blackmailed businessman who decides to fight back, and Ann-Margaret surprises with a strong portrayal of betrayed wife. But the real stars here, and what makes this movie essential viewing, are the brilliantly realized bad guys - John Glover, Clarence Williams III and Robert Trebor. Trebor is perfect as the slimy, nervous weak link Leo. Williams III stunning as the amoral bad ass killer Bobby. And John Glover is simply perfect as their double-crossing, deliciously evil leader Raimy. '52 Pick-Up' is brutal and rivetting viewing that shines out as a beacon of 70s cool from an ocean of 80s dumb thrillers. Don't miss this one whatever you do!!  "},{"Title":"Another Winner By The Great John Frankenheimer","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Based on Elmore Leonard, this is a violent and intelligent action film. The story a business man is blackmailed by some 3 criminals. Roy Schieder does great job as the leading character and special credit's got to go to John Glover who plays sort of a naughty psychopath. I must mention that the villains characters are very complex and interesting - something that is very rare for an action film. also features some beautiful and sexy women - most notable are Kelly Preston as the young bate for Schieder's character. Vanity gives a very good performance and appearance as the hooker who is connected with the three blackmailers. I'm glad to say that Ann-Margaret still hasn't lost it - this lady is a true babe. Don't look at the rate of this film. I really don't know what the public and some critics have against this film but my suggestion is to ignore them and watch this truly gripping and under-rated film. You will enjoy it, that's a promise. Recommended A+. "},{"Title":"Polished Leonard","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I've only read one of Leonard's crime novels and it didn't impress me much with its style. The guy writes as if he's producing a technical manual with people instead of parts. But the plot was interesting and dense, as it is in this movie. Roy Scheider never turns in a bad performance, and here his face is beginning to look comely and battered with time. He's also from Orange, New Jersey, which is a good place to start from. Scheider is Harry, a morally flawed businessman with a mechanical bent. Ann-Margaret is breathtakingly good looking, and her performance is exceptional. The same could be said of Vanity, but her part is rather small. The villains are all superb. John Glover is a delight to watch on screen -- and to listen to -- with that slimy smile and midlands Maryland accent that descends into working-class vulgar when the situation calls for it. He's the kind of villain who would enjoy pulling hooks out of fish. He and Scheider played well off one another in The Last Embrace. Clarence Williams is a sort of doggedly cunning and brutal muscleman, done quietly but effectively.There's something oddly amusing about Williams' villainy. After Scheider and Ann-Margaret have clobbered him following a botched murder attempt (a little hard to believe), he sits in a chair having his picture taken while Scheider implants in his mind a few seeds of doubt about the probity of his partners in crime. An expression of dumb comprehension creeps slowly over his face and his eyes squint over his bleeding nose.Robert Trebor (terrific name, by the way, a palindrome) gives a nearly perfect imitation of a guy who is a sweating, shaking, desperately twitching nervous wreck, but still with his eye pinned on profit and, mostly, survival. What a trio of villains. The plot is, as I say, dense, but not difficult to follow. The story is in a style that Northrop Frye called low mimetic Scheider is no hero, and in fact no better than the rest of us. That's what makes his outwitting of the trio so interesting. Frankenheimer's direction is fine, no flashy shots or dazzling fireworks. The story pulls a viewer along on its own terms. Not a masterpiece, but a cleverly done genre piece, it's worth seeing. Can't imagine why people flock to schlock while a movie like this goes by mostly unnoticed. "},{"Title":"Elmore Leonard fans should NOT miss this one...","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great small film.  I say small because it doesn't have a hundred guns firing or a dozen explosions, as in a John Woo film.  Great performances by Roy Scheider and the three bad guys.  John Frankenheimer seems to have more luck with small productions these days.  The film is very easy to watch, the story is more of a yarn than a washing machine--instead of everything going around and around, it seems as though things just get worse as the plot thickens.  Wonderful ending, very positive.  I never read the Elmore Leonard book, but it can't be much different from the film because it FEELS like I'm watching an Elmore Leonard movie. "},{"Title":"Overlooked Gem!","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  52-Pick Up never got the respect it should have.  It works on many levels, and has a complicated but followable plot.  The actors involved give some of their finest performances.  Ann-Margret, Roy Scheider, and John Glover are perfectly cast and provide deep character portrayals.  Notable too are Vanity, who should have parlayed this into a serious acting career given the unexpected ability she shows, and Kelly Preston, who's character will haunt you for a few days. Anyone who likes action combined with a gritty complicated story will enjoy this.  "},{"Title":"Questioning your masculinity? Let this movie be your litmus test","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This slick and gritty film consistently delivers. It's one of Frankenheimer's best and most underrated films and it's easily the best Elmore Leonard adaptation to date (and if you are scratching your head thinking but I loved GET SHORTY you need to be punched in the face). In my opinion, no one captures the feel for Leonard's characters better then John Glover in 52 PICK-UP. The relocation of the story from Detroit (novel) to Hollywood (film) elevates the story's sleaze factor to amazing heights. Be a man, have a few beers and watch this movie. For reference purposes my favorite Leonard books are Swag, Rum Punch, Cat Chaser, City Primeval, and 52 Pick-Up. My favorite Frankenheimer films include SECONDS and THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE. I also have a real special place in my cold, movie heart for DEAD BANG and BLACK Sunday. "},{"Title":"forget 'catchaser', 'jackie brown' and especially 'get shorty'; this is elmore leonard at his very best!","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  my only problem with this excellant, overlooked thriller is how any right minded bloke would even think of having a mistress when he could get home to ann margret every night plus the non acting ability of vanity even though she gets to take her kit off which is worth seeing alone! this is a marvellous, gripping and blackly comic gem that's been unfairly ignored compared to other inferior elmore leonard adaptations a'la the aforementioned along with 'stick' and 'touch'. john glover and clarence williams are both very funny as the two heavies along with a whole medley of gorgeous topless babes whilst the whole thing is expertly directed with stoic professsionalism by veteran great john frankenheimer. his mother was irish you know. highly recommended!  "}{"Title":"Our marriage has lasted 23 years. That's longer than she's been alive!","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" 52 Pick-Up is directed by John Frankenheimer and written by Elmore Leonard (adapting from his own novel) and John Steppling. It stars Roy Scheider, Ann-Margret, John Glover, Vanity, Clarence Williams III, Robert Trebor and Kelly Preston. Music is by Gary Chang and cinematography by Jost Vacano and Stephen Ramsey. Successful business entrepreneur Harry Mitchell (Scheider) finds himself the victim of blackmail by three pornographers who have video evidence of his extramarital affair. With his wife about to embark on a new stage of her political career, the last thing Harry needs is a scandal, but when things take a turn for the worse Harry decides to use unorthodox methods to deal with the blackmailers. A nifty neo-noir this, certainly deserving of being better known in neo- noir circles. The presence of Leonard at the writing table ensures that the story doesn't drift too far away from his own source material, though location is moved to L.A. as opposed to the Detroit of the novel. Thematic thrust centres around Mitchell being caught for his indiscretions and what the consequences of his actions means for all around him, quite often with devastating results. Mitchell has to move about a seedy world of pornography, of cheap peekaboo bars, strip joints and snuff movies, he has to get to the level of his blackmailers so as to enact his plans with conviction. The three weasels played by Glover, Williams and Trebor are in turn slimy, menacing and a twitchy neurotic, an off-beat trio suitably framed by Frankenheimer's sleazy and cold world. It may not be prime Frankenheimer but the director knows his noir onions, both in performances garnered from his strong cast and via his visual ticks. Characters are more often than not smoking or drinking liquor, sweating or looking pained as the camera gets up close and personal, the director even finds place for a bit of slatted shadow play in one sequence and menacing angled shards for another. Some contrivances are more annoying than hindrances, it's a bit bloodless for a picture not lacking in action scenes, and although the finale is signposted without due care and attention, it is still sufficiently rewarding. Decadence, sleaze, greed, paranoia and moral decay come crashing together to create a sadly neglected piece of 1980s neo-noir. A yuppie revenger where there are no heroes, just sinners and victims. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Yuck!","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is definitely a Guy Flick, though the kind of guy who really enjoys this probably isn't somebody you'd feel good about trusting with your sister or daughter. Not being a guy myself, the appeal is elusive. Not that it isn't a well-crafted thriller; what points I gave it are an acknowledgment of that, but since it's my personal review I'm giving my subjective opinion. That can be pretty well summed up with a few adjectives VIOLENT, SLEAZY, REPULSIVE. It probably made money, though, and in the film industry that counts for a lot. Age restrictions were created especially to spare impressionable young minds the kind of imagery presented here. Makes you yearn for good clean sex and violence... Definitely on my list of films to never see again. "},{"Title":"One of the best crime flicks in decades","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Great crime novel becomes great film. Easily John Frankenheimer's best film in years and one of the greatest crime flicks of the last few decades. It really IS that good. Roy Scheider is blackmailed by a trio of degenerates led by John Glover in a tour-de-force psycho role you have to see to believe. Since he's not a guy to lie down and take it up the butt, Scheider fights back and, in the process, exposes the weaknesses within the group. The setting is LA's seedy porno world and there are real porn stars such as Jamie Gillis, Ron Jeremy and Amber Lynn on hand to lend credibility to an already credible scenario. Scheider's bait and switch manipulation of the kidnappers makes for great drama, as do his smart revenge tactics. There is a great snuff movie subplot, a horrible but hilarious filmed monologue from Glover, and achingly funny villain turns from Clarence Williams III and Leo Franks (what an actor he is!) Jost Vacano's camera-work is amazing at times, as is Gary Chang's metallic, vibrating score. Ann Margret turns in a memorable performance, too, so play close attention to her first scene with Glover (Nice rack!). I have never found fault with anything in 52 Pick-Up. Novel by Elmore Leonard, screenplay by Elmore Leonard. What could go wrong? "},{"Title":"Sleazy, dirty, and all around solid thriller","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Despite being an Elmore Leonard fan, I hadn't heard of this film version of 52 Pick-Up until earlier this year when it came to DVD, which is quite since now that I have viewed the movie, I can safely say that it is the best Leonard adaptation ever made. Part of the reason for that may be due to the fact that Leonard had a hand in writing the screenplay. However, I think most of the credit must go to director John Frankenheimer (may he rest in peace), a man who knew how to deliver action and suspense like few directors ever could. Frankenheimer brought together an amazing cast with great performances by Roy Scheider as the hero of the story, Ann-Margret as his wife, John Glover as one of the villains, and Kelly Preston as Scheider's mistress. Preston's performance is most surprising given that she hasn't been given a real character to work in well over a decade. Her scenes are also amongst the most disturbing. The only flaw in the picture is that sometimes the disturbing images are given too much time on screen instead of the hero's reactions to what is going on around him. Even for a 21-year-old film, there are plenty of shocking moments that work better than those compared to the trashy horror flicks and thrillers released today. Viewing 52 Pick Up will require a shower afterwards for most people. It's sleazy and dirty, though it's also all around solid throughout. Highly recommended. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Rough love.","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Lean, mean and explosively dangerous sordid thriller (with a noir vibe) by director John Frankenheimer and penned by gritty crime writer Elmore Leonard who's details plaster in an authentic charge. Roy Scheider's head-strong performance is creditability good and Ann-Margret favourably so. Where they play a married couple Harry and Barbara Mitchell, as their work commitments seems to come first in their decaying 22 years old marriage. What comes to blows is that Harry is having an affair and soon finds himself being blackmailed for it. Instead of giving in to the blackmailer's demands, he sorts out to play their games which lead him and his wife in to uncertain turmoil.But in the end what makes the film are three prominent bad guys; John Glover (charismatically manipulative scumbag), Clarence Williams III (coldly intense) and Robert Trebor (seamlessly twitchy). Each adding their own distinguishable traits and clashing personalities that would go on to become their eventual downfalls, which Scheider's character perfectly sets out to achieve. As they soon turn on each other and watch as the tables are constantly turn in who's actually in control of the situation. Leonard's dedicated material is highly engrossing in its impulsive layout (no one is truly spared from its cruel and sleazy tone), and Frankenheimer's tough-as-nails direction is brisk, leering and intensely full-blooded in its conviction to the premise. Some set-pieces truly stand-out mixing morbidly uncomfortable humour with blaring violence.Rounding off the cast you have a young Kelly Preston who's believably naïve and Vanity is palatable as one of the strippers working in the seedy LA backdrop. Also popping in are porn stars Ron Jeremy and Amber Lynn. Jost Vacano's burnish cinematography is on the spot, the editing is tidely spliced and Gary Chang's electrifying score packs a consuming rhythm.Simply put this has got to be one of the best harrowing thrillers of the 80s (probably Cannon's most commendable production in its typical staples), that even harks back to the searing roughness of the benchmark 70s hard-boiled fodder.Leonard's source material was used two years earlier in director J. Lee Thompson's middle east political thriller 'The Ambassador'. "},{"Title":"A very underrated film for it's time","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I didn't know that Elmore Leonard was the author who's book this story is based off of and that's entertaining since I am a fan of his work and it makes sense since this movie/story fits his line of literary work.When I had first seen the coming attractions for this movie which must of been around 1987 (I was ten) I remember they emphasized the part where Bobby Shy came out the closet with a ski mask lunging for the main character. When I actually seen this movie was back in 1988 through cable and I was a bit disappointed due to the fact that I was mislead from what they've emphasized in the coming attractions a year earlier. I say this because they really made that part a major visual I guess to make it it's main selling point. I mean what's more scarier than a black man coming out of the closet with a ski mask looking to strangle you in a pitch black house? Now before people mention racism, relax, I am black. Anyway by seeing that small tid bit was really small to a much bigger movie, and I had lost interest in seeing it but I was young so what the hell did I know.Years later, I watched this movie again and must say that it's very good and it's a shame that with movies such as this, 'To Live and Die in LA' and 'Carpenters Big Trouble in Little China' shows that even in the 80's, the critics sway public opinion so much that real art isn't appreciated when it's freshly shown.I like this movie because despite the typical story plot, the movie revolves around all the characters. You are actually shown to a point, the personal lives and affairs of all involved and how they interact with one another. I like this because this is something rare in film nowadays.I gave this movie a 9 out 10 because despite it's greatness (that I find in it), there's still something dry and stiff about it. Perhaps, it has to do with the era it was made in which is far removed in comparison of the present times we live in but then again most of what was done in the movie is as realistic as it gets. "},{"Title":"Tight fisted gritty realism.","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" 52 Pick-up is a film that successfully combines those wonderful noir elements of seedy neighborhoods, coldblooded killers and a no nonsense script.The story begins with the obviously troubled marriage of Harry and Barbara Mitchell (Roy Scheider and Ann Margret). You immediately can tell that things are not right simply by the way they look at each other.We soon learn that Harry is having an affair with a nude model, Cini (Kelly Preston). Unbeknownst to him she was hired by a trio of blackmailers to set him up in a compromising position that they filmed.The trio are wonderfully cast. John Glover is the cold and calculating Alan Raimy, the brains of the bunch. Clarence Williams III gives a chilling performance as Bobby Shy, a heartless killer devoid of all pity. Little known Robert Trebor excellently portrays Leo Franks, a whining, pathetic loser who is simply not in the same league as Alan and Bobby.On a visit to his mistress, Harry is intercepted by the trio who show him the film they've made of him and Cini. One of the funniest lines in the movie is delivered here when Alan says to Harry, you rascal. Harry is required to pay $105,000.00 to get the film and avoid exposure. As luck would have it, Barbara has been chosen to run for the Los Angeles city council. Any scandal would doom her political career.Harry decides that there's no way he's going to pay. This elevates the stakes and the trio decide that swift and brutal action is called for. Alan stages a break-in of Harrys home and steals clothing and Harry's P-9 pistol. Harry is now forced to watch a second film, except this is a filming of Cini being murdered by Harry's gun.Harry now decides his only option is to fight back. He brilliantly does so by turning the trio on each other in a series of clever moves and ruses, beginning with the spineless Leo. As the saying goes, there is no honor among thieves. The trio immediately begins to self destruct with deadly consequences.This film is well paced and has enough twists and turns to more than keep your interest. It is however far too graphic for younger viewers. "},{"Title":"Interesting thriller from John Frankenheimer","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Based on a novel by Elmore Leonard, 52 Pick Up is a thriller based on blackmail and murder. The film is directed by John Frankenheimer, who previously made his mark on the thriller genre with the likes of The Manchurian Candidate and Seconds. 52 Pick Up doesn't exactly stand alongside those films as part of Frankenheimer's best work; but this film delivers an entertaining and easy to follow plot, fleshed out with interesting characters and a nicely sleazy atmosphere. We are introduced to Harry Mitchell; a war veteran turned successful businessman. Harry has been having an affair, and it soon transpires that three men have found out about it and decided that Harry has to pay them $105,000 or they will let the cat out of the bag to his wife, which will affect her political ambitions as well as put him in the dog house. But Harry has decided that he doesn't really want to give $105,000 of his money away to blackmailers, and so instead he tries to pit them against each other in the hope that the group will implode and save him from having to pay out.The plot we have here has a number of different sides to it, but it never feels overly complicated thanks to the way it usually just focuses on one or two points. The film remains interesting throughout thanks to this, and while the plot has a few problems; the fact that it's entertaining mostly ensures that these problems aren't too important. The film benefits from a good cast, which is headed by Roy Scheider in the lead role. Scheider gives a good performance and he suits his character well. The support cast is also good and features John Glover in the most interesting role, as well as the likes of Ann-Margret and Clarence Williams III, as a delightfully sadistic character. The plot points such as the snuff film and links to sex clubs ensure that the film has a heavy lining of sleaze, which is right on the money. The conclusion isn't all that inventive, but it works well within the context of the film and doesn't let the audience down. Overall, 52 Pick Up is an interesting and well done little thriller, and I'd certainly recommend seeing it. "},{"Title":"Excellent all around","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Having just seen this film again recently, I recalled how much I had enjoyed it when originally released.It has all the edge and quality of plot and characters one expects from Elmore Leonard stories. And the characters, performances are all believable, realistic - with a lot of the chilling aspects required by the plot, but none are gratuitous or exaggerated beyond what would be logically expected.Roy Scheider is more anti-hero than a one-dimensional heroic character, and John Glover is superb as the main villain, and carries-off the tough assignment of being both charming and menacing - sometimes separately, and sometimes simultaneously, a tough assignment for any actor.The remaining cast, including Ann-Margret, Clarence Williams III and Kelly Prestin are excellent, as well.The ending does not disappoint, and the the whole presentation combines the techniques available when made with a total feel like one of the noir genre of the 30's and 40's. "},{"Title":"oh yeah...","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Just saw this film and was extremely impressed for a film from 1986. The only thing irritating was the way the bad guy called our hero sport all the time, and his wife slim. However, that criticism aside, what a great film. They don't make them like this anymore. Loved the Kelly Presten scene to. Total snuff.Some great performances throughout and especially Roy Schieder. I love his ability to dissolve into his roles. Fanatastic actor and I think this was his last great role. One more gripe it would be great to re-do the soundtrack with a modern composer though, as this one was full of cheese... "}{"Title":"A Very Underrated Movie.","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What is unique about this picture is the way Roy Scheider turns the tables on his nemesis John Glover and company by outwitting them at their own game. Truly, an underrated crime drama masterpiece. Excellent acting on all parts with plenty of witty humour.  "},{"Title":"Vanity/Ann Margret/John Glover fans SEE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Roy Scheider is a cheating husband who complicates life for his political hopeful wife, Ann Margret.  She gives a many faceted performance, and you'll cheer when she gets in touch with her feelings about cheating husbands. John Glover plays a villain, and he will leave a bad taste in your mouth. He does an excellent job being the bad guy, you'll never forget him in this role.  Roy Scheider is cast into a world of sleazy women, cliche' stereotype gay men and conscience free killers.  Clarence Williams III (he played Prince's father in Purple Rain) is ironicly cast as Vanity's boyfriend in this movie.  (Vanity was originally cast for the female lead in Purple Rain, but left Prince during production. 'The Beautiful ones always smash the picture'.)  Clarence has an interesting scene with Vanity and a teddy bear. This is Vanity's best work as an actress, she was the perfect casting choice in this role. She plays a nudie model in a sleazy pay by the hour polaroid porn house.  She debuts talent here, as well as her first breast enhancement surgury. She's at her finest for those who love her for her sexy image, but she has some fine acting moments.  She does not turn in any musical performances, for those of you who care.  It doesn't take much to shock me, but Kelly Preston's (now Mrs. John Travolta) moments onscreen were hardcore...  Let's just say graphic is the best way to describe it. That's all I'm saying about that...  You'll see recognizable porn actors & actresses in their element, and you'll feel for Ann Margret's character. See this movie.   "},{"Title":"Sleazebags vs. cold selfish people in implausible, pretentious pseudo-noir","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" First of all, how plausible is this? In 1986 L.A., the most jaded town in the world, we are asked to believe that a businessman who is not even running for office would be a credible candidate for blackmail because his proto-Hillary-esque wife IS running for office. The sleazeball blackmailers honey-trap him using a love-interest cohort and assume, rightly (this is unbelievable in my opinion), that he will want it covered up to protect his WIFE's political ambitions. Would the average voter in L.A. in 1986 have given a damn about a political candidate's spouse being caught in an extramarital affair? OK, so this piece of nonsense is the MacGuffin to set the plot of this full-of-itself, not-as-clever-as-it-thinks-it-is, self-consciously 'neo-noir' flick in motion.Next, we get a full-bore tour of the world of L.A. porn (complete with cameos by many porn stars from the era), nudie peepshows, and dive bars, the world the sleazeballs (a smirking white pedophile sociopath, a scowling crackhead black sociopath, and a sweaty, cowardly, fat, gay alcoholic non-sociopath who realizes too late that the two other scumbags are heartless creeps who play for keeps and that he is in too deep) inhabit. Long sections of the movie revel in every gamy, seamy nuance of this tawdry subculture- cheap voyeurism dressed up as realism.Finally, we have our protagonists Harry (Mitch) Mitchell (a Korean War vet, tough as nails, etc.- so tough he has not one but two nicknames; you can imagine all the other clichés that attach to this character) who we are asked to believe is really a good-hearted, honest businessman who made one mistake, played with by-the-numbers machismo by Roy Scheider, previously so good in The French Connection, Jaws, and All That Jazz. And his wife, who, when Harry finally tells her about the affair (he has to- the blackmailers have upped the ante in a horrible way that implicates him in things far worse than adultery- to say more would be a spoiler), doesn't care about the human cost or potential victims but only about how it may affect her political ambitions. This character is played by Ann-Margret. She too is supposed to be tough as nails, but her early scenes are simply by-the-numbers wronged-wife haranguing and in her later scenes she is a drugged, submissive, moaning victim- a cliché of female subordination rescued by the macho man in her life. Neither character expresses a whit of compassion, empathy, or love toward each other or toward the third-party victims of their actions or those of the blackmailers.In other words, there are no sympathetic characters in this film, apparently something all the positive reviewers on this thread find commensurate with noir. Maybe they should take another look at classic noir, whether 1946's The Big Sleep or 1974's Chinatown or 1941's The Maltese Falcon. All have sleaze and human ignobility galore, but all also have sympathetic protagonists whom we root for in spite of their flaws.The redeeming features of this film are the performances of John Glover, Clarence Williams III, and Robert Trebor as the three blackmailers. All eventually get their comeuppance. There is also one terrific scene of a car and its occupant being blown to smithereens in a satisfying act of vengeance. But otherwise this movie is an over- long, over-blown, full-of-itself, unpleasant waste of time. If this is indicative of Leonard and his literary and cinematic view of noir, then the genre is degraded and devoid of wit since the days of Chandler and Hammett. But then there are people who think that Stephen King's hyperventilated horror is fine art and entertainment, and that Joyce Carol Oates is a novelist and essayist who can actually write. There is no accounting for taste and critical judgment. "},{"Title":"A disappointment for everyone involved","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" There are a few positive things I can say about 52 Pick-Up. The production values are generally good; it's clear Golan and Globus spent some serious money on this movie (made just before they started to slash the budgets of their movies.) There is some camera work that catches your attention. And there are some eye-catching visuals (even though most of the movie looks surprisingly dark, even on the DVD.)Despite these positive things, I found the movie to mostly be a chore to sit through. At 110 minutes long, the movie is much too long. You really sense the padding at times - Leonard should have compacted the screenplay as he was adapting his novel. Not only are there scenes that don't need to be here, most scenes run too slowly - their pace could have been picked up a bit more. But what really sinks the movie is that I didn't care for the protagonist and his problems. Though I'm not asking that he would have been 100% sympathetic, he does not seem to really regret the mistake he made that got him in trouble or to really care about his wife. "},{"Title":"Definitely Deserves Greater Recognition","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Adultery, blackmail and revenge are three of the main ingredients of this Elmore Leonard story which starts off fairly routinely but soon becomes thoroughly absorbing because of the ways in which the plot develops. The storyline takes numerous unexpected turns that have the virtue of seeming perfectly natural whilst also whetting the appetite for what's to follow. Add to this an array of exceptionally well-drawn characters and some really snappy dialogue and the end-result is a top class crime thriller that will probably surpass the expectations of most people who see it.Harry Mitchell (Roy Scheider) is a successful businessman whose affair with a much younger dancer turns sour when he goes to her apartment and is held at gunpoint by three masked men who show him a videotape which contains some very graphic evidence of the nature of his relationship with her. His blackmailers demand $105,000 for the tape but Harry recognises that paying won't necessarily stop them from making further demands. He can't report the matter to the police because his wife Barbara (Ann-Margaret) is planning to run for the city council and so he confesses everything to his wife and refuses to pay the ransom.The blackmailers are predictably furious and respond by forcing him to watch another film in which his mistress is shot and killed by his gun (which the gang leader had earlier stolen from his house). Having successfully framed him for his mistress' murder, the blackmailers turn the screw a little bit tighter by demanding regular annual payments which Harry's in no position to pay. The only option left open to him is to take matters into his own hands and the ways in which he takes revenge on his tormentors are both ingenious and enjoyable to watch.Roy Scheider and Ann-Margaret are extremely effective in their roles and the exchanges between them are particularly well-acted. Barbara's suspicions about Harry's extracurricular activities are evident well before he gets blackmailed and the humiliation, anger and pain that she feels are portrayed very powerfully. Harry's a conventional type of guy who finds that his mid-life affair was actually a honey-trap and then uses intelligence as his main weapon in identifying his blackmailers and eliminating the threat that they pose to him.The villains of the piece are a despicable trio of extortionists who all work in different branches of the sex industry. The leader is Alan Raimy (John Glover) who makes porn movies and runs an adult cinema. He's utterly ruthless, incredibly slimy and violates Barbara in a particularly shocking way. Bobby Shy (Clarence Williams 111) is a pimp and a violent psychopath who says very little but is also tremendously threatening and Leo Franks (Robert Trebor) is a whimpering, nervous wreck who runs a strip club and is well out of his depth as a criminal. These characters are all brought to life very convincingly by some great performances that add considerable colour to the whole drama.52 Pick-Up is tense, sleazy and unpredictable and certainly merits far more recognition than it's ever received to date. "},{"Title":"A Gritty And Tense Thriller, That Holds Nothing Back!","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a gritty and tense thriller, with fantastic performances all around!. It's a gritty no holds bared thriller, with lots of shocking and cool scenes, plus i really liked the characters, and John Glover and Roy Scheider are absolutely fantastic in this. This movie holds nothing back, and you really feel for the 2 main characters, plus the villain is great just great. It's unpredictable, and brutal, however i have a couple qualms. It could have been a bit shorter, and it took me a little bit to warm up to Scheider's character,but i soon loved him as usual and the ending was great and very surprising, plus Scheider and Ann Margaret had wonderful chemistry together.This is a great gritty and tense thriller that i highly recommend you watch!. The Direction is very good. John Frankenheimer does a very good job here, giving the film a disturbing and gritty feel, keeping it unpredictable at all times, and he kept the film at a great pace!. There is lots of violence, not . We get some harsh bloody beatings, lots of bloody gunshot wounds, and other disturbing stuff. The Acting is wonderful!. Roy Scheider is AMAZING as always, and gives an amazing performance here, he has wonderful chemistry with Ann- Margaret,kicked that ass, was vulnerable, and was just wonderful in all aspects, the man is one of the best actor of all time in my opinion! (Scheider Rules!). Ann-Margret is beautiful , and was excellent here, sh was likable, had wonderful chemistry with Scheider, and it was great to see her again!. John Glover is EXCELLENT as the main villain, he was extremely menacing, funny,unpredictable, and was great in the final scene!, i also loved his dialog.Vanity is gorgeous!, and is fine with what she had to do. Kelly Preston is GORGEOUS!, and does fine in her small role.Clarence Williams III is fine as one of the villains, and played crazy extremely well. Overall i highly recommend this gritty and tense thriller! ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A terrifically tough and sleazy thriller","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Successful self-made married businessman Harry Mitchell (a superbly steely performance by Roy Scheider) has an adulteress fling with sweet'n'sexy young stripper Cini (the gorgeous Kelly Preston). Harry's blackmailed by a trio of scummy low-life hoods -- sleazy porno theater manager Raimy (a splendidly slimy John Glover), antsy strip joint owner Leo (well played by Robert Trebor) and crazed pimp Bobby Shy (a frightfully intense Clarence Williams III) -- who have videotaped his affair with Cini. When Harry refuses to pay up, the hoods kill Cini and make it look like Harry did it. This in turn ignites a dangerous battle of wit and wills between Harry and the hoods. Director John Frankenheimer, adopting a tough script based on Elmore Leonard's gritty crime thriller novel, expertly maintains a steady snappy pace, delivers plenty of gripping tension, and effectively creates a compellingly seedy'n'sordid atmosphere. The leads are all uniformly excellent, with stand-out supporting turns by Ann-Margret as Harry's bitter neglected wife Barbara, Vanity as brash jaded prostitute Doreen, and Lonny Chapman as Harry's loyal business partner Jim O'Boyle. The tight'n'twisty plot keeps viewers on their toes throughout. The wickedly profane dialogue, Jost Vacano's glossy cinematography, Gary Chang's stirring score, the harshly amoral tone and the rousing conclusion are all likewise on the money as well. As an added bonus, both Vanity and Preston take their clothes off. A very strong and satisfying little number that's well worth checking out. "},{"Title":"There is no bad Frankenheimer Movie .... but be sure to check out this one!","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well first of all there is Mr. Scheider .. if everyone agrees one of the most believable actors ever banned on celluloid ...and there is Frankenheimer who always kept one food on the ground (which kind of makes him the Anti-Spielberg). When movies are believable they will live forever. Even if sometimes the director has to hurry up to not upset the studio - this is an all-time classic ... and a really well designed car -) "},{"Title":"A drama suspense film with blackmail, corruption, sex, greed, and an eye candy treat with Vanity!","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Just watched 1986's little known drama film 52 Pick-Up which is based on well known author Elmore Leonard's novel the film entertains well with suspense and action a good tale of corruption and greed which sets off a chain of events in a dirty game of blackmail and sex. Set in Los Angeles a well to do business man Harry Mitchell(Roy Scheider of Jaws fame)has it all money, big house an elegant socialite trophy wife(played by the classic Ann Margret). And plus Harry thinks about the city council then life takes a twist as ruthless bad guys show up with a video of Harry in bed with a mistress(Kelly Preston). So then it's a game of blackmail as the tension and drama mounts as a blood bath of murder and revenge is on the way. In a good supporting turn the now late Vanity strikes it up as a nude dance model who helps Harry along in his fight against the underworld subculture. And plenty of eye candy is present with the nude scenes of the hot sexy Vanity! Overall good B type action drama thriller to enjoy! "},{"Title":"dark ugly villains","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Harry Mitchell (Roy Scheider) is a wealthy specialty manufacturer in L.A. with beautiful wife Barbara (Ann-Margret) running for city council. Hooded blackmailers with a video tape of Harry and his mistress Cini (Kelly Preston) want $105k. Harry has a cold relationship with his wife. Cini and her friend Doreen (Vanity) are porn strippers under the thumb of Alan Raimy (John Glover) and his underlings Bobby Shy (Clarence Williams III) and Leo Franks (Robert Trebor). Harry doesn't go to the cops but also refuses to pay. The situation escalates as Alan elevates the blackmail and demands. However Harry counters with negotiations and schemes which pitch the blackmailers against each other.The three bad guys are terrific. There are some dark things going on in this movie. There is a snuff film of Cini. Vanity has a memorable stripper scene. She has a great line after Harry says her picture is a little dark. That's me, honey. Roy Scheider is a little bit too cold and distant. He needs some more emotions. In a way, he is overpowered by the dark crazy villains because they are such compelling characters. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly Good For A Cannon Picture","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The acting, dialogue, and casting was about perfect for this material. The big Hollywood studios apparently wouldn't accept this script so Elmore Leonard had to go to Cannon (a.k.a., that company made all those horrible films in the Eighties). It has the feel of a low budget film, with a lot of rising stars, falling stars, people bumping into the camera by accident, and a director long past his prime, but it holds up pretty well. There's not one stereotypical L.A. landmark or establishing shot, the film is better than to try and look generic. Clarence Williams is a believably scary murderer, and the other villains equally repulsive and hateable in their own unique ways. If any character is underwritten, it is the protagonist and his wife, who just seem boringly bland and familiar, but that is sort of inevitable in these types of movies where everything hinges our needing to identify with the victim.The film is entertaining as any other genre piece of the era, by far one of the better crime dramas of the Eighties, and easily the best of Cannon's direct-to-video cheapos. I'd have liked it even better if it had stuck to its strong suit and went all in with its dark humor (as the film was flirting with the entire run-time but never committed to). The ending was kind of predictable, maybe other films have over-used the idea since but it doesn't date well. Seemed like a throwaway climax. "},{"Title":"Absolutely riveting thriller.","Date":"13 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Roy Scheider is solid as a rock as self-made millionaire Harry Mitchell, one of those kinds of guys who seemingly has it all. But his indiscretion with young stripper Cini (Kelly Preston) has led to unexpected complications a trio of bad guys with knowledge of his actions attempt to blackmail him. Harry decides to basically tell them to do something obscene to themselves and confesses all to his wife Barbara (Ann-Margret); he loves her enough to not want to damage her budding political career. So the three lowlifes up their game they abduct Cini, torture and murder her (in a memorably disturbing sequence), and set things up to make it look like Harry killed her. So now Harry *definitely* can't go to the police. He then stubbornly sets about trying to solve the problem on his own.Co-written for the screen by Elmore Leonard, from his own novel, this is compelling every step of the way, with efficient direction by the legendary John Frankenheimer. Granted, it may not be to all tastes some people may find it overly sleazy, or feel that the leading characters are just a little too cold, but it's fundamentally a good and twist laden story that is well told by Frankenheimer and a talented bunch of collaborators, including cinematographers Jost Vacano (RoboCop '87) and Stephen Ramsey. The lurid descent into the slimy universe inhabited by the villains gives the tale an effective edge; for one thing, ringleader Alan Raimy (John Glover) runs a porno movie theatre. At the very least, the villains are set up as being scummy enough that you just can't wait to see them get their comeuppance.Glover is simply perfect in his part, receiving strong support from a genuinely spooky Clarence Williams III as pimp Bobby Shy and an amusing Robert Trebor as pathetic worm Leo Franks, operator of a nude model salon. Also among the cast are the super sexy Vanity as nude model Doreen (she and Preston do show off a great deal of skin along the way), Lonny Chapman as Harry's lawyer Jim O'Boyle, and Doug McClure as politician Mark Arveson. Porn aficionados will note the appearances of stars like Ron Jeremy, Sharon Mitchell, and Jamie Gillis during the party scene.The film does admittedly go on a little long but it keeps its grip thanks to the acting and Leonards' enjoyably sordid tale.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Elmore Leonard, RIP","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Elmore Leonard died recently, and so I decided to watch this movie based on one of his novels. John Frankenheimer directed Roy Scheider and Ann-Margret in 52 Pick-Up, about an industrialist whose affair leads to severe consequences. It seems that the movie is simultaneously testing your willingness to watch a lot of nasty stuff and making you feel as if you want to watch ever more of it. Gross as a lot of it is, Frankenheimer's slick direction keeps even the most unpleasant scene relevant to the story. Mired as the characters are in a world of sleaze, there's sort of no nice way for the story to progress.52 Pick-Up continues the string of serious movies in which Ann-Margret started appearing in the '70s (Carnal Knowledge, Tommy, Magic). No doubt she realized that it was time to move away from her sex kitten image. A really different role for her was the 2006 suspense thriller Memory. Above all, 52 Pick-Up is a movie that I recommend. It's definitely not going to be for everyone, but I liked it. "},{"Title":"Pick up this 87' Oldie treat, you crime thriller fans","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" You can't help love this movie. It's a tight thriller about a group of ex cons, some sleazy and repulsive sorts, involved in the pornographic industry of underground sleaze. They too have got this rich businessman right where they've want him. They want him to pay, a lot. At first Harry Mitchell (Roy Schneider) who runs his construction company, doesn't play ball which is a bad mistake, especially on his part, where his now dead hottie, 20 years his minor is killed, where they had taped evidence of his infidelity. Without really going into anymore of this story, 52 Pick Up is a compact thriller with some nice little bits of sleaze amidst. There are great performances, especially from our sleazoids. One being Clarence Williams, the third, as Bobby Shy, who again doesn't disappoint. He's a boyfriend of one of the black dancers, the sizzling Vanity, who looks so hot in lingerie with her assets. You want to take poloroids of her like this, all day. He's part of the blackmailing trio. Like getting a taste of Harry's work, we get to see quite a slice of how our sleazesters live like at parties, boobies here, boobies there. The villains are so well created, the actors giving them justice, John Glover in particular, the head of this set up. You gotta admire Harry's will and defiance, where his wife (Ann Margaret in this kind of movie?) a successful campaigner is running for a political seat, so Harry's not the only one with a lot to lose. And one wonders, which works in the thriller element of the story, if the dead ex girlfriend (Preston) was also involved in the set up which we'll never know. I love the small scenes and locations of sleaze, like in the dirty strips clubs, other dives, porno theatres, one if you can believe is operated by Glover. Too in the sleaze department we have some weird happenings, like Glover making his own pornographic movie, filming two female hotties getting in on, before they're rudely interrupted by a not so happy and betrayed Bobby Shy. Each scene works in a tight and constant chain as the next. Every scene in the movie is necessary, and never bores. There's hardly a scene in this 87' flick I don't hate. Harry Mitchell is a stubbornly persistent guy and in his own way, he will get his own back on Glover, where the vengeful end is slick and priceless, a revenge lovers dream. Whatever your movie pleasure, 52 Pick Up, is different and a smart psychological thriller, where it's generous amount of sleazy bits, almost brings it down, but thankfully it just rises above that. "},{"Title":"Blackmail turned upside down in film noir classic","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Elmore Leonard is the Shakespeare of film noir.His dialog is superb! You can't listen to the dorky dialog of TV shows after this. Leonard raises dialog to clever repartee, which very few writers can do! I taped 52 Pick-up years ago off TV and was looking at it again and now I must have the DVD, uncut and uncensored.You know the plot synopsis by now, but watch the electric interaction between the characters Mitchell, Raimy, Leo and Bobby. PROJECTOR ROOM DAY I love the projector room scene where Mitchell and Raimy meet faceto face for the first time. The feigned innocence of Raimy is great. The dialog, the lighting, the sound track from the porno movie, and the projector clack, make for an great, great scene. A director's coup d'etatAnd the fact that Raimy is an accountant who goes over Mitchell's business books is a delightful touch in character. Mitchell's cleverness at derailing the blackmail plot is inspiring.In charge Mitchell, clever Raimy, whimpering Leo, tough Bobby...great characters. Leonard delivers every time! KUDOS! "},{"Title":"John Frankenheimer's adaptation of Elmore Leonard's 52 Pick-Up provides the right sleazy atmosphere in this compelling thriller","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Just watched this movie today on a used VHS tape I bought several days ago. This is the one where Roy Scheider is blackmailed by the villainous trio of Robert Trebor, Clarance Williams III, and as the ringleader, John Glover. They have evidence he cheated on his beautiful wife Ann-Margret with a hooker played by the young Kelly Preston. The title refers to the amount in thousands Scheider is supposed to pay but he has other plans...Directed by John Frankenheimer from a screenplay co-written by Elmore Leonard on whose book it's based on, this was a very absorbing thriller even with the somewhat cheesy '80s score tacked on. Everyone I've mentioned are quite good with both Williams and Glover especially turning on the heat. Pop singer Vanity is also good as a roommate of Ms. Preston's who provides her own moments with Scheider and Williams. From the Golan-Globus team at Cannon Films, 52 Pick-Up is one of their most compelling films made during their '80s heyday. P.S. This is one of those movies that doesn't use the fake 555 prefix whenever a telephone number is mentioned. "},{"Title":"52 Pick-Up","Date":"6 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Three sleazebags(John Glover, Robert Trebor, and Clarence Williams III) blackmail a wealthy businessman(Roy Scheider) after recording him having an affair with one of their girls. When he doesn't pay up, instead informing his politician wife(Ann-Margret) of his misdeeds, the pornographers murder Harry's mistress(Kelly Preston), using his own gun and planting his coat(both stolen from 's house)in her blood as evidence against him. What ensues is a game of cat and mouse between Harry and Alan(Glover), Leo(Trebor), and Bobby(Williams III) ending as these thrillers often due, in bloodshed. John Frankenheimer directs a story by Elmore Leonard where we must spend time with some pretty unsavory people and, while we might not condone Harry's own actions, can forgive him of his transgressions because Alan, in particular, is so completely vile and repulsive, that his affair seems minuscule in comparison. Bobby(as presented by the scary-looking Clarence Williams III)is more or less unstable, hardly hanging by a thread(watch as he smothers Vanity with a doll, trying to see if she told Harry anything about their identities), and is a foil for the more cunning and devious Alan who knows how to play his co-horts like a fiddle. What I felt works best for 52 PICK-UP is the difficult scenario Harry finds himself in. How in the world will Harry dig himself out of such a deep hole? It's mind games, really. Harry will have to outsmart Alan, even though he's not as conniving and deceitful, as sly and underhanded as his nemesis is. Harry's only option, it seems, is to turn the three against each other, all the while Alan has plans of his own to keep the ransom money. Kidnapping Barbara(Margret)gives him an advantage(there's one horrible scene where we see Alan drug Barbara so he can molest her), but Harry, of course, will get the last laugh. While Ann-Margret's role isn't as noteworthy, the cast, especially Glover and Williams III, is excellent. I imagine, though, that having to tolerate so much screen time with the evil trio(and their lifestyle around the world of the sex industry) may be a bit demanding for some viewers. "},{"Title":"Supporting cast carries this sleazy violent noir over the finishing line despite a few flaws","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Life's going not to badly for Harry Mitchell, he's an ex-air force major (plus nifty little pension I imagine), who's raking in the cash for a patent he's developed (fusing titanium and steel via explosive process, creating super metal fit for NASA), and his wife of twenty-odd years has kept herself in pretty good nick. He's got a nice little pad in LA. I like to see visions of the 80s consumer dream, and you get a good slice here, what with the restored silver Jag (a series 1 E-type roadster) for him, and the gorgeous antique dolls house for her (as well as I'm sure other trinkets and boys toys). There's always got to be more though hasn't there? So Harry let's himself get caught up in some romantic shenanigans (you're only as old as the woman you're feeling). As in many films noir, one mistake, in an otherwise blotch-less life, leads to a downwards arc for Harry.Three blackmailers leech onto him. These are where the value are for me, great character actors playing very believable roles. Bobby Shy (played by Clarence Williams III) is a black ex-con who is capable of performing incredible psychopathic acts in order to avoid jail and punish double-crossers. He's reminiscent of Pluto, the vicious black ex-con psychopath from Carl Franklin's well-regarded neo-noir One False Move (1992). There's a similar character motivation I believe. Both men have had enough of the man, and well pretty much everyone, in extremis. Robert Trebor plays Leo Franks, a fat lily-livered pansy who runs a nudie parlour where gents can photograph nude models at $25 for half an hour, and $50 for a whole hour (did anyone else guffaw at the lack of discount?). He's in over his head, and it's great to watch Trebor acting when Leo starts to feel the heat, believable breakdown. John Glover wins as Alan Raimy, who is the brains of the plot, an actually brilliant man who becomes a pornographer and turns to a life of crime out of sheer sociopathic ennui. He's a sexual sadist and does a few particularly unpleasant things during the movie, including what I believe is a pretty well-implied rape (pay attention to his RAP sheet readout, it's easily missed, and read between the lines for the motel scene with Slim).In common with One False Move, though not exclusively, I think the real impact of the movie is in the unusually communicative scenes of violence.So far so good but I think there's a real problem with the film. Harry Mitchell is told at one point that he has his tit in the wringer. My problem is that Harry Mitchell is played by Roy Scheider. Roy Scheider protagonists never lose, they're self-sure and smooth, but not in an annoying way. I feel I'm being asked to believe that his character is in peril, the movie relies on this for dramatic tension; however I didn't believe it. For me it's like being asked to believe that Sandra Bullock's character is going to end up sleeping alone by the end of a romantic drama, or Stephen Seagal's character is going to get taken down by the baddies (did actually happen in one movie but was done deliberately for shock value). Roy Scheider doesn't convince as an adulterer either, you don't feel any annoyance with him at all, his character is Teflon-coated.It also felt like a movie that took some cuts. At 110 minutes it still feels underdeveloped Harry's wife, Ann Margaret, is pretty much a cardboard cutout, an extension of Harry, her back story as a politician running for office receives scant attention. The effect that the affair has on Harry's marriage isn't properly communicated. This could be a Frankenheimer problem, he's not known for character development. I never felt that Harry was dealing with little more than an overtly annoying and erroneous tax claim from the IRS. There is good sleazy violent noir content in this film, but I feel that to be in the excellent bracket that the casting of Harry could have been done better (no disrespect to the great Roy Scheider). The film felt short, even with the long running time, and I think could have taken some more fleshing out.But you really can't forget the sleaze, like the deliciously pervy scene of Harry taking photos of Doreen in the nudie parlour. "},{"Title":"Elmore Leonard at his BEST!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film made John Glover a star. Alan Raimy is one of the most compelling character that I have ever seen on film. And I mean that sport. "},{"Title":"The movie gets better the further you get away from the ending ........","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" 52 Pick-Up is weakest at the end, where it seems totally out of character that the crafty Roy Scheider resorts to not outwitting his opponent, but pulling a Rambo stunt. For that reason, what precedes the finale, gets better and better, the further you get away from the ending. Roy Scheider is reserved, while his main adversary, John Glover, is unpredictable and threatening. Ann Margaret really is mostly wasted, and a no name actress could have played her part. Although I can't put my finger on it, the film leaves you with the feeling that there are a lot of loose threads dangling uncomfortably. 52 Pick-Up is a worthwhile watch, but somewhat unsatisfying because of the out of character ending. - MERK "}{"Title":"Sordid Golan-Globus action flick...good cast and director working on the cheap","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" One thing is certain about third-rate movie producing team Golan-Globus they did manage to give passed-their-prime stars a great deal of work in the 1980s, also doing right by a number of up-and-coming young actors. Unfortunately, all their output from this era tends to look the same, with sludgy action bathed in a brackish glow, electronically scored for an instantly-dated sound. Steel manufacturer in Los Angeles is blackmailed by three goons after he has an extra-marital affair with a stripper; he comes clean to his politician wife and together they fight back. Elmore Leonard co-adapted his own book for the screen, pummeling us with foul language, gore and sleaze, yet the central plot is basically just an extension of an old-fashioned blackmail yarn from the '40s. The villains are an interesting lot (if broadly played) and leads Roy Scheider and Ann-Margret both do commendable work. An early murder sequence is revoltingly graphic, with slumming director John Frankenheimer slowing the horror down to a crawl so we can revel in the carnage. Obviously this was done to appease a new market (and overseas interest), but it doesn't wear well on Frankenheimer's reputation (the handling is just trashy). The finale, derivative of The Mechanic--and probably several other hard-boiled crime flicks as well--gives the audience the release it needs, but there's no point to any of this...except that well-to-do couples in California definitely need to invest in home security systems. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Pretty thin (spoilers)","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers ahead -- proceed at your own caution.My main problem with this movie is that once Harry learns the identities of the three blackmailers -- with relative ease -- he continues to cave into their demands. And then the whole scene with his wife being kidnapped, he decides to wire his classic car up to explode (with the money in it), which makes us take a pretty tall leap of logic.Okay, so he wanted to keep his affair with Cini out of the public eye due to his wife's involvement with the DA campaign. This I can see, but why not hire someone to slap these turds around a bit, or even kill them once he'd determined there was no actual blackmail evidence (e.g, Cini's body?) This was a pretty interesting movie for the first 2/3 of it. After that, it sort of falls apart. "},{"Title":"Watch this movie before that extra-marital affair!","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The villian in this movie is one mean sob and he seems to enjoy what he is doing, that is what I guess makes him so mean.  I don't think most men will like this movie, especially if they ever cheated on their wife.  This is one of those movies that pretty much stays pretty mean to the very end.  But then, there you have it, a candy-bar ending that makes me look back and say, HOKIE AS HELL.   A pretty good movie until the end.  Ending is the ending we would like to see but not the ending to such a mean beginning.  And then there is the aftermath of what happened.  Guess you can make up your own mind about the true ending.  I'm left feeling that only one character should have survived at the end. "},{"Title":"Fifty Two and Out","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Ridicules film about blackmail murder and kidnapping that's so unconvincing due to the uneven plot and unbelievably bad acting of the three jerks involved in, or trying to pull off, the Perfect Crime that's about as Perfect as a baseball player going 0 for 100 at the plate and batting .000.Successful businessman Harry Mitchell, Roy Scheider, is being blackmailed by the three hoods, Alan Leo & Bobby, John Glover Robert Trebor & Clarence Williams III, for cheating on his wife Barbara, Ann-Margaret,who's running for city councilwomen in LA on the Mark Arveson, Doug McClure ticket for DA. Harry is shown by the trio a video tape of him and his girlfriend Cini, Kelly Preston,in and out of the beach and swimming pool as well as their clothes. The hoods tell Harry that if he doesn't pay up they'll make his affair public and destroy his marriage as well as his wife, Barbara, political career. Right away there's something wrong by seeing the girl that Harry's fooling around with his girlfriend, Cini Eaah So So, to the woman that he's cheating on his wife, Barbara WoW!,it should in all likelihood have been the other way around. Later Harry comes clean and tells Barbara what he was up to and she, after thinking it over, forgives him and Harry later tells the blackmailers to go blow. Instead they kidnap Harry and show him a video tape of them killing Cini with Harry's gun with his fingerprints on it which Alan stole from his house by breaking in and posing as a person who works for some accounting service, and threatening to give it to the police if Harry doesn't pay up. The only problem with that is that we later find out that these three bozo's threw the video tape and in all probability the gun away into the polluted city river.Harry smartly plays the hoods off against each other by making them think that their cheating each other out of the $52,000.00 in blackmail money and has them cancel themselves out, except the top hood Alan who was saved for the movie's flaming ending, in the process. The 52 grand is all that Harry could afford after the three blackmailers wanted $105,000.00 a year for life, what if they ever moved during their lifetime would they give Harry a forwarding address? The hoods in the movie are so ridicules that it was hard to take them seriously for one moment. Alan is so cool that he seemed to not know what was going on most of the time he was on the screen and acted so uninformed to just what the movie was about it seemed as if he just stumbled on the set to get a fee cup of coffee from the casts refreshment stand. Leo overacted so much as a wimp and crybaby that he almost drowned Harry and the movie audience with a flood of tears in his last and most overbearing scene before he was blasted away by the drugged out and almost unconscious Bobby who would have been lucky if, in the condition that he was in, didn't end up shooting himself. With Bobby who was so stoned during the entire film that, like Alan, seemed totally unaware to what was happening and what he was supposed to be doing in the movie.The ending ripped off the Charles Bronson movie The Mechanic with Alan being blown apart when he turned on Harry's car engine and was told via the car radio that he had just ten seconds to live! The movie 52 pick-up failed even in that, with Alan having 45 seconds left to live instead. "},{"Title":"Great Cast, Director and Writer; Bad Movie","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The film 52 Pick Up simply does not work. See it if you are at all interested in Elmore Leonard or John Frankenheimer, or anyone in the terrific cast, especially John Glover who's admittedly brilliant. But the book--a slow-burning, noir thriller with lots of pulp--should have translated into an Oscar-contending film instead of this dud that couldn't figure out whether it should faithfully portray the hard-boiled, gritty crime story of the book, or opt for a 1980s Schwarzenegger shoot-em-up spree. Shifting the scene from the original locale in the book, Detroit (an area where Leonard has resided for years and knows very well), to Los Angeles makes for a substantial problem that Leonard tries to fix in his script, but ultimately can't. It was, for example, a clever device making Mitchell's wife a City Councilwoman (she had no job in the book), if you think about it that's the only way you could ever plausibly blackmail someone in a sex-crazed city like 1980s Los Angeles for adultery, or any type of potential sex scandal. Even then, it's more plausible in a more conservative Eastern state like Michigan to believe that a) its tiny porno industry is a sleazy, money-grubbing hell where three losers could desperately set up a not-so-stupid upper-middle-class fellow going through a mid-life crisis, and b) adultery alone might be something you could blackmail someone with, if their upstanding careers and old-fashioned wives couldn't handle the shock. As consultant Ron Jeremy will tell you, 1980s Los Angeles was a colorful, stylish porno Mecca, more like the movie Boogie Nights than Leonard's dark, shadowy world of hijacked tourist buses, grimy apartments, and drug deals in depressed urban squalor. Then again, Los Angeles could be the backdrop of such a tale if one arranged the scenery more carefully--there are still plenty of dark crannies and psychopaths there. Unfortunately, Roy Scheider's Harry Mitchell comes off in the film as a sexy, handsome Uebermensch dancing through his problems without even working up a sweat. In the book he was fending off a jerk union official while struggling with a business that was failing. He also had a skeleton in the closet during the war involving friendly fire that he was responsible for, but never appeared to come to grips with. Elmore Leonard's stories usually have a central image involving a bizarre civility between criminal and law-abiding citizen. Here, Harry Mitchell sitting in his office with his blackmailer, Alan Raimy, turning over his financial books to him and negotiating a more practical ransom, makes for such a central image. Glover's blackmailer plays the scene with convincing intelligence, but Scheider portrays the victim here as a cocky good guy, in charge of the situation as if he were more a Rambo with an M-16 than the everyman barely staying afloat as his world crumbles around him. 52 Pick Up ends with one of the worst throwaway conclusions ever, considering all the thought that went into the original story and then the film. Trapping Raimy inside Mitchell's Jaguar and blowing him up with marching band music blasting out along with a sadistic monologue by Mitchell, plays to an audience wanting the sweet revenge conclusion of a Chuck Norris movie, not the intelligent balanced world of Leonard's book, where Mitchell barely escapes in the end and the conflict between good and evil could easily go either way. I left the theater shaking my head and depressed. What a waste of talent. "},{"Title":"THE DECLINE OF A ONCE GREAT DIRECTOR.","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Is it possible that the same director made Mandchurian candidate,Seconds and birdman of Alcatraz?All that made those works unique,fascinating and timeless classics has disappeared,slowly but inexorably.There were commendable works at the end of the sixties the gypsy moths  and I walk the line (which featured Johnny Cash's famous song).But the seventies were disastrous ,with the eventual exception of black Sunday which is at least entertaining.52 pick-up quickly leaves the political subject -the originality of which is the fact that the politician is the wife-for the broader horizons of the thriller.But the screenplay which was sometimes praised is nothing but the usual menucrimes (the girl's murder verges on snuff movies),blackmail,baddies (gays?),and  a listless Roy Scheider ;so listless in fact that it's absolutely impossible to believe he 's able to fight against his blackmailers.The pictures are  ugly,Ann-Margret is wasted and her relationship with her husband is hardly sketched.What about choosing 'Mandchurian candidate instead?  "}]