[{"Title":"Two Words--> Critters rock","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"31 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  and they roll and they chew and they eat and eat and eat. Darn those space people for solving the critter problem. This was one of those TV late night movies that is totally awesome because of its creativity.  Oh course while I watched it, I had no dreams of Gremlins and never connected the two.In reality, I guess Critters are Gremlins without the Gizmos, but then again Gremlins without Gizmos are just plain mean.and Critters are just mean....They kill with no reason, they eat like there is no tomorrow, and even the Church cannot save the poor town's cattle.As far as a classic, this is not, but it and Tremors are up there with the most immaginative and creative horror movies of the past few decades.  "},{"Title":"Quite fun actually","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  At the start of 'Critters', somewhere in space, 10 'Crites' are being brought to custody, but 8 of them escape, so that 2 hunters have to get them back. Now, this sequence could have easily lasted 10 minutes in any other movie, but 'Critters' doesn't waste time it takes about one minute. There is no explanation what these Crites are exactly, who the hunters are, or why the're all going to earth. They just do. That way, all the fun happens on the earth. The Crites come to earth nearby a farm in the middle of nowhere (where else really), where they attack the family living there. The usual scenes of the kettle eaten, the silly police chief and the village idiot/drunk who warned everybody this was going to happen are all thrown in, but the movie never loses pace and is pretty funny all around, and not that gruesome either. A nice 80's horror flick, worth watching. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and fun!","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Critters tries to be nothing more than good entertainment and simple fun and succeeds admirably at both. Decent acting, believable characters, and an engaging story prove once again you don't have to spend tons of money to make a good picture. "},{"Title":"Lunchtime!","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is one of the rare low-budget horror flicks that are actually good.  The basic plot is that little furry monsters (kind of like hairy kirbys with teeth) land from outer space and begin to eat the town they land by.  Pretty basic storyline, but this is a monster movie you know.  The Critters (or Krites, to be precise), are, while obviously puppets, very cool and well done.  The human actors on the other hand...well, they are terrible.  The dad, his shoulder and leg practically gnawed of by critters, remains alert and vigilant, even though he's covered in blood.  The boy is average, at best.  The bounty hunters are alright.  The best actor is Charlie, the drunk.  He pulls off a very good performance.Ok, so this movie won't make any headlines, or be famous.  But if you are looking for a late night horror movie, with a dash or two of humor, Critters is a good choice! "},{"Title":"Amusing Sci-Fi Horror Thriller with an Sense of Humor.","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Eight flesh eating aliens has escaped from a maximum security prison in space! These aliens are traveling to Earth to eat anything living. The Brown Family (Dee Wallace Stone, Billy Green Bush, Scott Grimes, Nadine van de Velde) are being stalked and trapped in their own farm house. The only ones that could help The Brown Family is a shape- shifting trigger happy bounty hunters that could help destroy the aliens.Directed by Stephen Herek (Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure, Life or Something Like It, Mr. Holland's Opus) made an genuinely well made low-budget sci-fi/thriller with comedic overtones. This film was a small box office success. The film went on to be a Cult Favorite. Also starring in this film is M. Emmet Walsh as a Sheriff, Terrence Mann as the lead Bounty Hunter and Don Keith Opper as Charlie. Which Opper did some additional writing for this film. Lin Shaye from Kingpin and There's Something About Mary fame has a bit part. Watch for Billy Zane has a bit part as well.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) and an good digitally remasteredDolby Digital 5.1 Surround. DVD also includes an alternate ending as a hidden feature. Critters is amusing knock-off to Gremlins but done extremely well, despite it's low budget. Written by the director and Domonic Muir. From a Story by Muir. Robert Shaye (The Then-Founder of New Line Cinema) executive produced the film. This is worth seeing. Followed by Three Sequels. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Cheesy eighties garbage - but good fun!","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I saw this film for the first time as a kid on a coach on the way home from a holiday in France. I guess whoever was in charge figured all the kids would be asleep by the time they put this on, but I managed to stay awake and watch the lot, and Critters became a firm favourite of mine for the next few years. Despite seeing this film and the first two sequels several times as a kid, I could pretty much remember nothing about it when it came to watching it this time; and despite the fact that Critters is not quite the film I remember it being, this is still a fun little eighties crapfest with plenty to recommend it for! The plot focuses on a war in outer space that spills over onto a farm in a small mid-western town. The town unwittingly greet a meteorite, that later gives way to a host of nasty, furry little creatures with big teeth! Hot on their tails are a pair of intergalactic bounty hunters sent to track down the furballs - but the 'critters' get their first, and manage to cause quite a lot of damage before the bounty hunters eventually arrive...Critters is clearly reminiscent of the 1984 hit Gremlins, as evidenced by the basics of the plot as well as the focus on humour. The critters themselves are hilarious little creations - thick black hair and a mouth full of teeth, but in their own way they're also fairly frightening! Gremlins isn't the only influence on this film - the whole idea of something bad coming from space being followed by something to stop it obviously came from The Terminator, and there are a number of other ideas taken from elsewhere - but the film doesn't feel like a bunch of stolen ideas, and that is to it's credit. The secluded farmyard setting is also to its credit, and again, while it's not the most original location for a film like this to take place, it works well so that isn't a problem. The cast, which includes the likes of M. Emmet Walsh, Dee Wallace and Billy Zane, all do their jobs well, and the action is always exciting enough to ensure that the film remains interesting. I won't say that this is a classic of the genre - but its good fun and I certainly recommend it. "},{"Title":"It takes all kinds of critters...","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ah, where would the world be without corny '80s movies? Critters is certainly one of the best examples, portraying a bunch of nasty little space creatures attacking a Midwestern family (it's always gotta be the Midwest, doesn't it?). As this is pure goofiness, they don't waste any time trying to explain anything logically; they get right down to the wackiness, full scale.Anyway, it's one of those movies that you watch with best buds, or while sitting around in your underwear (or both). Don't explain a religious experience, just luxuriate in the silliness. And to think that it was directed by Stephen Herek, who also directed Mr. Holland's Opus (as far as I know, those were the only two good movies that he ever did). Starring Dee Wallace-Stone (that's right, ET's mom!), M. Emmet Walsh (of Midnight Cowboy fame), Billy Zane (the Titanic villain) and Lin Shaye (the Something About Mary neighbor). Really cool. "},{"Title":"A creature film classic","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  While the `B' movie horror flick typically  bore and enrage me, this proved to be  one of those rare exceptions. I must  have watched this movie six times, and  every time, I was freaked out by the little  critters who couldn't appease their  undying need for sustenance. This was  quite a cool film to watch, especially  when the creatures are finally killed off  (which you will have experience for yourself).  This is my idea of good mindless fun,  which is exactly what I expected from this film. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Sci-fi horror comedy.","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Somewhere in space, a prison asteroid was going to have a vicious gang of furry basketball-shaped razor-toothed creatures called Krites until they suddenly escape to Earth so they can eat whatever comes in their way. The Brown family ( Billy Green Bush, Scott Grimes, Dee Wallace Stone, Nadine Van Der Valde) will have one hell of a night fighting off these hungry hairballs that not even Sheriff Harv ( M. Emmet Walsh) and lovable drunk Charlie ( Don Opper) can stop them until a pair of intergalactic shape-shifting bounty hunters named Ug ( Terrence Mann) and Lee comes to the rescue to kill these things.Funny and entertaining horror/Sci-fi comedy with charm and wit plus a good sense of humor. The film was kind of a cash-in on the success of Gremlins but it's not really like Gremlins but more in the tradition of those 50's Sci-fi flicks and E.C. comics, Billy Zane does a nice early appearance before he became a major star and Don Opper becomes quite the lovable drunk that anyone can relate too.This movie does have some good special effects for it's time including those bounty hunter transformations, if your looking for a fun lighthearted Sci-fi/horror combo with humor then this is it.Also recommended Critters 2 The Main Course, The Deadly Spawn ( a.k.a. Return of the Aliens The Deadly Spawn), Bad Taste,  Killer Klowns from Outer Space,  The Thing ( 1982), Night of the Creeps, Slither,  Doom, Mars Attacks!,  Dreamcatcher,  War of the Worlds ( 1953 and 2005), The Terminator 1 & 2,  The Fifth Element,  Starship Troopers,  Evil Dead II,  The Blob ( 1958 and 1988),  Species,  Alien Series, Predator 1 & 2, AVP Alien vs. Predator, Men in Black, They Live, Contamination, Pitch Black, Insemenoid, Lifeforce, Pod People, The Faculty, X-Files Fight the Future and NightBeast . "},{"Title":"This Movie Is A Classical Version Of Why We Are Afraid Of Monsters","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ever since I watched this movie when I was 4, I always knew it would be my favorite of All Time.This Movie is a perfect look of how we can take a plot that may sound sort of pathetic, and make it a hit. This movie has great special effects for its time, as well as great looks. The Critters are Nasty looking and can give you quite a scare. They'll make you think twice about walking into a basement.It has been told and said that CRITTERS is a copy of the CLASSIC movie Gremlins. Personally, I think thats just an excuse because this movie rocks and put some pressure on the Gremlin people.You cant look at this movie as a modern aged and modern special effects man. This was 86, and not the biggest time of great effects. Even so, if you haven't seen this movie, get down to the movie store and rent it! "}{"Title":"Ravenous cheeseballs from outer space!","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ah, childhood memories&#133; I hadn't watched Critters or any of its sequels since I was a young boy and I nearly forgot how incredibly entertaining they are! Along with Night of the Creeps and Killer Klowns from Outer Space, Critters definitely is the most successful horror-comedy of the 80's and it actually even manages to be much better than the blockbuster it obviously borrowed its ideas from, namely Joe Dante's Gremlins. The screenplay also uses story elements of innumerable other movies (the farm-setting, the space prison concept&#133;) and yet it never really directly rips off any of them, which is quite an admirable effort. Hairy little space monsters, with funky red eyes and an insatiable appetite, escape from their prison transport and land in rural Kansas where they immediately attack farmer Jay Brown's cattle and family. The son of the family tries to reach the nearby village for help, but the Critters (or Krites, as they're called in space) make it impossible to get away. Luckily enough, there also are two intergalactic bounty hunters with heavy artillery looking for the murderous furballs. The story opens a little slow with an overly extended family portrait of the Browns but, once the critters are rolling over the earth and eating their way through the countryside, Stephen Herek's film is both funny and action-packed at the same time. The dialogs are surprisingly witty and contain numerous references towards great Sci-Fi classics. Particularly the bounty hunters are hilarious, with one of them impersonating a famous rock star and the other indecisive about what appearance he wants to take on. The sharp-teethed Critters are engaging creations, made by the endlessly talented Chiodo-brothers of the aforementioned Killer Klowns&#133; The acting performances are rather forgettable. M. Emmet Walsh is underused as the town's sheriff and Dee Wallace Stone tries to look too much like a teenage scream queen. There are early roles for Billy Zane and Lin Shaye, who would only reach their popularity-peak in the 90's. Light-headed fun for the whole family! "},{"Title":"A great flick","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Critters couldn't be a more simply silly film. After the great gremlins and the poor gollies came this mini monster film is trying to cash in on gremlins success. A bunch of furry food machines escape from a prison asteroid in another galaxy, where just by coincidence the aliens (apart from the critters)all speak perfect English. They head for earth to feed (yet another coincidence)with a pair of English speaking shape shifting alien bounty hunters hot on there ass. They land in Kansas and terrorise a Kansan farmer and his family by eating his cows, eating a local police officer and eating the farmers daughters boy friend. As the farmer and his family hole up in there farm house the bounty hunters land and decide to go about the local town shooting up some of the local landmarks in an effort to find the critters.I wont spoil the rest of the film for you who have not yet seen it, but you can guess what happens.It might sound stupid, well it is. But the point is that it dose what it says on the tin. It gives you 80minutes of mindless entertainment with the odd laugh along the way. The acting is decent. The plot is entertaining. The film is a heck of a lot of good old fashion fun!!! "},{"Title":"Good fun.","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film is one of the better low budget 80's teen horror flicks. Why doesn't any one make movies about little monsters eating people today?! They're better then most trash that comes out of Hollywood today. Some ugly fuzzy monsters escape from a prison in deep space and head to Earth and start a killing spree, while two intergalactic bounty hunters are hot on they're tails.Notable ratings VIOLENCE*** PROFANITY-* LANGUAGE*** WRITING***** HUMOR**** TERROR** EFFECTS**** OVERALL*x20 RANKING PRETTY DARN GOOD. You might have more fun watching Gremlins, but don't miss you're chance to watch this cool little horror/comedy gem, either. If you encounter any bad reviews, ignore them. No offense, but if you don't like this movie, you worry me. The actors are quite good, as well, giving another reason to watch this film. "},{"Title":"Those crazy critters","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Critters has everthing a 80`s sci fi movie should have,cheese,rock and pop songs gore and a very good story. Yes many may say this is a rip off of Gremlins..but it is very different in its own way..did Gremlins have bounty hunter...Noooooooo! Yes it knows it may be one..but it has fun.. i mean little fun balls eating people! how grat is that! i think Critters are much more scary then any other thing that breeds because of water.. its got the best setting .. a small farm town.. a house in the middle of no where.. the family makes us like them and fell bad for them.. (Dee Wallace) once more shows us she is the scream queen of the 80`s and look out for a very young (Billy Zane)! also i must say (Terrence Mann)does one of the best parts he showed that he can play a rock star and a bounty hunter all in the same movie! i just cant get tired of that song `Power of the night..Ohhhh the 80`s... sure part 2 ,3 and 4 are ok..but like scream 2 said...nothing can beat number one! so i would say to anyone who sees this to rent this movie... truse me its great.. "},{"Title":"A Fun Horror Movie","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Critters is the Best Example of How Combining Horror with Science Fictional can Work. The Critters are Awesome. No way could have they Done Better job on the Make Up, or Making the Critters look Scary and Real at the same Time. I almost Turned It off Half Through Because it gets off to a Slow Start, but, Trust Me. Critters is a Movie with an Ending Worth Seeing. Good Scares and Acting make This a Must see for All Horror and Science Fictional Fans.  "},{"Title":"Creative and Fun","Date":"3 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Critters (1986) *** (out of 4) Fun sci-fi spoof about a Kansas family who finds themselves under attack from small fur balls that can shoot out poisonous darts and have an appetite for flesh. CRITTERS was New Line's reply to GREMLINS and for my money it's the better movie. There's no question that this film was made for a rather small budget but I think it's a perfect example of how the genre can be done right without having to spend a lot of cash on special effects. The film offers up some fun homages to other films, some great characters to root for and we're also given some terrific villains who you just love to hate. I think the creatures themselves are certainly the highlight of the picture. Their design really was a work of genius in the way that they can roll to wherever they're going and the darts are just an added goodie. I really loved the way that they looked and there's no question that those teeth are priceless. While the things aren't ever scary I really don't think they need to be because this picture really isn't about being scared but it's about just having fun. It also doesn't hurt that we're given a great family to cheer for along the way. Dee Wallace Stone play the mom, Billy Green Bush the dad, Scott Grimes the son, Nadine Van Der Velde the daughter and M. Emmet Walsh plays the local Sheriff. We also have Billy Zane in a small role as a boyfriend. The performances are also extremely good here including the always reliable Dee Wallace Stone. Grimes makes for a good guy to cheer for as well. The film really doesn't contain any major violence, which wasn't the norm for the horror and sci-fi genre from this period but the creativity here really makes up for that. Director Stephen Herek really does a nice job mixing everything up and he keeps the film moving at a terrific pace. The film has plenty of laughs but best of all is that you can just sit back and have a good time with it. "},{"Title":"Where are the Krites ?","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Unfairly judged as a rip off of Gremlins from 1984, Critters should be thought of as a fun film taking all it can from the glorious peak of 50s sci-fi creature features. From the Critters themselves to every other character in the film, it shouts out as a colourised version of a 50s staple.Critters escape from a space prison and head for another planet, Kansas well OK then, Earth, here they intend to eat every thing that gets in their way. The inhabitants of a small town don't know what has hit them, but aided by a couple of intergalactic bounty hunters, they fight back to hopefully rid their homes of the furry maniacal Critters.Watching this is like watching a roll call for every stereotypical character ever put into a creature feature film. Cute kid who could be a hero, nice but dim farm hand, homely family with guts and verve, the sheriff who is just not gonna believe what is happening no matter what evidence is produced, and etc. Yet it works because they are homaging past masters, they aren't trying to kid anyone that it's a new idea, it's good fun that doesn't outstay its welcome.The Critters are great, furry balls of fury with a shed load of teeth that are backed up by off the cuff subtitles to enthasize their grumblings. Genre babe Dee Wallace Stone gets to do her stuff, whilst M Emett Walsh has fun as sceptical sheriff Harv. It's not a classic genre piece by any stretch of the imagination, but it is fun witness a delightful E.T. scene, and I for one look forward to part two later in the week. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Very fun and entertaining sci-fi/horror film!","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I've been watching this movie since I was a little kid and have loved it since the first day I saw it. I have a lot to say here but before I begin I'd like to say that if you ever read a review that says this is a ripoff of Gremlins, ignore it. Not only is this film way better than Gremlins but it is definitely not a ripoff and I'll explain why. Okay, maybe they got the idea slightly from Gremlins but this is very original and the only thing the two films have in common is the little furry monsters that eat people (well the Critters do anyway, Gremlins is more of a Family movie). Just because Gremlins was made first means nothing. I guess every zombie movie is a rip off of Night of the Living Dead since it was (I think) the first. Also the Critters are from space and Gremlins doesn't even really have a back story (I'm not going into detail).With that out of the way, these are the reasons that Critters is an all time favorite of mine and always will be the actors playing the family (Billy Green Bush, Dee Wallace Stone, Nadine Van Der Velde and Scott Grimes) are fantastic and actually feel like a real family. I was blown away by their amazing performance, and that of every other actor in the film. The story is highly entertaining and very original too (nevermind the Gremlins similarities which everyone looks too hard for) and consists of eight killer fur balls (which look very real I might add) who escape an intergalactic prison, steal a ship then head to Earth for some tasty human flesh to snack on. But my favorite scenes involve a duo of shape shifting bounty hunters, who cause way more destruction than the Critters and have the whole town terrified (which is hilarious as I guess all they care about is getting their paycheck). In order to blend in, one of them transforms into a rockstar (Terrence Mann), and the other one changes into three different people including the town drunk Charlie (Don Opper who, along with Mann, stars in all of the Critters films). They show up and destroy a church and a bowling alley looking for the ferocious krites then finally find them at the house of the family in which the film centers around. You'll notice that they only kill one krite (!) and leave the whole town in shock with their pointless damage (it's still very funny). I could go on and on about this film which I love and own on DVD along with it's three sequels (which are still good but don't even compare with this entry) that star Opper, who eventually becomes the main character, and Mann, who returns as the alien bounty hunter Ug who is still in the same form for some reason. The direct-to-video third film actually isn't very good at all and the fourth film (which was filmed back to back with part three and was also released direct-to-video) is a whole lot better but just really depressing as the whole thing takes place in space in the future. I love these films which will always be some of the greatest low budget movies ever made. "},{"Title":"The best movie!!!","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" the best movie that i ever seen in my life!!!! the movie is perfect!!! sublime!!!! wonderful!!!!!!!!!! awesome!!! I prefer to watch this movie than win a billion dollars. I love this movie more than my mother!!!! more than me!!! the best moment in the movie is when critters get together in a big and wonderful and giant ball made of critters and this giant ball starts to run over all the city and crushes everyone like a bowling match. Caprio is the best actor of all the universe and his acting in this movie is perfect without any mistakes! I was born in 1986 but the movie is so great that I knew the movie since I was a fetus. I think the genre comedy/horror/sci-fi is the best genre in the movie world and certainly this one is THE ONE in the genre so for this reason the movie was born a real classic! Douglas Koth is other that I pay a stick, because the guy is like a machine whatever that it means. for obvious reasons the director Stephen Herek is the best director in the whole world and deserves a Oscar for sure! because he's better than Steven, than George Lucas, than Tarantino, than Costa gravas, than Kubrick and all the directors together! That's it folks... "},{"Title":"what a good movie","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I enjoyed watching the Critters as i think it was a good movie and it's full of humour, I think the creators of the critters movies did a hood job with the creation of these movies. This was the first critters movie as it was released in 1986. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"The Beginning of a Now-Classic Series","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A race of small, furry aliens make lunch out of the locals in a farming town.Critters somehow got the reputation as New Line's response to Gremlins. This has been disputed, but the connection never seemed obvious to begin with. More interesting is the connection with E.T., as the film features not only an inflatable alien, but one of the stars Dee Wallace.Providing the creature effects are the Chiodo Brothers, now best known for Killer Klowns. Billy Zane appears in a supporting role before he made it big. And most notable is the directing of Stephen Herek, who made some more cult classics in the following years Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure (1989) and Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead (1991).A cheesy film, Critters is lovable because it has a variety of science fiction and horror elements without ever getting too gory or too obscene. Rather than focus on darker or more adult themes, they chose to aim for a PG-13 rather than R rating and play up the comedy. This was a wise choice. "},{"Title":"Killer Furballs From Outer Space","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Yesterday I killed some time by browsing the DVD aisle(s) at Best Buy. I came across a four-feature offer that included Critters 1-4 for the low price of $12.99. Since I have a soft spot for just this sort of low brow garbage, I thought, What the heck? This will make for a fun Friday night movie marathon. So, having never seen a single one of the Critters films, I picked up the entire collection and embarked on a journey to see just how cheesy/idiotic (after all, the so-bad-it's- good appeal is really the only thing these having going for them, right?) they really are.Here's the scoop a hostile alien species known as the Crites escapes from an intergalactic prison asteroid and executes an escape plan&#x97;the word plan is used very loosely&#x97;to hide on the planet Earth until they can make their next move. Two bounty hunters are sent after the Crites; they are ordered to bring back the razor-toothed furballs at any and all costs. Thus the stage is set for one of the great sci-fi confrontations of the past 25 years.Not.Critters seems to be savvy enough to realize that it's nothing more than moronic popcorn cinema, but it never really accomplishes any gags that truly elicits the chuckles (or scares) that were certainly intended to define this most lowbrow of offerings.If I had to pinpoint the main problem with Critters, I'd say it has to do with the uneven transition between the cartoonish antics of the extraterrestrials themselves and the oddly serious moments of violence that pop-up sporadically when things really hit the fan. One minute we see one of the malicious little creatures swallow a firecracker and momentarily stagger as the thing explodes and a thin trail of smoke pours from his mouth (it's shockingly close to what you'd seen during any given episode of Looney Tunes). The next, we watch the thing tear off hunks of flesh in an effort to consume the innocent inhabits of a rural Kansas community.As you'd expect, there are plenty of pop-culture references and hammy one-liners, but this seems like little more than a pale remake of that other critter classic of the 1980′s&#x97;Gremlins.Sure, the movie is mildly entertaining, but how it spawned three sequels I'll never know.Stay tuned for my reviews of the other three films, which, here's hoping, will manage to strike some sort of balance in the clunky dichotomy between laughs and gore that we see in the first entry. "},{"Title":"Doesn't demand much attention, but manages to be entertaining enough when it grabs it","Date":"19 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A group of alien creatures known as the 'Krites' escape from a meteor prison station and head towards Earth, so the leaders of the station instantly sets two shape-shifting bounty hunters out to retrieve them. On Earth, the rural Brown family, Helen (Dee Wallace), Jay (Billy Green Bush), their daughter April (Nadine Van Der Velde) and son Brad (Scott Grimes), live peacefully on their farm in Kansas. The Krites (or 'Critters') arrive on Earth and wreak havoc, attacking police cars and encroaching on the Brown family's farm. The bounty hunters arrive too, witnessed by Jay and Brad, and aggressively seek out the critters, as the tiny terrors descend on the Brown's.Seemingly both pro and anti-Spielberg in nature, Critters benefits from - like so many horror films of its era and ilk - the puppet design. While the whole concept is a thinly-disguised rip-off of the vastly superior Gremlins (1984), the critters are certainly enjoyable to watch, as, unlike the gremlins, they dispose of people in variously gruesome ways with their razor-sharp teeth and their spikes (which they project like darts from their back). It's just a shame that the makers decided to crowbar in the alien bounty hunter sub-plot that not only takes the action away from the critters, but gives the film a very silly, slapstick edge that reminded me of Suburban Commando (1991).While Spielberg had set the family blockbuster groundwork with Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977) and the massively successful E.T. The Extra Terrestrial (1982), depicting the wonder of alien invasion from the view of the family unit, Critters seems to be happy enough following this familiar path, but giving the film of a more violent edge (in one scene, a critter bites the head of Brad's E.T. teddy). It is these aspects that work for and against the film, giving it a warm familiarity of the line of 'kid-friendly' 80's horror/sci-fi movies, but reminded you that Spielberg did it far, far better. But at only 82 minutes, it doesn't demand much attention, but manages to be entertaining enough when it grabs it.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"They have weapons!","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" C+ This in all sanity is a terrible movie. It doesn't take a critic to blow the film out of the water, aiming at its acting and simplistic story. True, because of its one dimensional characters one can't fully commit to the movie. However, I love certain aspects of it which leads to my love for the film itself. Firstly, the film is purely a fun one, its purpose solely being to blend, sci-fi and comedy, as well as horror of course. The Critters themselves are fiendish little bastards and I love them. Some consider them to be a cheap knock off of Gremlins but believe it or not the originality is actually debatable, so for what it's worth discrediting the film on that notion is invalid in itself.The concept of bounty hunters coming to earth to kill monsters was pretty cool. The film slowly becomes the hyped-up sugar-driven child's lame dream come true. For that bit of nostalgia, how can I not honor it? Plus the score by is not so bad and there are even a few stars in it, like Dee Wallace-Stone and Billy Zane. I love to watch it again and again, for the sake of having a good laugh if anything. "},{"Title":"I Didn't Find It Enjoyable","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The movie, while yes it does borrow and plagiarize bits from Close Encounters of The Third Kind and it is supposed to be a fun-in your face horror film, with a certificate sufficient for younger people to see it and I do get this; however the movie simply did not hit the right chord with me.Here's why. It is preposterous in the way it builds character who we couldn't care less about dying, and yet it tries to make us identify with them. Dispensable Characters can be done well; in Halloween for example, Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis) was the only character you wanted to see prevail; here, the movie has hiccups of death, but to no avail. It's boring when it lacks suspense as well. The thing that gives the story any sense of real exercised life is the Critters - even them, the Creatures like in Gremlins are the ones that we can identify with - come on they're omnivores looking for a bite to eat; they are so terrible at getting it that we just wished everything was inexorable. The first kill was of a police officer who was eaten through unknown means - we know who killed him, but it was the way it was done that seemed enticing, and then we realized that this movie is not going for the route of body counts that happen in fast and furious ways (which albeit I love suspense, but the movie would have been better as a schlocky movie in that sense, and not a stale and mind numbing movie, only proving it's schlocky at suspense), but it is not even set up with natural consequences. And it's not fun when you just expect things, as opposed to evolve things.The plot involves Brad Brown (played by Scott Grimes), a kid who finds leisure time using explosive things and his slingshot. Her Sister April (Nadine Van der Velde) and she is the petulant and quarrelsome teenager who incidentally looks older than a normal teenager. Their Dad is Jay Brown (Billy Green Bush) who is a mechanic in a field. Of course, the Critters are from an extraterrestrial planet, and we just wait for it to go down to earth. Charlie McFadden is the one who can feel the subliminal signals from outer space... and he is also the one who is too timid to open himself up. Eventually a UFO crash into their field, but it doesn't just crash It steadily and lethargically move towards it. April is in the barn with her Boyfriend, about to fornicate, and Brad is grounded and unable to watch movies for 2 weeks (god, if it meant these movies I would be fine, apart from that it would be torture!). When the creatures come down, they spark a ruckus and then everything ensues respectively and boringly, without any sense of caring.This movie counterpoises your interest in the sense that it doesn't even replenish your enjoyment; scenes where the Critters play around in their house is just an example of this movie not being serious. Yet the undercurrent that becomes the problem is that it isn't thrilling and it is really stupid. I mean stupid because the Critter eats a bomb, showing us that he really is carnivorous, implodes and then other Critters inexplicably come out of nowhere. Then you have the ones that take Human Flesh that throws a bowling ball with full strength and it knocks out the bowling balls; I don't know why but for some reason these bits felt languidly boring, off setting and I think this destroys the atmosphere of the film. It has an atmosphere of a post-tragedy film, but it lacks the humor of typical horror films, and it has one- dimensional characters and odious critters. What else can I say? ... I don't recommend this movie. Not even to Hardcore Horror Fans because this movie doesn't even pervade a disturbing, satirical or lively quality; it is languid, boring, uninteresting and predictably long-winded and for this I give it a 1 for Awful! "},{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This dose take while to show creature so we get to know the family and the build a lot of tension until the creatures finally show up and its not a let down when they show up.I really enjoyed watching this movie, this movie as some really tense moments and there some really bloody moment as well when the Critters attack.The Critters were not that bad, they did not look too scary but there a much more scarier then the Gremlins and a lot more vicious then the Gremlins and the Critters can also be really funny at times.The acting from the whole cast was really good for b-movie, I am going to give this movie 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"cool flick","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I heard of it when i saw it on the internet and when i saw the creatures i freaked out! the fist one i saw was critters 3 but i like the 1st one the best.The creatures look really cool like when that one ate a fire cracker that was awesome.But some people don't like it I mean 5\10 thats crazy it should be above 7. I love the characters such as Charlie who's in every one they've made so far i men thats how much they use him and i don't just men cameos i mean he is a main character every movie hes in. I also like the idea of the bounty hunters shape shifting is cool and one of my favorite scenes in the movie. so all I'm trying to say is its a great for a party or if you want a cool 80s monster film "},{"Title":"Enjoyable tongue-in-cheek sci-fi/horror creature feature","Date":"24 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A lethal gaggle of vicious and voracious alien furballs known as Crites escape from a prison planet in outer space and go to Earth on a stolen ship. The mean little buggers land in the sleepy small country town of Grovers Bend and proceed to terrorize the Brown family. Director/co-writer Stephen Herek handles the derivative, but bright and entertaining material with surprising wit and verve the story unfolds at a constant snappy pace, there's a good deal of tension and a decent enough smattering of splatter, a winningly playful and quirky sardonic sensibility lifts the whole thing to another substantial level beyond your basic generic Gremlins rip-off, and everything is topped off with an amusingly sharp and inspired sense of offbeat humor (in an especially nice touch, a pair of heavily armed intergalactic bounty hunters hired to wipe out the Crites prove to be just as dangerous and destructive as their quarry and in a truly hilarious scene one of the Crites gleefully rips up an ET doll!). The able cast deserve praise for acting with admirable conviction and professionalism Scott Grimes makes for an engaging adolescent protagonist as the smart and resourceful Brad, Billy Green Bush likewise does well as rugged farmer Jay, Dee Wallace Stone holds her own as the gutsy Helen, plus there are solid contributions by Nadine Van der Velde as the spunky April, Don Opper as bumbling drunk Charlie McFadden, M. Emmet Walsh as folksy sheriff Harv, and Terrence Mann as tough bounty hunter Og. A pre-stardom Billy Zane as slick big city hotshot Steve Elliot meets a pleasingly nasty untimely end. The titular beasts are very cool; they resemble hairy tumbleweeds with fangs and get to say several sidesplitting subtitled one-liners. Both Tim Suhrstedt's polished cinematography and David Newman's spirited shuddery score are up to speed. A satisfyingly straightforward and unpretentious piece of gnarly 80's Grade B fright flick fun. "},{"Title":"Cute, cheesy fun!","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Story Cute little furry monsters from outer space are out to eat as many humans. Sounds like a winning combination to me! The movie is fairly light hearted, putting laughs over scares or logical progression. There were times when I saw the window wide open to do some very dark humor, and I was slightly disappointed that they didn't take those opportunities. The main family members do decay as the movie progresses, as I felt the sister and the father were stronger characters before the plot showed up, and I blame the plot for that. CActing I was excited to see Billy Zane's name in the credits considering I'm a big fan of his work. Sadly, he has a somewhat small role as the 80's dumb boyfriend. At least he does it well. The star of this movie is the kid, played by Scott Grimes, who plays a very confident little crazy-prepared pyromaniac. Outside of the horror genre this kid would probably be seeing a psychiatrist on a regular basis, but it works here. Don Keith Opper annoyed me, which is probably a bad thing considering he's in all four of these movies and since I've started down this path I'll have to watch them all. Overall, the acting department gets a B.Direction This has the feel of a children's movie, a little cheesy but with a punch to it. The direction neither offended me nor impressed me, and I'm searching for things to say about it. That sounds like C level to me.Visuals The visuals still work to this day, which I consider to be a high compliment to an 80's special effects movie. The critters have a great combination of cute, yet menacing (I won't say scary, but slightly intimidating). The space ships look cool and the two bounty hunters are a visual highlight of this movie. A Overall Critters is a fun entry into the silly horror genre that I think most kids would be all over and most parents would enjoy with the proper mindset. It's fairly safe, its got some dry humping but no nudity or real sex, some blood but not obscene amounts, and I don't recall any major profanity being dropped. The only real setback for parents would be the need to explain to their children that it is not okay to make bombs in the barn, despite the fact that it worked out for the kid in this movie. B "},{"Title":"Underrated! - Critters is a classic!","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I don't know why is this movie so underrated. 5,7 stars only? Critters is a true classic, and though it's a B-movie, it still has less plot holes than today's movies, and it has both scary and funny scenes. The acting is a lot better than in other 80's popcorn movies, it's a nice horror flick! In my opinion, it's better than the Gremlins. The only problem with Critters, is that the sequels are all bad (or at least worse than the first movie). I recommend this film to everyone, the church scene is hilarious, the ending is creepy, with two words Really Good! I own a special edition with a furry DVD case. Looks great on the shelf! 9/10 "}{"Title":"A truly awesome B-movie","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" While there are indeed a ton of B-movies out there that are horrible, not worth the watch, forgettable and unremarkable or etc., sometimes there are a lot that come along and surprise you by how good they are. Critters is one of these examples. Critters is not only good, but exceptionally amazing when you would not be expecting that from such a film. The movie is excellently played out with amazing aspects and attributes that make it a fun, instantly enjoyable and totally rewatchable gem that I am glad to say I have enjoyed for many years and will enjoy for many years to come.The performances, while some are questionably mediocre, are all very likable and pertain to the film quite well. The main lead, whose name escapes me, did a very good job in this and the sequel, as did Dee Wallace who was a great horror star of the 80s, and the cameo by a young Billy Zane is just as enjoyable as all the other performances. The story, while could be greatly criticized by many people, I thought was stupendous. The critters look fabulous and are very threatening and cool, while at the same time as being laughable and cute, yes, I said cute. Their qualities give them a sudden likability, even though they are the villains, and the bounty hunters, while probably my least favorite thing about the movie, pass the time and fill some space well.It is very entertaining in the utmost sense with some nice kills, thrills and well, not really any chills, but I have nothing else that rhymes. While it is not a masterpiece, I greatly enjoy it as one of my all time favorite B-movies and honorably own it and it's two following sequels. I suggest, if you can handle it for what it is, you watch it right away if you have not, because it is highly lovable, in my honest opinion. "},{"Title":"Late night movie, lots of fun","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's weird, but this film has a feel to it much like creature-features of old, most notably the original The Blob with Steve McQueen, ie it all takes place in a small-town, rural America, whose citizens are terrorised by an evil force from space. Though this time it is not a mass of goo, it is little razor-teethed fuzzballs (think Furrbies with rabies) who have escaped from a galactic prison, and ended up landing on Earth, and these little Critters are hungry!The Krites (aka Critters) terrorise a family out in rural Kansas, and are pursued by shape-shifting bounty hunters, one with a ferocious mullet, who resemble a travelling comedy duo with leaf-blowers. While bounty hunting the Krites they only succeed for the most part in terrorising the townsfolk...these scenes are bizarre, especially the trigger happy bounty hunter who cant seem to decide on a shape to shift into. But anyway, these fairly inept space hooligans end up teaming up with Scott Grimes, in one of his first roles(great as the kid fighting the Critters with some help from his big sis, Dad and ET's Mum) and suffice it to say they make short work of the Krites with much explosive goodness! They also demonstrate their magic powers when they reconstruct the family home (obliterated in the Krite-battle)...hmmm i wonder if they bothered to do the same with the church and bowling alley they destroyed!The performances are definitely good for this kind of B movie, the scenes of Scott Grimes' character fighting with his big sister will ring true to anyone who has shared that relationship...very real!This movie is cool, no-brainer fun for a Saturday night. The story is exciting, and though it bears a resemblance to Gremlins you can hardly call this a rip-off of that film, and although I love Joe Dante's work, I like this film better than Gremlins anyway. Some great lines too...the bounty hunters' dialogue consists mainly of We're here for the Krites. and Where are the Krites? But the best line...comes from one of the furrballs themselves...Critter 1 They have weapons...Critter 2 So what? (Critter 2 is then blown off the porch with a shotgun)Critter 1 F*ck!So, before you browse the new releases section, take a walk through the horror weeklies and grab this one, you could do a lot worse for 4 bucks, and these campy, cheesy, bad, cheap horror flicks of the 70's and 80's walk all over any of the modern day efforts, where, for the most part, cheap thrills have replaced genuine scares. This is good stuff, sink your teeth in!!! "},{"Title":"Weird, imaginative nonsense.","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Krites are the critters. They are nasty little hedgehog-type creatures and while they may look cute you wouldn't dare pet one as they'd rip your hand of and share the rest of you with their pals.The Krites are prisoners on an asteroid jailhouse floating through the far side of the galaxy. Chaos inevitably breaks out and the Krites escape in a stolen ship, heading for the nearest solar system and it's only inhabitable planet...earth! Not to worry though, a couple of intergalactic bounty hunters are soon on their tail and track them all the way to the quiet farming town of Grover's Bend, Kansas. The worst thing ever to happen in Grover's Bend is the local drunk (the ever lovable Charlie) getting chucked out of a bar. But now the Krites are here and they lay siege to the Brown farm, eating their cows, Billy Zane, chickens etc. Anyone or anything getting in their way is promptly poisoned by their anaesthetic spikes and feasted on.Once the bounty hunters arrive the almost do more harm than good. The bulk of the laughs come from this, including a running joke on how one of them has shape-shifted into the form of an '80s heavy metal rocker. The other can't make up his mind and constantly changes into various townsfolk.The Critters (8 small ones and a big shaggy one) may be Gremlins clones but there's no denying their cuteness. Though while I would love a pet Mogwai, I think I'll pass on a pet Krite.Critters is a mad comedy-horror with loads of imagination and the nerve to tell a truly offbeat story. Much like Stephen Herek's next movie (Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure) Critters succeeds on pure energy alone. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Too new to be a classic? No way! This is one of my favorite 80's movies. In all honesty, I like it more than Gremlins. The acting is very well done and there are some famous people in this baby. The special effects are actually pretty bad, but the story and script is well done. Needs to be on DVD. Definitely give this baby a whirl, if you can find it that is. "},{"Title":"The best of the Gremlin clones.","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Of all the films to pattern itself after Gremlins, this one is by far one of the best.  It is the best to my knowledge, but I don't know if I have seen them all.  I actually saw though, where this one didn't make as much money as Ghoulies, which I thought was a very inferior rip-off of Gremlins.  Though it probably helped that it was released first.  This one has this little fuzz balls that eat like crazy...and they eat everything.  They land on a farm and this little eating machines trap the people living there.  One of them even grows to a more dangerous size too.  Bounty hunters from space though are on the little critters tails and are out to stop them.  A fun movie to watch, but nothing to great.  It goes by rather quick as well, so it is easy to watch.   "},{"Title":"a fun horror movie!","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  critters is a fun horror movie. full of thrilling situations,and some funny lines. the plot is insane,but the thrilling parts,and characters make me forget the plot. this movie is the best in the series. the series got stupid after part 2. i give critters *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"A really good horror comedy.","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Critters is a classic. Well,not many people know about this film,but for me,it's a classic film,and it will be a classic film for me forever. I hope I'll never forget this film. In my opinion,I'm lucky,because I've got the Critters series limited edition hairy box set. So. I think,Episode 1 is the best of the series. It's not too violent,but it's funny. Best horror-comedy I've ever seen. Critters is better than Gremlins. And Critters is a better horror-comedy than Scary Movie. In my opinion,Critters is the scariest of these films. If you like the horror-comedies,and you want to laugh,you have to see it. You can't afraid of it,and this is the reason why it's so lovely. ) Are you agree with me? Critters is the best horror-comedy! "},{"Title":"Critters vs. Gremlins","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" First of all i would like to say that this movie is a Symbol of greatness..The person that decided to create these movies are simply all that is man!!! Now to my point..If critters were to go up against the so called GREMLIN...Well lets just say that the gremlins are pussies...It would be like watching Ghoulies 4 expecting to be entertained...It is not going to happen...Critters would dominate the gremilins and then makle them eat their POOP!Not that i have ever seen the Critter's poop...But people say that critters is a rip off of the Gremlins Saga along with Munchies and Ghoulies...But i say that is a load of Crap!!! Critters mearly made gremlins look like the rip off! And now i think that this is all i shall say before i get too personall...the end!!! "},{"Title":"Smells like Cow crap to me dad... Entertaining & enjoyable, if a little bit shallow, Sci-Fi/horror film.","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Crites are little furry, reptile like alien creatures who have a big mouth with lots of sharp teeth & an insatiable appetite. They are able to curl into a ball & shoot poisonous spikes from they're backs which slows down or paralyses their prey. They are being transported across the universe in a prison ship, but they escape & steal a spaceship for themselves & head for the only planet in the solar system to support life, that planet is Earth. Warden Zanti (Micheal Lee Gogin) calls in the cavalry in the shape of two bounty hunters. Helen (Dee Wallace-Stone) & Jay Brown (Billy Green Bush) live on a farm near Kansas with their two children, April (Nadine Van der Velde) & Brad (Scott Grimes). Their normal peaceful existence is shattered one night when the Crites aboard their stolen spaceship land on their farm, Jay & Brad go to investigate & discover a half eaten cow. The Crites are clever little aliens & cut the Brown families phone lines & electricity, they are now trapped & have to desperately defend themselves against the Crites who just want to eat them. Meanwhile the two bounty hunters have arrived on Earth, one takes the appearance of a rock star named Johnny Steele (Terrence Mann) while the other eventually takes the form of the local deputy, Jeff Barnes (Ethan Phillips) when he is killed by the Crites. Harv (M. Emmet Walsh) the local Sheriff, starts to receive lots of calls about strange occurrences as the two bounty hunters cause mayhem wherever they go. But will the intergalactic bounty hunters be able to track the Crites down & make it to the Brown families farm before it's too late & everyone there ends up as Crite food?Co-written & directed by Stephen Herek I though Critters was an enjoyable & undemanding Sci-Fi horror that's good fun. The script by Herek, Domonic Muir with 'additional scenes' by Don Keith Opper as Don Opper who also stars in the film as Charlie McFadden, is well paced & isn't boring & thankfully doesn't seem to take itself too seriously. It's a little on the clichéd side, a bratty teenager saving the day, the sequel orientated ending, characters stranded in an isolated location under threat from monster/alien with no way of contacting the outside world & the standard cardboard cut out disposable characters who end up eaten, but Herek keeps things moving along at a nice pace & it isn't a huge problem here. The Crites themselves are pretty cool & the special effects surprisingly good throughout even if the giant Crite at the end is severely underused. I was particularly impressed with the optical effects, including the spaceships & view of earth from space among others considering the year Critters was made & the obvious budget restrictions. There isn't a whole lot of gore but that didn't seem to matter much as the film as a whole is solid, someone has their fingers bitten off & there are a few bite wounds but that's about it. The acting is good from all involved & Critters as a whole is well made with a definite slickness & professional shine. Overall Critters is a bit shallow & predictable but good fun to watch & is certainly a agreeable way to pass 80 odd minutes. "},{"Title":"Fun and enjoyable creature feature","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" After escaping capture out in space, a group of ravenous aliens land in rural America and begin eating their way through the small-town population forcing a family to team with a pair of alien bounty hunters to stop the creatures.This here was one of the more enjoyable and fun 80s-era cheesy creature features. What really gives this one a lot of enjoyment is the rather fun way this one manages to feature their cheesy nature despite still maintaining a strong sense of horror throughout here. While their very nature of being miniature hairy-reptilian beings obviously being small puppets, there's some great fun to be had as the creatures' goofy antics and behavior allows for plenty of comedy where they'll decidedly act like simplistic out-of-their-element and instead are keeping their natural instincts alive where they just go after anything and everything in their path with a vicious appetite that goes along with their discussions with each other. That makes for a great contrast to their threat here as they are kept as formidable as possible within this setting so their leaping emergence from the shadows in the basement, the first attack on the couple in the barn and cutting off the family's escape attempt all manage to feature a rather enjoyable sense of fear from the proceedings that makes them so enjoyable. With the escape attempt also leading into the fun barricade-measures to try to keep them at bay being a truly enjoyable series of action scenes that get incredibly fun while also containing their goofy antics throughout and setting up the big finale involved here. The science-fiction elements present throughout this part of the film, from the introduction of the aliens and the shape-shifting bounty hunters with their powerful laser weapons introduced here also manages to work nicely here by giving this one some extra action with the aliens' attack on the house clearing out the creatures and the finishing touch in the ship as it departs which is all in good fun as this manages to mix in the action with the sci-fi elements for an overall great part to this as well. With the great creature design and no real drag here from the pacing keeping this one moving along smoothly, it has a lot to like here that holds up over the film's one apparent and obvious flaw. The fact that this one is so goofy and cheesy might make it quite a chore for some who aren't that interested in this kind of schlocky effort. While there's certainly every effort made here to point out that's the case here with the plot and general atmosphere here, even this at times ventures too far into straight cheese which might be somewhat challenging. Otherwise, there's little stopping this one from being as fun as it is.Rated PG-13 Language and Violence. "}{"Title":"Revisiting a Childhood Favorite","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Taste is unique. This is a fact that we all know. There is no real accounting for why one likes a movie that others despise, or vice versa. Often, one's personal taste is the result of accumulated life experience, which cultivate that person's view. I find it interesting, then, how that taste can change. At times, a beloved treasure from childhood will forever stay that way and even starts to inform our later tastes. No matter how much critical review would tell me that CHILDREN OF THE CORN is not really that great a movie, I love it. It scared the holy hell out of me as a child and it has always stuck with me as an effective horror movie, no matter how much others may bash it. Then, there is the complete opposite effect, when we revisit a movie we loved as a child and realize my god, this is really bad. I recently had that experience with CRITTERS. This was a movie that had everything I wanted as a child. We had Dee Wallace, the perfect 80s mom for whom I held a secret crush. There were funny little monsters that swore and murdered people. There was violence, horror, comedy and the hint of sex. Finally, we had kick-ass bounty hunters, complete with 80s rock star hair-dos. It was the perfect cocktail of my childhood obsessions. It certainly helped that it became regular fare on 80s cable, allowing me to see it repeatedly.I would guess that it's been 25 or 30 years since I last saw the movie. Over the past year, I have met several of its' actors at horror conventions, which led to me pulling this 80s gem out of the cellar and giving it another spin in the DVD player. I was hoping for a nostalgic romp through a fun 80s horror flick, but I couldn't stop seeing the cracks in the foundation, eventually resorting to mocking parts of it MST3K style with my wife. Everything that I loved about it lost its' shine in those intervening decades. Most of all was the Critters, themselves. The effects are really bad. I can tolerate 80s practical efx cheesiness and, in fact, want it more in today's horror. I watch a lot of garbage horror, but these monsters are bad puppets, with bad animation. There is little fluidity in their movement. I am keeping the age of the effects in mind, along with the budget, but they are one step above being puppets on strings. All of the laughs I seemed to remember as a kid are gone, despite a few bad attempts at one-liners. The bounty hunters are even worse. I get that they are supposed to be wooden but they really take it to an extreme. Terrance Mann was so cool to me, then. Now, he's a bad actor, with a bad haircut, who sings a horrible 80s arena rock song in a video to start the movie, and as a bounty hunter just deadpans his way through it.I recognize that I am probably being far too harsh on a movie that was meant to be fun. It was low budget. It was a recognized ripoff of GREMLINS and THE TERMINATOR and E.T. and a few other 80s movies to boot. I should not be judging this movie on the same scale as, say, THE SHINING, and I don't think that I am. As I've said, I love all kinds of horror and can get behind bad horror. That's exactly all this is, though. It's the kind of movie that is beloved by a few geeks (said in the most loving way) who frequent comic cons and horror conventions and have fond childhood memories of this one. To anyone else, though, this is just going to end up playing out like a string of bad 80s clichés. "},{"Title":"VERY good. Has the perfect amount of horror, comedy and sci fi!","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Definitely a good movie! It's a fine mix of horror, comedy and sci fi all in an hour and a half! However, I would really wish that the movie was longer. If the movie was a bit longer, I'd rate it 10/10, but because it was a bit too short I rated it 8/10. But still, this is a VERY good movie. The jokes are funny, the scares are (very occasionally) scary, the sci fi is a job well done - the perfect movie for fans of horror comedies and science fiction! The humour isn't exactly pointable, and it's a bit hard to figure out...but when you figure out the joke's definition, you will laugh! This is an especially good movie for 10+ because I remember watching this when I was 9 turning 10, and I LOVED it! A must see!!! "},{"Title":"Satisfying!","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie rocks! Anybody who just sees the poster automatically thinks it's a rip-off of Gremlins, but this isn't a rip-off, it's something completely new.Now, I have to admit I did go to this movie because of James Rolfe's review on it (and that kick-ass Power of the Night song), though I knew about it ever since I saw the first TMNT movie.Anyways, this movie definitely delivers. It has awesome-looking creatures, fun characters, great music by David Newman, and a bad-ass storyline.Some creatures from space escape to our planet, and it's up to the bounty hunters to have them destroyed. I love the bounty hunters. They can disguise as anything they see with their own eyes.If you think that this is a cheap rip-off of Gremlins, you are wrong. Check this movie out! "},{"Title":"They bite...","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A family are terrorised by little furry animals from outer space who can eat anything, however the family are assisted by two alien bounty hunters who want to exterminate these critters.This film starred Scott Grimes, Dee Wallace & M. Emmet Walsh.Critters is an OK film but it is a bit of a rip off from Gremlins, I don't really enjoy this film anymore because it is just boring, you can have a couple of laughs but that isn't really enough for a film that is meant to be a comedy. Not really recommended unless you are a fan of science fiction comedy and an extreme fan at that.***/***** Could be worse. "},{"Title":"Meh...","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Critters is a 1986 comedy horror film, which takes place in a quiet town starring a simple and disciplined family who live on a farm. It stars Dee Wallace who many people recognise from her role in The Howling. The main character is little Brad Brown who is the youngest member of the family and gets into all kinds of mischief e.g. fighting with his sister setting off fireworks etc. He must protect his family as his mother has a breakdown and his father has been injured by the fury creatures from space who plot nothing but madness and destruction too this quiet little farming family.Critters is an OK family comedy/horror movie. I used to own all 4 of them in a box-set and was only keen on 1 & 2 so I got rid of 3 & 4 after I watched them a few years ago I just watched this one again recently and decided that these are not films that are worth me keeping, so now I own none of these, but I still recommend these to all you horror fans, sci-fi fans and comedy fans as they are worth a watch... well the first two anyway.***/***** Could be worse. "},{"Title":"Can't Really Be Critterical of This","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Talk about 80s. Perhaps my first time seeing Critters should've been back then.I have seen Critters 3 when was young, but then it was only because I was into Leonard DiCaprio at the time. (Actually, admittedly, I still am.) I just never got around to this, Part 2, 4 or whatever how many more they made that I have even less interest in.This original film (meaning, #1 in the series) dealt with fur balls from hell &#x96; uh, space &#x96; and their need to chop everything with their piranha teeth. They crash land in Smallville, U.S.A. on the most cliché family farm in movie history. I.E. Dad wears overalls all-day and drinks from a jar. (Even his real name is Billy.)In normal 80s fashion, the family fights off the rolling little balls of Satan while two emotionless, direct from a bad 80s music video, bounty hunters aid.Despite me never seeing this before and it's been just shy of 30 years since its initial release, it holds up for me because it's 100% 80s horror/comedy fair. Even if you've never seen it, but love the 80s horror movies, you might like this little gem.* * * Final thoughts I know they were trying to tap into Gremlins success, just like every other 80s horror film was a copycat, but at least this movie tried to shake things up a bit with the background story. Sadly, that entire (and basically, right off the set of the 1970's TV program Wonder Woman) sci-fi opening was truly hard to get through. "},{"Title":"Fun, scary and exciting","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A 1950s style sci-fi movie made in 1986. It involves a family living in a remote farm in Kansas. There's mom Helen (Dee Wallace), father Jay (Billy Green Bush), son Brad (Scott Grimes) and daughter April (Nadine Vander Velde). They're attacked by crites from outer space. They're nasty little creatures with a mouth full of VERY sharp teeth, can roll around and shoot poison spikes. They're followed by two bounty hunters who have been hired to destroy them.The plot is familiar but this movie is FUN! It doesn't take itself too seriously and just takes the audience along on an entertaining ride. The movie is full of funny lines and clever ideas. I really got a kick out of how whenever the crites talk we see subtitles! However it's not all laughs. It is violent at times and they are two genuinely horrific scenes.DEFINITE SPOILERS!!! The first is when we first get a good look at the crites and the father is brutally attacked and when Steve (an unknown Billy Zane) is attacked and killed. These are bloody and scary. END SPOILERS!!!Also to acting is pretty good--especially by Wallace. The special effects are, at best, OK but they totally fit the tone of the film. This is a fun, scary and great sci-fi film. Recommended! "},{"Title":"Man-eating  fur balls from outer space... Genius!","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Crittes is one of those highly enjoyable monster-on-the-loose films, with special effects done by the Chiodo Brothers, so you know you're in for a fun time. In the movie, a group of fugitive alien monsters that roll around and fire needles from their back, and morph into evil hedgehog Tasmanian devil porcupine eating machines escape from an asteroid prison and land on earth and begin to feed off of the local residents of Grovers Bend. The critters are sought after by melty faced bounty hunters who can take any form they choose. The idea is to blend in with society, but one of them chooses johnny Steele, writer of the hit song Power of the night which plays constantly through this movie. Anyways, the critters focus their attack on a little farm house, and the family boards up inside and try to survive the attack. That's basically all of the plot. The critters or krytes as they're refereed to as by the bounty hunters, are really fun to watch. Whenever they speak, we get subtitles, which is fun to see. Critters spawned several sequels, but this is by far the best. Unfortanately, it lives in the shadow of gremlins, and some even believe it to be a rip off of gremlins. However the film actually went into production before the gremlins movie was even released, and had to undergo re-writes so the two films didn't seem so similar. But still this is a great movie, definitely worth checking out. "},{"Title":"Critters show spooky monster visual art, but the script and acting is unpolished","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Critters is an average-level monster movie that is really serious in proving that it did not use the story of the film Gremlins. The acting and writing are not glorious enough to cover up the only strength of the film, the monsters' visual effects and art design.There are almost non-stop explosions that define the highest points of the film. Explosions have now been used in so many films that it is no longer entertaining to be the biggest scenes in a movie. The plot is very simple, too simple. It's about humans trying to defend themselves from a monster attack. Yes, it is proved that it's not usually possible to come up with a marvelous idea about a monster movie, but the makers of Critters shouldn't have expected such a great critic reception. It seemed that they focused more onto using the monsters as the real definition of the film and as a result have ignored making the characterization important. "},{"Title":"A very awesome sci fi movie","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Now today I'm not going to review this movie, instead I'm going to talk about this movie. The reason for that is I don't wont to be the 100th person to say what this movies about. Anyway I really enjoyed this movie a lot. I enjoyed it so much that I keeped on watching it again and again. But soon I got bored of watching it all the time. This maybe a Gremlins rip off but dosn't mean its bad. Now in this movie it stars Dee Wallace Stone, Billy Green Bush, Scott Grimes, M. Emmet Walsh, Nadine Van Der Velde, Don Opper, Lin Shaye and a surprised guest Billy Zane. It was Directed by Stephen Herek who went on doing Mighty Ducks, 101 Dalmations and Bill and Teds excellent adventure. ( Which were all good movies.) Now that will be it for today. I will go and review Critters 2,3 and 4. "}{"Title":"Good 80's Sci-Fi/Horror Flick!","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Dee Wallace Stone, Billy Green Bush, Scott Grimes, Nadine Van Der Velde, Don Opper, M. Emmett Walsh, Ethan Phillips, Lin Shaye, Billy Zane and Terrence Mann star in this 1986 sci-fi/horror film. This begins in another galaxy where a group of hungry, lethal aliens, Krites break out of an asteroid prison and head to Earth. Two intergalactic bounty hunters are immediately sent to stop them and must transform their faces to be human-like. Soon, the Krites land in Grovers Bend, Kansas eating their way towards a farm where Helen Brown (Stone), her husband, Jay (Bush) son, Brad (Grimes) and daughter, April (Van Der Velde) become trapped in a deadly nightmare of being attacked by them and try to survive until the bounty hunters come to their rescue. Opper (Android) plays Brad's friend, Charlie who is the town drunk working for the Browns, Walsh (Blade Runner) plays sheriff, Harv, Phillips (Star Trek Voyager) plays Harv's deputy, Jeff, Zane (Titanic) plays April's boyfriend, Steve, Shaye (A Nightmare on Elm Street) plays dispatcher, Sally and Mann (A Chorus Line) plays bounty hunter, Ug who takes the guise of a rock star, Johnny Steele. I grew up watching this and always liked it, even though some parts scared me as kid. I also like the transformation effects of the bounty hunters and David Newman's score is great. I recommend this good 80's sci-fi/horror flick. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly humorous and Orgasmically 80s","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Some of the humor portrayed in the beginning of this film is very subtle, but brilliant, then it evolves into a more formulaic brand of campy humor that is executed with equal brilliance. This may be one of the first films which successfully made fun of itself and this genre. gremlins had humor in it, but i'm not sure if it was as conscious about making fun of itself as this movie.Beyond that the film is 80'sstastic. Everything from the music to a metal head rock star being the chosen body double of one of the aliens just screams 80'sgasm. And as someone who, while not old enough to appreciate this film at the time it came out (I was a baby) I definitely love the outright dated nature of it. In fact there is rarely an 80s horror film that I do not absolutely drool over, but this one is arguable a cross genre with sci fi, horror and comedy.Anyway, I gave this one an 8 out of 10 for the brilliant humor execution and of course the 8 is also short for 80s. If you don't love this movie you're blind and deaf to the 80s greatness! "},{"Title":"A fun mid 80's creature feature","Date":"12 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I remember seeing this film many years ago when I was a kid and I enjoyed it, it was loads of fun and I liked it way better than GREMLINS not that I had a problem with GREMLINS but this film was just more fun to watch and more entertaining.Also after seeing it for the first time in years its still fun to watch and now that Billy Zane is a more familiar actor now, I was surprised to recognize him and also Dee Wallace who has probably been in more well known creature films than any other actress during the 80's.Overall, CRITTERS is a fun filled little 80's monster movie that is even fun to watch today. "},{"Title":"Critters","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A bunch of hairy little space creatures attack a small Midwestern family in Critters. The film starts off in space and ends up showing critters crash landing into the small town where the Brown's live. There is also a group of space bounty hunters that land on Earth to kill the furry demons. The story centers around the Brown family and in particular, young Brad. One night, a meteor of some sort falls out of the sky near their property. It's a bunch of critters and soon they attack the entire Brown family, forcing them to barricade the house up. Meanwhile in town, the bounty hunters are shooting up the entire town looking for the critters. The power of the bounty hunters are that they can change their face to look like anyone else's. All this leads to an explosive conclusion. This is a really fun movie. The acting is pretty good, the special effects are done well, but the story is pure eighties cheese. We have soon a ton of these movies that were made back then. The Ghoulies series, Gremlins, even the later Leprechaun installments. These smaller devilish creatures that kill anyone in sight. You would think that the people could get away from the critters, and most of them do, but they also shoot out sharp spikes to get their victims. I also love the small town aspect of it. You got the nosy townsfolk, the lazy sheriff, the old fashioned families, etc. It's just a fun little horror/comedy film that takes itself more serious than the next few entries to the series.7/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I've been buying used horror and sci-fi DVD's up the wazoo lately, they're so cheap, and I like the kinda cheesy 70's and 80's stuff....I had gotten Gremlins recently and watched it, and was it was pretty blah. I then picked up Critters, expecting worse, but was caught off-guard by how good it was. How did I miss this one in the 80's, when I was a teen? The creature effects are decent, it doesn't seem dated, (except for a couple hairstyles and the posters in the kid's room), and the family characters are well-rounded and likable. Those kid heroes in movies usually annoy me, but not here at all -- he's great.And I thought it was funny, in these earlier reviews, that Tenthousandtatoos listed a little Critter dialogue exchange that I thought was great and made me laugh out loud, it was so unexpected--when the one Critter gets blasted by the shotgun, to which the other just exclaims F*ck!!!The sickening sweet overtones of Gremlins just haven't dated as well as Critters' tongue-in-cheek feel. I urge anyone unsure of whether to seek out Critters to do so. It far surpasses what it could have been in lesser hands. Time has been kinder to this film than many like it... "},{"Title":"Loads of fun and thrills","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" GREMLINS begat the low-budget CRITTERS, which makes up for its lack of budget with some pretty inventive plotting and low-brow comedy. Alien prisoners escape to Earth, pursued by a pair of shapeshifting galactic police officers. These big-teeth, flesh-eating furballs invade a small town and all hell breaks loose. A farm family headed by the immortal Dee Wallace does its best to survive the onslaught. As with GREMLINS, the Crites as they are known are simple puppets, but darned convincing puppets for all that. They shoot poisoned spikes from their nasty bodies to overtake their prey. A lot of familiar character actors are on hand to liven up things. This '80s classic was followed by several inferior sequels. A remake would probably have them be CGI creations, which I am not sure would be as convincing. "},{"Title":"furballs","Date":"23 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" i really liked the premise of this one, this is not you're typical alien space creature type movie, the creature design was great, you got what look like these little furballs just rolling around on the floor. they look harmless but watch out because they love to eat. the aliens land in the midwest on a farm and proceed to eat everything in sight, they got what look like little porcupine quills on their back and use them as weapons when they feel threatened. they don't really kill a lot of people here on earth,, apparently there were 10 crites on board the ship.. 2 were killed so you got 8 of em running around on earth, two guys are sent down from the ship to stop the crites from feeding, this movie is very funny, lots of laughs and very simple to understand. "},{"Title":"Cutest monsters ever","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" (very minor spoiler here, this scene is somewhere in the middle) 2 little black fury teethy monsters, standing in front of the closed door chatting (already funny, isn't it?) 1st critter They have weapons! 2nd critter So what? (the doors opening and mom shoots out 2nd critter) 1st critter F*kc!!! If after that you're going to see Critters with serious intentions in mind, waiting for poor gore or serious plot, then you obviously not on the right horse! Critters is hardly a horror, it is more of a parody on itself. B Movie without ANY seriousness in it. It is poor fun, mindless, dumb, stupid, GREAT fun... Good way to sit and watch through, if you haven't something to do and just want to kill couple of hours.P.S. oh, did I mention? The Critters themselves are so cute, that if I would have to choose horror movie monsters that I agree to be prey for, it would be them ) "},{"Title":"Family-friendly entertainment","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A group of Crites &#x96; small carnivorous furballs that have killer appetites &#x96; escape from a maximum security asteroid prison aboard a stolen ship, heading towards the nearest planet, which happens to be Earth. They land in the small town of Grover's Bend, near a remote farm belonging to the Brown family. While the Crites mount an assault on the Browns, a pair of polymorphic bounty hunters in pursuit of the creatures also land nearby, causing mayhem in the town as they attempt to locate & destroy the Crites.Before he made his way into sci-fi history as the director of Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure, Stephen Herek entered the sci-fi genre with Critters. The film became a surprise hit with audiences once it reached video & was made into a minor franchise with three sequels, none of which managed to retain the charm that made this original such a hit.Critters is basically like a burger from your favourite fast food outlet &#x96; it doesn't add anything essential to your diet but it does taste nice & is addictive enough to warrant another serving. The film was made with the intention of providing nothing more than light fun. Nobody in the main cast gets killed (unless you're a bit player) & there are plenty of superfluous explosions to keep things going for the young ones (although this seems slightly lost on the Australian OFLC, who gave the film an M rating). The film has some impressive cut-price visual effects, most notably the Critters themselves, who make quite convincing monsters, & the bounty hunters' transformation effects also look good. The film has a fast pace & provides plenty of popcorn munching fun that will make it a good choice to scare young children into enjoyment. "},{"Title":"The best of the post-Gremilns  knee-high monster movie craze.","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" After the success of gremlins, horror comedies about knee-high monsters came out thick and fast .Ghoulies, munchies, hobgoblins......all crap-except for one critters. This funny and entertaining film succeeds where the other gremlins clones fail because it successfully mixes horror and comedy together.The plot, in which a farmhouse family (comlete with nubile young daughter and pro active kid) are terrorised by carnivorous aliens , is pure 50's B movie material but its handled with humour, tension and some cool pre digital visual effects .The cheesy 80s rock sound track also has its unique charms (the power of the night !!!!!).All the sequels that followed were truly awful , so don't bother with them - stick to the best of the gremlins imitators and get your teeth into critters. "}{"Title":"Furry Ball-Rolling Fun","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" At first I thought this would be another B-movie, and it is, but this one was actually pretty good. It some minor scares, more laughs and gore. The concept is simple a group of renegade space criminals escape to earth in the form of fury balls of teeth and reek havoc upon a small town in America's Heartland. These critters look furry and playful but they are viscous monsters and very deceiving. What made me like this movie was how the whole plot was executed, like seeing balls of fur and teeth roll across the place and lunging out a people and killing them.The acting was pretty good for a B-movie and Scott Grimes really made his star-debut with this movie. The actors and actresses act better when there is something horrible going on then they do when nothing is going on.The whole idea of having the faceless Space Police come down and morph themselves into other people and try to capture the critters is genius. I love the way the look, how they morph and how they dress. There appearance is so deceiving for how they really act and I like that.Overall, I think this is a very campy horror movie but it's not one that should be overlooked. It is very underrated by the public and shouldn't. It is a timeless classic B-movie horror film and nevertheless, a classic in the lineup of horror. "},{"Title":"The third best Little Critters Attack movie (so far as I've watched).","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" My Take Shameless rip-off of GREMLINS with some neat, wacky ideas.During the eighties, there was a range of movies that depict tiny little critters, small, but terrible indeed. I couldn't think of anything else to call them, so I just called them the Little Critters Attack movies. I wouldn't call them B-movies, for the plot, story and other elements are appropriate for its era. Director Joe Dante and Executive producer Steven Spielberg launched the idea of these kind of films, with their enjoyable and highly-successful Gremlins, which is still the king of that sub-genre. Followed of course by the sequel (which was actually released in 1990, but I decided to include it). Other movies followed this kind of story. And as far as I've watched, Critters is the best of them, making it ,of course no. 3. Critters starts out quite like a space epic, where a group of aliens enslave a small bunch of critters inside a meteor. But when they escape, two alien bounty hunters must pursue them. Although there is some padding on the first half, but don't be fooled, this movie gets better as it goes. It's funny, scary, a little gory, but a whole lot of creature feature fun.Rating *** out of 5. "},{"Title":"A Very Good Horror/Comedy Film","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A Kansas farm is attacked by a hoard of hungry flesh-eating monsters from outer-space with razor sharp teeth and a witty attitude! The family who inhabit the farm must seek the help of a local drunk and his critter-fighting bounty hunting pals before its too late...This film is extremely cheesy. No, that's a good thing. The reason why this film is very entertaining because it's very cheesy. It has cheesy dialog with some cheesy action mixed with some very funny dark humor.This film is nothing great but it's fun and entertaining, if you would like to kill eighty minutes of your life. The acting by most of the cast are decent, nothing special.If you like an entertaining movie mixed with some horror, comedy, and sci-fi, you'll like this movie, like I did. "},{"Title":"Horror flick featuring greedy little fuzzballs!","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" 'Critters' is a hilarious horror flick that I don't think I'll ever outgrow no matter how silly it seems or how many times I've seen it (which numbers over twenty since I first saw it as a kid).To put it simply, this film is the result of what 'Gremlins' would have been had it been rated an '18' certificate and the gremlins had developed a taste for human flesh! 'Critters' sees a pack of fuzzy little alien balls escape their space prison only to land on Earth where the residents of a small American town are about to unknowingly become supper. On the critters' trail are an all-American family, the town drunk and an intergalactic bounty hunter determined to stop them.It's not a film to be taken seriously. It knows it's playing for laughs, especially when you have scenes where the critters for one big ball that mow people down, eating them along the way, and critters swearing in their own critty language, but that's what makes it terrific entertainment. Watch out for a twelve-year-old Scott Grimes, who would grow up to play Doctor Morris in 'er'. "},{"Title":"Sci fi classic series","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" In the 80s and early 90s, we were introduced to this kind of stuff through pretty impressive featurettes in magazines and the like. Its pretty annoying to thus see people put down movies which so popular back then. For an 80s effort, this series, all the parts were pretty good and a classic part of creature feature entertainment. This certainly should not be put on the same level as today's B movie crap. The critters despite the first impression they gave, were pretty effective as scary monsters because of they way they actually ate their vicitims. The series did get better as it progressed but eventually petered out. From what I can remember, it was a pretty enjoyable scifi/ monster flick and series. "},{"Title":"One of the better 80's horror flicks!","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" As a kid I always was a sucker for Horror films something about watching people die in gruesome ways and sometimes the humor and wit with some horror movies. Such a movie to include such wit was this one.There was plenty of action to keep horror fans watching and some of the characters are memorable. This wasn't the goriest of flicks but made up with scares and the kills tastefully done. I really enjoyed this and the 2nd Critters movie before the franchise up and went to hell.I recommend this movie to anyone whom enjoys blood,guts and scares like I do. I'm surprised M.Emmet Walsh was in this. I watched Snow Dogs a while back and this other movie he was in then watched Critters for the first time in like a decade I didn't realize he was even in it. "},{"Title":"Gremlins turned up to eleven","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" When I first saw the movie Critters, I was a tad confused. I read in the TV guide about how it was supposed to be a horror movie, then switched on the television five minutes after it started to see an idyllic picture of Kansas farm life mother cooking in the kitchen, a rustic, hay shovelling father who disapproves of his teenage daughter's new boyfriend and the reckless younger son running amok with slingshots. Surely, said I, Critters has been cancelled and someone has put on an extended edition episode of the Waltons instead. Well a very short time later, I discovered that I did indeed have the right channel and man was I ever glad, because once the warm, character-building early scenes are out the way and the Critters turn up the boundless, over the top carnage becomes breath taking. The sight of these mangy little fur-balls rampaging through the countryside spitting out one-liners and eating people is fun enough, but when two interstellar bounty hunters with a phenomenal amount of firepower to their credit turn up to stop them, the mayhem never stops.In a nutshell, this is trash film making of the highest quality. There's very little horror to be had at all, but if you're of the opinion that a great movie needs a lot of blood, a lot of explosions and a keen sense of fun, it makes for a riotous night in. And it's also worth catching just to see a very young Scott Grimes from out of Band of Brothers during his spotty teenage years doing all the things malcontent boys do; argue with their sisters, try to fake illness to get off school and battle vicious flesh-eating alien monsters. Terrific fun. "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi Camp","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The original Critters is a film that any sci-fi horror/camp fan should watch. Many critics say the film is a rip-off of Gremlins, and sure, the makers of this probably got their idea for this from that muddy-looking movie, but they took their villains and made them ten times more ferocious, and freaky looking. Critters holds it's own over Gremlins by a long shot in my book. But what do I know. I also think Troll 2 is a classic. Anyway, Critters shines with good characters (the outer-space bounty hunters, Billy Zane and his oh-so awesome early acting abilities, the priest, and of course, Charlie), an atmospheric setting on a family farm, and the tepid yet steady pace the film holds taking place on basically one setting, through one night. Story of course isn't much. Aliens in the form of fur-balls take over a family's home, with men from outer-space hot on their trail. It does sound cheesy, but it is worth a watch. It's the best of the series. Many may have seen the first sequel on network TV, but don't let that one sway you. Each film after this got progressively worse, the latest sequel, Critters 4, remaining un-watchable. Three stars. "},{"Title":"Good clean fun","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Critters come from outer space. But when they do they hatch and wreak havoc on the western town. So what do the human folk do to stop them? Absolutely nothing.This is a movie to watch maybe right after Gremlins 1 and it's sequel Gremlins 2. But I wouldn't recommend watching it when you are eating. Heartburn and maybe a few sprouts to the toilet.But if you liked this you'd like the sequels. Just don't let your pets and youngest members of your family watch it. Because if you do you'll be holding a squeamish child on one shoulder and you'll be chasing a terrified animal all about. "},{"Title":"Harmless horror bilge","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Critters was one of those films that became a schoolyard favourite, at least back in my day anyhow! Whenever it was on TV we'd all watch it and chat about it the next day, it had a real following. Watching it a few years later, its still got a lot of charm, but you realise how cheap it is! The Critters are fairly entertaining little alien rodents who have terrible manners and go on wild killing sprees. In this they come up against some kind of yokal family somewhere in America, cue lots of savage violence and shotgun moments! The film is very honest about its comedy, which is on the whole good, and although the acting is not the best, it doesn't need to be. Critters is a fun film, ideal for students after a few bevvies. The first half hour or so is dire in reality, very slow and ponderous, but it picks up later on, so give it a try if you haven't seen it. If you saw it as a kid, you'll still love it, but for sentimental reasons more than anything else! "}{"Title":"A must see mini monster movie, the best of it's kind!","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The film-makers behind ANDROID, brings us another highly enjoyable sci-fi entry. Eight ravenous, carnivorous Krites (Critters to us) escape Prison Ward Sector 17, an alien maximum security prison in space, that houses space's worst alien nightmares, after wounding three alien guards & killing two others. Stealing a space craft, they hot foot it to earth, followed by two faceless & strong intergalactic alien bounty hunters, who's been sent by the alien council to wipe out the cute, but nasty tempered creatures. The creatures land in a farming field, first feeding on cattle, chickens, firecrackers, pitchfork ends & car seats, before deciding they would rather their meals be human & start to attack those unfortunate enough to be in their path & then begin terrorizing the Brown family, a typical farming family living in a small town, biting them with their razor sharp teeth & then shooting poisonous porcupine like quilts from their backs, in order to weaken them. Arriving on earth, one of the alien bounty hunters named UG, takes the form of a 1980's rock n' roll superstar named Johnny Steele (TERRANCE MANN) while the other named LEE (UG LEE, get it!) cannot find a suitable human look from any of the TV programs he has seen on their trip there. While on earth, however all of this soon changes as he finds plenty of human forms to hide his true face, as he frequently changes faces, first with a dead cop that fell prey to the Critters, then a minister & finally the town drunk Charlie McFadden (DON OPPER). Where plenty of humour arises mainly to the alien bounty hunters indifference to a world inhabited by humans & not aliens & begin to shoot up the place in a search for the creatures. Director STEPHEN HEREK fares well behind the camera, working with a script written by the late DOMINIC MUIR, & the two have managed to fashion a good old fashioned monster B movie, similarly akin to that of the 1950's & 60's monster B movie cheapies, only updated for modern times with better contemporary rock music & effects & a dose of comedy very closely akin to GREMLINS, whose success inspired this movie & many other mini monster movies of the era. The acting is really good, the critter designs, alien bounty hunter make-up & other alien creature make-up is very well done & superb, as is the model ships & set designs & explosions, all nicely designed & caught on film despite the fact that the film was working on a clearly low budget. Director Herek has chosen to keep his menacing monsters off screen for the first half of the film & instead focuses on POV'S from the creatures as they stalk their intended prey, until they are revealed on screen about midway. The films comedy is funny when it needs to be & suspenseful when the action kicks in. TITANIC's own BILLY ZANE stars in an early role as the farming family daughter's rich boyfriend, who visits the family farm & then becomes lunch for the carnivores, one of said creatures which grows bigger & bigger as the film goes on, to a monstrous size creature with a hunger to match. DEE WALLACE STONE plays the mother of the family quiet well, in fact there's even an in joke scene in the film that sees one of the Critters asking an E.T. stuffed animal who he is, before chewing his head off (Stone played the mom of the children in that film) The only confusion I have is in the following (& as far as I know, no one has ever picked up on this yet) at the beginning of the film, the kids are eating breakfast & are getting ready for school, & yet when the alien bounty hunters arrive on earth later that night, the hunters interrupt a church service in town (do churches hold church services during the week as well as on Sundays?) All in all, CRITTERS never tires with age, in fact it just gets better & is a perfect mini monster movie & the best GREMLINS rip-off you can find (Is it okay to say that I prefer this film to that one?) sadly the film didn't do as well in theatres as it did on home video. Highly recommended, CRITTERS is a cult classic that led to three sequels, staring with CRITTERS 2 THE MAIN COURSE.**** stars "},{"Title":"A funny&scary film for older kids.","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I recommend this film to two viewer groups a.) kids aged 5-12, and b.) their parents who would like to get the said kids off their heads for 86 minutes.Watched it at the tender age of 9, and I must say it was quite a bit of entertainment. Quick action (note I had ADHD and this film didn't bore me at any point), good acting, cheesy-but-sufficient special effects. Gore level low(sic!), which is a good thing as imagination makes up for poor special effects. The horror moments are well balanced with humor, and the main characters (even the seemingly callous space bounty hunters) are believable and likable.Very very good entertainment for the not particularly picky audience the youth is. A kid will watch it till the credits roll, then call up his friends for an amusing game of pretend-to-be-a-space-bounty-hunter-with-an-awesome-gun.As to the alleged ripping off Gremlins there are exactly TWO similarities between Crites and Gremlins, i.e. they're SMALL and they're MALEVOLENT. End of similarities list. I can send you an email if you want the full difference list. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I remembered","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this one so long ago I forgot it.  Having seen the not-too-spectacular sequels more recently, I thought I was taking a risk.  I just saw it on DVD and it was actually OK!A pretty predictable plot, little flesh eating aliens invade the tiny town of Grover's Bend and a mixed bag of heroes- an adventureous kid, his family, two shape-shifting bounty hunters from space, a hard drinking bumbling mechanic, and the town sheriff must join together and fight the monsters.Decent special effects for its time, and quite a few explosions.  It is fairly entertaining, and mixes dark humor in much of the horror. ** Minor spoiler* Like the part where one critter says (in subtitled English translations of critter language) They have weapons! and the other replies So what?, and the latter critter gets blasted into chunks with a shotgun right after.  The surviving one screams F**K!. **end*The movie is kinda campy, but kinda fun as you can see some parody of this-and-that and some 80's culture.  The main bounty hunter for example (identified in future parts of the series as Ug) assumes the identity of a rock star named Johnny Steele, and you get to see part of an 80's-esque hair band music video!  Ah the nostalgia.I dunno, I guess it was sorta good.   I don't think the sequels were truly needed, and only served as a little bit of extra neat FX and dark humor, but the end kinda (well definately, not just kinda) makes way for a sequel. "},{"Title":"Only for laughs, but it provides them.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A definite throwaway entertainment, but it is slyly amusing in the spirit of Mystery Science Theater ... and it's self-deprecating genre satire is pretty good.  As a side note, my kids (aged 5 and 10 when they saw it on HBO) thought it was pretty exciting.  If you have the necessary appreciation for nonsense, you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"heh","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  critters is one of those movies i grew up with and loved. looking back at alot of these movies they seem so bad as a adult, they aren't scarey or anything like that anymore. but because of the memory of how much i liked them as a kid, they command a firm place in my heart ;>, i liked it more for the jokes than for the rest of the movie(ive just watched it after about 15 years )other movies that i loved from the 80s, but really know i wouldn't love them if i had to rate them nowThe goonies police academy police academy 2 the karate kid tronjust to name a few >  "},{"Title":"A few words on why Critters is one of my favourite films !","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  'When you've got Critters ... you need all the help you can get.'Critters is a story about The Krites who are an alien race best described as furry soccer balls with teeth ! They can also fire spikes out of their back and cause havoc in a small Kansas town ... Two bounty hunters from space are sent out to destroy the Krites before it's too late ...Most of the action focuses around the Brown family, who reside very close to where the Krites spaceship lands ... and Charlie, a local drunk who does odd jobs at the Browns and feels the alien presence through vibrations in his teeth !Doesn't sound great, does it !? We'll it's actually fantastic ! The 80's was a great time for this kind of Horror flick and this is easily one of the best ... I can't recommend enough that you give it a try ! The special effects, all in all are very good and it's well acted and put together ... No DVD as of yet though ... Fingers crossed ! "},{"Title":"Fun Movie","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I remember renting this movie with a friend when I was like 10, and ti was a lot of fun and scary as hell.  Unlike some of the other horror movies that featured monsters or aliens as the nemesis, the concept of critters was pretty original, and although it's not award material, it's a pretty decent sci-fi/horror film. "},{"Title":"Maybe it's some russion spy probe...","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  In 1986 Critters catered to the crowed that loved '84's Gremlins, and '85's Ghoulies, and the crowed that found Gremlins a little tame for there gory tastes.  Though Critters isn't an all out 'horror' film, it carries the fine line between Sci-Fi-Horror affair much like Alien.The difference between Critters and Gremlins are subtle, but enough to make this a worthy picture for mass concumption.  Gremlins was intended to be a comedy, but fell on the fine line with it's realistic violence.  This ofcourse was helped though by the films sequal Gremlins 2 The New Batch, but Critters is more strait forward sci-fi, without trying to cuddle you in. The story is pretty basic, you could run the first 10-15 minutes of Wizard of Oz and then splice into Critters where the action begins, and you really wouldn't notice much of a difference other than Dorothy gets much older real fast, and one of the Lolly Pop Guild is our protaganist.The Brown family, a farm family outside of a small town in Kansas is invaded by small Popple like creatures from outer space that escaped from a prison hold on the other end of the galaxy.  The Krites as they are called by the bounty hunters that follow them, begin to feed and grow on cops, cattle, and unsuspecting boyfriends. This low budget romp is fun, and funny, I think that the bluntness with the gore and sci-fi/horror atmosphere makes this stand apart from Gremlins, but let's all face it, the pitch for the movie was Gremlins meets Alien! Scott Grimes plays our young hero by the name of Brad.  Don Opper plays his friend, and father's employee Charlie, whom part isn't as large here as it is in the sequals, other than the crazy guy running around warning everybody, ala' Friday the 13th, and so on. Dee Wallace Stone plays her typical scared mother role, with M. Emmit Walsh chewing up the screen as Sheriff Harv, and rocker Terrence Mann as the ultra cool Bounty Hunter, Ug.  Critters is fun as long as you don't take it too seriously. "},{"Title":"Not a classic,but it should be!","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is not a Gremlins rip off!Gremlins are the second and final stage of a weird and unknown race,but Critters,which are known as Crites,not only do we know about the Critters origin,but they are always in there Crites form,never really transform.Anyway,enough of the comparison.The movie has some o.k charicterssome great humor,and and a ending with suprising events,and leaves room for part two,and obviously that opprtunity was taken.(POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD) I really liked that giant Critter in the end,that was neat,unfourtanately,is not seen in the sequels,and the real dissapointing thing is that the Critters take too much time to appear,overall,great flick for the family,and a coulple of good sequels! "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as I remember ..","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  But it's still pretty good. I remember seeing Critters in the theater when I was about 12 and a the time, I was blown away by it. The movie is about a handful of critters (little creatures that resemble gremlins in personality) who escape from a prison spaceship and crash-land on earth, where they terrorize a family living on a farm. Meanwhile, two bounty hunters are sent from outer space to dispose of the critters. The critters themselves are hairy, ugly little creatures with very sharp teeth. They can curl into the shape of a ball and roll around. They shoot poisonous darts and eat anything that moves - they are much meaner than gremlins and it only takes one to eat somebody alive.After watching this movie for the first time in years, some of the flaws stand out a little more. The acting (except for the mom) is definitely of B-movie quality. Also, the overuse of the Power of the Night video might irritate somebody who hates anything that's 80's .. this movie is definitely vintage mid-80's. If you happen to like the 80's, you will probably enjoy the soundtrack.Despite the flaws this is definitely much better than your average cheesy sci-fi/horror flick. The movie starts off kind of slow but once the critters land on earth (about 20 minutes into the movie) and eat a couple of people, the action is almost non-stop and very rarely lets up. There are a lot of tense and scary moments in this movie and the critters are just ... well, MEAN! If you liked Gremlins, you'll almost definitely like this. However, if you're looking for a gorefest, you will not find it here. This movie is more on the comedic side (in the spirit of Gremlins) than it is a true horror flick, but it's still very good.Oh, and a word about the sequels. There are 4 parts to this series, with each sequel being progressively worse than the last. If you liked this one, you should probably watch Critters 2, as it is watchable and somewhat enjoyable, but nowhere near as good as the first. Critters 3 is just plan bad and Critters 4, well .. don't even waste your time. "}{"Title":"Awesome sci-fi/horror flick!!!","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the first sci-fi/horror flicks I have ever seen, a few years back when I was around eleven or twelve. I enjoyed this more than Gremlins because it was actually very scary, extremely tense (the sequences involving the critters attacking the bloodied family members stick in your mind for days), and I liked the music, acting, etc. Yes, sometimes it can be slow but once it gets going it holds you in a vice-like grip. Great fun, but the sequels are really bad!! Nothing can match the original. "},{"Title":"I WANT THE SOUND TRACK","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A really great film which deserves more credit. Seeing by the user response no-one else has seen this film either, but I tell you now, go forth to the video store and rent this fitfully amusing horror comic about killer hedgehogs from outer space. (ps.Did I mention the really great 80's sound track????) "},{"Title":"Too cheesy, even for the genre","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" While I understand it's a horror COMEDY it's not excuse for horrible acting and horrendous psychology of the movie, while premise is not too bad and fitting for the genre the overall picture just falls apart as movie goes along. For starters there's only two deaths in the whole movie and they wasn't even of any of the main characters and while it's common for it's time for cheesy flicks to have no balls at all it doesn't change the fact that it really badly harms the credibility of the critters as an intergalactic threat - they can't even deal with few puny humans, their ability to grow here while promising - completely unexploited. Acting is really very bad even for it's time, maybe not Troll 2 bad, but definitely up there, I was very surprised that boy(worst actor in the movie) was nominated for an award for hes sucking, I guess at that time they were giving awards to anyone who were willing to showcase themselves on the big screen. The worst however is the ending, the premise that firecracker, which little boy carries around with him, can blow up the most advanced alien spacecraft in galaxy is beyond stupid and convenient, it's dumb even by movie logics, because earlier it was clearly established, that it couldn't even blow up a single critter, who swallowed the thing. The ending really made me angry and disappointed and that's the reason I'm so harsh on my vote, but come on, for the movie, which spawned three sequels I expected something at least tolerable. "},{"Title":"Horror spoof of Gremlins","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The main theme of the film is humor, you've got these little balls of weirdness with nippy teeth going after people. Its really quite funny to see. The added sound effects when they move around add to the humor.This humor is tempered somewhat by the fact that these little balls viciously murder people. But hey thats part of the weird contrast in the movie.The film has a good B-movie sensibility, the film doesn't take itself seriously in a good way.However strangely enough this creates a good mood that sucks you into the film, and therefore the film has its share of tension and horror.Good movie to pop in for teenagers to give them a scare, without psychologically scarring them like the hostel/saw movies will do. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Critters is the story of a family menaced by eight basketball sized creatures from outer space who arrive at their Kansas farm in search of food. Helen Brown (Dee Wallace Stone) and Brad (Scott Grimes), owners of the farm find themselves held hostage as the creatures roll, jump and bounce around during the night. They are pursued by a pair of inept, intergalactic bounty hunters, Charlie (Don Keith Opper) and Johnny (Terrence Mann) who can shape-shift at will and are packing weapons capable of taking care of any creature they encounter.The special effects of this humorous thriller are extremely good and the creatures themselves have distinct and separate personalities.Well made flick with a fast pace and tight editing. Good measures of humor and scares are injected and the ending is quite memorable. One of the better horror films to come out in the 1980's. Watch for an early appearance by Billy Zane.Rated PG-13 for Mild Sexual Situations, Graphic Violence and Strong Profanity. "},{"Title":"Unwanted visitors come to Grovers Bend","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I first saw Critters in the late 1980's when I hired it from a video shop and have seen it several times since and found it great fun. It comprises a mixture of comedy and drama.A group of small, furry but unfriendly monsters escape from prison on a distant planet and end up on Earth in the small Kansas town of Grovers Bend and are very hungry. Killings soon start. A couple of bounty hunters are sent to kill them. These bounty hunters transfer into human beings and one of them transforms into several of the town's people, including the vicar! The Brown family are doing their normal daily routine when the Krites (Critters) land nearby after dark. The bounty hunters arrive just after and destroy the local church and a bowling alley. As the Brown's are attacked, they try to escape but fail to and the son, Brad goes to get help and finds the bounty hunters and they arrive and start killing the Krites off. But the Browns' daughter is kidnapped by the giant Krite and takes her back to the spaceship but she is rescued and the spaceship takes off, destroys the Browns' home and blows up itself after Brad throws a fire cracker into it. One of the bounty hunters gives Brad a device and local rogue Charlie tries to get a job as a bounty hunter. When the device bleeps, Brad presses a button and the Browns' home is rebuilt but there are some unhatched eggs in the barn...This was the best of the four Critters movies and this movie series had several then unknown stars who went on become famous names, including two Titanic actors.The cast includes Dee-Wallace Stone (E.T.), Billy Green Bush, M Emmet Walsh, Scott Grimes, Don Opper, Terrance Mann and Billy Zane, who went on to star in Titanic. Grimes reprised his role in Critters 2 and Opper and Mann went on to star in all of the Critters movies.Critters is a must for all sci-fi fans. Fantastic.Rating 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good and consistent!","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It is not too much said if I call this movie good. Yes it is a rather low budget B-movie with not the best effects but it is still good. The reason for that is mainly the acting of the main family depicted which is all throughout the movie very convincing and truly good! The boy also seems to really have gotten into his role and his acting is better than can be expected from his age. I also liked the camera work, it is quite capturing and fluid. The story itself is fast paced, never stalls or gets boring but neither does it get too fast. The ending is not the best so to speak but it passes as ok. I wanna draw a parallel to Halloween (I) which I saw a few days ago too I can enjoy slasher movies and expected a lot from Halloween but after about an hour (when the action was slowly starting) I started to fast forward through it - the reason being that the movie had already lost me, eventho it is certainly better made (not hard when you think of that it needs less special effects) than Critters and also has a more serious story that could almost pass as real. The difference here tho was that Halloween didn't get on with it, it seemed to me like a one hour brake before it really took off. Critter tho got me from the beginning and held my attention throughout because you got to the people it was about and the actors were good at describing the family, so my attention had always something to hold on to. That is something I didn't believe I would experience (certainly not if you think of the difference in status between the two mentioned movies).I was surprised to find Ethan Phillips playing one of the policemen! (Also Neelix, Star Trek - Voyager)Critters is absolutely watchable and enjoyable, but you shouldn't expect an Oscar winning film. I recommend it to anyone who hasn't seen it yet (it doesn't have much blood either so it should be ok for many) and who doesn't have a clearly better film on the menu. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Fairly good Gremlins knockoff","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Critters is another creature feature that was nothing more than another takeoff of the 1984 Steven Spielberg produced/Joe Dante directed box office hit Gremlins. Even though Critters is nowhere near as good as Gremlins, it's a whole lot better than Ghoulies. This film has some scares and some laughs which makes it moderately entertaining. But at the same time it gets to be somewhat tiresome. Nevertheless, Critters turned out to be the best of the Gremlins ripoffs. And it stars the mom from E.T., Dee Wallace Stone. Also starring in this, a young Billy Zane (a decade before playing Kate Winslet's despicable fiance in Titanic). Critters is nothing special, but it's better than I expected. A good, but not great, monster movie.**1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"why waste perfectly good film?","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, tell me if the so-called plot is any good. A lot of little furry aliens escape from a prison on an astroid. They steal a ship that is much bigger then them, and I don't how they can control it, and for some reason they fly down to earth, where a family lives ona farm. Following the aliens, are some bounty hunters sent to find and capture them again. These critters can roll into balls and get around quickly. They have their own language with english subtitles, and they enjoy killing. Is that a plot? no. Horrible acting, again, no plot what so ever, and unrealstic actions. It was TV once and I watched it. It sucked very badly. I'm telling you, it is a stupid, pointless, plotless movie.  "},{"Title":"Flesh-eating alien hedgehogs versus ET's mum.","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The success of Joe Dante's marvellously manic Gremlins unsurprisingly triggered a wave of dreadful low-budget imitations; sporting derivative titles such as Munchies, Ghoulies, and Hobgoblins, most of these cheap rip-offs lacked the laughs, scares, imagination, and impressive monster effects that made Dante's film so much fun.Critters, by director Stephen Herek, certainly suffers from cruddy creatures&#x97;rubbery hand puppets with naff glowing eyes whose silly antics and low-brow one-liners are no match for the genuinely anarchic humour of Dante's creations. However, with a lively tongue-in-cheek script, a solid cast (including Dee Wallace Stone, a young Billy Zane and Lin Shaye) and inventive visual effects (some cool spaceships and a standout transformation scene), the film still manages to be a fairly entertaining slice of undemanding 80s B-movie sci-fi fun. "}{"Title":"A CLASSIC... so they say,","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Critters (1986)5 Word SummaryFurry Aliens Terrorize Small TownA small town is attacked by small aliens while bounty hunters from outer space try to track them down. The critters start eating people and the bounty hunters take the shape of local people as they try to find them, with the help of townspeople I found this movie rather boring. After reading what it was about and seeing the genres it was classified as I thought it was going to be like Gremlins, which apparently some people would agree but I wouldn't. It's said to be a comedy but I didn't really find it funny, unlike the bar scene in Gremlins or what have you. It just seemed like an average sci- fi/horror film like a slightly better executed Hobgoblins. It wasn't that original, its kind of what you would expect if man eating aliens would come to a small town. i thought they did alright with the critters themselves, with how they moved and looked but it wasn't enough for me to really be that entertained. Maybe a decent movie to watch and make fun of (like MST3K) but worth a pass if you are actually looking to see an entertaining film. not really sure how it became a sort of classic. Maybe its just one of those films you had to enjoy when you were younger to enjoy later in life. "},{"Title":"a fun little movie","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Critters is a rip off of Gremlins The plot involves a group of Krites evil man eating fur balls who have escaped a local space prison and are currently being pursued by two bounty hunters. The krites crash land in a field near the Bradly's farm The critters after eating the cattle follow the browns home where after a few small encouters terrorize the browns the diffrences between Critters and Gremlins 1. Gremlins attack people because thats there way of having fun Critters do it so they can eat them 2. There shaped differently 3. Gremlins have a slightly different laughter 4. Gremlins are smarter Critters just eat anything that gets in the way 5. Gremlins are better at hiding 6. Critters when they haven't eaten are slightly smaller than gremlins and finally Gremlins can reproduced with just the smallest drop of water critters lay eggs "},{"Title":"Not as good as Gremlins, better than Ghoulies (obviously)","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Critters are tiny balls of fur from space that like to devour humans in their spare time.. This is a quaint little black comedy with little plot but some likable characters, such as M. Emmet Walsh who we all love from Blood Simple!!! in a comic role here as the police chief. There are a few laughs and there is not much gore but there's a bit still. Also there's some crappy 80s music. It's cool! Rent it.Critters had 3 sequels... all of them starred Don Keith Opper and Terrence Mann... the third starred Leonardo Di Caprio!!! So it's not surprising that after that the series went straight-to-video for its fourth film, which starred Brad Dourif. "},{"Title":"A good movie in my opinion.","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  **1/2 stars out of ****.Crites (a.k.a. critters), little toothed tumble-weeds from space attack a farming community, eating it's inhabitance. Two extra-terrestrial bounty hunters (that love groovy eighty tunes!) help a family stop them. Good acting and script make this film worth watching, even though the critters take the show--very good creature effects. Don't miss the sequels! "},{"Title":"The best of the little monster movies!","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It's still amazing to me how many little monster movies Hollywood churned out after the success of GREMLINS. You had MUNCHIES, you had GHOULIES and you had CRITTERS, which surprisingly enough turned out to be the best of the bunch. Not that I have anything against GREMLINS but CRITTERS has far more depth and character development than it does and it's leagues above the other two. Directed by Stephen Herek, who would later go on to helm BILL & TED'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE and ROCK STAR with Mark Wahlberg, CRITTERS is a sci-fi/horror/comedy about a group of fur-ball aliens who escape from a prison space ship and come to Kansas for a bite to eat with a pair of intergalactic Bounty Hunters, who can take the face of nearly anyone they want, on their trail. Now as ridiculous as it all may sound, the characters are genuine and the family, along with Charlie, is real enough that you will end up caring about them by the time it's all over. Still, in the end though CRITTERS is nothing more than campy fun but it's campy fun that will keep its viewers entertained. Check it out. You'll see what I mean.  "},{"Title":"Quitters.","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A modern-day cult classic that surprisingly found a legitimate audience and spawned several lesser sequels in the late-1980s and early-1990s. Critters is old-styled sci-fi junk in the tradition of those unwanted Asian productions of the 1950s. The title characters come down to Earth from their planet and terrorize a small farm town and one family in particular (led by Dee Wallace-Stone). Alien bounty hunters from outer space and the hay-seed sheriff (M. Emmet Walsh) complete the silly cast. Watch for a very young Billy Zane (the villain of Titanic) as one of the town's unlucky inhabitants. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Horror/Comedy with a heart.","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was a pretty funny movie. It was about fuzzy little creature that shoot  spikes out of there back, then roll around eating people after they crash-land in the middle of a farming community. This movie was funny, charming, and like-able.  "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Gremlins knockoff about a family trapped in a farm house by evil little aliens called Critters. Hot on their heels is two alien hunters out to destroy them. Well made flick with a fast pace and tight editing. Good measures of humor and scares are injected and the ending is quite memorable. One of the better horror films to come out in the 1980's. Watch for an early appearance by Billy Zane.Rated PG-13; Mild Sexual Situations, Graphic Violence, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"DONT READ THIS UNLESS U SAW critters ALREADY!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I saw critters for the first time, my life was completelychanged.  Never before have I beared witness to such destructiveforces of nature.This documentary is basically an emotional rollar-coaster. Werecommend it for those who are willing to watch a piece that themain-stream press is (still) afraid to cover.  It is chilling, especiallywhen I think of how frightened the camera man must've been ashe watched these hideous and demented creatures commitdisgusting acts of mayheam and debauchery.  I (unlike thecorporate news-shows) commend him on this film.Mainly this work reminded me of a similar cinematic masterpiececalled The Crow.  Both Eric and the critters (in general) havemade a profound impact at my life.  Last summer was a time of intense spiritual turmoil for me.  Butwith the help of these filmic marvels, I found numerous (and oftencontradictory ) answers to  many profound issues; not to mentionphilosophical guidance.  The things that at I learned are tooplentifull to list in this review.  Suffice it to say that there are many,many, many hidden numerical messages in this documentary. Keep your eyes peeled.   Incidentally, watch for the  scene with the eels. Can you believe it?(I can) "},{"Title":"WHO SAID GREMLINS WAS BETTER?","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Often compared unfavourably with Gremlins, Critters is to my mind a more enjoyable film. The film moves between  horror and comedy. The galactic bounty hunters who are sent to destroy the Critters(escaped criminals from a prison asteroid)are played deadpan which adds to the humour.  The bounty hunters are over zealous when it comes to the use of their weapons and the shoot up of a bowling alley is a nice touch. The local drunkard Charlie is the kind of stock character that appears in comedy westerns of the John Wayne variety and is well transposed to the modern day. The long coats worn by the bounty hunters is reminiscent of those worn in Once Upon a Time in the West.I would certainly give this film 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Great sci-fi movie","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best sci-fi movies ever. The movie has a very original story to it, and the acting is great. I would have to say that this is a movie worth watching more than once. Although avoid the sequels if you can. "},{"Title":"**** out of ****","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  By far one of the scariest movies I've ever seen, Critters has been in my book as being one of the few movies that scared me to death.  This movie uses ideas extremely well and knows how to scare, believe me.  I haven't seen it in a while but it's still a classic.  The sequels aren't that bad either. "},{"Title":"amusing, scary, and has a great 80's soundtrack!","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This came out just a little too late, because it really is quite good, and deserves more credit. It can be seen to be a thinly disguised Gremlins rip-off,but I personally think that it is better than Joe Dante's kiddy friendly horror romp. There are some really funny moments within this top shelf sci-fi film, but to know what happens rent it out (cliche). (ps,the first sequal was also great, but don't go near the others with a barge pole,even though Leonardo DiCaprio starred in part three)(a great beginning to a c*** actor!)  "},{"Title":"Silly, in a kind of good way.","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" No way that Critters is among the best movies that the genre has to offer but it's a sort of still good silly horror/science-fiction comedy in which a bunch of small creatures from outer space threaten a small town.It obviously is not a movie that takes itself too serious, which is a good thing. It makes the movie fun and definitely entertaining to watch, from basically start till finish. But it also is a movie that has very little to offer. It of course is being far from original, for a comedy it perhaps isn't quite funny enough and for a horror/science-fiction it just isn't serious- and good enough all. It's the sort of movie you can easily do without but when you still decide to watch it you will have a good time nevertheless.It's the first movie that got directed by Stephen Herek, a director who once started out as a promising director but has pretty much hit rock bottom by now and directs only straight to DVD stuff for the last couple of years now.The movie also stars some young actors that are quite well known by now, like Scott Grimes and Billy Zane. All of the actors did a pretty good job by not taking their jobs so seriously in this movie. Especially Dee Wallace pretty much nailed the performance right as naive housewife.All in all not a real great genre movie but through it's deliberate silliness the movie becomes a real enjoyable one to watch.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  decent little flick is fun and entertaining that is fairly well written and acted but it has a silly ending and a dull first 30 minutes but after that this is an enjoyable flick that i recommend at any time Billy Zane has a bit part in this so look for him **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Oh my God.","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" My son asked me sit through this truly awful film and I wish I hadn't. Acting, production values, script were so disturbing I had to shower after the film had finished to cleanse myself.This B movie garbage has been described by some as a cult classic. Some even have the audacity to describe this film as a comedy horror. Sadly for these mindless individuals the movie has nothing to recommend it self for. It astonishes me however that somehow almost all of the cast seemed to evaporate in to the ether after making this masterpiece.CRITTERS should have a government health warning on it and has to be avoided at all costs.Utter garbage. "},{"Title":"Fuzzy-wuzzie kid's movie","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Hey with cute, fuzzy-wuzzies running around with teeth, what better way to give a kid nightmares, right?Just get a precocious, obnoxious 12 or 13 year old who's smarter than the parents (parents are pretty stupid in Hollywood, didn't you know that?); or a dad (Billy Green Bush) who acts more like the kids best friend than his dad; or a mom (Dee Wallace Stone) who's pretty helpless at everything except cooking; or a daughter who can't keep her hormones in check with her airhead boyfriend, and there you have it.  The perfect Hollywood family.  And gawd, they are dumb.The fuzzy-wuzzies look so precious that you'd just want to take one home with ya.  I do, anyway.  It might keep the cats away.  (laughs)And the alien bounty hunters that are sent after the escaped furballs are even dumber than the farm family.  It's a wonder they are able to go into outer space let alone drive a car.  Isn't there a film called MORONS FROM OUTER SPACE?  They'd be good in that one.Some cool reverse action photography involving the reconstruction of the farmhouse (at the end) looked pretty good, but that's all I can really say positive about it.There's no gore (this is a PG-13 film) so don't look for too many adult themes in this one, however I can't really see parents taking their little kids to see it, either.  And teenagers would be too jaded and sophisticated for it so I don't know who the viewing audience would be.  Besides me. (laughs)The New Line DVD has no extras in it beyond trailers for the endless sequels that Hollywood horror masturbates over.  I suspect they're more boring than this one.With M. Emmet Walsh as the dumb sheriff and Billy Zane as the airhead boyfriend.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"1986 was a simple time.","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  In the mid-80s, Stephen Herek had a dream.  It involved carnivorous oven mitts upholstered with shag carpeting.  And it was good.  (Well, not so much good as ill-advised.)As with the best visionary science-fiction, Critters is firmly entrenched in time.  When the Power of the Night music video kicks in, we are unmistakably mired in the mid-1980s.  (Why make a film that could happen any place at any time?  Make it specific so everything holds up well in the coming decades...)Confirmation of that fact arrives in the form of Billy Zane's state-of-the-art car.  The pinnacle of 1986 automotive engineering inspires awe in the Hillbillyville townsfolk. But if that car exists today, it is a rusted shell of its former self, driven by a guy named Zeke and adorned with a long-faded Spuds Mackenzie bumper sticker.Of the Critters themselves, I can only speculate that it took some serious substance abuse to think tribbles with teeth would make a good horror film.  You may appreciate the nuance of subtitling the alien language, especially when they use profanity or make a bad pun.  Then again, you may not.  Okay, so there's no chance you'll appreciate it.Can anyone explain how one Critter grew, while the others stayed the same size?  Why didn't the others grow?  Was there only enough money for a single man-sized Critter costume?  There was no rhyme or reason to this plot device, except to say, Hey, Mr. Viewer stick this in your pipe and smoke it.And to the bounty hunters (the dear, sweet, misguided bounty hunters) I say, Kudos.  I don't know why I say that, but since they shoot anything and everything at random, it's probably based in the fear that they could come for me.As far as I can tell, there's no reason for this film to exist.  Maybe I'm just not thinking hard enough. "},{"Title":"Hairy balls from outer space!","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Here is Critters, another little creature movie that rolled out of the 80's. These furry extraterrestrial beasties escaped imprisonment by stealing a spaceship off the asteroid prison they were being sent to and heading to earth. Enter the two doppelganger bounty hunters whose job is to seek and destroy, more the latter of course. And finally, we have the run-of-the-mill farm family (the father from when work used to be hard, the caring mother, the teenybopper daughter, and the mischievous son) whose land these critters decide to inhabit and terrorize. Combine this all with a small, silly police team and some backwards townsfolk, and you have a cheesy, horror-lite 80's flick.The movie is not completely horrible but will really only appeal to those who have an emotional attachment from watching it years ago or people who enjoy any,.well,.cheesy, horror-lite 80's flicks. Critters has no cool style or special qualities like similar films of this decade and, as far as I'm concerned, is really only worth one viewing, if that. The script is absurd and the humor is weak, both of which account for the relatively empty feeling at the end. Still, between some bits of action, we have a bunch of characters that, while not deep at all, are easy enough to watch. And the Crites themselves are a little amusing, I guess. Basically, it's just a simple, slightly fun yet easily forgettable horror comedy.Bonus Check out the alternate ending on the DVD by highlighting the menu critter's eyes.  What a thrill! "},{"Title":"One of those cheesy horror movies. Overall ok..","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  There isn't much to say about critters except that it's one of those weird horror movies, with cheesy graphics, plots, and storytellings, but still worth the money. Like I said, this is what critters is..I did like the Critters though, despite the pathetic creature effects. "}{"Title":"Boring.","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Amateurish effects (the critters usually seem to be thrown into the frame by offscreen hands), a boring, bland storyline and a few explosions too many make even the moderate box-office success of this film inexplicable. If you thought Attack of the Killer Tomatoes was funny or scary, you might enjoy this one too. But if you didn't....run,run away.     (*1/2) "},{"Title":"The 80s Have Dated","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Watching this reminded me of how bad everything was in the mid 1980s . It was bad enough that the cold war was still on when any moment WW3 could have broken out , but to have crap music , crap hairstyles and crap fashion is just too much . Maybe it wouldn`t have been so bad if someone had dropped the bomb because then we`d be back to the stone age with better hairstyles , better clothes and - with the exception of Matt Johnson and U2 - cavemen could make better tunes than anyone in 1986***** SPOILERS *****As everyone has said CRITTERS is more or less a reworking of GREMLINS . This is something else almost unique to the period when someone comes up with a hit movie then we get a tidal wave of movies apeing the original`s style . Yeah I know it still happens today but it`s slightly less obvious now . In fact CRITTERS is a rip off from GREMLINS and THE TERMINATOR with the scene where the bounty hunters walk into the diner and start blasting away , I could have sworn I heard  I`ll be back  . And am I alone in hating the scene where Steve ( Billy Zane - Yes that one ) is attacked by the critters and April and her brother run out of the barn leaving him to his fate ? Hopefully April will never get another boyfriend ever again if that`s how she treats her datesSorry , I think I`m taking this film far too serious  "}]