[{"Title":"Classic movie for Miami Vice themed fans","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I found this movie in a video store shelf when I was 14. At the time, this movie was phenomenal. This movie gives you a very nostalgic feel of what the 1980's would be like in Miami. I am a very big 80's buff so this was a definite for my collection. I am very pleased to see they released it on DVD. What really makes this movie neat is that at the time, almost all of the actors were unknown, with the exception of James Remar. This movie is based upon the many programs that were employed to straighten up troubled minors and make them realize the value of life. Unfortunately, many of those programs were cut because of mismanagement, lack of funding, or were bogus boot camps run by abusive individuals. I do believe with the right people, a program like this can work, and that is what this movie portrays. Although this plot is fictional, it still leaves you with that feeling of Wouldn't it be great if this actually worked. This movie was one of the first '80's films I can recall to touch racism, drug trafficking, assault weapons, gang warfare, and the effect it had on the youth at the time and put a positive spin on the outcome. One more thing, Bob Dylan and the Heartbreaker's (from Tom Petty) recorded a song for this movie specifically that cannot be found anywhere else. It is called Hell Time and it is pretty awesome. The rest of the soundtrack could use some work as they did not include Mr. Mister or Prince. If you enjoyed the Miami Vice series or if your a big action packed '80's buff, I highly recommend this movie whether you rent it once or add it to your collection as I did. "},{"Title":"Ultimate fantasy for 15-year-olds in the 80s.","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The people who rag on BAND were probably the same who bought Don Johnson sport coats in the 80s and are now ashamed.  You trendy-then now-pretentious fools, it's not supposed to be freakin' Shakespeare! BAND is a stylish 80s flick with plenty of heart, action and coolness.  It's the ultimate fantasy for 15-year-olds.  Five troubled 'yoots' are sent to an experimental last-chance program in the Everglades run by Joe, a mysterious Miccosukee Indian/Nam Era elite commando.  (See?  Already off to a good start)!  Joes lays it down  learn to live in this wilderness or die. The 2nd half of the movie (and 'program') takes place in a Miami ghetto run by local drug lord LARRY Fishburne, replete with cute lil' lines buzzed in the sides of his high-top fade.  (There's also an underaged Lauren Holly to consider, long before that drooling idiot Carey came and went).War ensues in the hood as Joe trains the yoots to fight.  Purists and prudes can shove it...when Dorcey's machine gun lights up the street from the roof of the feel-good 80s pastel renovated crackhouse it's a spinal moment.  The characters don't have to be 'deep' cause they're all the way likable and automatic gold star for the guest appearance of a vulcan cannon (aka that's a goddam minigun!)  If you don't dig this flick, YOU'RE OUT OF MIAMI! "},{"Title":"One of the coolest movie's I saw as a child","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I was a kid, I used to watch BAND OF THE HAND all the time because it always came on HBO.  I know it's a cheesie movie, but there's something about it that makes it cool.  Is it the fact that Bob Dylan sings the theme song? Is it future star Laurence Fishburne in an embarrassing pre-fame role as a drug lord?  Or is it the cool shootout's on the playground and the drug factory?  Whatever the case, it's a neat nostalgic piece from the Reagan-era anti-drug Zeitgeist, and it just equals cool. "},{"Title":"Perfect cheezy 80's flick.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you had to see when it first came out.  It also helps I think if you were the same age as the kids in the movie.  The locations were magnificent.  And some of the performances were not too shabby either I might add.  This was an atypical 80's movie, set in Florida (do you think that a Miami Vice relation was intentional?).  When I was a kid I loved this movie, and upon watching it again recently, I didn't even remember how cheesy it was.  I just remembered these 5 deadbeat kids, forced to work as a group to survive, and everyone thinking that it would never work.  Even now that I've seen it and know how cheesy it is, I still just remember it the way I used too. "},{"Title":"Reformed juvenile delinquents wage a war on drugs.  Funny as hell.","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Good story, good acting, good music. Oh, and it's freakin' hilarious. I first saw this movie as a kid with friends and we loved it for the hilarious lines and characters. Now as i watch it at age 24 i still love it. Its one of those movies that has so much unintentional comedy that its such a pleasure to watch. And the cast isn't to shabby either. You can even find Lawrence Fishburn, credited as Larry Fishburn, playing a coke peddling pimp. I highly recommend this film.And if for nothing else, watch this movie to see Lauren Holly attempt to pronounce brujeria.I keep askin', where's the facility? - Ruben Pacheco "},{"Title":"Every Generation Has a Guilty Pleasure","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For my brother, Billy Jack was the film that was low budget, cheezy and darn good when it came to telling a story you really WANTED to hear.  For me, it was Band of the Hand.Though I was in the ultimate conservative environment (1st school after Marine Boot Camp), I couldn't help but love the melding of the establishment and a bunch of kids who were definitely from the wrong side of the tracks.  Most important, it let someone show some teens that they could make a difference, even if the method might have been a bit much.One more thing  Lauran Holly may have been eye candy for the movie but she DID have a powerful albeit limited role, and that impression has positively affected my opinion of her in later roles.  James Remar (you ladies know him from Sex and the City) did a good psycho role as well. "},{"Title":"Hilarious 80's romp!","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is just THE BEST. It's absolutely hilarious - a total knock off of Miami Vice. I found it on VHS tape at a thrift shop and gave it a go. I had forgotten how many up and coming BIG name actors were in this.James Remar makes an excellent villain. A young Laurence Fishburne is also very good as a Little Haiti drug dealer. Lauren Holly is also great in an early role as Nikki, lover of BOTH member Carlos.The first half of the film as the Band train with Joe in the Everglades, learning how to survive is done very well, with the Band naturally complaining about everything at first but slowly and surely adapting. The final big battle at a Miami dope farm after Joe's death is great as well, where the Band of The Hansd finally put all their experience with their mentor to the test.The film is, in short, great. Not excellent, but great, and I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Typical 80s action, but fun.","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I didn't really give this film much thought when I first saw it advertised on a VHS tape I have at home years ago. But after a few years, I did get curious and decided to have a look-see. And I have to say I'm glad I did.Yes, the fashion and dialogue etc. is very 80s in this movie, but then again, every movie sooner or later shows signs of age. So I'll forgive the Miami VICE fashions and stereotypical characters and concentrate on what made this film good. The central performance of Stephen Lang as 'Nam vet Joe Tiger (pronounced Tee-ger) is very good as he takes it upon himself to train a bunch of juvenile delinquents whom the law has deemed as being beyond redemption into becoming survivors, fighters and ultimately those who will right the wrongs of society.Yes, it is far-fetched, but movies are supposed to be about escapism, aren't they? The actors playing the teens range from okay to over the top, but handle the action well. And once again, Mr. James Remar, one of my favourite actors makes an excellent villain. A young Laurence Fishburne is also very good as a Little Haiti drug dealer. Lauren Holly is also great in an early role as Nikki, lover of BOTH member Carlos.The first half of the film as the Band train with Joe in the Everglades, learning how to survive is done very well, with the Band naturally complaining about everything at first but slowly and surely adapting. The final big battle at a Miami dope farm after Joe's death is great as well, where the Band of The Hansd finally put all their experience with their mentor to the test.The film is, in short, great. Not excellent, but great, and I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A slice from the 80's","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Seems like an episode of Miami Vice, thats probably because Michael Mann is the producer. Even while it is silly at times there is good flow to the movie. The soundtrack rocks and there are good performances by Larry Fisburne, James Remar,Lauren Holly & Stephen Lang. I'am surprised that with the popularity of Grand Theft Auto Vice City this movie does not collect royalties with the look of Miami in the 1980's. The only crime is that the only copy around is a crappy full screen DVD put out a few years ago. I doubt there will be a better version anytime soon so fans of the movie better make do with this copy. Maybe Michael Mann will feel bad and put out a better version. In the meantime enjoy a slice from the 80's. "},{"Title":"John Cameron Mitchell.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is such a wonderfully dorky, cheesy movie. I have always liked it, and I've watched it many times.  I love the clothes, the soundtrack, the hairstyles, everything.  The story is pure crap, but I enjoy it nonetheless. Perhaps the best part of all is the actors who've achieved so much since then a pre-Matrix Laurence Fishburne, a pre-Jim Carrey Lauren Holly, and best of all, a pre-Hedwig John Cameron Mitchell!  Who could have imagined that cute little silent Crazy would grow into the singing, song writing victim of a botched sex-change operation?  Not I.  It just makes Band of the Hand more fun.  And was there ever a cooler Indian than Joe?  I think not. My siblings and I giggle like mad whenever he appears on screen. "}{"Title":"A slick Miami Vice stylized street war flick is a cult classic!","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those late-night paid cable network flicks that attempted to cash in on the success of Miami Vice and its cool but criminal look and style. Violent 80's movies like To Live and Die in L.A.,, Manhunter, and Vice Squad seem to stand out along with Band of The Hand for their unique portrayal of the sleaze and the slime of the big city criminal underground of the 1980's. Especially with the cocaine craze sweeping up through the upper class southern states. This good little movie brings back memories of flashy clothes, sports cars, and suntans for those who appreciated this genre.This stars Stephen Lange (who I recently realized is Colonel Quaritch in Avatar) perfectly casted as a militant survival expert who invents a program aimed toward helping violent juveniles by forcing them into the Florida everglades to survive by their own means, and what they learn along the way is respect and comradeship. Everyone from gang members to a small-time cocaine pusher to a whacked-out pyromaniac find their way back to the city and launch a full-scale war against a big-time drug dealer/pimp (played by a young Larry Fishburne) who is tied to an even bigger bad guy (intensely played by James Remar) who is also involved in Voodoo magic to further his criminal empire.. The band and their leader must learn to become one fighting force in order to take down the villains despite their differences.. Its a great blend of action adventure, survival in the southern bayou, exploitation and good old fashion 1980's crime mania. Watch as seemingly hopeless characters are transformed into urban superheroes that discover unity against the odds. The performances are well done, and the action is enough to keep you interested throughout. Also features an amazing soundtrack with music by Bob Dylan with The Heartbreakers. 80's enthusiasts rejoice!!! "},{"Title":"Band Of the Hand","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first viewed Band of the Hand in the 80's it had a profound impact on me. At first I thought that the treatment of the youth was too much. But the movie showed the positive impact of uniting to overcome societal ills and personal weaknesses. This movie is a good model to use in similar communities with similar situations. Although things may not seem the way they do in the movie, people who have experienced personal challenges may agree that Band of the Hand showed how certain strategies can have successful results. Band of the Hand can be summed up as Unity is the key to success. I am planning to rent the movie again to compare it to today's problems in effort to find possible solutions. "},{"Title":"Let's go to Miami....see some Vice....","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In an attempt to ease themselves back into society, five juvenile criminals are sent away from prison into the Everglades, for a survival training under Indian Joe. When they have successfully completed their 'training', they move back to Miami. However this means the illegal inhabitants of their house have to up sticks and leave without warning, all loyal customers of local drug baron Cream. The conflict leads to a street war of sorts.......It's another one of those films from the eighties where you would have had to be there I. Order to appreciate the full cheesiness of the narrative and mise en scene, because seeing for the first time in 2015, it's a real dog of a film.It's as if the makers have taken every single politically incorrect ethnic stereotype, made them a gang member, and joined them in to some sort of unit, all led by a caked in make- up Stephen Lang, who looks like he doesn't want to be there one bit.Add a sub-plot involving James Remar trying to channel Willem Dafoe in To Live And Die In L.A, and separate incoherent narrative with music video type scenes, and you have this epitome of the eighties, which I would usually love, but the characters are just so unlikable and offensive to their native culture, you cannot help but really strongly dislike the film.The film cannot decide who it's for, it's way way too dark for younger people, and too bonkers for the Freidkin and Mann audience it desperately wants to grab, so it ends up in purgatory.But the music is good, and some of the camera-work is as bonkers as the outfits, but come the end, it just doesn't work in anyway.Watch Toy Soldiers instead. "},{"Title":"80's movie, with a band I like, working on a different beat","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1986 wasn't just responsible for the much stylish but less substance hit, Miami Vice. As a bonus, this cheesy delight, which had a one week release in Adelaide with only a one nightly session, hit the screens, then suddenly disappeared. It's poster and tagline were fascinating, and still today, looking back on this film, is one of the reasons, 86 was a great year for cheesy movies. BOTH is a good movie, very well directed, by Starsky and Hutch's, Paul Michael Glaser, who went onto to make on to make that unique Arnie pic, The Running Man. The premise is great, and in reality, it's something that actually should be operating with re offenders. Five juvies are taken out of jail, two of different races, going off at each other like savages, another one, a drug dealer who likes to dress good, caught in a sting operation, his girlfriend (a young unknown Lauren Holly) getting away, but coming back into the picture later. The other two are hard cases, unstable you might say, the youngest, only a kid, from an abusive childhood, who shot his old man. These five are taken out into the croc infested waters of the everglades, and dumped there, not the most appropriate place. They're met by a mentor, Joe (an always reliable acting talent, Stephen Lang) who teaches them the basics, how to survive and fend for themselves. They overcome many obstacles, the racist hating two, finally coming to a truce. This is the first half of the movie, that's slightly interrupted by the chief baddie, James Remar as a vicious drug lord Nestor, who's doing Nikki (Holly) and keeps real skeletons as trophies in his closets. He ever so nicely, orders Holly to go upstairs and take her clothes off, where back then, she was pretty hot looking. To the second, part of the film. Our juvie five, having passed the survival test, set up house, in Miami, giving a whole new revamp and colourful paint over. But remember they're here to do a job, which later becomes personal, but the band come through. I like movies with different premises, which is why I very much liked this. Mister Misters's 86 hit, Broken Wings, appears, but somehow doesn't work for a scene involving a squabble between Holly and Mr Slick dressed, juvie, boyfriend. It just didn't feel appropriate. But you can't fault the originality of the movie, where the strong performances of Remar and Lang, keep the film in check. This is one eighties flick, you must check out + a scene of Bikini clad Holly sunbathing on Nestor's boat, where he childs her on covering herself when black guys are around. "},{"Title":"Dylan's song","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dylan's song was called band of the Hand not hell time or it's hell time now. which are lines out of the song but not the songs title. The song was recorded in sydney Australia in 1986 with the heartbreakers whilst they were on tour together. it was released as a single on 45, through mca which was the label the heartbreakers were with at the time. it was also on mtv with a video.that was a pretty good tour and it's a shame Dylan's video of that tour hard to handle didn't include petty & heartbreakers who were the opening act before bob took stage and became his band when he was onstage. "},{"Title":"What was I thinking?","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film in the mid-eighties, when I was out of school on a snow day. I thought it was a great movie. So when I saw the opening credits pop up on the tv screen one day when I was channel surfing, I thought I would enjoy a nostalgic treat from my teen years. I got 15 minutes into it and realized that I must have had terrible taste in movies when I was 17, because this film was just flat out bad. I can still enjoy some of the other teen films from this era, i.e. Breakfast Club, even if only for the nostalgic value, but not this turkey. It was just unwatchable. "},{"Title":"An 80's movie not aging well","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Title this one Miami Vice for the teen crowd.Basic plot - juvenile bad boys from south Florida are taken into the Everglades for training by a Vietnam-era mystic soldier-warrior. Standard struggles ensue - kids resent the soldier, kids don't like each other, conditions are tough. Naturally, they bond and become the titular Band. Once the kids and the soldier are back in Miami, the film loses direction as they fight gangs, pimps and a nasty drug dealer.The most interesting thing about this film now is the chance to see a very green Larry Fishburne and Lauren Holly.The rest of the film is incredibly dated and just doesn't hold up today. "},{"Title":"Awful!Worst movie I have seen-ever.","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I made a list the other night of my top 5 worst movies ever seen. This was #1, so I thought I'd give it the honor of a post here. I have even given it credit for its validated 80's cheese, and it still comes out bad. Actually, cheesy would be a gift for this train wreck...it was just BAD. Lauren Holly...it's a good thing she didn't use this for her resume entry into Hollywood! They woulda put her promptly into XXX for all her acting ability. But a very shrewd career move was made here-she married her co-star, Anthony Quinn's son, which explains why she was able to get her foot in ANY producer's door after this disaster. In case you are wondering, Showgirls is my # 2 worst movie of all time and this one, Band of the Hand, blows Showgirls away for pure, unadulterated, stink. "},{"Title":"Under-Handed...","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ladies and gentlemen, afficionados of the '80s, fans of Michael Mann, allow me to introduce a movie most of you probably have never heard of.Band of the Hand came and went in 1986 like the millions of other movies of the '80s, some with more plot and less style, others vice versa.  But what makes this any different than the rest of its ilk?Well, for starters, it was produced by Michael Miami Vice Mann (which accounts for the Miami setting and the Don Johnson clothing styles), it was directed by Hutch from TV's Startsky and Hutch (Glaser), a LOT of familiar faces are featured in the cast (Holly, Fishburne, Remar, Graham and Ferrero and Smitrovich from Vice) and has that old hey-let's-get-the-kids-together-and-clean-up-the-neighborhood plot transplanted into Reaganomic drug-enforcement sensibility.On the down side, there is little to nothing in the ways of personality in the characters; they act just about the way you'd expect TV characters to act.  Thing is - THIS IS A MOVIE!  And while there are a lot of stretches where people say nothing and just do their thing while music plays on the sound-track for emotional emphasis, there are a few dozen of these scenes too many for my taste (hey guys, a little dialogue so we'll know what people are thinking would be nice...you know, once in a while?).  And WHY, in the name of every holy being you could possibly think of, did Mann think he had to ape EVERY SINGLE nuance from Miami Vice???  You know, Michael, you are allowed to do something different every once in a while.Thank god he learned his lesson later on and actually did better movies like The Last of the Mohicans and Heat.  Even 1981's Thief with James Caan was done better in style as well as story.  Of course, Miami Vice wasn't on TV yet, either.As it is, just a reminder of everything that was pastel in the '80s.  Other than that, this is a Hand that should be banned.Four stars, mostly for the look.  Maybe Band of the Hand would be better if you watched it with the sound turned off?  I'll have to try that sometime. "},{"Title":"Give me a break","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has to be one of the stupidest premises ever... Maybe this is a decent movie later on, but I wouldn't know.  After about 15 minutes I had to change the channel because the entire concept of dropping five hardened juvenile delinquents off in the middle of the Everglades with only one guy to watch them is stupid beyond words!  This wouldn't be legal for adult prisoners, much less teenagers.  Also, they give the kids a knife!  Since if any of the kids got so much as a snake bite they'd be sued for millions (even in the eighties), this just doesn't work.  Cheesy B-movie horror flicks are more believable.  If you can swallow the stupid premise, this one might be worth a look.  Me, I give it a zero out of ten.  Pure stupidity... not worth the waste of time. "}]