[{"Title":"It's in the genes.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"51 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This raw look at small town hoods brutally exposes us to a portion of society rarely depicted in movies. Souped-up cars and small time heists are nothing new, but `At Close Range' is really more &#145;The Godfather' than `Bonnie and Clyde'.Disobedient kids, worthless mom, ineffective stepfather. Every day we hear tell of it on Montel, Jerry Springer, and Sally. Here, we see it, here we live it.James Foley does his best work here, you might think it funny to call a film with a lot of 4x8 paneling and muscle shirts &#145;stylish' but this film has its own distinctive style, in many ways reminding me of Michael Mann's very stylish `Thief'Christopher Walken is nothing short of spectacular. Both the Penn brothers (Sean and Chris) do very strong turns as sons of this verrry badddd man.Great story, powerful performances. All too real. Even a bit of a storybook ending doesn't tarnish this one. "},{"Title":"Overlooked gem","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"49 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out, and it's remained one of the most memorable films I have seen since. Sean Penn & Christopher Walken especially produce very powerful, realistic performances. Walken's evil father is a spot-on echo of a relative of mine - right down to the mustache & body language. <shudder> Sometimes, though, Walken's low-class accent is so thick I couldn't make out just what he's saying.The dialogue is just subtle enough to feel realistic. Although the movie moves along at a slow, deliberate pace, the plot still feels nice & tight. And the cinematography is stylish. An instrumental version of the song Live to Tell, that Madonna turned into a hit, is actually used as the main theme running under almost every scene. It's not often that a pop song associated with a film is actually used in the film itself - usually it's just tacked on at the closing credits. But it was used to great atmospheric effect here.  "},{"Title":"Gritty, dark, exceptionally vivid drama","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"38 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sean Penn, who has now effectively established himself behind the camera as a fine director as well, once expressed that he didn't care that much for acting. When one reflects on the more brilliant achievements he's made in his career, and can contemplate how physically and emotionally exhausting his best and most difficult roles have been, it's not a statement that comes across as being that unusual. And nowhere can the toll a role can take on an actor be felt more keenly, than in AT CLOSE RANGE, with his portrayal of ne'er-do-well, small town knockabout Brad Whitewood, Jr.The chilling poignancy of the film and the events it portrays are even more stunning (and depressing) when it is revealed that everything is based on true events.The direction, photography, editing, scoring and most of all the acting work wonders to convey the ennervating malaise of small-town life in middle America, and how it can affect and motivate people to act or react in ways that propel them into situations that people in more metropolitan areas may smugly observe that they would never find themselves in.Brad Whitewood Jr. (Penn) and his little brother, Tommy (Chris Penn in an amazing early performance) don't have that luxury. Caught in the inescapable pull of the dying farming community in which they live, like lost stars drifting near the event horizon of a black hole, they have nothing better to do than cruise the main square, get drunk, get high and get into trouble.The one bright spot in their ocean of darkness is their frequently absentee dad, Brad Whitewood, Sr. (Christopher Walken at his best and most frightening). Suave, cocksure and charismatic, Brad Sr. represents a world of fascinating danger and adventure that has his boys enthralled. Brad Sr. runs a black market ring that deals in stolen equipment parts, amongst various other unlawful and unsavory activities, and as it is revealed early on, when it comes to protecting his bottom line, Brad Sr.'s vicious wrath recognizes no allegiance to loyalty or kin.To prove themselves worthy of their dad's attentions, Brad, Tommy and their friends (which include future stars John Laughlin, Kiefer Sutherland and Stephen Fright Night Geoffreys), decide to start their own gang, with disastrous results.  The federal authorities, who have been after Brad Sr. for a long time, decide to use the boys as leverage to nab him, and subpoena them as State witnesses against him. But even they underestimate his capacity for evil, as he demonstrates in one of the film's most graphically shocking setpieces.Only an actor worth his mettle can hold a scene with Christopher Walken, let alone take it away from him, and Penn proves to be more than worthy of the challenge. You will find both actors doing some of their best, most gut-wrenching work here. A fun time at the movies this is not, but in terms of acting ability, the efforts on display here are damn near flawless, and should have been recognized at Oscar time.Also commendable are subtle turns by Millie Perkins as the boys' mom, who is adamantly against the idea of having her hooligan estranged husband influencing her boys, yet isn't beneath accepting his guilt money every now and then, and Mary Stuart Masterson, who shines like a beacon as Brad Jr.'s inspiration to dream of a better life, even with a menacing threat to her own from his father, whom she defies, with tragic results.James Foley's tight direction, the atmospheric and almost surreal lighting and shadows captured masterfully by DP Juan Ruiz Anchia, Nicholas Kazan's sure-handed screenplay, Patrick Leonard's haunting score (the basis for Madonna's hit Live To Tell), and as mentioned before, the superb acting, make for an experience that you may not enjoy, but it will most certainly stay with you for a very long time... "},{"Title":"Disturbing.","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is such a well crafted film in so many ways, I urge you not to watch it alone. The writer has dipped into Greek mythology as well as modern newspaper tabloids, and come up with a frightening collection of kids and adults that you absolutely believe could exist down the street in a 'lesser' part of town.I won't go into the plot, except to say that it's centered around kids need for love from their parents- and what they'll do to get it.Chris Walken walks away with the film- every time he's on screen, it lights up and all sense of time stops. I'm not exaggerating! He's stunning.The Penn brothers, Sean and Chris, do fine work as well. But I was most surprised by Chris Penn, he's open and sad and really quite a terrific actor.I think this is James Foleys best film, and worth a rent. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Acting - Dark Subject!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very good film that I recommend highly if you are in the right frame of mind to view truly evil subject matter. The acting by Walken, Penn, Penn and Masterson is brilliant. Espescially the last few minutes. Sean Penn's performance is my favourite acting moment of all time. Even writing this makes me take a deep exhale.  "},{"Title":"This one remains in my essentials collection.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is an old favorite. I think this is the one work by Sean Penn that became the pivotal interest in him for me. He was, as usual in anything he does, absolutely convincing.   Same for Christopher Walken. The casting was perfect, the scenery and soundtrack done beautifully. I've been recommending this one to friends for ages.   "},{"Title":"Family Business? (spoilers)","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw Madonna's music video for At Close Range long before I had ever seen the movie. The movie turned out to be very good. 'At Close Range'is a riveting and depressing film based on a true story. The Whitewoods live in a small Philidelphia town that does not offer much motivation nor much opportunity. When their father, Brad Whitewood, Sr. (Christopher Walken), suddenly shows up, teenager Brad Jr. (Sean Penn) wants very much to get to know him and impress him. But father-son bonding here has its price and Brad Sr. is not as sincere as his son might hope, despite the lure of a lifestyle that seems to be paying well and respectably. Brad Sr. and his 'business associates' recruit his sons Brad Jr. and Tommy (Chris Penn looking very gorgeous and almost Romanesque), and their friends (including Keifer Sutherland and Crispin Glover) into their glamorous life of crime. But when a heist goes wrong to steal tractors from a dealership, Brad Jr. is arrested and interrogated by the cops.Though Brad Jr. is very loyal to his father and friends, intent on not cracking under pressure, Brad Sr. questions his ability to keep quiet about the group's activities. And even if that means selling out his sons, Brad Sr. is plans to eliminate any loose ends that might be able to incriminate him. Everyone. But, someone does live to tell the tale. It is a sad story knowing that these dumb kids were hooked into a whole mess, hoping they could be admired by their father, and likewise, be proud of him, even if what he was doing was illegal. But in the end, their old man turned out to be a vicious psycho who turned his back on everyone to save his own neck. I particularly like the visuals and music as it is used in this film, with constant juxtasposition (of visuals, not sound) used to illustrate not only simultaneous events and moods, but also the stark differences between Brad Jr.'s somewhat naive ideals and (mostly) still-innocent position, as opposed to the cruelty of his father. Sean Penn and Christopher Walken, as usual, did a fine job, with such stinging realism of the choppy relationship between father and son. Meanwhile, the Penn brothers share the screen with their realife mother, Eileen Ryan. Mary Stuart Masterson also does a fine job as Brad Jr.'s girlfriend. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought (revised review)...","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having recently purchased this movie on DVD and viewed it again, I feel compelled to amend my prior comments.  On the most recent viewing, I watched the movie much more carefully than on prior viewings, and can now see the motivations of the character(s) more clearly, and how the 'situation' portrayed in the film spiralled out of control (click on my username to read my prior review for At Close Range, in which I questioned the actions of the villain).  On more careful viewing, the whole thing makes a lot more sense.  I want to revise my prior comment -- this is a superb film, and I've voted again and now give this film 9/10.  If you haven't seen it, now's a great chance.  Great acting by *everyone*, especially Sean Penn and Christopher Walken (this is one of Walken's best parts ever).The DVD version of the film just came out (I had it on preorder and received it yesterday), and I have to say how impressed I am with the transfer.  Absolutely superlative, clear picture quality, although I can't evaluate the sound because I have only stereo speakers, no dolby surround.  But the video transfer itself is one of the best I've seen for a movie this old, looking like the film might just have been made six months ago.  It appears that quite a bit of work went into restoration.  If you have a DVD player, you owe it to yourself to get this film on DVD, although the only 'special feature' is the original theatrical trailer.  The film is offered in both widescreen and pan-and-scan formats (two-sided single-layer).Revised Review 9/10 "},{"Title":"A sharp and very unforgiving tale of betrayl.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tender yet painful story about a rural Pennsylvania teen, Brad Whitewood, Jr. (Sean Penn) who along with his half-brother, Tommy (real-life brother Chris Penn) finally meet their estranged father, Brad Sr. (Christopher Walken), decide to join their father's crime network only to discover how brutal that he can be to them while dodging the feds at any cost.  (Sean) Penn and Walken are well-cast here and to watch the pair on-screen at the same time is a delight.  Director James Foley guides the film where it should go and the script by Nicholas Kazan is made to near perfection in handling the mood and tension.  It's also a surprise that the film itself is based on a true story that took placed in 1978.  A sharp and very unforgiving tale of betrayl.      "},{"Title":"Strong Acting From Lead Actors","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  At Close Range(1986) is a powerful story about the conflict between father and son that leads to tragedy.  The film is loosely based on a true story.  What happens in the course of the film is enough to exhaust the reactions of the viewer.  The story is made powerful from the tense moments and strong emotions.  The director lends some brilliance in creating a tight and compact crime drama.Excellent companion to the similarly themed but different storied Out of the Blue(1980).  Both deal with the angst of the main characters who are big time misfits.  In At Close Range(1986) and Out of the Blue(1980) the father is first beloved then despised by the main characters.  The fathers played by Dennis Hopper and Christopher Walken are selfish jerks who care only about themselves.  The two films share with each other a bleak and dark portrait of the family structure.The main theme song called Live to Tell goes well together with most of the film's motif.  The song represents what the whole story is about. The masterpiece of James Foley who has done a couple of other terrific films besides At Close Range(1986).  The relationship between Brad JR and his girlfriend adds more to the antagonistic relationship between father and son.  Way better than the lousy Fear(1996) or the horrible The Corruptor(1999).Christopher Walken gives one of his top great performances in the role of Brad Whitewood SR.  He does a convincing job at playing an evil character with deceptive charm.  Not many  actors can be charming and despicable in the portait of a character like Christopher Walken.  This is a film where the talents of Chris Walken are put to good use.  It also helps that he acts aside another terrific talent in Sean Penn.Sean Penn brings out the performance of his life in an otherwise inconsistent acting career.  Despite being a talented actor, Sean Penn rarely fullfills in some films his capabilities of being a great actor. At Close Range is one of the few times where the talents of the actor are filled to the top of the glass.  His character is someone that many can identify with.  He puts every ounce of emotion into making Brad Whitewood JR a believable person.The acting is very good as a total sum.  Mary Stuart Masterson gives a solid turn in one of her best roles.  Kiefer Sutherland makes a film apprearence before he became a well known actor.  The other actors contribute with some believable and solid performances.  The acting makes it worthwhile to see the film many times.The father of At Close Range(1986) is an unforgettable villain in 1980s cinema.  Brad Whitewood SR makes Darth Valder look like Santa Claus by comparison.  Brad Whitewood SR can be charismatic and evil in the same breath.  This character is a cowardly and sleezy person who will do anything to save his own skin.  Only the yakuza father from Fudohthe New Generation(1996) surpasses Brad Sr in cold blooded and ruthless behavior patterns.The growing conflict between father and son leads to a tense confrontation towards the end.  The confrontation with Brad SR and Brad Jr are some of the best acting moments in the careers of Christopher Walken and Sean Penn.  This moment is tense to the point where everything else in the scene slows down.  Its sad to see Brad JR our out his soul in anger to a father who doesn't care about him.  Its the conflict of the two people that the movie center around.One of the most emotionally draining film experiences I have been apart of as a film viewer.  The high engery emotions are brought to live with the three dimensional acting of the main cast.  A big emotional moment for me is the confrontation between Brad Jr and Brad Sr.  For a film like At Close Range(1986) emotional content is a main part of the story. Not many films today have the heart or feeling of a film like At Close Range(1986).In the tradition of films such as In Cold Blood(1968) and The Onion Fields(1981).  Its too bad that a film like Fear(1996) never reached the emotional altitude of this picture.  The writing of the story and characters are deeply realized.  The director, James Foley is excellent in displaying realistic problems and situations.  At Close Range(1986) is one of those neglected classics from the 1980s that is worth seeing for the performances of the main actors. "}{"Title":"Will Mercilessly Break Your Heart!","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" AT CLOSE RANGE is one of the bleakest, coldest, scariest, and most depressing films I have ever seen...it was made even more depressing when I learned at the end that it was based on a true story. A very young but already magnetic Sean Penn is heartbreakingly convincing and predictably terrific in the lead role of a tough but generally good kid with family problems that range from a poor home with his mother and grandmother to having a lowlife, evil-to- the-asshole scumbag for a father. As the father, Christopher Walken, in what may be the greatest performance of his career, gives one of the most despicable, hateful, and frightening in it's believability performances in the history of film. He is the epitome of an evil person who has turned amoral with a lot of practice. I can't remember the last time I hated a character in a film as much as I despised Walken. The remarkable final confrontation scene between him and Penn, after a tragedy has happened, is an example of how limitless the raw power that film can evoke truly is when it is in the hands of amazing character actors who get inside their characters in such an awe-inspiring way that they make you feel like you are watching a documentary. The scene makes you so sad and angry at the same time that it just breaks your f**king heart! It is one of the very best scenes of both actors' stellar careers, and it is a scene that I'm sure will be shown every time either actor receives a Career Achievement Award in their future. Mary-Stuart Masterson, a talented actress who unfortunately seems to have gotten lost in the Bermuda Triangle after FRIED GREEN TOMATOES, is also touching and convincing as Penn's underage girlfriend. After watching GLENGARRY GLEN ROSS and now this, I think James Foley is clearly one of the modern masters when it comes to directing and setting the stage for great acting. It's not an entertaining movie by any stretch of the imagination, but it's a powerful, honest, unmercifully human one that will be hard to forget. B+ "},{"Title":"A chip off the old block?","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" At Close Range is directed by James Foley and written by Elliott Lewitt and Nicholas Kazan. It stars Sean Penn, Christopher Walken, Mary Stuart Masterson, Chris Penn, Millie Perkins and Eileen Ryan. Music is by Patrick Leonard and Madonna and cinematography is by Juan Ruiz Anchia. Film is an adapted account of the Pennsylvania Johnston gang headed by Bruce Alfred Johnston Sr, who operated during the 60s and 70s.Boy ain't got the life expectancy of a house fly.The real life source of At Close Range is bleak and the makers don't shy from that marker. James Foley's movie is consistently downbeat, even when a snippet of hope rears its head, you sense that it is a waste of time latching onto it. Story is that of harsh family relations, it's often told with bleak passages and is violent, though never in a way that it feels vicarious, these passages are significant and they do not diminish the film's worth. It's an unpleasant movie in a lot of ways, but dovetailing deftly with the criminalisation of one Bradford Whitewood Junior (Sean Penn), a youngster reaching out for some father love from his estranged criminal pappy, Brad Senior (Walken), we get a love story trying to bloom, where the arrogance and naivety of youth hangs heavy in the atmospheric air. There's even a sense of youthful adventure lurking around the edges of the frame.However, this isn't going to end well, it just can't, surely? Brad Junior is an outcast, a misfit, his life is in a rut, but he is instantly enthralled by what his father can give him, he can't see through his rose tinted spectacles what the audience can and the makers hold us in a vice like grip from the beginning to ensure we are there at the end. An instrumental version of Madonna's haunting pop single Live to Tell marries up darkly with the mood crafted, as does Anchia's photography, which looks like it has been shot through some MTV Gothic prism. The acting is powerhouse from S. Penn (intense and full of wrought emotion), Walken (utterly dominant as he shifts unerringly between the charm and nasty gears) and Masterson (naively endearing and makes us care for her Terry character). It will be a bit too maudlin for some, while some of the Pennsylvania imagery comes close to negating the pervading sense of sadness. But to my mind this is an excellent slice of neo-noir and worthy of seeking out as long as you aren't looking to be cheered up! 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Wow.  A scary and chilling ride.","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one hell of a true story. Almost too wicked to be true yet true it is. Sean Penn is electric in At Close Range. Penn plays the role with the attitude of a 16 year old, who thinks he's smarter than his dad. He isn't. This becomes obvious about 1/3 thru the film. Christopher Walken is the Main Attraction here make no mistake about that. God he was a perfect choice and I mean perfect. Walken's Big Brad Whitewood is very clever, alluring, charming, and extremely deadly. Penn's Little Brad is like the apple who fell from the tree and rolled down the hill it was on for a quarter of a mile. Walken has a crew that is capable and proficient. Penn has a crew that couldn't even complete high school. Dim bulbs is the term I would use. Walken's men are the suburban versions of Scorsese's Goodfellas. They don't look like thieves, they look like killers who are also professional thieves. At Close Range starts off looking like your basic crime film and then escalates to Walken and his gang committing acts of unspeakable evil that some criminals wouldn't even contemplate. All of these guys were bad bad bad people and whom no one would be sorry to see go to prison for the rest of their lives. Why Walken has not given an Academy Award nomination for this I am still trying to reason out. Perhaps because he was given one for the Deer Hunter I suppose but still one was in order. When you see Walken's face come out of the dark of night into his house's screen door and see Penn, he doesn't show shock. He doesn't show fear. He doesn't even blink. That is the mark of a true master criminal and/or psychotic. He gives him no emotion whatsoever then slowly the Cheshire Cat smile and invites him right in. You can't buy that kind of sinister inhumanity. You have to be born with it or learn it for yourself. And what Big Brad Whitewood did defies belief. Certainly without question one of the best films of 1986. "},{"Title":"Penn AND Walken's career-best performances, and in the same film !","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a shockingly brutal yet beautiful film about what it is like for a rural teen to have it revealed to him over time that his come-and-go father is a not-so-obvious-psychopath, a man whose violent narcissism is surpassed only by his greed and contempt for the law in ways overt and subtle. I grew up in a similar situation and am shocked at how well this film captured the gray, conflicting emotions of wanting to emulate your father, to be like him and have him be proud of you, and to reconcile that with reality that your dad is a loser, he leads a life based on crime and scams, and that he has no loyalty, no honor and no dignity. But what isn't so obvious about the film is just how well it captures what it was like to be a teenager growing up in the gorgeous but isolated PA countryside, Philly and NYC so close (2 hrs each) yet SO far away. I grew up within an hour of where this true story is set, and I think that anyone who grew up in an urban environment owes it to themselves to see this movie so they can appreciate the absolute beauty of all the natural things we took for granted and couldn't wait to leave, only to realize just how good we had it once we moved away to those big cities. The photography and locations are excellent - I think the scene at the quarry captures the quintessential sense of optimism and freedom you have as a teenager with all your best friends on a warm summer day that slowly turns into a blissful orange sunset, the feeling that the day would never end, just like your adolescence, like it would only get better and better. If you've ever seen the movie Witness with Harrison Ford, the scenery and geography are very comparable. The movie is painful for me to watch, but it is so well-done I can't recommend it more strongly. Especially if you are sitting in a small apt in NYC or LA and want to feel the sense of nothing but greenery! I hope you liked it as much as I do.  "},{"Title":"A modern classic of incredible power and beauty","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Foley's At Close Range has been criticized in the past for its overly showy direction, or its somewhat weak supporting cast.  Personally, I have always been very critical of films, so I was skeptical at best upon initially viewing this film.  After seeing it, I find it hard to believe that it was passed up for any Oscar consideration whatsoever.  Sean Penn, who in 1986 was the greatest of the young actors, and who in 1999 is one of the best of the veteran screenmen, gives one of the defining performances of his career here.  He has excellent chemistry (of course) with his real-life brother Christopher, of Reservoir Dogs fame.  Not much needs to be said here about Christopher Walken, who is an American treasure.  As father and son, Penn and Walken are wholly believable.  These two screen legends add an atmosphere of intensity to the fact-based material, and although the film has what some have called a storybook ending, it is based on actuality. The final confrontation between Penn and Walken is one for the time-capsules, a classic scene of modern cinema that will not be forgotten anytime soon.  The musical score by Patrick Leonard is seamlessly beautiful and moving throughout, and the addition of the terrific Madonna song Live to Tell (one of the highlights of her illustrious career) strengthens the film even more.  The supporting cast, contrary to popular opinion, is unusually strong.  Standouts in the group include a young Mary Stuart Masterson as Penn's girlfriend, Crispin Glover and Tracey Walter as Walken's younger brother.  Foley's direction is showy but masterful.  His long, flowing camera sequences establish the film's atmosphere of desparity and innocence lost.  On a scale of 10, At Close Range scores a 9.5 in my book. Do yourself a favor and rent this incredibly moving film today. "},{"Title":"Sins of the father","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the most memorable films of the 80's that I have seen and I always look back at it with affection. I have first seen it back in late 80's, when it first was shown on TV in my country and today when I see it again it still feels the same. This movie is pretty flawless and still remains the best work of James Foley, a very underrated director. It stars 2 of my favorite actors, Christopher Walken and Sean Penn and both make very strong performances. This was Penn's first really strong and serious leading role since Bad Boys.It is a dark movie and knowing that its based on a true story only adds to its gloom. Brad Jr has never known his father Brad Sr and lives a poor and unsatisfying life with his brother Tommy. It shows the absence of a father in their lives. Even though the boys have been raised well by their mother and grandmother, the absence of their father has left a rough edge in them. So when that father finally appears in their lives again, Brad Jr takes the opportunity to get out of his dead end existence and tries to build a relationship with his estranged father, hoping that it will lead him to a better life. He ignores the bad reputation Brad Sr enjoys in the county, but soon his father's sins become too much for him to handle and he realizes this love is unhealthy for him.This movie has a really strong and engaging story working for it, as well as the strong acting. Also Chris Penn excels in his role as the bastard son Tommy and Mary Elizabeth Masterson, David Strathairn and R.D. Call make fine supporting roles, as well as Eileen Ryan. This is about not having anywhere to go, trapped between a honest but poor life without a father figure and a rich life with a father figure but a life of crime, murder and deceit. Brad tries to find that middle road desperately and after finding love it looks like he may succeed. But tragedy comes in his way, as it really did happen and does happen in real life. Sean Penn has since made many unforgettable performances but this is where he truly matured as actor. I think those who think this is a tragic love story ought to think again-it is a story about a father and son first and foremost and things that came between them finding each other. "},{"Title":"Important Relationships, Disillusion & Tragedy","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" James Foley's At Close Range is an incredibly powerful drama with an extraordinary plot which is based on actual events which took place in rural Pennsylvania in 1978. At the heart of the story is a son in his teens who wants desperately to connect with his estranged father and a father who on recognising his son's need, callously exploits the situation for his own evil purposes.The disturbing events which unfold on screen are presented in a way which creates an ominous but also haunting type of atmosphere which is strongly enhanced by the rather melancholic nature of the score (Madonna's Live To Tell).Brad Whitewood Jr. (Sean Penn) is an aimless, unemployed teenager who lives with his divorced mother, his grandmother and his younger brother Tommy (Chris Penn) and spends a great deal of his time drinking, watching TV and smoking pot. After an altercation with his mother's boyfriend which culminated in him getting thrown out of the house, Brad Jr. decides to get closer to his estranged father Brad Sr. (Christoper Walken) Brad Sr. is the leader of a gang of thieves and Brad Jr. is impressed by the excitement, money and fast cars which are all part of his father's lifestyle. Brad Jr. soon gets involved with his father's activities and later starts his own gang which includes Tommy and some of his friends.Brad Jr. reaches a turning point and disillusion starts to set in as he watches his father and his gang take revenge on a police informant by drowning him and later, after carrying out one of their heists, he and his gang are arrested by the police. The action that Brad Sr. then takes to prevent any of young Brad's circle from informing the police about his activities is both extreme and shocking and leads to his eldest son having to make an extremely painful decision about how he should respond.Young Brad craved his father's love and also that of his girlfriend Terry (Mary Stuart Masterson) but ultimately both relationships were destined to end in tragedy. Inevitably this is a very sad movie but also one in which young Brad is shown to differ from his father by virtue of the fact that he has some moral standards whereas his father has none.At Close Range is a work of exceptional quality which makes a profound impression on its audience by presenting its riveting story in a very realistic way and also by featuring tremendously strong performances from Sean Penn and Christopher Walken. "},{"Title":"Great movie from 1986.","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  1986 had so many great movies The Hitcher, Aliens, Top gun, stand by me, platoon, then came at close range a terrific movie that was well made and acted. Sean Penn gave his best performance and this film had alot of heart. Based on a true story this will always remain a classic from the 80's. "},{"Title":"Penn & Walken at their career best","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  AT CLOSE RANGE (1986) *** Sean Penn, Christopher Walken, Mary Stuart Masterson, Chris Penn, Millie Perkins, Eileen Ryan, Tracey Walter, Crispin Glover, R.D. Call, J.C. Quinn, Candy Clark, David Strathairn, Jake Denzel, Stephen Geoffreys, Kiefer Sutherland.  Excellent casting of Penn and Walken as son and father sharing two generations of crime with some modulated tense moments and violence perfectly calculated with a fine ensemble character actor cast.  Walken is indelibly chilling.  Excellent use of light and shadows in cinematographer Juan Ruiz Anchia's choices and excellently directed by James Foley. "},{"Title":"Possibly Christopher Walken's best villain.","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent modern noir, made all the more harrowing by the fact that it was based on incidents that occurred in rural Pennsylvania in the summer of 1978. Sean and Chris Penn play Brad and Tommy Whitewood, living with their mother and her boyfriend in a ramshackle house in Pennsylvania. They are strung out on drugs half the time and can't find employment. After a fight with his mother's boyfriend, Brad goes to live with his father, Brad Whitewood Sr., played perfectly by Christopher Walken as a rural country hick. Walken heads a gang of thieves comprised of his two brothers and a couple of buddies. Tracey Walter, as his psychotic loser brother Patch, is particularly notable. Brad Jr. and Tommy try and prove themselves by organizing friends to steal tractors for their father. Mostly they're just a bunch of punks who don't want to find real work, so Whitewood's gang seems like an easy, exciting way of making money.Brad Jr. is also in love with Terry, played by Mary Stuart Masterson in her debut. She's pretty, young, and innocent. And while she has no problem with the fact that he's making his money by illegal means, his father grows to find her bothersom.Things take a turn for the worse when Brad Jr. goes out for his first real job with his father's gang. After pulling off the job, they all celebrate, where they see a former gang-member and known snitch, Lester talking to a police detective. They take Lester for one last ride, where he tells them about a committee organized to investigate Witewood. It may be nothing, and Brad Jr. watches, horrified, as they kill Lester.Later on Brad Jr. is arrested during a tractor theft, and is held in the hopes he'll break, and he almost doesn't. When he finally does spill, his father starts eliminating everyone who could testify...everyone.Christopher Walken owns this movie as the gang leader. He's first introduced as a nice enough guy who just happens to be a criminal. Still, he doesn't look any worse than his own sons as far as morality is concerned. His country bumpkin persona works well with some clever bits of dialogue. James Foley creates an excellent noir set among the cornfields of Pennsylvania, away from the dark city streets, where such trappings are usually found. It is a suspenser that ranks with the best of the decade.Rating 9/10 "}{"Title":"Muted Drama.","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Christopher Walken and Sean Penn play Brad Whitewood Sr. & Jr., father and son who are reunited after the fathers long absence. The father belongs to a criminal gang specializing in theft, and his son(along with his friends, and other brother Tommy) want to join the gang, without realizing what a bad role model he really is, since he counts his ties to the gang far tighter than his family, which they will learn to their regret, as they get involved deeper into the stealing of farm equipment.Though well acted by the leads, with intense direction by James Foley, any emotional involvement is utterly muted, since the viewer is kept at arms length throughout, and it is difficult to care about any of them; you'll just want to see them arrested... "},{"Title":"Sadly underrated","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Too bad this movie didn't the notice it deserved. It was a great movie with a shocking performance by Christopher Walken and Sean Penn in an excellent role as a troubled youth trying to find his TRUE father. Madonna's song Live To Tell is also really good and adds mood to the movie. I'm hoping they will re-release the film, maybe even in widescreen? Well, until then, enjoy this movie!   "},{"Title":"re the real story at close range","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Hello. From what i gathered on the websites, the names have been changed in the movie. This may be why a lot of people do not believe this is a true story. The real people are the Johnstons. Bruce johnston raped his stepson, Brad girlfriend in the motel. Tommi being subpoenaed to court did get him killed by Bruce. The part about the money laundering and theft is true. They killed Terri in the car while Brad was driving it. Graves were never dug when they led those boys out into the woods. They were burned on a pile of wood. The writer may have had all the facts, but did not play them out right in the movie. It is possible that is why the movie only got 2 1/2 stars. Bruce and Norman Johnston are in separate prisons to this day.Search under bruce johnston in 1978 or similar. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and underrated crime thriller with tour-de-force performances","Date":"19 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" At Close Range is one of the most underrated American films of the 1980s. How it has become so forgotten is not only a sad reflection on film, but also on audiences. Rarely do people flock to the cinema to see such an unflinching neo-realist tale of depravity and dysfunction and perhaps this is why so many people overlooked this engrossing work of art. Films like At Close Range, released in 1986, tread on those very personal lines that make the viewing experience too close for comfort. We all know people who have fallen through the cracks of society, who are morally corrupt, people who represent a failure of school, of parenting, of discipline, of the law, of art, of the accepted way of life... people who are potentially capable of anything at the right time and place. These very people are at the center of At Close Range, which is based on the true story of a notorious Midwestern crime gang with strong familial ties. The Midwestern United States has become more than a geographic compass, more than a mere region of a nation. It is now representative of a place where change seldom visits and a very outdated, unjust way of life is upheld. Stagnancy seems to be ripe in the region. Prejudicial intolerance and hatred bred out of ignorance has been rampant there. Of course, it is not all like this, but this is how it is commonly depicted in cinema and it makes for some very interesting character studies. History hasn't exactly been kind to the region, tarnishing its reputation with many grisly murder cases. As a result, the 'Midwest' could almost be an epithet of sorts, a setting of a series of similar films that detail the redneck rurality that propels people into nihilistic turpitude and banal evil. A few of these Midwestern films that come to mind are Badlands (1975) and the exceptional Boys Don't Cry (1999). At Close Range is certainly a Midwestern crime drama, just like the aforementioned films. All three of these films are based on harrowing true stories. Of course, the Midwest- crime tale does not just exist in cinema, but also in literature. It harks as far back to Truman Capote's iconic 1960s book 'In Cold Blood', a true crime story about a brutal slaying in a Kansas farmhouse. Thus, the Midwest being painted as a nether-region of sorts where crime seems to be just as familiar to the inhabitants as crop farming is so deeply ingrained in art that At Close Range feels like a tale we have seen or heard about before, yet it is portrayed with such beauty and stark honesty that it takes on a reverence. In At Close Range, Christopher Walken plays Brad Whitewood Senior, the head of a crime gang who have made millions stealing from other people. His estranged and wayward son, Brad Whitewood Junior, (played brilliantly by Sean Penn) has recently reconnected with Brad Senior, and has a taste for the gangster life that his father so ruthlessly pursues. To Brad Jr, this life of crime is not only alluring, it's a denunciation on the American Dream, a life he refuses to live. Things go awry when Brad's girlfriend, the pretty and petite Terry (Mary Stuart Masterson) and half brother Tommy (referred to Brad Senior as the bastard child) come into the picture. Before long, Terry is an unwitting pawn in a situation of pursued vs pursuer. It is her restless eye for Brad Jr. that sets this drama in motion. A blood curdling finale ensues, which threatens to change the lives of these small town lives irrevocably.At Close Range is many things. It is a tale of love on the run, of a young man growing up in rural America, the tale of idyllic small town life that very finely treads the line of reckless abandon (the boys and their girls spend summer afternoons at the lake, drinking and making out), the tale of family dysfunction, of lower middle class life, of the corrupt, of vengeance, and ultimately of justice. But I think what is truly at the heart of this film is a son's coming of age - a desperate need for a father, which is what makes the final act so heartbreaking. Brad Junior so desperately needs guidance, love and affection, but the very man who should have given it to him is so hopelessly screwed up and even dangerous, so dangerous in fact that he would murder his own son if he threatened to spill the beans on his crime gang. Very few characters have been as terrifying and evil as Christopher Walken's Brad Senior. When Brad Junior finally finds the love he has sought after for so long in Terry, it is cruelly snatched away from him... by his own flesh and blood.Everyone in this film was at their very best here as far as talent goes. The acting is mesmerizing, there isn't a weak link in the entire cast. Walken, Penn and Masterson all deserved Oscar nominations for their deeply effecting performances. The cinematography was another pleasant surprise, every shot unfolds as though it was plucked straight out of a waking dream. The scenes at night evoke so much mood and suspense, while the sun-drenched scenes at the lake and on the farms recall those glory days we all knew and long for. Of course, things move at a languid pace at times, but the direction remains tight and the suspense picks up very rapidly. As the film progresses towards the final moments, it becomes increasingly harder to watch, but it's equally as difficult to look away. I was hooked, thanks to the expertly crafted worked by the cast and crew. At Close Range is truly a diamond in the rough. I highly recommend this film for being an intricately layered, absorbing study on moral abandon that eventually spills into violence. I will not forget it. "},{"Title":"At Close Range (1986) - Sean Penn, Christopher Walker","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on a real life story, At Close Range depicts the lives of tractor thieves from rural Pennsylvania. Christopher Walken is the ring leader of this motley crew which includes his brother Dickey and brother Patch, along with friends Boyd and Torrey Pine, an epileptic. The crew make a living out of breaking into warehouses to steal anything of value, be it money, tractors or personal jewelry. Walken has a mole in the police force who alerts him to their activities. Sean Penn plays the disenfranchised son, who after reuniting with Walken, wants to join the ring of thieves. So, Penn forms his own group of young guys, featuring Keifer Sutherland in one of his early roles, to impress Dad. Walker, however, finds out that the FBI and prosecutors have appointed a grand jury to investigate the group's activities. Proving blood is not thicker than water,Walken concocts a plan to kill his son, fearing he may be turned into the FBI. Fantastic performances by both. - Bill Roeschlein "},{"Title":"Great Flick, some inconsistencies with real story","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  hi! Well heres my 2 cents on the film  Its a great movie I just wished they would have filmed it where it really happened which is in Oxford, Nottingham and West Grove Pa.  It turns out some of these characters used to hang out at my house when i was young with my aunts and uncles.  I know Bruce Johnson Jr.'s son and daughter and they never talked about what happened with me. The one dude they shot in the back of the head was named Jimmy Sampson and they made him out to be a dumbass in the movie and my family said he was kinda goofy but a nice fella unlike how the movie made him out to be.  My family said the cock fights in the movie were real.  Same with all the Wacky Tobacckey as Bruce Sr. called it in the movie )  Everyone was smokin that funny stuff )  And yes even though my family was friends with Bruce Jr. his dad still stole our tractor!!  My neighbor said Jr. came down his place last year and he told him No offense but you cant come around here since he has such a rep. for thievin.  And as you probably guessed he was in the paper 2 weeks ago he was busted for Robbery again!!  Oh yeah 1 other fact is that lake where they were swimming is I believe the Nottingham Mystery Hole or the Avondale Quarry.  I have many many stories i could relay to you about these events but I dont wann bore you all. Good Day! "},{"Title":"Tragic and wonderful.","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This well-constructed film (based on a true story)is well worth your time. Christopher Walken plays the father of 2 sons (played by real life bros Sean and Chris Penn) whose dangerous lifestyle seems attractive to them at first and later has terrible consequences.  Look for Mary Stuart Masterson and Keifer Sutherland in supporting roles.  On my light bulb scale of 10 to 50 watts I give this one 40 watts. "},{"Title":"80's masterpiece hits it's bullseye","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" At Close Range is a wonderfully perfected movie. A tour de masterpiece of potent scenes, some truly unforgettable, dramatic, shocking, a little thanks to Madonna's hit Live To tell that plays at different instrumental speeds throughout the film. The lyrics of this song, stand true to it's story, which itself, is shockingly true. In my opinion, At Close Range, was one of the best films of 1986, a big year for vengeance movies in Adelaide. Another shocking fact, was that this movie only ran for twelve days, which I think in one sense is criminal. Real life brothers, Sean and Christopher play the Whitewood brothers. Their scumbag of a father and a master thief, known as Brad Whitewood Senior (Christopher Walken in a brilliant and menacing performance) who left them long ago, has just stepped back into the picture. The dialogue between son and the returning father is bizarre. He even has to consult with his son, if the other son, is the guy flopped out on his couch, which he isn't. Wanting to escape his dead, small town existence, Brad Junior (Penn) and his friends join up with his father's gang. This gang consists of some real scary types from A level actors who each bring something to the table. You even get to see how this professional gang of thieves operate on some jobs, one including Penn on his first job, alone with the guys, before he brings his mates in. Later on, when him and his mates stuff up, and are arrested, jeopardizing his father's operation, Brad Senior has them picked off, one after the other, in consecutive scenes, while Brad Junior remains in lockup. They all die in the same location, which I found haunting. The father's an absolute piece of s**t. A great use of scene atmosphere is at a cockfight, with Walken talking with a shady acquaintance, about arranging the killings. There's also of course, a love interest, Penn's new girlfriend, Terri (Mary Stuart Masterson) one of those impressive young actresses of the eighties. What the hell happened to her? Sadly for Terri, her fate meets with tragic ends in a arranged execution, that Penn remarkably survives. Directed by James Foley, a guy who knows how to make films, ACR is just another one of his, I loved. It's wonderfully shot and brilliantly acted. Each actor brings a totally different character to other ones they play, and I'm talking mainly Walken's gang and some others. They're heavyweights who've created real, human character performances. They should all be bloody commended. In fact At Close Range should also be known as a budding actors handbook. To finish this movie off, with a cherry on the top, we're treated to Madonna's version of Live To Tell as the end credits come up. Put this one on your eightie's movies to see. Please! "},{"Title":"Well done portrayal","Date":"19 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I come to this movie from the perspective of someone who lived through the true story on which At Close Range is based. What is both enjoyable and chilling for me is how accurate many aspects are to actual events and places. While most of the movie was filmed nowhere near southern Chester County, PA the spirit is well captured. The diner scenes with Brad Sr. evoke the spirit of the Miss Oxford Diner where he used to regularly dine, and plan future crimes. The scenes where members of the kiddie gang were murdered were so well portrayed to the area (my old neighborhood) it is eerie.No movie is a perfect historical depiction, and certainly the escapades of the Johnston Gang are not going to leave anyone with a warm and fuzzy feeling at the end of the movie. But what you do have here is a very well acted movie, that is a reasonably accurate portrayal of the events and the area.And the story of this movie accurately depicts how an otherwise nice rural neighborhood can be changed by small time organized crime. "},{"Title":"One of the more realistic portrayals of criminals","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is about criminals, but it is a more realistic portrayal than many of the more famous movies in which the action and characters are comically drawn (such as spaghetti crime movies), and the events, although never fully explained, have a ring of logic about them, and don't lose the viewer (such as the Godfather movies do). Walken portrays a very vicious criminal with a true criminal mind. Penn plays his son, who tries crime out for a living, and brings some of his friends into the business with him. Like all modern gangster movies, what they actually do is never explained, but the explanation of each person's part is better understood by the viewer than most movies of this genre. Walken is much like the criminal who really exists in our country. He can come across as fairly glib, but never hesitates to commit senseless acts of horror. He gives the excuse early on that he has some reason. The first real horrible act is murdering a man he claims is a snitch. But after a while, it is evident he just concocts these reasons to perform murders. As in real life, the criminals always find easy prey and then call such prey snitches, in order to rationalize their actions. In real life, the real snitches are left alone and are feared by criminals, because a snitch is just someone who refuses to knuckle under. Meanwhile, the Walken character wipes out those most faithful to him. The most realistic movie of this genre in the last thirty years. "}{"Title":"A Moody, Rural Classic","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Few movies do rural places well w/o lapsing into hick stereotypes. Sean Penn and Walken both act their tails off, this being before each became a caricature. For me, this movie was great for Penn on the way from Racing With the Moon to Colors a few years later. He catches an adolescent macho vibe that is very charismatic. (I think Mary Stuart Masterson is cute and non-threatening as the love interest. Somebody like Diane Lane would really have bumped it a notch, though!) Dark? Oh, yeah...it's not Faulkner, but Kazan puts great lines in mouths of champion weirdos like Tracey Walther. If you grew up in PA and don't feel this movie, Flashdance and All The Right Moves back to back won't get you there. "},{"Title":"background on the real Whitewood gang","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've watched At Close Range probably 50 times and have always wondered how closely the movie followed the true story of the real Whitewood gang. I know the film is based on crimes committed by a Norman Johnston (and presumably some others) of Chester County, Pennsylvania, and would like to know some of the specific details surrounding the events portrayed in the film. Especially horrific was Brad Sr.'s execution of his stepson and the other kids being murdered at his behest. Does anyone out there know where I can find some good information? I love the atmosphere created for the movie. I was 18 years old in 1978 and therefore somewhat of an expert on the era, I guess. I can say the t.v. commercials, jukebox music, cars, clothes, slang (know where I can get some of that wacky-tabacky?), and haircuts in the movie are dead-on. I grew up in a small Iowa city and still remember all the above from my youth. Would appreciate any help I can get researching this. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Young filmmaker's ... take note!","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK you fledgling film makers... here is a must see film before you shoot your first movie. You may not be able to land a cast like this, Chris Walken, Sean and Chris Penn, David Strathern and lets not forget R.D. Call (an actor that we don't see enough of and who is chilling in this one) but you can get good competent actors to tell your story, shoot with a true feel for time and place, have a great script (possibly the hardest thing to accomplish) and you will successfully drag your audience INTO the film. I actually found myself holding my breath in this one.I first saw this film in 1986 and loved it. I saw it recently on cable, after getting home at 130 am and had to watch it again.  Yes, the budget was low, although probably not as low as you may think, but no matter, this movie could not be better if they spent $50 million! Script, directing, acting, cinematography, production design, you name it... it's all here. I LOVE smallish films with stories that capture real life...  a life that you and I may never see (and in this case... Thank God!). This one does... big time! The big effects movies, or popcorn movies, are fine for a few thrills but a film like this provides more thrills that T2, T3 or T100 could ever offer! See it!   "},{"Title":"Very dark but amazing movie","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that sticks with you.  Christopher Walken is the man.  The only movie that he puts on a better show in is maybe the Dead Zone.  If you want to see a depressing movie that is based on a true story, see this.  It also has Evil Ed from Fright Night.   "},{"Title":"15 years later, I still remember this film","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie twice when it first came out on VHS.  I'm now planning on renting it on DVD.  Obviously after all these years, I still recommend At Close Range.  This movie has great performances.  Perhaps because it was lower budget they realized they had to rely on character development and plot, but for what ever reason this is a must see.  The acting is great, the script is great.  Heck, I usually don't remember movies 15 years after I see them.  The villains are real, the *good* people are real, it doesn't seem fake.  You feel like you are there.It was even good enough to be able to work a Madonna song into it without ruining the film!5/5 "},{"Title":"great actor","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sean Penn did such a great job in this movie.  Especially with the emotional turmoil at the end.  Christopher Walken was awesome, playing his usual psychopath role.  The movie was very chilling and frightening to see how family can turn on each other in a second.  Excellent. "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A lot of over acting with very little depth in the characters. A lot of very slowly waste of time and film - time and film that could have been used to put more depth into the characters and make what little action there was interesting. There were many attempts to make a good movie but every time the director and actors almost hit something right - then for some reason, the clip, directions, tempo and or music simply just ruined it. This film should be used at film school as an example of what to do and then what not to do if you do not want to ruin your work. Madonnas music is a strange choice in a movie that makes such an effort to appear - into the smallest detail - to be a study of 1978. Maybe the crew behind the film have tried to stick to much to the original story/events - but sometime you got to let go - this movie just came on my list of bad movies not to be seen again - sad because I believe that very little effort could have made this a great movie "},{"Title":"Is this the Family Gun, Dad?","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The look of the film says rural poverty. There are broken-down cars in the front yards and trash in the streets. People don't say much during supper; they're too involved watching the television. The main story is based on the real life story of killer Bruce Johnson. With the accepting of the character's names being changed, the film features an accurate interpretation of events. It is truly a shame that no one really knows about this film. It features a powerful and emotional tale of an American criminal family.This is a gritty movie, with great questions about family ties and what to do with your life when you have no real options. Most of the cast was relatively unknown at the time, so check out actors like Kiefer Sutherland, Crispin Glover, and Mary Stuart Masterson at the beginning of their careers. Credit should also go to director James Foley and scriptwriter Nicholas Kazan for not only delivering a powerhouse film but for also getting it right.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I see money...everywhere I go I see money","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ....I see things that can move...anything that can move has got my name on it says Brad Whitewood Sr. (played by Christopher Walken) to his son, Brad Jr. (played by Sean Penn) as he drives his son through the Chester County countryside in SE Pennsylvania. The sociopathic / psychopathic Brad Sr. runs a burglary ring that steals lots of things but primarily farm equipment, all things that can move with a ready market via a fence. He readily flashes his money around his son and obtains a car for him that comes mostly with 'borrowed' parts, but the registration is legal, so Brad Jr. is happy that he can impress his new girlfriend. Brad Jr. is an aimless youth with what would appear to be poor prospects; his character is largely morally flawed, given his admiration for his father, but it's not completely formed yet, and his girlfriend has the potential for helping him shape his character in a positive way. The interaction between father and son, between a career criminal and a young man on the fringes of criminality, and the son's evolving perception of his dad from admiration to doubt to fear, is the focal point of this film.The film is based on the Johnston gang that ran wild through the rural parts of SE Pennsylvania in the '60s and '70s. Some reviewers have described it as loosely based on that family gang, but I'm from this part of Pennsylvania and I vividly remember reading about their crimes during this period, and this film seems to have most of the important details correct. I well know the rural road where some of the young gang members were killed and buried. The Johnston gang were hillbillies from NE Tennessee who moved to Chester County, Pennsylvania in the '60s, developed a multi-million burglary ring, taunted the local police, and when sloppy young gangmember wannabes started to get subpoenas, they viciously closed ranks and killed five teenagers and buried their bodies in the countryside. What's so horrific is that Bruce Johnston Sr., the model for the film's Brad Sr., killed his stepson, killed his son's girlfriend (days after raping her), and had his son (unsuccessfully) targeted for death although he did receive two bullet shots to the head. While in prison, he was accused of murdering an inmate by burning his cell.Walken does a marvelous job of portraying this monster. He displays both the charisma he undoubtedly had and that made his brothers readily accept his leadership and cunning, as well as attracted his sons, nephews, and their friends to a life of crime, as well as the pure evil he apparently was born with. Walken's performance is one of the best in portraying a truly wicked man that I've seen outside of film noir. Sean Penn's Brad Jr. realizes he may have bit on too much when he sees his father have a police informant drowned, but he's trapped in the gang and at the mercy of his father.This is not a film for everyone; it's a dark film without much redeeming virtue being displayed, even the women seem to be passive enablers. But I give it a 7 for its depiction of amoral greed and murderous self-protection. "},{"Title":"Stark, terrifying crime cautionary tale","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" At Close Range is a sadly forgotten crime drama from the 80's that is ripe for re watching and praise from new generations. It's a diobolically suspenseful cautionary tale about sins of the father, burying the past, and the violent, tragic things that can happen when you don't leave it buried. Sean Penn plays Brad Whitewood, an aimless young man who along with his brother (Chris Penn, Sean's real life sibling) tries to reconnect with his estranged father, Brad Sr. (Christopher Walken). Brad Sr. is a a charming, hospitable and all together evil son of a bitch, a small time rural crime lord who makes do by hijacking expensive farming equipment. Brad Jr. is enticed by his father's easygoing alpha male aura, and takes up keep with him, if for nothing else than because he has nothing better to do. Big, big mistake. Walken turns out to be a sociopathic monster, coldly turning on his two hapless sons quicker than a venomous cobra. In fact I was reminded of the scorpion and the rabbit story while observing his character. Here is a man so evil that no matter how familiar or close a person is to him, he Wil turn sadistic and destructive on them at the drop of a hat, simply because it is his nature. Walken is a demon daddy in the role, turning a character that could have fallen into clichd melodrama into a nuanced, intriguing fiend. The Penn brothers, still very young here are tragic and realistically relatable. The supporting cast is also fantastic, with Kiefer Sutherland, Crispin Glover and Mary Stuart Masterson all diving excellent turns. Films this prolific, provocative and tragically entertaining shouldn't get overlooked, especially deadly, downbeat, serious minded scorcher of a thriller like this. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"A touching and sad love story.","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The opening scene when we see Sean Penn looking for the first time at Mary stuart with the beautiful music playing slowly is one of the most beautiful scene i have seen in a movie. Mary Stuart shows so much innocence and pure beauty.The main idea is about a Young man who makes a very wrong turn in his life by becoming a thief because of the very bad influence of his criminal father. It will bring terrible consequences to his life. Mary stuart Masterson is extremely touching and her character is the pivotal point of the entire movie. And it shows, every time her face appears on the screen,we hear the beautiful main theme of the movie, music by Patrick leonard. It is above all, a tragic love story and what makes this movie so tragic is the character of Mary Stuart. Christopher walken gives a powerful performance as this evil man, he is very convincing and impressive. The music by Patrick leonard brings meanings and sadness to the scenes. Sean Penn is also very good. "},{"Title":"filled with a sense of impending doom","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's 1978 in rural Pennsylvania. Brad Whitewood Jr. (Sean Penn) is an angry young man. He lives with his brother Tommy (Chris Penn), his mother, grandma, and her mother's boyfriend for the last few months. They can best be described as white trash. He has an eye for Terry (Mary Stuart Masterson). His absentee father (Christopher Walken) runs a crime family and drops by to give the family money once in awhile. After a fight with his mother's boyfriend, he goes away to his father.The first thing one notices is the great Madonna song. It gives the movie the perfect mood. There is a desolation and a sense of impending doom running all throughout this movie. Its bleak tone fits the based-on-a-true-story movie. The acting is close to perfect. The story doesn't have a good flow but its randomness feels like a true story. "},{"Title":"Watch It For The Electrifying Performances!","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on the real life rural Pennsylvania crime family led by Bruce Johnston, Sr. which operated during the 1960s and 1970s, 'At Close Range' is a disturbing film, that narrates a devastatingly sad true-story, with absolutely no inhibitions. However, its trump-card lies in its Electrifying Performances!'At Close Range' Synopsis In 1978 rural Pennsylvania an absentee father is reacquainted with his estranged teenage sons and they become intrigued with romanticized life of crime.'At Close Range' is not meant for the faint-hearted. This film narrates a story so tragic & heartbreaking, that it disturbs you. The narrative is no-holds-barred. Its strictly meant only for those who can stomach hardcore, uninhabited cinema. Nicholas Kazan's Screenplay is brutal. James Foley's Direction is rustic. Cinematography is excellent. Editing is sharp. Art Design is perfect. Performance-Wise Christopher Walken & Sean Penn deliver astounding performances. Walken enacts the monstrous villain, with cruelty, while Penn enacts the haunted protagonist, with rare ease & understanding. Its these 2 performances alone, that prove to be the biggest merits of 'At Close Range'. Both of the Oscar-Winning Actors are at their best here!On the whole, 'At Close Range' is not everyone's cup of tea for sure, but if you want to watch some solid acting, then this one's a must for you. "},{"Title":"Quite great , but could have been brilliant","Date":"7 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's kinda unfairly forgotten drama about searching your own place in the world and the relationship between father and son.Director James Foley directs this movie with style , but the whole movie is too cold to really affect the viewer. The dramatic scenes lack the tension they should have and the movie does seem to drag at places , like it doesn't know where to go next. The screenplay could have been better. It is based on real story , yet it never really gives us insight into the characters . I think they should be more complex. Also other characters seem rather passive (Peann's mother) and some subplots seem unnecessary. Anyway , while watching the movie I've got a feeling that the writer could done better job.The acting is probably the best ting in the movie . Sean Penn and Christopher Walken are great . Walken always had talent for playing twisted characters. Penn gives a likable performance as the frustrated teenager. Mary Mastroniano and Christopher Penn also give solid support as respectively &#x96; the delicate girlfriend and the loyal brother.It's a great, unfairly forgotten drama movie from the 80's. I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Good, Powerful Crime Drama!","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Sean Penn, Christopher Walken, Mary Stuart Masterson, Chris Penn, Millie Perkins, Eileen Ryan, Tracey Walter, David Strathairn, R.D. Call, Crispin Glover, Stephen Geoffreys and Kiefer Sutherland star in this 1986 crime drama based on true events. This takes place in 1978 focusing on young man, Brad Whitewood Jr. (Penn) who gets to know his estranged father, Brad Sr. (Walken) and falls into his world of organized crime. Masterson (Chances Are) plays young Brad's girlfriend, Terry, Perkins plays his mother, Judy and Ryan plays his grandma. Walter (Batman) plays Patch, Strathairn (A League of Their Own) plays Tony and Call (Young Guns II) plays Dickie who work with Brad's father. Penn's late brother, Chris (Footloose) plays his on-screen brother, Tommy, Glover (Back to the Future) plays Lucas, Geoffreys (Fright Night) plays Aggie and Sutherland (The Lost Boys) plays Tim, their friends who get mixed up in the crimes. Penn and Walken are great in this, especially Walken because I hate his character and I also like Madonna's song, Live to Tell. I recommend this good, powerful film. "},{"Title":"The family gun dad?....","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based upon the true story of Bruce Johnston Sr., his son, and his brothers.Together, they constituted one of suburban Philadelphia's most notorious crime families during the 1970's.Their criminal activities ranged from burglary, theft... and ultimately, murder.....It's understandable why De Niro turned down the Walken role. It's one of the most darkest characters you may ever meet on screen.Walken is electrifying as the father who knows no bounds when it comes to family and business. At first, he seems like a normal violent criminal.One who would be nice to you, but if you ever crossed him, he wouldn't be happy. But no. This man is a psycho, and knows it, and the fact that he keeps his cool for the majority of the film, and while others are doing his acts of violence for him, makes Walken even more unsettling.The rest of the cast are superb, The brothers Penn, are awesome, and this is the film that really showed the audience that Penn was someone to look out for (after all he'd only just made Shanghai Surprise, so this was a blessing).masterson, puts in her greatest performance, and seeing faces such as Glover, And Sutherland, give the film a very nostalgic feel.It will not be for all tastes, it's a very dark subject matter, and there are some disturbing scenes, and the film never really has a conclusion, which makes it all the more powerful.So all in all, it's a beautifully dark disturbing movie.My only gripe was, at th start of the end credits, we have in the biggest writing possible, Madonna sang a song.Penn, we know you were married to her, we didn't need to hear 'Live to Tell' every ten minutes in the movie... "},{"Title":"True story that is pretty accurate for a change","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" There is a lot of confusion about the movie being filmed in Penn., it is about a family from there. The movie is filmed entirely in Franklin and Spring Hill, Tennessee. I enjoyed the chords from Madonna's song Live to Tell being played off and on throughout the movie. It really added for dramatic effect considering towards the end of the movie Brad Jr. needed to Live to Tell. As we all know, this movie is based on a true crime family Bruce A. SR., Norman, and David Johnston (Johnston Brothers Gang.). Bruce Sr's son is Bruce Jr. AKA Little Bruce and his gang was known as the Kiddie Gang (with his half brother James Johnston and various friends). His girlfriend was Robin Miller and she was only 15 when she was shot in the neck and killed. Bruce Jr. was with her and survived 8 gunshot wounds but was able to testified 2 weeks later. This happened in the Chester-Lancaster County Penn. area. Bruce Jr. was in the witness protection program for a short time then got out. He has been in and out of prison. In 2/2013 he was arrested for selling meth. to a state trooper. His bond is one million dollars. Bruce Sr. died in 2002. This is an excellent movie - it could happen anywhere, anytime. It is not often that a movie follows the course of the true story but this one did - that is why endings weren't changed to make it happier, or scenes weren't rewritten etc... The actors in each part were perfect. Masterson brings about an innocence (if there can be one) that I can't imagine any other actress displaying in this roll. This is a must see movie - it could be a warning for those with bored teens. "},{"Title":"Info on the true story","Date":"13 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've loved this movie since the first time I watched it 15 years ago and have always been intrigued. I have noticed people on here wanting more info on the real story behind the Johnston gang. I downloaded a book from amazon called Jailing The Johnston Gang. It tells the whole story and is written by a reporter who was following the story when it was happening. A lot of info and had my mind blown. There is a lot in the movie that is dead on and a lot that can be contributed to entertainment. I highly recommend buying the book. It also has pictures of the real gang. More info is that this happened in rural Pennsylvania and Bruce Johnston (Brad Whitewood) had a home in northern Maryland very close to Delaware. This info is also in the book. There are a lot of quotes and things said and done that are word for word what the real life criminals said or did. I loved the book and At Close Range has been and always will be my favorite movie. It actually happened to be on TV yesterday and I was so excited. Hope that helps ) "},{"Title":"Chilling, but worth watching","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" At Close Range is a tough movie to watch, primarily because of all the violence in it. What makes it worth seeing, though, are the performances by its two leads, Sean Penn and Christopher Walken, as father and son, respectively. The violence, I think, is essential to the plot because it's not so much blood and guts as it is about the measures people are willing to take to keep people, even family members, from jeopardizing their own lifestyle and freedom.Sean Penn, who is fantastic as a young actor, plays Brad Whitewood, Junior, a kid who is not really a criminal by nature, but having grown in up in a blue collar family that was always scraping to get by, wants a taste of the good life, even if it means resorting to crime. When he sees what his father has from his profession as a thief the beautiful wife, nice car, well-kept home, and money, he becomes obsessed with embracing the same lifestyle and material things. He wants in. Christopher Walken is brilliant as Brad Whitewood, Senior. He is very subtle in his ways as an actor, but in this film, he was cast perfectly. He is able to transition, not only quickly, but also very smoothly, from being charismatic to downright malicious and evil. There are a lot of scenes he plays perfectly with his eyes. One minute they can have a smile in them, the next, they're cold and dead. This is, perhaps the most valuable characteristic of a master criminal, a brilliant con artist who can persuade anyone into doing anything, then kill them at the opportune moment. I think it's safe to say that this may just be his best performance. Brad, Sr is reluctant to take his son under his wing to teach him how to be a professional thief, but eventually does so, perhaps out of love. Later, when the junior Brad gets a real taste of the criminal life, and witnesses a murder that may not have been necessary, he begins to have second thoughts. Although he no longer wants to be a part of his father's gang, he becomes overly confident, thinking that he can be a professional thief on this own. ...all you know is how to steel, you're too f---in' dumb to do that by yourself! Oh, you think so? I know so! This is a harsh reality of criminal life that is perhaps the most painful, and difficult to swallow once you're in (and if you are, you're usually in over your head) there is no turning back. At this point, everything starts getting bad. Brad, Jr and his kiddy gang get caught in the act at the tail end of a tractor theft, and Brad, Sr's gang knows it's just a matter of time until someone talks. Brad, Jr is sitting in jail while all this is happening, because his bail has been set higher than the others. The authorities know that he'll be hunted by his father's gang and he may just be valuable enough to turn against them and testify.It takes some time, actually too late, for the son to see how truly evil his father really is, because of his greed, desperation, and naivet. Although this is definitely not a suitable film for young viewers, and extremely violent (including a series of shootings, and a rape), I think it is an excellent portrayal of how far some people are willing to go to get and stay ahead, because they believe that no matter how hard they work, for them there is no other way.At Close Range was based on the true story of Bruce Johnson, Sr, who was an organized crime leader in the Amish country of Chester County, Pennsylvania, in the 1960's and 70's. The movie does not, as most true crime films, use real names, presumably for fear of libel suits. The movie events take place in 1978, which, history tells us, is the time that the Johnston gang was taken away after Bruce Johnston, Jr, took the stand against them.Although Christopher Walken's character steals everything including the show, Sean Penn's performance is very good, too. He is very believable and makes clever choices as an actor. Penn is brilliant and persuasive playing a kid who is puzzled, greedy, hurt, angry and later vengeful. Like Walken, perhaps his best work is in his facial expressions, especially in the scenes where he's trying to figure what his father is up to and why. It's interesting to watch his transition from naive to finally understanding everything. The soundtrack of the 70's songs, instrumental score, and most of all Madonna's Live to Tell really enhances the movie. The photography, and shots of rural Pennsylvania, are scenic and beautiful. The acting is very convincing, and the screenplay is very good, with a suspenseful, yet somewhat unexpected, ending. Most of all, and most importantly, At Close Range is an interesting portrayal of a different and overlooked criminal aspect of our society. "},{"Title":"Like watching a dream...","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I first stumbled across James Foley's 1986 masterpiece late one night when struggling to sleep. It was watched in a kind of sleep deprived haze which, I thought at the time, was the sole reason for the ethereal, dream-like sense of beauty this film left me with. How wrong I was...On repeat viewings, 'At Close Range' loses none of the melancholy wonder that it first created for me on that sleepless night many years ago. Foley purposefully does this. It is reminiscent of the great Terence Malick's masterful 'Badlands', in which the director tells of the murderous rampage through the naive eyes of childhood. It is much the same with 'At Close Range.' Sean Penn's character, Brad, is barely out of his teens, and Terri (Mary Stuart Masterson) a mere sixteen years of age. The story is told entirely from their (mainly Brad's) perspective, maintaining the excitability and vulnerability of youth. The romance between Brad and Terri is not fleshed out as much as it would be were it featuring older, more mature characters. This is a first love. Our first love always feels the most special. There is something dream-like about it. Time passes differently when they are around. Foley portrays this expertly through his cinematography and editing, including a scene of particular surrealistic beauty at the lake where Brad, his little brother Tommy (Christopher Penn), Terri, and their friends (Crispin Glover, Kiefer Sutherland) enjoy the freedoms of youth. It is a beautiful scene, one full of hope, the hope of youth, which stands in stark contrast to the violent interference of adulthood.Adulthood in 'At Close Range' is represented by Christopher Walken. As Brad and Tommy's wayward father, Brad Sr., he is the devil incarnate. Turning up out of the blue with his money and his charm, Brad Sr is the allure of adulthood, the trap of greed that Bard Jr falls into. He idolises his father because he has the money, the cars, the women, and everything else he could possibly want. It is tragic to follow Brad Jr on his realisation that on top of all this wealth, his father is not only evil, but also cares not one bit for either of his sons. They are status symbols to him. He must 'take care' of them because his status demands it. This charismatic snake is portrayed wonderfully by the always excellent Walken, here putting in one of his most compelling displays of villainy. Foley's lighting is beautiful, rarely letting Walken's face out of the shadow throughout the entire film. It truly encompasses a sterling performance from a master.Supported by a solid supporting cast, including Mary Stuart Masterson, Crispin Glover, David Strathairn, and Kiefer Sutherland, 'At Close Range' is an underrated gem of the 80's, which deals with the beauties and horror of youth.I recommend watching it on a sleepless night at least once... "}{"Title":"Keifer Sutherland?","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" We watched At Close Range on the Indie channel last night. Keifer Sutherland is not seen until he shows up at the end as a face in the crowd. What was he doing here? Were his other scenes cut by the director or by the channel?In the scene where Sean Penn confronts Christopher Walken with a gun, he slumps to the floor before he can make a phone call to the police. The next scene is where Chris Walken is being brought to the court house in a helicopter. Was something deleted here? And by whom? Did the court find him guilty.What sentence did the father received? What happened to the son?Other than that, we found the film to be a gripping,engrossing crime story. "},{"Title":"Very good movie about growing up and getting tempted.","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Junior grows up with his mom and family on a farm. They don't have money but they get along. Brad Jr. and his friends don't do  much. When Senior comes in his life, he is tempted by how easy money can be made. His dads appearance makes him and his friends want to join his dads crew. Great characters, very good ending. "},{"Title":"a good movie from the eighties!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a true story, happening in the last part of the seventies.I was very impressed by the actor Sean Penn, who is playing Bradford jr. Penn is a rare, talented actor, who probably earns more attention than he till now have received in the business. I widely recommands the movie!!  "},{"Title":"One of the best of the eighties","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well its about time this modern classic made it's way to DVD. Certainly one of the best films of the 1980's, and one of my all time fav's. The direction, cinematography, acting, script...all well above average. The fact that it's based on true events is just icing on the cake. I hadn't seen this film for a few years due to the fact that one of the brothers that the film is based on(real name's Johnson, not Whitewood), escaped from jail about 3 years ago, and everybody in this area went to Blockbuster, etc. and rented the tape with the intention of not returning it. I finally saw the new release date and ordered it up. My wife and I sat and watched it without a sound. It hasn't lost a thing over the years. 9/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the last 25 years","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is rare that movies deliver much better than this one, on every level. From Foley's stunning direction to some of the best work by EVERY cast member involved.  MGM/UA needs to release this film on DVD with commentary by all - it would be better than 4 years at any film school.Apartment...food...clothes...how you gonna afford these things! "},{"Title":"Brilliant, the most underrated film of the 80's.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time and I'm surprised more people haven't commented on it. Lets start with the performances. Sean Penn and Christopher Walken deliver the best work of their careers. Christopher Walken is bold and brilliant as the estranged criminal father and Sean Penn plays the delinquent son with a quiet cool. The supporting cast is outstanding as well including Chris Penn as the simple minded tag-along younger brother. Moving on to the technical side. The direction by James Foley is innovative to say the least(you should also check out another Foley film Glengarry Glenn Ross). Foley takes this story about crime in the heartland and makes it one of the most coolest looking films ever. The way he uses lighting, angles, and well placed slo-mo is amazing. The film's style and look is similar to Martin Scorsese's 1990 film Good Fellas(another masterpiece), but this film came out a few years before Good Fellas so you can't say Foley was biting Scorsese. I don't want to give away too much of the plot so here's the short and sweet of it. Brad Whitewood(Penn)is kicked out of his house after a fight with his mother's boyfriend and he goes to stay with his father Brad Sr.(Walken) whom he has never really known. Brad then gets caught up in his father's life of crime. He soon realizes he wants nothing to do with his father and his ways, but he finds it hard to leave. This is a sobering tale about family and morality that should not be missed.  "},{"Title":"Forgotten Gem?! Nah...","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The song Live To Tell by Madonna originated from this film, and intrigued by it's lyrical content, I decided to watch the movie it came from. It turns out the words of the hit record have little to do with the plot, which is a rather dull account of a family of criminals in America who go around stealing tractors. It has a very good cast, but this counts for naught when the script is stuck in second gear, with lots of tough guy posturing going on but little in the way of action.Oh, there's a few shocks near the end, but by then it's too little too late and all the drinking, smoking and swearing we see fails to create the foreboding atmosphere the director is striving for. It's just a passable 100 minutes of macho fluff, with elements of parental tragedy tacked on. It may strive to be Shakespeare, but somehow I can't see anyone studying this as part of their Key Stage coursework. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent performances, expertly casted","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Though this is one of my favorite movies, I have had a hard time getting others to feel the same way about it. This is not a typical Hollywood crime thriller where the director leads the viewer by the nose throughout the movie telling him/her what to think and feel. Most of this great movie focuses on character development followed by a heart stopping climax at the very end. Some may find this style boring, but it is that very quality that makes the ending of the movie so crushingly convincing and tragic. You have the real sense that you know these people and you are either genuinely concerned or disgusted with the life and actions of each character. Now that the movie is two decades old should not deter you from seeing this movie. It is a timeless film that grows more poignant each year. It is totally void of any eighties feel. If you have ever doubted why Sean Penn or Christopher Walken are considered two of the greatest actors of our time, this movie will change your mind. "},{"Title":"Really a masterpiece.","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" For some reason, this film is a favorite of mine. Don't know why, but there something that resonates. The acting is tremendous and there's a real menace to Walkens dad. I think one of the main reasons is that I feel Sean Penn's characters rage and lust for revenge towards his father - and that's rare in films you get that feeling. They always try to make you feel that way with 3-stage-Syd-Field-script-tricks, but actually very few manage. And as a cinematographer myself, I can only marvel at the images - It's beautifully shot by Juan Ruiz Anchia, ASC. One of the best shot films of the eighties. James Foley will always be respected as a director by me for this film. "},{"Title":"True story It is Pennsylvania and ...","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's PA. There WAS a girlfriend (and, allegedly, she was raped). Whoever said NC ... somebody might be pulling your leg. Based on Bruce Johnston Sr. Three of the killings, including that of Johnston's stepson, occurred Aug. 16, 1978 in the middle of a sprawling estate in Chadds Ford.Beyond that ...Great movie. Great performances. Great soundtrack. Nice anamorphic DVD available! "}{"Title":"An old true story","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What we saw is unfortunately a real story that didnt surprise us very much. The film begins slow and has no exceptional end. There were some good plots and dramatic twists but without chilling you really. The movie delivers not the suspense it needs to be a solid thriller. There could have been done more on this. We gave 5/10. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Film","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sean Penn has said that AT CLOSE RANGE is his best work prior to 1999.It's also among the most neglected.While Penn's career is filled with state of the art performances, I concur with the former statement, but I'd take it a step further and say that it's also among the top performances of the careers of Christopher Walken and Mary Stuart Masterson both of whom cannily portray heterosexuals.Excellent early performances from Sean's brother Chris who is nearly identical to Sean in build here, previous to gaining 150 or so pounds for most of the rest of his roles and the always odd Crispin Glover.Glover continually seems to me to be the quintessential actor to star in a David Lynch film, though apparently Lynch isn't watching now that he's turned Hollywood.John Sayles' stable~mate David Straithairn has a small but memorable role, as does Candy Clark ~ last seen as the AMERICAN GRAFITTI brew~wanting seductress.Look for a very young Kiefer Sutherland in a tiny exposure.Back to the film read someone else's post for the plot I hope you'll find one which delves into the complexity of the film.Production values, on clearly what is a very low budget, are perfect.  The score is perfect.  The extras are perfect.This is an excellent film. "},{"Title":"Another Top Walken Performance","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Not being a Sean Penn fan I waited until it came out on cable to watch it. I was familiar with the true story behind it and gave it a shot. Great film. Walken was in top form. Penn impressed me, and seeing the late Chris Penn so thin is startling. This is a must see. For the record I have a rule about actors I am not a fan of. If I like them in a role, they must have been REALLY good because I had an established bias going in. Top three Sean Penn Films. #3 Bad Boys #2 At Close Range #1 State of Grace. Enjoy this one see but see State of Grace. Gary Oldman Steals the film. At Close Range is also Mary Stuart Mastersons best role in my opinion. Crispin Glover is always a plus and Kiefer Sutherland played such a small role and his part gives no hint at the greatness yet to come for him. I could be wrong but this movie must have been made before Lost Boys. "},{"Title":"The most underrated movie I've ever seen","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe my own eyes - 6.5? What are you people nuts?I saw almost all movies from top250 and this one is not there although its better than any other one. (For Example try watching the Lord of Rings which is No.4, then this movie and ask yourself which one is better) The movie is simply perfect - the performances of Sean Penn , Chris Walken are very very realistic. - also there are no Hollywood spoilers in it. Highly recommended 10/10  "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, Violent, and Bracing. And Beautifully Shot.","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's funny, but all evidence to the contrary, James Foley is an excellent director. For some reason his choice in projects is quite faulty. He's made a botch of a John Grisham adaptation (The Chamber), a sappy Al Pacino film (Two Bits), and a really bad Madonna film (Who's that Girl?). But when the material is correct, there aren't many visual stylists who are superior. Foley's talent makes even a B exploitation thriller like Fear into something far more entertaining that it has any right to be. And with the right script and right actors, you can get something like Glengarry Glen Ross, or At Close Range, a 1986 heartland crime drama with Sean Penn and Christopher Walken. At Close Range is smart, beautifully composed, and the acting from the two leads is as good as anything either has done.Set in rural Pennsylvania (you know it's really rural because an Amish buggy passes by in one scene), At Close Range is the true story of Brad Whitewood (Walken) and Brad Whitewood Jr.. The older Brad is the head of a local crime syndicate, robbing safes, stealing tractors, and committing murder when the situation calls for it. Young Brad is adrift, smoking pot, drinking beer, and sitting around his house with his even duller brother Tommy (Chris Penn). Brad Jr. has energy, but no outlet until he meets the girl of his dreams (Mary Stuart Masterson) and the father who abandoned him. Getting into his father's business could insure Brad Jr.'s financial future, but it's possible that that's not what he wants.At Close Range was written by Nicholas Kazan, who began his career with a series of successful true life stories including Frances and Reversal of Fortune. With this story he knows that the dialogue isn't the most important thing. These aren't flashy mobsters and they don't speak in Runyan/Tarantino poetry. What the script does, though, is make every word count. Some of the most emotional scenes don't involve any speaking and in the most menacing scenes, it's the power of the limited words, or their placement that makes it work. A perfect example is a meeting between Masterson and Walken in which an invitation of a bowl of corn flakes becomes chilling.James Foley has an eye for lighting and he uses diagetic light to enhance the development of characters. Note the way a refracted light bulb gives Walken a halo in one crucial scene, perhaps a divine justification for his actions. Foley (and cinematographer Juan Ruiz Ancha) create a mood of pastoral tragedy, the perfect setting for criminals who aren't as big as they think they are and punks who don't have anywhere else to turn to for role models.Even in his worst films, Foley is an excellent actor's director. And for my money, this is Christopher Walken's best performance. His line readings are consistently unique, spinning icy dread out of the most casual comments. This performance is also surprising because Walken frequently isn't creepy. You always know that it's under the surface, but for a limited period he actually seems like a warm funny father. And as for Penn, the best you can say is that when he's on-screen with Walken he never gets upstaged. Playing a slightly underdeveloped role, he finds a perfect balance between muscular physicality and fear. He's touching to watch. Various members of the supporting cast are recognizable faces and do quality work, including Crispin Glover, Keifer Sutherland, Candy Clark, Millie Perkins, and David Strathairn. At Close Range resists melodrama and as a result comes off as more thoughtful than powerful. The movie works, but it isn't going to blow you away. Its plot seems familiar throughout, but this genre is rarely played much better. I'd give this one an 8/10.  "},{"Title":"twisted family ties","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The bonds between a wayward father and his delinquent son become lethally tangled after dad introduces his boy to the seamier side of criminal life. Although based on actual events, this story of a disenchanted Pennsylvania teenager adopted into a family of thieves certainly doesn't look like the usual cautionary docudrama, employing an up-to-the-minute visual vocabulary to present a perhaps too stylish look at the boredom, restlessness and violence of lower middle class America. Cosmetic attractions aside, the best reason to recommend the film is the formidable acting team of Christopher Walken and Sean Penn as Big Brad Whitewood and his son Brad Jr. Walken, in particular, radiates an almost irresistible malevolence as the sly but murderous elder Whitewood, a man for whom the idea of family values doesn't stop at homicide. James Foley tackles his debut feature by indulging his DP's flair for seductive imagery, a perfectly understandable strategy for a not untalented freshman director trying to attract a little attention, but the often gratuitous flourishes of style are inconsistent with the otherwise uncompromising slice-of-trash scenario. "},{"Title":"Good Drama That Transcends the 80s","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" My least favorite genres are dramas and romantic comedies; thus, I came into this film primed to not like it since it's firmly in the former category. I was under the impression when I rented the film that it was an action-thriller. While it does have those elements in it, they are muted in favor of the dramatic. Still, I enjoyed it quite a bit. I grew up in the 1980s so I'm not put off by the synthesized musical score and some of the acting, but I think even modern audiences should be able to appreciate this film because the '80s elements are not loud. Indeed, this drama is much better than most dramas I've seen in the 21st century, with their clichd story lines and subpar acting. Everyone here is good, the story makes sense, nothing strains credibility, and the twists that do occur are dramatically relevant. "},{"Title":"A very sad true story","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERTThis movie had me crying.  This is a kind of movie that shows exactly where and what self-preservation can lead to.  If you look at Brad sr(Walken), you see that he is just a man who cars about getting cash.  When his older son Brad Jr(Sean Penn) wants to be like him because he is very poor and wants to get away, bad things start to happen.  When the kids get arrested for trying to steal tractors, Brad Jr is the only one that is left in the prison cell. Knowing that his father is wrong about what he is doing after Penn saw him kill a person, he decides to bring his father in.  That is when his father goes on a rampage and plans to kill everyone involved, including his younger son(Chris Penn).  His father kills everyone, except Brad Jr and Kiefer Sutherland.  At the end, you see Brad Jr testify against his father.  This movie made me cry at the end.  It shows you how Brad jr must feel after he lost his girlfriend and his brother.  Brad jr barely survived the shootout, but his girlfriend(Masterson) got shot in the head.  I am so glad that Brad Sr is going to rot in jail for what he did.  Sean Penn is one of the best actors that there are.  He is my favorite.    "},{"Title":"Brought to you in method mumble vision","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Brando has a lot to answer for. Thanks to him we have the likes of Walken doing some naturalistic business with their gob's which have absolutely nothing to do with talking like a normal person. HmmNNnHm....you wanna...hmmrrrnn. Sorry Chris, could you put that by us again? This is where the director needs to put his foot down. You don't have to sacrifice authenticity for clarity. Your audience loses interest if they can't follow what's being said and film makers have been getting increasingly lazy about this of late. Walken's self indulgence aside, this is one of the better films of the eighties. What does irritate me though, is that business of nighttime scenes being illuminated by...what exactly?The direction of this engrossing crime thriller has been slagged off for being overdone or stylelised beyond the film's capacity to hold the weight. But the languid style, especially the bodies falling into the lake, lulls you into a false sense of security that is brutally halted by the sudden blasts of the gun that attempt to despatch Penn and the scene is doubly shocking for that. One critic said that the film manages to be both shallow and intense which is a harsh but not entirely inaccurate description. There are some great moments, the best being Walken driving crazily around in circles in a psychotic rage. The car halts and the camera moves into his face and he looks up and gives a look with just his eyes that tells you he's made up his mind to cross the line and do the unthinkable. We are now in the realms of unfathomable evil. Classic stuff. Also, Penn's final court appearance and his chocked words which are finally spoken in a matter of fact manner which superbly convey he knows what the true value of the word 'father' really means. Script and performances are above average and the film is not an entertainment but a plea for the sanctity of the family unit as well as an indictment of rural poverty and lack of prospects. Whether money is the root of all evil is not really questioned in the film, but is left up to you. See it. "},{"Title":"Penn, Walken, Great Tunes","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Music is not usually the reason I'll write some words about a movie I've seen. 'At Close Range', however, uses the opening bars of Madonna's wonderfully low-key Live To Tell as score, then the song itself plays during the end credits. That beautiful ballad has found a home in my CD player ever since I saw the movie. I expect 'The Last Waltz', 'The Kids Are Alright', and 'The Doors' to make me eager to hear certain songs repeatedly, but not a crime/drama starring Sean Penn and Christopher Walken.Good music or not, the actors do the heavy lifting in this picture. They each play Brad Whitewood. Penn is Brad Junior and Walken is his wicked old man, Brad Senior. After living with his brother, mother, and grandmother for years, Brad Junior decides to spend time with his gang leader dad. That his father is a career criminal doesn't really phase the impressionable teenager, who starts to steal too. He falls for a girl (Mary Stuart Masterson) and shows some promise in this new thieving vocation. Not all goes well, though, and we quickly learn how vicious Walken will be to get his way. Blood lines mean nothing. Before we reach the emotion-filled final shot in this fact-based story, Brad Junior finally pulls himself together and confronts this barbaric oppressor.Walken has rarely been better. Even a superb character actor such as Walken doesn't often get the chance to play somebody so real, so terrifying, and so fleshed out. The mid-20s Penn is clearly the leading character here, but it's the sicko dad who stands out. Not that Penn is anything less than terrific. And they click together. Their climactic kitchen confrontation is a classic 1 on 1. Director James Foley knows what to do with his stars, but his direction is not as effective as it would be 6 years later in his outstanding 'Glengarry Glen Ross'. There are a few too many pretentious slo-mo shots and not quite as much energy as there could be.As for Live To Tell, it fared better than 'At Close Range'. The ditty became a #1 hit on the Billboard charts in 1986 while the film didn't break even at the box office. The subject matter might have been just as off-putting for '80s audiences as it is today, although this kind of material gets Oscar attention all the time now. Just don't rent the DVD if you're planning to have a hoot. As fun as Walken can be as a bad guy, his brutal actions in this picture aren't quirky or charming. He's lethal, especially with a gun at close range. Now...where's the remote control for my CD player? "}{"Title":"Two thespians extraordinaire.","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS At close range ,in its first half is perhaps a bit monotonous ,but it hits its stride halfway through and then grabs you till the very end.More than the directing ,which is conventional and not really stunning,it's the actors who walk away with all the credit.Watching Christopher Walken and Sean Penn playing together is just a joy.They work so well together because the chemistry is rightthey could really be father and son in life.Walken ,when he's at his best,gives the jitters ,and he is able to transcend the weakest script and the most banal directingsuch is the case here ,and without a first-class acting like his (and his co-star's),at close range would have  been average made-for-TV quality. He never overplays,as most of his peers often dosee for instance the terrifying murders scenes where his lines are so terse that it's a wonder he can mesmerize his audience like this.Matching him every step of the way is Penn's sensational portrayal of the distraught son.His performance is subdued in the first half,then his final scenes are intense,recalling sometimes the best actor studio method scenes from the fifties/sixties.His last two scenes pack a real wallopafter his girlfriend's murder,his confrontation with Walken is one of these rare moments when acting reaches perfection;but he saves the best for the end and his short lines ,in the courtroom which he delivers as his voice falters under the pain,will leave you numb with shock.The rest of the cast only serves as a foil to them.The leads are so strong that we almost forgot all of them when the movie's over. "},{"Title":"Good suspense movie","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Its so funny how youthful sean penn looked,the fact that he was 26 and played a 18 year old.Overall the film is about a boy,and his father.and his father owns a crime clan,and Sean must run for his life,with his girlfriend.Sean's girlfriend played by mary stuart masterson is great,and christopher walken does a great job as the physco dad.Live to tell Madonna's song is chilling and really fits in well with the suspense.Kiefer sutherland also makes an apperance. "},{"Title":"great soundtrack","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well this movie has some great actors, like Christopher Walken Sean Peen. But the combination suspense with the music from Madonna (live to tell) is even more great. The music fits perfectly in the movie. "},{"Title":"Acting forced, plot full of holes, setting implausible","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's at least watchable. Sean Penn holds one's interest with his muscles, swagger, and sweet grin, and Christopher Walken is good, though his charisma isn't as convincing as his malevolence. But, finally, the hole-ridden plot asks too much even of a skillful actor such as Penn. The movie announces itself as based on a true incident,but a plot must make sense on its own terms.The father's gang, one of whom is played by the magnificent David Strathairn (wasted here), look as though they've just stepped out of the movie Deliverance. Oh, these bad hillbillies! But the setting, after about an hour, is established as Pennsylvania. Having lived in rural Pennsylvania for several decades, I'm more than willing to grant that there are rough characters lurking there, but they just don't look like these guys. Nor sound like them. Apparently there was no dialect coach, and, left to themselves, the actors replicated the inflections of mobsters in the Mafia movies so popular in the 80s.The landscape, meant to be somewhere in Pennsylvania, is striking, but similarly out of kilter. An Amish buggy suddenly appears at one point, which suggests southeastern or central Pennsylvania, but the bluffs along the river are too white, the mountains in the distance a little too pointy, not the long ridges that stride northeasterly across Pennsylvania. If you can stand more of the monotonous music and can wait through the credits, you see that the film was in fact made in Tennessee--I guess for the same reason that a box of Kellogg's Corn Flakes appears on a kitchen table at one point, occupying the center of the screen a deal was cut by the producers.The women in the movie, other than the girlfriend, played by Mary Stuart Masterson, are little more than ghosts. They seldom speak or do anything other than sweep the floor. Well, there's one stripper. The movie isn't all bad. Walken, a pro, makes you believe in pure malice, and it's interesting to see the young Sean Penn learning (rather painfully) his craft. "},{"Title":"You Gotta Start Somewhere! (Not a Spoiler)","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a terrific film that, in my opinion, is highly underrated. I attribute this, in part, to the fact that in 1986, one principal cast member had not yet come of age. At any rate, it's a timeless piece that I revisit often and each time I find it to be a genuinely rewarding experience.The plot and story line are based primarily on a true story of a family of thieves in the Midwest. The biographical aspect dramatically enhances the piece from a psychological standpoint, although I've always wondered how precisely the facts are portrayed. Don't get me wrong, this is a very good movie under any circumstances, I just believe that if the actual occurrences were as barbaric as they are illustrated here, the Whitewood family would be a household name nationwide. In fact, to this day I'm always on the lookout for biographical info on the family.Director James Foley brings out the absolute best in this star-studded cast, the core of which consists of Academy Award Winners, Sean Penn and Christopher Walken along with Mary Stuart Masterson. The supporting cast is impressive as well, featuring Chris Penn, Tracey Walter, Crispen Glover, Kiefer Sutherland and many others.As usual, Walken totally submerges himself into his character, the result of which should have earned him nominations for numerous awards. In retrospect this seems to be the point at which Sean Penn began to make his mark as a truly great, up and coming actor. His performance is sincere and passionate beyond anything he'd done previously. The film was made during the blissful period of his romance with, then wife, Madonna, who wrote and performed several hits for the soundtrack. I hate to admit it, but one tends to wonder how much influence she may have had on the dazzling success of his eventual achievements. She may very well have been the one who encouraged, even taught him to focus so deeply and channel his energy toward the burning performances for which he is now famous.In his adolescence, Penn's character, who has been raised in a poverty stricken environment, is reunited with his estranged father, (Walken), who lives in a near by town. He's already found the girl of his dreams, (Masterson), and is prepared to do whatever's necessary to provide a more comfortable lifestyle for the two of them. His newly found association with his father appears to be his ticket to their financial freedom. From there, the story evolves into a nightmarish tale based on a clan with strong family ties and a code of conduct similar to that of the Mafioso.There was one particular scene in the film that bothered me; it just didn't make sense. It involves a violent act from one of the primary cast members toward another and provokes a certain reaction from yet another. Again, It didn't make sense; the antagonist had to know, to some degree, what the consequences of his behavior would be. I couldn't understand why, in a film that was otherwise well structured, they felt the need to include this particular action. Then it hit me, this is a biographical piece and the assailant was obviously a psychopath. If this really happened it was far too important to ignore, no matter how illogical it may seen to the viewing audience.Any commentary, of the positive nature, that I produce is directed exclusively toward lesser-known films. After all, what's the point in my telling you how much and why I was enthralled by a flick that three quarters of the population has seen, or is planning to see. With this in mind, I honestly don't believe I'd be commenting here had this film had been released in the recent past. Considering the degree of respect that Penn's performances of this caliper have come to demand, I wouldn't have to. Most of you would already have seen it.  "},{"Title":"Chilling beyond description...","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"     This is by far the most disturbing film I have ever seen  made all the more chilling by Mr. Walken's performance.  Quite frankly nothing that Mr. Walken did before (yes, even the Deer Hunter) or up to the present has come close to this performance (and believe me I have waded through more cheesy Walken films than I care to recall).  Equal to Mr. Walken's performance was the acting of a whole line up of great character actors who portrayed really weak and pathetic individuals to a tee.  Although, I saw this film at least a decade ago, I can still see that horrific scene in the woods with Christopher Walken and Chris Penn. And forget about Walken's scenes with the lovely Mary Stuart Masterson. I have no idea how that young woman got through those scenes with him because certainly to have to play a role like she did would be much more disturbing than just viewing the scene.  I get chills thinking about this movie and it will be a very long time before I could ever think about watching it again.   "},{"Title":"at stunning range","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot is usual, the story is a bit predictable, but what you see here is something different; the cast is good, the director presented many stunning viewpoint and symbolism in this movie. The music is even better. If you have some spare time and good mood, try this one. You might get hook with it. "},{"Title":"Worthy delivery minimises it somewhat but the material and performances are still worth it","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When his father, Brad Snr, comes back into his life, Brad Jnr falls in with his strange extended family. It is no time at all before Brad Jr learns of his father's profession &#150; as head of a crew of thieves working to order across the state. Brad Jr pushes to become part of this, while at the same time bringing his younger brother and his new girlfriend into the secret of what he is doing. At first it all seems like an exciting, if risky, way of making a living but, when a grand jury investigation into the gang starts getting closer, the stakes immediately start getting higher.It was the cast that drew me to this film because on paper what you have is a deep and sumptuous cast that offers a lot if the material can come through for them. In this regard the potential was also there as this is based on a true story and centres around crime and father/son relationship. It should have depth, it should crackle and it should be tense. Sadly it is weighed down by its own self-importance and is delivered with a terribly slow pace that the material cannot totally support. The second half is better as more starts to happen but the first half is quite hard work as it is full of silence, looks and, lest we forget, that bl00dy Madonna song which seems to be solidly in the background for the twenty minutes at least. It isn't that anything about it is bad, it is just that it didn't need to be so ponderous as it was.The second half is better though as things do start to come to a head in all the threads and the worthy deliver has less of an impact on the telling. The main reason it is worth seeing though is the cast. A young Penn does well and he has strong chemistry with Walken, doing more than his usual shtick and also years from becoming more famous for people doing impressions of him than he is himself. Masterson reminded me why I used to love her when I was young as she is strong alongside the heavy male cast. Meanwhile support is solid from Walters, Strathairn, Sutherland, Penn, Glover and others. It is just a shame though that the script didn't give them more to work with and that the rather heavy delivery did somewhat prevent them from really playing off one another to as great effect as the cast list suggested would be the case.Overall then, At Close Range offers much in the casting but somehow fudges the potential somewhat by being a bit too worthy and full of itself. That said it is still worth seeing because it is a good drama and the acting is mostly strong, just be warned that the first half in particular requires a lot of patience as it meanders forward with no rush to do anything in particular. "},{"Title":"Sean Penn's Biceps","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Sean Penn and Christopher Walken act their hearts out, but this classy looking film squanders its gifts at every turn. A couple dramatic scenes &#x96; a showdown in a kitchen, an unexpected murder, some romantic courtship scenes &#x96; hint at a better picture, but that picture never fully emerges.The plot, though simple, is Shakespearean in its possibilities Two brothers abandon their mother and escape poverty by joining their father's gang of thieves. When the brothers are captured by the police, the father, fearing that his boys will rat him out to the cops, schemes to murder his own seed, all in the name of self preservation.The groundwork for a great family tragedy is here, but director James Foley's direction is too languid. He focuses too heavily on Sean Penn's character, failing to develop the rest of his cast.7/10 &#x96; The unimaginatively titled At Close Range is a mediocre film which constantly teases its audience with the possibility of turning into something memorable. There are about 10 minutes of great cinema here, but ultimately the film is too fixated on Sean Penn's oddly large biceps.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"I disagree....","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am going to have to disagree with most of the reviews of this movie. Good acting and writing was let down by POOR direction. Some have referred to the lighting as `Surreal', it is more like RIDICULOUS. Where is the light coming from, and why is it only shining on the actor's faces?Also someone should have controlled makeup for the male characters. The scene with Masterson sitting between Walken and Glover in the truck had the male actors with more eye shadow and makeup then her! And the Corn Flakes scene was so over the top. Walken looked like a gay hairdresser. That was supposed to be scary? Did Foley even watch the dailies?But the final straw was the (so-called) climactic ending where after a main character survives a botched hit where his loved one dies beside him, he simply staggers out of the car and washes his multiple gunshot wounds up with a garden hose to prepare for the mandatory Hollywood show down. Hell, at least the director of a bad Arnold or Sylvester movie would have at least realized that the main character needs to have some sort of grief over watching a loved one die right in front of them. Even if only shock.While not a bad movie, certainly not a great one either.  "}{"Title":"Watching paint dry would be more entertaining.","Date":"8 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was recently aired on a local station. I tried to stay with it till the end considering the big name actors thinking it eventually would be worth watching. But after being bored to death, I switched the channel and just looked up the movie online to see how it eventually ended.My search resulted in bringing me here, where most of the reviews raved about what a great movie it was, best performances ever, etc. So I joined specifically to post a review of this pathetic film.This movie is completely uneventful. The slowest moving movie I've ever watched, painfully slow. The characters are totally unbelievable, especially Walken, who looks like he went to the makeup artist for the Brady Bunch and Penn with the totally fake bleached blonde hair.As if the slow uneventful script and bad acting wasn't enough, they top it all off with a cheesy 80's synthesizer soundtrack. The cherry on top of this steaming pile of boredom is Madonna's Live to Tell.I find it hard to believe anyone would enjoy this film, was amazed at the positive reviews, found this film unbearable. "},{"Title":"I just don't see it","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very over-rated film, dull and tedious, with flat performances, and uninspired writing.  The look of the film is like those of Jerry Bruckheimer, in that it looks like a music video.  Smoky rooms, with light bursting through one open window.  Although tolerable in a three minute video, it gets tiring over the course of a feature film.  What's more, except for the cars, it doesn't at all resemble the time in which it is set. The dialogue is basic, the plot is predictable.  I'd include spoilers, but you can see everything coming.  Though not long at 111 minutes, it feels much longer.  This is due to the labored manner of the actors, as though everyone is trying to emulate Christopher Walken.  One Walkenian performance per film is enough.  Sean Penn has never looked worse, with his seeming wannabe-intensity.  Which basically describes this entire film.  It is a pantomime of grittiness.   "},{"Title":"Shocking, entertaining but illogical movie...","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  An entertaining and extremely well-acted movie (both Sean Penn and Christopher Walken are in top form and have excellent screen chemistry) that abandons logic about 2/3 of the way through the movie and starts going for pure shock value.  Let me explain***** SPOILERS ALERT!!! *****At the point where Sean Penn has gone to jail for his botched tractor theft, Christopher Walken's character panics and begins to act in such a way as to bring himself down completely.  The illogical part is that a professional thief who gets away with the kind of things Christopher Walken's character does SIMPLY DOES NOT PANIC this way when faced with difficult circumstances.  Right at this point the story departs entirely from logic and obviously is trying to shock the viewer (it succeeds pretty well, but the inconsistencies are quite noticeable by anyone with their brain in gear).When Christopher Walken's character finds out his son is in jail (and in a position to talk to the authorities regarding his activities), the first thing he does is to rape and beat up his son's girlfriend.  Numbskull!  It's a direct invitation for Sean Penn to start talking.  He might as well have gone and turned himself and his gang in.  The wise thing to do would be to have gone to see his son in jail and determine whether or not he had talked (such things are not too hard to find out).  But instead he hurts Sean Penn's girlfriend, and then proceeds to kill everyone even remotely related to Penn, giving his son even more reason to talk.  Finally (after Penn has talked and been released), he schedules a hit on Penn and his girlfriend (everyone knows that there are sometimes survivors of a blind shootup).  This guy seems to have no brains whatsoever, but this is inconsistent with his position as a professional thief, which requires an iron constitution and at least some brains.Obviously, the screenwriters were going for pure shock value and didn't give a thought to all these logical inconsistencies.  The rest of the movie is really good and fits together just fine, but the ending should have been entirely rewritten.9/10 for the first 2/3 of the movie, 5/10 for the last 1/3, 7/10 overall rating.  "},{"Title":"a Close call...","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Finally got a chance to check this out tonight, and though not altogether worthless, it seems to be extremely overrated and haphazardly executed. We have yet another sleepy town in the midwest where the local traditions are smoking weed and living in front of the television.This is Penn's life in the film, until wayward daddy Walken shows up (in one of many awkwardly shot scenes) to drop money on a table and skidaddle. Because of an altercation with a mother's boyfriend (whom we never see again), Penn believes it's time for an escape. First thought go live with dad. He becomes a co-hort in Walken's small-time thug lifestyle so that he may take his cut of the money and...yep, smoke more bud and suck down beers with his small-minded buddies.This goes on for a near hour and a half, along with an uneasy romance with Masterson (who Penn knows is only 15), that drags the film to it's ultimate high-point. Finally the thing kicks into gear for a tragic and chaotic climax involving both Penn's naive friends and Walken's gang. A confrontation scene between father and son near the finish was adequately powerful and well-conceived.Alas, by this point the flick has made so many wrong turns that not even a staggering conclusion can save it. Far too much blathering and redundant crimes (stealing tractors???) have dulled us into submission. Not to mention what would be Walken's transparentness to police as suddenly all the people against him to start suddenly dropping off the face of the earth like pop-up targets. And the Penn-with-the-garden-hose moment he'd be screaming his brains out with all those open wounds.Another major distraction is director Foley's style (or his cinematographer's) which is completely amateur at times. Jump cuts, half-finished conversations, and random, out-of-place camera angles make you throw your hands up. Some of the smokey lighting and appropriate murkiness work very well, but hardly enough to carry this. And the film almost seems to have been made *around* the Madonna tune that it's attached to. The same chord repeated time and time again, and the whole song featured twice.Even the performances may not sustain you. Far too many slurred readings from Walken, Penn's dim-bulb buddies, and characters breaking into laughter for no apparent reason. The material is here, but in need of serious reworking. "},{"Title":"it's pretty much no good","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I love Penn and Walken. They both disappointed me. The plot was weak. The characters were weaker. No time is spent in defining characters and then the director attempted to develop them to some new state. It just doesn't work. And at a very basic level I'll tell you that having a rat be the centerpiece of a gangster film never works out too well.OK, here's a HUGE point of contention with other reviews. Everyone raves about how great the soundtrack is. IT'S THE SAME BLOODY SONG AGAIN AND AGAIN AND AGAIN AND AGAIN AND AGAIN. Look, I like the damn Madonna song, but just playing it on repeat doesn't make it better and it certainly doesn't set a mood. Frequently I actually don't notice a soundtrack on a film. This one was so damn obnoxious that I couldn't ignore it.So overall I think the movie sucked. It's the first Walken film I've ever given a thumbs down to. The plot has holes. The characters are boring and transparent. The music sucks. The cinematography is OK. Pretty much it's crap. "},{"Title":"Bent twigs.","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Watching a movie like this, you can't help wondering why Christopher Walken didn't get more and better roles. He's got everything an actor ought to have. He's not plain looking. He has a dancer's physical presence, a voice that twists its phonemes into pretzels, and seems able to compellingly interpret any part he's given. The guy just cannot be ignored on screen.He does his usual superlative job here as a socialized, aggressive type of antisocial personality, convincingly smooth, while he lies his rear end off. You don't rat on your family, he coaches his two sons (both Penns) as if he were Don Corleone, before he murders one of them and tries to rub out the other. The only time he shows what might be REAL emotion in when Sean Penn confronts him at the climax and comes close to blowing his ears off with a .45 automatic. He gives an extremely good impression of being scared.Sean Penn is all bulked up here. I'm not sure it fits him too well. He ought to be skinnier. His muscles don't drape that well. It's as if he's wearing a muscle suit instead of the fat suits we've become familiar with. Penn invariably puts a great deal of effort into his performances but, like his muscles, it kind of shows at times. He's good enough here, but is better I think in weasel parts like those in The Falcon and the Snowman and Carlito's Way. Mary Stuart Masterson is a real filly in this movie. She was about 20 when it was shot. She's not staggeringly beautiful, which is all to the good, but in her boyish haircut and with her sinewy limbs and broad forehead she looks as if she's just finished her adolescent growth spurt. There is something coltish about her. She runs about as fast as Penn can run.There is some evocative photography too. You can just about feel the summer's humidity and hear the locusts buzzing.Landscape aside, the lifestyle we see on screen is pretty lousy, and in fact the movie starts off in a rather leisurely manner. Characters don't rush through their dialog. They pause between statements, the way people do naturally. But (expletive deleted), how dull things are! They sit around and drink beer and watch TV and never talk. Walken is about the only animated person around. No wonder his boys idolize him.But it's a small life. You know the kind of heavies that Joe Don Baker as Buford Pusser fought in Walking Tall? The guys that hung out in a saloon and ran some hookers and cheated customers -- that kind of small-time stuff? Those seem to be the offenses that Walken and his cronies commit, so it comes as a big surprise when the FBI enters the scene and starts passing out subpoenas. For heisting tractors? And the murders that follow are even more of a surprise. I missed the beginning of the movie so maybe that accounts for the incongruity.At any rate, though the film has its longeurs, a good deal of attention has gone into putting this production together. It isn't overburdened with a loud score. There are no exploding fireballs. The violence, at least in the print I saw, was muted. The murders are quick and, with one exception, bloodless. The director has passed up a chance to cheapen a rape scene by showing us a lot of skin. Instead, he cuts as soon as we've got the idea.Overall, a pretty good job, a lot better than most of the junk on screen these days. "},{"Title":"Incredible actors, extremely disappointing","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I was so excited about seeing this film, mainly because I think Sean Penn and Christopher Walker are two of the greatest actors in Hollywood. It started off kind of good, with Penn arriving in town and helping his brother and a friend get their money back from a guy that ripped em off. After that, the movie just never has anything. It is extremely depressing, very slow, and very annoying at times. There is not one ounce of happiness in the movie. The movie focuses on the Penn brothers (playing brother in this, as well), trying to get close to their gangster father (Walken), so the movie had potential, it just ended up being horrible. I try and give every movie the benefit of the doubt, but this one was just not up to par. "},{"Title":"The Real Story happened in","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" North Carolina not Iowa or Pennsylvania. The Real Brad Whitewood was not named Brad Whitewood at all. The names and towns have been changed to hide the real story. I know the real Brad Jr. character and he did not have a girlfriend that was shot in the car with him. It was his best friend, another male named Randy. This story was BIG news here in the early-mid 80's. Happened in 83-84. I knew several of the REAL people involved with this story. But it was a good movie regardless. The man involved stays to himself now. He has never married and has dogs for companionship. I visit him occasionally and he has told me all about what really happened. Most of the others killed were in classes ahead of me at school. I only knew of one. He rode my bus. Anyway, this story is based on his life experience. "},{"Title":"Rebel without a clue","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Yawn! Yawn! Yawn! Boring true story which gives an account of a rebellious teenager's attempts to form a relationship with his estranged criminal father. Nicholas Kazan's screenplay has no depth or sense of purpose, and director James Foley manages to make nothing of the conflict, moral issues nor the turbulent family relationships.Sean Penn gives a convincing performance in the lead role as a restless youth desperately seeking the approval of a father figure. In fact it is his showing alone that keeps At Close Range  from becoming a complete and utter waste of time. The rest of the cast, including Mary Stuart Masterson and Chris Penn, give below par showings. Even the usually fascinating Christopher Walken is a big let down. His one dimensional character never generates any interest, and Walken annoyingly mumbles his way through the film.This rebel without a clue movie contains nothing at all to redeem it (sans Sean Penn), and will entertain no-one!Tuesday, January 24, 1995 - T.V. "}]