[{"Title":"Odd, but good horror from Wes Craven","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Deadly Friend should probably be good for fans of cult horror films, and this is nothing like some of Wes Craven's past and present films such as Nightmare on Elm Street or Scream, but it does have a good combination of both the horror classics Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein. However, the script is rather weak and seemed poorly adapted from Diana Henstall's more effect short novel Friend. Deadly Friend does have some good scares and above all gore and a good solid cast from teen stars Matthew Laborteaux, Michael Sharrett and a young beautiful Kristy Swanson in the title role. Both Russ Marin and Anne Twomey provide a warm feeling to the younger cast and the audiences, while Richard Marcus and Anne Ramsey both, as usual, looking wickedly evil in their roles. Above all, Ramsey's classic decapitation by basketball scene is the highlight of the film. One year before she was seen in Steven Spielberg's The Goonies, and a year after this she got an Oscar nomination for Throw Momma from the Train, before dying in 1988. I whould say Deadly Friend gets 8/10, for a classic cult horror favorite. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good silly horror film","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A super intelligent teenage whiz revives the love of his life with a chip that used to belong to his robot pal BB. But things don't go all that smoothly as his creation proves to have homicidal tendencies.Is the film weird? You bet. Is it silly? Yeah, kind of. Is it hokey? Definitely. Is it entertaining? Surprisingly Yes.The film is probably as close as you can get to family oriented graphic horror. The characters are not only well acted but extremely likable and that takes the film a long way. Matthew L something brings warmth and charm to his role and his relationship with his mom is cute and wholly believable. Kristy Swanson is pure delight as his girl next door love and her robotic moves are surprisingly well executed. Like in A Nightmare on Elm Street, Wes Craven is able to create characters who you actually give a damn about and that's what makes this silly premise actually work.The film is pretty funny at times and the graphic horror is sure to delight gore hounds. The basketball scene alone is outstanding. For the most part Deadly Friend is more actual fun than suspenseful, although it does have a few well timed shocks.All in all; A nice effort from Craven. Pretty inventive and overcomes it's weaknesses by being just a plain old fun flick. "},{"Title":"An artificial Kristy Swanson!? Where can I get on of those???","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, one of my fellow reviewers here on this site described this film in one marvelous &#150; rather sarcastic &#150; sentence. In fact, it's so well stated that I'm going to steal it for my own review. The premise of Deadly Friend, ladies and gentlemen `Boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy creates lethal cyber-Barbie...'. Deadly Friend introduces Paul, an ultra-intelligent adolescent who build a robot that thinks and handles completely for itself. The robot &#150; B.B &#150; is the purest, most advanced piece of technology ever yet it talks with a peppy, blurry voice. Along with his mother, Paul moves to a new town where he continues his Pointdexter studies and falls in love with his sweet neighbor girl (the yummy Kristy Swanson). The girl is terrorized and eventually killed by her monstrous father, a crazy old woman blows B.B to pieces and Paul snaps. He steals her corpse from the hospital and implants her with B.B's artificial brain. Right from the start, this goes wrong as Kristy avenges her death (and how!). Although the undertone of Deadly Friend is downright comic, there are quite a lot gruesome moments and bloody sequences. The plot is highly unoriginal (actually, some sort of lame Frankenstein-variant), the characters are far from believable and the entire production is perfect to claim Wes Craven is an overrated director. Below average, silly film but with &#150; it has to be said &#150; one of the coolest killings ever! The basketball-decapitation alone is worth at least one viewing of this film.  "},{"Title":"In One Word - Outstanding!!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Deadly Friend is a largely unknown film from acclaimed director Wes Craven, who became famous for movies like The Hills Have Eyes and The Last House on the Left. But if you give a chance to this thriller you will find something very original and scary...very scary!Deadly Friend is a genuinely frightening experience, it has such a great story that catches you from the beginning to the end. First of all, the plot is original and interesting - Deadly Friend isn't just another horror film, it's in parts a love story and in others it works as an old-fashioned gripping thriller that would make Hitchcock or De Palma proud of. Paul is a new kid in town, and he is a genius in computers and robots. He falls in love with the kind, sweet and vulnerable girl next door, Samantha, but everything ends up bad when Samantha's abusive father kills her. The guy freaks out and steals Samantha's body. He uses all his knowledge in machines and computer chips, and achieves to bring her back...as a killer robot!he takes her to his attic but she soon starts to kill the persons who used to humiliate her.The Cast the cast is great, terrific performances are delivered by the main actors. Kirsty Swanson is outstanding as Samantha, in the first hour of the film she is so sweet you may fall in love with her, in the last hour she is scary as hell. She is an excellent young star, and in certain ways, she reminds a lot another great young actress, Reese Witherspoon, she has that quality of delivering true-to-life, real performances, and like Reese she has an innocent beauty.Mathew Laborteaux makes a believable character, Paul is a guy who isn't a bad kid, he just is desperate to help the girl he loves but doesn't know how to deal with the consequences of his acts.The Director Wes Craven once again hits big time!this is one of his greatest films, but it will be a surprise for his fans because, instead of what they saw in The Hills Have Eyes and in most of Craven's films, Deadly Friend isn't so violent. Of course, you get some blood and guts here, but the deaths are relative low. If you want to see a body count, go rent Hellbound Hellraiser 2. Craven's goal here is that he sustains some kind of genuine suspense during the whole film with mastery, something that just Alfred Hitchcok used to do well.The Story in just one word - OUTSTANDING!this is a different, compelling story, it's a gripping tale that mixes such elements like love and horror, it's an appealing and charming material.If you want to watch something really good, rent this great movie!here you will find suspense, humor, horror and love. It's a great job from great professionals! "},{"Title":"A clever, if dated take on Frankenstein","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Deadly Friend is one of those horror films that came and went without a trace; but for a die hard horror fanatic like myself, it certainly had it's share of scares, humor, and yes, a surprising human touch.Matthew Laborteaux (a Little House on the Prairie alum) plays Paul; an egghead teen with a robot pal named BB. In the course of the plot, he meets Samantha or Sam (Kristy Swanson), an abused, lonely girl who catches the eye of young Paul. Needlessly killed, by her drunk father, Paul vows to make wrongs right, by implanting BB's superchip into Sam's brain....and that my friends, is where the fun (or nightmares) begin.Sam is confused about her new identity, and is naturally seen as a freak. She proceeds to take it out on the locals (including Anne Ramsey, of Goonies fame, with above all things; a basketball!!), who want this abomination to cease from existing. Wes Craven didn't quite score with this outing, even after the phenomenal success of A Nightmare on Elm Street, but even a flop has it's own merits. Find this little gem, and be sure the lights aren't off!!Grade C+  "},{"Title":"A Friend indeed","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***SPOILERS***Deadly Friend has received a lot of bad press over the years. It's far from accomplished I agree, but then so are a lot of todays contemporary offerings, which have budgets the size of Mars.Much was expected from Craven after the success of A Nightmare On Elm Street, it was by no means an easy time for Craven. When you're faced with a $30,000,000 law suit and a marriage on the verge of total disintegration I would imagine it's quite a task to commit yourself 100% to a film which had also adopted a dozen or so wannabe producers, all with their own 'unique' ideas of where Craven should take his next 'blockbuster'. *Sighs heavily*Despite these interferences Craven, and screenplay writer Bruce Joel Rubin, manage to inject a certain amount of genuine heart and humour in to an otherwise troubled project. Casting was spot on in my opinion, particularly Kristy Swanson, my first ever movie crush!!. Anne (Throw Momma From The Train) Ramsay makes an appearance doing what she does best, looking mean and evil! And Matthew Laborteaux is absolutely perfect as the boy genius. Michael Sharrat lends support as Tom, Pauls friend and partner in crime. Richard Marcus plays the part of Samanthas abusive alcoholic father.I won't go too much in to the plot but suffice to say DEADLY FRIEND is quite an emotional journey, particularly when Samantha appears as herself for a brief moment, we take her POV during the final moments of the film, where her vision returns to normal and the old Samantha appears to be alive and well, of course BB overrides her, and the final act was a bit of a tear jerker for me, well when I was a kid !!!!Bottom line; DEADLY FRIEND had it's moments good and bad, it just goes to show what happens when studio bosses think they're film makers, if you can get past these minor discrepancies you'll find a half decent tale of love trying to survive beyond the grave.....(Whatever happened to Matthew Laborteaux?, highly underrated actor!)6/10  "},{"Title":"Mixed Feelings","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My girlfriend told me of a movie she saw when she was little, about a robot who starts killing people. She couldn't remember much of it, but as I searched for it, she kept telling me how much it impressed her... Obviously this is, as with a lot of child's movie memories, a film which is over-romanticized but in actuality less good then you remember... Though after seeing it I was not really impressed, it left me with some mixed feelings..GOOD FEELINGS Positive aspects of the film are in my opinion the idea behind it, Kristy Swanson, Wes Craven and the sometimes eerie music score by Charles Bernstein. Not really knowing what to expect, the film's opening of a car thief being stopped by BB (the robot) made me laugh immediately. The movie made me sad in a way, especially when BB gets blown to bits and the scenes with Kristy Swanson in her zombie form, desperately longing for Matthew Laborteaux' love. Wes Craven's signature is all over the film. With some scary dream sequences (I WAS scared when the father squirted blood all over the place while laughing like a madman) and some sets which looked extremely familiar to me (the cellar in which the father dies for instance, did anyone else got flashbacks of A Nightmare on Elmstreet?)BAD FEELINGS On the other hand, there were numerous things which I found annoying. A at times very laughable plot, a basketball as a murder weapon and most of all an extremely lousy ending... I've read that Wes Craven wasn't particularly happy with this, wanting another ending and less mindless gore for gore, but the President of Warner Bros. thought differently. Too bad, as it doesn't do ANY good to the movie, which could have been so much more...CONCLUDING Mixed feelings... Deadly Friend could have been a real cult classic, but doesn't reach for it in my opinion. Though there are some memorable moments (though the basketball-murder is absolutely ridiculous, I'll probably remember it for the rest of my life) and some good emotional moments (how did I feel for poor Kristy Swanson.) The BB robot is cute and you really feel sorry for Matthew Laborteaux when it gets destroyed, but all this barely saves the movie. Though I do not blame Wes Craven, who probably did everything he could to make the best of it, Deadly Friend is JUST good enough... The ending is a real downer, as it left me with disbelief and almost made me forget all the positive aspects of the film and I think the added gore doesn't add much to it as well... 5,5/10! "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DEADLY FRIENDThis Wes Craven effort may seem a little dated in these post-Scream days, but watching it for the first time in years I realised it may have been an overlooked slice of mid-eighties teen-horror cinema. It's stylistically similar with the lesser cherished of Craven's films, such as Summer of Fear, Deadly Blessing and Chiller, but, like these mentioned titles is worth revisiting.It has the usual Craven touches &#150; kids in jeopardy, nightmares within-the-film that throw you off balance and dysfunctional relationships, but the film is basically about an intellectual who reanimates his girlfriend by placing the microchip brain of his home made android into her dead body leading murderous results. No one can deny the greatness, if extremely absurd, of that exploding head via basketball scene remains.Bride of Frankenstein and Short Circuit combined may not suite a lot of pallets, but as Wes Craven films go Deadly Friend is definitely not half as bad as the critics claimed at the time of it's initial release. "},{"Title":"An overlooked horror movie from the 80's.","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Deadly Friend is not a bad movie. Looks like alot of critics did not like this movie. But why like a movie like scream? Those movies did not make any sense. Deadly friend had some great scenes. The best I would say is when Sam jumps out the window to attack Paul's friend. This movie had some scary moments. I feel it was overlooked by alot of people. Wes Craven makes good horror movies. He did a great job with this movie. It's really worth watching. "},{"Title":"OK horror from Craven.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A few people have said that it's an undiscovered treasure, more people have stated that it's possibly Wes Craven's worst movie (haven't they seen Shocker?); I simply found it to be an OK, average horror offering that merely helps you kill two hours. The first half plays almost like a well-observed drama, but after Swanson has been resurrected the film becomes just too silly to work. The infamous basketball scene, however, is undeniably great; you'll have to rewind the tape multiple times to get the full effect of it!      (**1/2) "}{"Title":"Silly but fun.","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" WES CRAVEN directed this silly, but somewhat creepy science fiction horror movie, about a love struck teen & genius, who falls for the girl next door, whom unfortunately has an abusive stepfather. When the girl is killed by her step dad, The teen uses the electronic brain that came from his now dead robot friend named Bebe, to bring her back, but as such films in this genre, that deal with dead people coming back to life, the girl is stiff, unemotional & has a nasty tendency to kill people, the best of whom are her abusive father & the miserable old lady who killed the teens robot, that has to be the only person in history of horror movies to have been beheaded by a basketball! I taped this one off TV & have wanted to see it for a while now, none of the reviews in movie reference books seemed to like it, but that's probably because it wasn't some over-hyped, WB casted, CGI filled horror flick. Although this isn't one of Craven's best, it still manages to keep you interested & somewhat creep-ed out about the events happening on screen, the film is a bit slow in the first half, but if you stay with it it gets better. The acting & direction were really good & the characters were well drawn out & interesting, it's only the awful ending that lets this film down, still it's fun for all horror fans & if you're a WES CRAVEN fan. Supposedly however, in the original cut of the film, there was no gore, tests audiences were none to happy with it, so Craven had to go back & re-shoot additional gore footage to keep them satisfied & it is rumored that Wes decided to do the film after being replaced by Director JEFFERY BLOOM for the film FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC, a film Wes was going to direct, but none of the scripts he wrote satisfied studio heads, plus he was short of money at the time.*** stars "},{"Title":"Your typical mid/late 80's comic horror flick from Wes Craven","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DEADLY FRIEND is written by Bruce Joel Rubin who has also written films like Deep Impact (Mimi Leder, 1998) and Ghost (Jerry Zucker, 1990). DEADLY FRIEND is directed by Wes Craven, the horror maestro behind films like A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984), The Serpent and the Rainbow (1988) and the 90's boxoffice hit Scream (1996). Craven has done many mediocre or even bad films and especially in the 1980's. Fortunately DEADLY FRIEND isn't among the worst ones.The film stars Matthew Laborteaux as teenager Paul, who moves to a new town with his mother. Paul has a self made artificial intelligence robot called BB and he spends a lot of time with BB and even talks about its structure and other elements in the school for students. Soon he meets the neighbor Samantha played by Kristy Swanson. Samantha is abused by his father and BB is abused by their angry old lady neighbor who indeed looks like a nightmare on your street. Soon something happens to BB and something happens to Samantha and what our teen genius develops is something we've seen at least in Frank Henenlotter's trash classic Frankenhooker (1990) among many other more or less serious Frankenstein themed horror films.DEADLY FRIEND is little like Craven's other late 80's film, Shocker (1989). Both films try to be teen drama, horror and comedy at the same time, and it is of course pretty difficult to achieve a totally satisfying result with so many ingredients. DEADLY FRIEND is surprisingly restrained and drama oriented and Samantha really becomes pretty sympathetic girl and the two central boys as well. They're not over-the-top smiling and beautiful adolescents one can find from any of those disgusting Hollywood produced teen horrors/slashers that spawned after the success of Scream. In DEADLY FRIEND, the teenagers are pretty natural and realistic and so they're easy to feel sympathy for.Craven has the talent to keep his tongue in cheek while directing these films (just remember the outrageous finale in Shocker!) and that helps a lot. He doesn't take himself too seriously and if he does, it happens very rarely. DEADLY FRIEND makes me smile a lot, but it's all intentional and I don't smile because I feel ashamed or sorry for the makers, which is the case when a film really takes itself too seriously and becomes laughable. The outrageousness in DEADLY FRIEND is taken as far as possible in a Warner production like this when the infamous and often heard among horror fans basketball murder comes and I must say it feels quite gruesome in an otherwise lame and harmless film like this. The gore in that brief but memorable scene is close to that of Tom Savini's in films like Maniac (William Lustig, 1980) and The Prowler aka Rosemary's Killer (Joseph Zito, 1982). I kind of doubt would this film get an R rating nowadays.The main problem in DEADLY FRIEND is that it is too straightforward and has huge holes and easy solutions in its plot and screenplay. When writer Rubin decides they're going to do something, it just happens and there are no problems at all, as if they were completely alone in the city, the hospital and so on. Also the Samantha's father is totally unnecessary as a character. He is there completely in vain, and the violence he commits towards his daughter without any motive or explanation feels quite tasteless and unnecessary in a film like this. Samantha's fate could have been arranged without the character of her father and definitely ten times more satisfyingly and with a more noteworthy result and final film.The shock epilogue we could expect from Craven is this time very effective and really has to be seen to be believed. It is as shocking and surprising as the ending in Elm Street, but I would say it is even more gruesome and even surreal this time. The effects required for that ending are handled fine as well as throughout the whole film. The BB robot is quite nice and never irritating. The result which comes after Paul's operation on BB and Samantha is very close to that of Henenlotter's Frankenhooker and they both are equally demented!DEADLY FRIEND isn't as great and noteworthy horror comedy as it very well could have been in the hands of this director, but still I prefer this over Shocker, for instance, but this is far away from the masterpieces (Elm Street, Serpent etc.) of the director. I give DEADLY FRIEND 4/10 and will watch out those basketballs for sure. "},{"Title":"I Don't Care What Anyone Says, This is Good","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had heard very mixed things about Deadly Friend so I was a little worried but I think this film is a little misunderstood. Much like Shocker(1989), this film gets a bad rep and I don't get it. We all know that Wes Craven is very hit or miss but I think is one of his hits. At least he's trying something different.The acting is mediocre but I really like the story as a modern day Frankenstein. The direction and scares, I thought, were fantastic and the basketball scene was awesome.I challenge all you horror fans to give Deadly Friend a chance. You might just find that you've made a good decision. "},{"Title":"Poor Sam, will she recover from those assault and batteries?","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A fun, entertaining chiller from Wes Craven, this movie may never get the adoration or praise his best works receive but it should also avoid many of the harsh criticisms that the uneven director's poor efforts get.Essentially a Frankenstein riff (Bruce Joel Rubin wrote the screenplay based on the short novel Friend by Diana Henstell), the film is all about Paul (Matthew Laborteaux) and his pal, BB. BB is a robot built by Paul and we soon learn that both characters are a lot smarter than appearances might lead you to believe. Paul soon befriends Tom (Michael Sharrett) and Sam (Kristy Swanson). Sam is a bright and likable girl who has to put up with a lot of abuse from her drunken father but there doesn't seem to be any way to help the situation. When tragedy strikes it becomes clear that Paul can help Sam thanks to his rather unique skills. Well . . . . . . . he THINKS that he can help Sam but will Sam appreciate what's done for her? Deadly Friend is not a movie to get all worked up about. It will probably never be anyone's favourite and it just does enough, for the most part, to get by and to provide entertainment. Genre fans may take pleasure in seeing Wes Craven insert a familiar-feeling scene in which a burnt man attacks a bed-inhabiting teen and there are one or two of the director's favoured dream sequences (as well as a score from Charles Bernstein that provides an extra dreamy layer to proceedings) but in other ways this doesn't feel like a Craven movie at all. In fact, I was wondering how the end product could have turned out if the great Joe Dante had managed to get his hands on the material because this is definitely teen horror. There are one or two bits of gore throughout but nothing stomach-churning and it all feels very tame compared to the horror output of the 21st century.The cast all do well. As well as those mentioned we have Anne Twomey putting in a decent turn as Paul's mother and the fantastically craggy Anne Ramsey as a paranoid old woman who would love nothing better than to shoot any kids who dare to set foot on her property.Surprisingly enough, the central idea hasn't dated the movie as badly as it perhaps should have. The robotics and ideas used here still seem quite impressive, if completely fanciful and clearly just an excuse for some entertaining horror, and that's another big plus. This may not be the case 10 or 20 years from now but considering that I can say this after seeing the thing 25 years after it's initial release then I'd say that those involved can congratulate themselves on a job well done. "},{"Title":"80' take on the Frankenstein tale","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i really liked this movie.i though it was very creepy.it isn't original,borrowing from other movies,some quite heavily.more than anything,this is an 80 take on the Frankenstein tale.and like Frankenstein,this movie is filled with sorrow and tragedy,in the deepest sense.most horror movies are not deep at all,but this one has more depth than most.Wes craven also borrows liberally from his own Nightmare on Elm Street.the acting is pretty good,but Kristy Swanson is brilliant,in my opinion.she steals the show,in all her scenes.even though this movie is not original,i do like the direction they took with it.i think it's well made and compelling,with a main character you really care about and feel great sadness for.this movie is part of the Twisted Terror Collection,and is also contained in the box set of the same name,with five other suspense/horror movies.for me,Deadly friend is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"It's hard to let go of a good friend.","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Paul Conway is an intelligent 15-year-old teen that has moved into a new town with his mother and artificial creation called BB, to study and teach at the local university. Although after settling in, tragedy hits hard when during a Halloween prank his paranoid neighbour across the street shoots BB to pieces and his good friend / neighbour Samantha falls victim to her father's alcoholic rage, which leaves her in a coma. Deciding there's nothing they can do they decide to turn off the life support, but Paul plans to steal her body and place BeeBee's computer chip in her brain. Sure thing it worked, but she isn't who she uses to be.Oh Wes, what were you thinking? Now, what to make of it. Yep, it's feebly dumb, but slightly diverting with a few memorable scenes and not much else. Well, I guess I would be lying if I didn't add Kristy Swanson to being one of the draw cards. Her robotic turn where she's brought back to life was facetiously done.Taken from the novel Friend by Diana Henstall, this starts off like a Short Circuit rip-off than transforms into a modern day Frankenstein retelling. Craven really overplays his hand in over-plotting the film with elements of a family drama with moralistic babble, which then suddenly skyrockets into cheesy daftness and steers it into horror territory with mostly minor results. The simple story feels sparse with many redundant avenues that dig many more holes in the unbelievable developments and flawed material. Circulating through the flick is an easy-going sense of humour that fits in naturally well. It never really takes itself far too seriously, and oh the infamous basketball decapitation is a real scene-stealer and purely a riot. What else is a scene-stealer has got to be the film's enticing gimmick, BB the robot. Although, at times I didn't know what the heck it was mumbling about, but it was a likable inclusion nonetheless. You should listen to the catchy (or maybe drawn out) tune that plays over the credits for a chuckle.Mechanically dicey direction by Craven lends the film to have quite a languid pace and junky set pieces with wilted suspense. Despite some effectively unpleasant jolts and the use of splatter, it just feels like they have thrown a spanner the mix in hoping it would take off. Instead it's pretty much a hasty and fumbled attempt. This goes for the daftly incompetent climax, which leads to a hopelessly idiotic (if unpredictable) conclusion. The soaring music score in the film strangely has energy and roughly tugs on the emotional chords. The performances were handled in a tolerable manner. The young cast; Kristy Swanson, Matthew Laborteaux and Michael Sharrett are sound in their roles and never let the overall silliness affect their performances. Anne Twomey was pleasantly engaging as Paul's mother and Anne Ramsey is superb as the stingy neighbour, Elvira.This was a lean period for Craven and it shows up here in this pretty middling offbeat failure. Not his worst, but it's not too far from the bottom. But better was to come with the voodoo horror piece, The Serpent and the Rainbow. "},{"Title":"Bllurrrr pa purr pap! Skibip.. BEE BEE","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now we know where Johnathan Davis, of Korn, gets his inspiration for the strange animal-like sounds he makes -- from B.B. the robot!I caught this movie on TV in the late 80's. It's a pretty nightmarish disturbing movie because of the different emotions involved, but it's not so annoying as some movies where the dream sequences just tick you off. You feel for boy genius and understand the lines he crosses. Things are pretty happy throughout the beginning of the film. Then, boy genius (Paul) gets his first kiss from Samantha one fateful night, which happens to be the same night Samantha is killed by her abusive, alcoholic father. You know this has to be traumatizing for Paul (who will probably never have such a grand opportunity to have a girlfriend in his nerdy life-time). So Paul devises a plan to bring Samantha back to life by putting B.B. the robot's computer chip in her brain (it's a movie, go with it). The plan works, but there's a catch. Samantha is a pale-faced vegetable who moves like a robot. This is pretty disturbing to me, since you know Paul wants her like she was before, but things sure aren't the same. In a sense, this movie is very much like Stephen King's Pet Sematary and sometimes dead IS better...While resurrected, Samantha goes on a killing spree; avenging her death, as well as B.B. the robot's, via the basketball scene! Paul tries to hide Samantha's wicked ways. It's emotionally tugging. Can you imagine if you were trying to hide that you know something about the deaths of people around you? It's gotta be stressful for Paul.Finally, things get too far out of hand. Samantha is shot by the police and laid to rest during a dramatic scene when it appears she is finally turning into her normal self. I would have thought they'd lock Paul up after all of this -- nope. Paul goes back for more! I think the ending is great! Though, unrealistic, the ending is a good emotionally sucker punch to cap it all off. It's a good movie to watch by yourself when you can't sleep (hehe). "},{"Title":"Cult Movie from the 80's","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Paul Conway (Matthew Labyorteaux) and his mother Jeannie Conway (Anne Twomey) travel to a new town where Paul will join the local university invited by Dr. Johanson (Russ Marin). They bring the robot BB that was developed by Paul, who is a genius in robotic. Paul befriends the paperboy Tom Toomey (Michael Sharrett) and has a crush on his next door neighbor Samantha Pringle (Kristy Swanson), whose abusive alcoholic father Harry Pringle (Richard Marcus) frequently hurts her. One day, Paul, Sam, Tom and BB are playing basketball and the ball fall in the field of their paranoid grumpy neighbor Elvira Parker (Anne Ramsey) that does not give it back to the teenagers. In Halloween, Tom convinces Paul to let BB open the padlock of the entrance to her house. However, there is an alarm system and Elvira blows up BB with her shotgun. Then Harry pushes her daughter down the stairs and the doctors let her brain-dead connected to the life support. However Paul convinces Tom to go to the hospital to rescue Sam and then he implants BB's chip into her brain resurrecting Samantha. But will she come back to life normal?Deadly Friend is an underrated cult movie from the 80's directed by Wes Craven in the beginning of his successful career. The story of friendship begins as a drama, with Samantha receiving bad treatment from he abusive father, and sci-fi with BB, maybe with one of the first artificial intelligences of the cinema. When Samantha becomes a zombie- robot, the plot becomes terror, but without gore, in the style of Franklenstein. Kristy Swanson is gorgeous and has a great chemistry with Matthew Labyorteaux. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Maldição de Samantha (The Samantha's Course) "},{"Title":"Underrated little film","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"     A young man named Paul(Matthew Laborteaux ) His Mother(Anne Twomey) And his robot,which he built himself,BB(Charles Fleischer).He soon becomes friends with a beautiful young girl Samantha(Kristy Swanson )Who is abused by her father(Lee Paul)And Tom(Michael Sharrett)One night,Sam is murdered by her father.Devasated,Paul and Tom find her body and a computer chip in her brain.She comes back to Life,And starts killing the people that had negativly affected her last life,And Paul must find a way to stop her...  This is a cool little film.A good idea,good direction,Great and gory kills,great acting,and A cool dream scene.There is something about it that seems a little stupid though,And it had ALOT of similarites to Wes Cravens other Film,A Nightmare on Elm Street... "},{"Title":"An underrated if bizarre horror film","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Teenage science genius Paul Conway (played by Little House on the Prairie's Matthew Laborteaux) has moved into a new town with his single mother Jeannie (played by Anne Twomey) and his invention, a robot named BB (voiced by Roger Rabbit himself, Charles Fleischer). Paul befriends local paperboy Tom Toomey (played by Michael Sharrett) and develops a crush on the beautiful girl next door, Samantha Pringle (played by the gorgeous Kristy Swanson, the original Buffy the Vampire Slayer), who has an abusive alcoholic father Harry (played by a bug-eyed Richard Marcus). One night, BB gets blown apart via shotgun by neighborhood loon Elvira Parker (played by the late great Anne Ramsey), and later, Harry pushes Sam down the stairs, leaving her brain-dead. Paul implants BB's microchip into her brain, successfully bringing her back to life. With BB seemingly in control of her, Sam becomes a terrifying monster hellbent on righting the wrongs committed against her.Directed by legendary horror filmmaker Wes Craven (A Nightmare on Elm Street, The Serpent and the Rainbow) from a screenplay by Bruce Joel Rubin (Ghost, Jacob's Ladder), based on the novel entitled Friend written by Diana Henstell, Deadly Friend is a very fun and entertaining 80's sci-fi/horror film, but it's also quite bizarre and schizophrenic in tone, making it feel like a Frankenstein's monster of different parts put together, which is ironic considering that both the film and the book are variations of the Frankenstein story.Craven and Rubin aren't to blame for the film's jarring tonal shifts, however. Deadly Friend became the way it is thanks to a troubled production and constant studio interference. Craven's original cut was more of a dark romance with a sci-fi thriller underlining, much like Henstell's book. This cut was shown at a test screening in the summer of 1986. Audiences were displeased at the lack of graphic violence and gore seen in Craven's other films. Warner Bros. then demanded re-writes and re-shoots to add more gore into the film and heavily remove scenes of plot and character development. Craven and Rubin disowned the film and fans have signed petitions to have the original cut released. I should know, I'm one of them.As much as I'd love to see the original intended version, the final product is still quite enjoyable. Matthew Laborteaux and Kristy Swanson are both very likable as Paul and Samantha, and the two share good chemistry with one another. The two give very convincing and believable performances. Swanson, in particular, is very expressive as Sam when the character is brought back to life as a murderous android zombie. Swanson is so sweet and lively as Sam that I actually felt bad when her abusive father kills her.Michael Sharrett does a solid job as Tom, who serves as both the comic relief and the conscience of the film. Anne Twomey is also solid as Paul's concerned, caring mother Jeannie. Richard Marcus is appropriately creepy and menacing as Samantha's father Harry, and Anne Ramsey steals the show as Elvira Parker, the mean old lady who lives across the street. Charles Fleischer's ridiculous BB voice sounds like a Jawa from Star Wars mixed with E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, but regardless, I honestly found BB very entertaining to watch.Bruce Joel Rubin's screenplay, while flawed, is offbeat yet surprisingly thoughtful. As nonsensical as the plot is, it did keep me intrigued (and simultaneously baffled) as it goes on. I have mixed feelings on the nightmare and death scenes. The dream scene where Sam stabs Harry with glass and blood sprays all over her is effective, but the other gore scenes aren't. The most memorable sequence in the film is one where Samantha decapitates Elvira with a basketball of all things. This scene needs to be seen to be believed. As stupid and pointless as it is, it's arguably one of the most original, hilarious, and memorable death scenes ever put to film, even with the cheesy special effects and make-up. It's simply glorious to behold.The musical score by Charles Bernstein (A Nightmare on Elm Street), which is a mix of orchestra and electronic synthesizer, is fantastic, and there are times when it's very atmospheric and eerie. The slick cinematography by Oscar nominee Philip H. Lathrop (Earthquake, Point Blank) gives the film a neat, glossy look. The production designs by Daniel A. Lomino (Prince of Darkness, Child's Play) are solid as well, echoing Gregg Fonseca's work on A Nightmare on Elm Street very nicely. However, the choppy editing by Michael Eliot (Showdown in Little Tokyo, Out for Justice) is much to be desired.In summary, Deadly Friend makes for an entertaining if schizophrenic and bizarre slice of 80's sci-fi/horror, with strong performances, likable protagonists, and a script that's simultaneously thoughtful and offbeat. Although post-production studio meddling ultimately made it what it was originally trying not to be, I recommend you give Deadly Friend a watch. Final rating 7/10. "}{"Title":"Deadly Friend","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It sure has been a while since I last watched Wes Craven's Deadly Friend, but I had forgotten just how much fun it was. The plot is so absurd and has murder sequences so surreal, I was completely won over. A bright teenager who can create artificially intelligent robots and understands complex matters concerning the human brain, responds to a crisis rather extraordinarily..his girlfriend is killed by her lousy, cruel, drunk of a father(..he knocks her down the stairs causing a head trauma/cerebral hemorrhage)and the kid, Paul(Matthew Laborteaux)resurrects the girl, Samantha(Kristy Swanson)by implanting his robot's computer chip intelligence in her brain! This Frankensteinian maneuver unleashes a cavalcade of problems he attempts to juggle with little success. First, Paul's friend, newspaper boy Tom(Michael Sharrett), who helped him kidnap Sam's body from the hospital, is having a hard time accepting what they had done. Second, the computer chip that Paul inserted in Sam's brain, is controlling her..this is a major setback because robot BB was starting to evolve into an entity which made it's own decisions without his master's approval, and it seems Sam is following orders directed by BB. Third, certain targets are being systematically murdered such as a paranoid neighbor who doesn't like people, Elvira Parker(Anne Ramsey; Throw Mama from the Train/The Goonies), always pointing her double-barrel shotgun at folks, who was responsible for destroying BB and Harry Pringle(Richard Marcus), the louse who sent his daughter crashing down the stairs to her demise. Fourth, Paul is having a difficult time keeping Sam stashed away, and getting her to follow instructions is not an easy task. With Tom about to crack, his mom(Anne Tworney) always close to discovering Sam, and a body count, Paul's life spirals out of control and it will only be a matter of time before the secret's out.I like how Craven creates what looks like a television movie, only for the outbursts of violence to shock the viewer into silence such as the celebrated head explosion gag by the use of a basketball(..this is followed by a body hopping about without the head as blood squirts out)..how Samantha is all of a sudden equipped with superhuman strength, allowed to lift a grown man in the air after snapping his wrist back, crushing his throat while having him extended high off the ground. Or, when Samantha lifts a biker bully, picking on Paul, over her head, hurling him into a cop car's windshield. Craven includes an amusing nightmare sequence many might consider a homage to A Nightmare on Elm Street where Paul finds someone slithering underneath his bed sheets, only to find the charred visage of a victim whose head had been eviscerated in an incinerator. We also spend time with Paul's cute robot before it's blown to smithereens by mean old hag Elvira, and it's established here that it's got some malevolence in it's evolving programming(..right at the start, BB nearly chokes the life out of a thief planning to lift money from Paul's mother's purse), how it could cause harm if needed. The plot itself is laughable, no doubt, and it's hard not to giggle at the ending where Paul hasn't learned his lesson, reaping unpleasantly for his interference in the process of life and death, having created a monster he will not be able to contain. "},{"Title":"Robots, basketball death, killer Kristy Swanson... It's the 80's and we like it!","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I consume everything that has the words slashers from the 80's so I decide do to finally give a chance to Deadly Friend. Well, I think about it as Craven's high school horror flick with a slasher vibe and cheesy elements.The whole B.B. sub-plot kinda got onto my nerves but hey, I accept the 80's cheesiness. When things get ugly for B.B. (shotgun thing), I really liked how the sweet, super tender and sexy Kristy Swanson came on board as the main villain.The movie follows the typical over the top slasher formula that deals with inventive death scenes (much in the likes of A Nightmare On Elm Street) and a graveyard love story.Still, the movie lacked of a dark tone or any mystery. This should be considered as a Ferris Bueller's Day Off horror flick for teens.Kristy Swanson is absolutely adorable, sexy, tender. The perfect girlfriend to take home and introducer her to your parents.The most brilliant moment comes with the infamous basketball death. Nice! A must see for a PG-13 audience and for any lovers for the 80's slasher craziness. "},{"Title":"Odd, intriguing mess from Wes Craven.","Date":"23 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An brilliant but lonely teenager Paul (Matthew Laborteaux) and his mother (Anne Twomey) moved in a small town for Paul's education at College. Paul becomes close friends with an abused neighbor named Sam (Kristy Swanson) and a neighborhood teen named Tom (Michael Sharrett). Both kids are impressive with Paul's robot named BB (Voiced by Charles Fletcher). Paul's life turns upside down, when BB got destroyed by a paranoid old lady (Anne Rasmey) and Sam's father (Richard Marcus) accidentally killed his daughter by pushing her down the stairs. When the doctors can't save Sam. Paul decides to save Sam by using Artificial Intelligence Marco-chip brain from BB to put on Sam's brain. Which the operation turns out to be a success but Sam also shares the memories of BB. Now both minds are going to have their personal revenge.Directed by Wes Craven (Scream Trilogy, Music of the Heart, Red Eye) made an entertaining although very flawed horror film. Which is based on a novel by Diana Henstell titled Friend. Reportely director Craven and Oscar-Winning screenwriterBruce Joel Rubin (Ghost, Jacob's Ladder, My Life) were unhappy with the final product of the feature. Craven said that the studio wanted to be more like A Nightmare on Elm Street type scares. Which Craven wanted to do something completely different. Only actress Swanson is somewhat proud of the feature, especially in the infamous sequence... where she's beheaded her nasty neighbor with a Basketball! DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an decent Dolby 2.0 Mono Sound. DVD's only special feature is the original theatrical trailer. Deadly Friend is actually one of the few movies of Craven that actually offers more Heart than expected. What nearly ruined the impact of the picture is the silly, outrageous conclusion. Warner Bros probably forced Craven to filmed that ending. What most of Craven's endings in movies were always satisfying, which this one isn't. Overall... for a horror film is pretty entertaining. This is worth a look but this certainly deserved to be remade. (*** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"Entertaining in a 80's kind of way","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Deadly Friend is an overlooked 80's movie that basically borrows the theme of resurrection no matter what the cost. The story starts with a brainy teen moving to a new place with his mom and robot. Falls in love with the girl next door (Kristy Swanson) and runs afoul of several of the neighborhoods lesser liked residents. Tragedy strikes the girl and robot so he decides to find a way to bring her back with disastrous results. The fact he tries to help her even after several deaths shows how deeply he wants this to work, no matter what the cost. This is not a bad movie but it is not perfect either. If you can look past some of the flaws and just not make it more than it needs to be then you will find an entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"7 out of 10","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Once you manage to make your mind go blank and just accept the incredibly dumb story, what you get is a movie that's not as bad as it sounds.A girl is beaten and thrown down the stairs and dies. Her next door friend, who is a wiz at electronics, snatches her body out of the mortuary and installs a microchip in her brain. When she successfully returns from the dead she has some bones to pick with her father and a nasty old lady (Anne Ramsey from Throw momma from the train). One of the murders involves a basketball, believe it or not. At some points there is even a little room for some emotion as it's obvious these two kids were on their way to romance before the girl got killed, and the feeling is obvious even after the girl walks around a corpse.A decent modern Frankenstein for teenagers, almost completely ruined by the ridiculous surprise ending.Rated R for Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Bringing the dead back to life, robots, whizkids and other nonsense from Wes Craven","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I'm guessing that Wes Craven saw Star Wars and Re-Animator and thought he'd better make a movie about robots and bringing the dead back to life. While this isn't a bad idea in theory; it would seem that director didn't really have time to wait for a good script to come in, so he decided to go with this one. Obviously, films along these lines tend to be more than just a little bit ridiculous; but Deadly Friend actually manages to up the ante with a plot where NOTHING makes any sense, and we are expected to believe stupid plot point upon stupid plot point. As the film starts, we are introduced to a kid called Paul Conway who has his own robot called BB. Not only can Paul outsmart most scientists by putting together an intelligent robot, he also has a great deal of knowledge about the workings of the brain. He likes the girl next door, and she happens to have an abusive father. A paranoid and unfriendly neighbour later blows BB to bits, and it's not long before the girl's abusive father decides to throw her down the stairs. This is convenient for our lead star, as it means he can put the robot brain in the dead girl's body...If I had a super intelligent robot that did everything I say and could crack codes in seconds, I'd put him to use in robbing banks and burglarising people - but the only use this 'whizkid' can find for his robot is playing stupid pranks on the neighbours! Not much is ever really explained, and the film really just bumbles along on its already decided plot course, until we reach the inevitable and obvious conclusion. Deadly Friend feels like a kids' movie for most of the way through, and there isn't much horror at all until the central plot 'twist'. But then it hits in the form of a couple of really over the top death scenes, which are still nice in spite of the fact that they feel completely out of place! The first one is grim and grisly, and the second - a decapitation with a basketball - will either be brilliant or completely crap, depending on which way you look at it. Overall, this really isn't a good movie, but I can't slam it completely as watching a film with a plot as outlandish with this one is fun, and the fact that it's completely undemanding means that Deadly Friend is a good film to watch if you're not really in the 'film watching mood'. "},{"Title":"With a friend like him, who needs enemies","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ** SPOILER**DEADLY FRIEND (1986) ** Matthew Laborteaux, Kristy Swanson, Anne Twomey, Anne Ramsey.  Dopey variation on the Frankenstein concept with Laborteaux the young science genius who implants his robot's computer chip into the head of his accidentally killed friend Swanson to bring her back to life. Waycool decapitation scene involving a basketball.  Yeah!! "},{"Title":"Better than originally expected","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Paul (Matthew Laborteaux) is a 15-year-old genius who moves into a new neigborhood with his mother and BB, his yellow robot.  He falls in love with Samantha (Kristy Swanson), a kind-hearted girl who lives next door. Unfortunately, Sam has a very difficult home life, and she is literally scared to death of her abusive father.  One night, Sam's father, in a drunken rage, knocks her down a flight of stairs, killing her.  Distraught over the death of his best friend, Paul decides to try to bring her back to life by implanting BB's computer chip into his brain.  It works, but Sam is now a murderous zombie who decides to get revenge against those who treated her badly.I enjoyed watching Deadly Friend mainly because of Kristy Swanson not only is she beautiful, but she gives a sensitive and likeable performance as Sam.  Even though I knew Sam's death was important to the film's plot, I felt sad because I really liked the character and felt that she in no way deserved to have a deadbeat for a father.    And Laborteaux gives a decent performance as Paul I wanted things to go well for him, and when he finds out about Sam's death (just as romance was about to blossom between the two), I could understand his feelings of pain and sorrow.When Sam is revived and becomes a killer, Deadly Friend turns into a standard low-budget horror film, with all the usual shocks and gore. However, the scene where Sam decapitates crazy old Elvira Parker (Anne Ramsey) with a basketball (!) is worth a look.Deadly Friend is not the perfect horror movie, but it does contain enough heart and humanity to separate it from the rest of the pack. "},{"Title":"android-girl killer??","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The horror movie with a conscience. Whatever. Intelligent boy finds his beautiful next-door neighbor dead, and in order to keep her alive, he plants a robot-chip in her brain... OK. Not one of my favorites (even though it's directed by Wes Craven, and stars Kristy Swanson), but any movie that manages to incorporate a basketball into a death scene, has to have something going for it. "},{"Title":"The film is horrifying, and not for the right reasons...","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh where do I start? I remember catching this on television at some ungodly hour a few years ago. From the beginning it screamed crappy 80s horror film, but the plot was so strange I couldn't turn it off.Here's the basic idea (it's been a while, remember...). Paul and his family have just moved to town and he has no friends. That's because he just moved in, but also because he's a child prodigy that spends his time performing brain surgery and building robots.Paul's only friend is a robot he created named B.B.. By today's standards B.B. is laughably primitive and at the same time impossibly advanced. See, Paul's so intelligent that he bases the brains of his robots on the human mind, so even though B.B. looks like a clunky, cheap, barely-mobile toy from the deepest, darkest part of the 80s, it's highly intelligent.Anyway, Paul gets picked on at school and is pitied only by a pretty girl named Samantha, who decides to be nice to him, just like in real life. Everything looks good until some bullies try to break B.B. and instead short-circuit him. Paul gets B.B. to run, but something is not quite right with our school bus-yellow, rotund mechanical friend. And then the movie gets REALLY ridiculous.Paul is forced to dismantle B.B. because of angry neighbors or something. Later, Samantha's abusive father kills her and Paul, devastated by the loss of his young crush, decides that he can reanimate her BY PUTTING B.B.'S MAIN CHIP IN HER HEAD. No power source is required, nothing like theat. Just a trip to the morgue, a little surgery, and Samantha is as good as new. Except for her complete lack of emotion and her odd, mechanical movements. Paul keeps her in his garage because, you know, Samantha's supposed to be dead and everything, but she starts committing acts of revenge against anyone who mistreated Paul, Sam, or the robot itself.Like the other reviews mention, there are only three good things about this movie* The scene in which robo-Samantha decapitates a mean old woman with a basketball (I'm not a big horror fan, but that was too cool and odd to ignore)*The fact that the role of the mean old woman is played by that mean old woman from Goonies*Keeping in mind the material she had to work with, Kristy Swanson does a good jobI realize I've summarized most of the plot, but I'm not going to give away the ending... it's too hilariously out there. You just have to see it.So yeah, Deadly Friend is a silly movie from a decade that gave us a lot of silly movies, but it's a decent way to kill some time, if only for a few scenes (and laughs).I said there was something horrifying about Deadly Friend, and I wasn't lying, just saving the best for last the screenplay was written by the same guy who penned the screenplay to JACOB'S LADDER, one of the finest films I have ever seen! "}{"Title":"Deadly, yes. Scary? No!","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once you manage to make your mind go blank and just accept the incredibly dumb story, what you get is a movie that's not as bad as it sounds.A girl is beaten and thrown down the stairs and dies. Her next door friend, who is a wiz at electronics, snatches her body out of the mortuary and installs a microchip in her brain. When she succesfully returns from the dead  she has some bones to pick with her father and a nasty old lady (Anne Ramsey from Throw momma from the train). One of the murders involves a basketball, believe it or not. At some points there is even a little room for some emotion as it's obvious these two kids were on their way to romance before the girl got killed, and the feeling is obvious even after the girl walks around a corpse.A decent modern Frankenstein for teenagers, almost completely ruined by the ridiculous surprise ending. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally funny film.","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is almost like a parody of a horror flick.My wife and I caught this for the first time a few months ago on cable, and I still like to terrorize her by doing the odd Vulcan hands that Kristy does through this film and gutturally saying BB or whatever the name of that robot was.The film is actually enjoyable, and I always like watching Kristy Swanson anyways, but there is nothing horrific about Kristy's being a homicidal chip-controlled zombie.  (The child abuse, however, is disturbing, although it is very badly acted.)  "},{"Title":"Boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy creates lethal cyber-barbie...","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With the Wes Craven/ Kristy Swanson combination, we should have the makings of a cult favorite here, but this film somehow lacks the under-the-bed, behind-the-door, in-your-face terror of the usual Craven offerings. Somehow,  Freddy K.--who dwells in the realm of dreams that we don't really understand--is a little more terrifying than Samantha/BB the deadly neighborhood cyborg. Actually, one of the more disturbing things in the film is having BB's (Charles Fleischer) voice coming out of Kristy Swanson's face screaming BB!.  Brrrrr.  "},{"Title":"Just use your imagination and don't over think it...and it is still bad.","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have not seen this one in quite some time, but it is about a new kid in town and his pet robot.  A robot designed to grab people by the crotch and squeeze.  Already, you see the flaws; he apparently designed this robot to have a bit of a violent streak in him.  Young new boy makes a new friend a girl who has an abusive father.  You can see where this is going.  The old lady from The Goonies and Throw Momma from the Train blows the heck out of the robot and the girl is killed by her abusive father.  Young boy somehow deduces that if you put the robot's computer chip in the young girl she will come back and she does.  Unfortunately, she now seemingly has the robot's personality and that isn't too good.  All the deaths you see coming, though the one with the basketball is rather good, in fact the highlight of this overly predictable movie.  The only thing that is not predictable is the end which makes no sense.  Well you know what happens, I am just saying by that time the kid should have left well enough alone.  It is also a rather impossible phenomenon, but hey it is a horror movie. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Classic","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember watching this movie as a kid (quite a bit after it came out, I am 19) and I loved the storyline. The good characters were love-able, the bad characters were hate-able. I freaked out at Scary parts, cried at Sad parts, and sometimes I had to reassure myself Hey, this is just a movie. This, and Chopping Mall, are two movies I have loved since I was a kid. Watch it, you won't regret it.  "},{"Title":"Boy Meets Girl, Girl Dies, Boy Turns Girl Into Robot....","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this on what I think was the Sci-Fi channel a number of years ago. And I couldn't remember the name of the film for the life of me. It wasn't until a number of years later that i did find the film on a site (and this was without the help of IMDb!) Also I was going to get it online but it was too expensive, however when I was looking through DVDs at a pawn store i was desperately looking for this film and i look up and what was staring back at me in the front row? Yup this movie! D I bought it immediately. Anyway onto the actual film lol...Deadly Friend is originally based on a 1985 novel written by Diana Henstell and was turned in a feature film directed by Wes Craven. It tells the story of a teen boy named Paul who has a friend named BB (he is a yellow robot who talks (sorta). He meets his next door neighbor Samantha who he has a crush on. When Samantha falls down the stairs from her drunk father and dies, Paul decides to put BB's microchip into her brain. Samantha is back alive again but is she still the same? If you like Horror and Science Fiction with interesting story lines, you will like this, and it has one of the most bloodiest deaths with a basketball. lol I give Deadly Friend a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Highly Amusing","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Paul is a new kid in town with a robot named BB. He befriends Samantha (Kristy Swanson) and the three of them have a lot of good times together. That is, until Samantha's abusive father throws her down some stairs and kills her.Whether you like this movie or not really comes down to how seriously you take it. Kristy Swanson walking and swinging her arms like a robot? Pretty silly. The acting is rather spotty at times. Some of the science and plot do not really add up. Calling this a B movie might be giving it too much credit.There is a lot of dispute about what aspects were Craven, what came from the studio and what was from different producers. Craven did not want the movie to be as dark or gory as it became. Respectfully, I would have to disagree with Craven on that. The gore effects (especially the burned father) look incredible, and by far the highlight of the film is the death of the neighbor woman (death by basketball!).This is a fun picture that seems to have been largely forgotten. Of course it is does not reach the status of Last House, Nightmare or Scream, but there is a lot to like about this one. "},{"Title":"Deadly Friend","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been wanting to see this movie for the longest time now but I've only been able to see it just recently.After all this time I must say I'm disappointed.Deadly Friend started off good but after robot BB was destroyed the movie went downhill.Robot BB was like a version of Johnny 5 that started Short Circuit-ing (Ha Ha Ha, I made myself laugh) I was really hoping BB was going to be rebuilt but..... Nope.After Robot BB's brain was implanted in Samantha, I was interested in seeing where this was going but I started losing interest as well.It just was NOT the same anymore.The Elvira kill scene has to be 1 of the worst kill scenes I've ever seen.It was definitely different but stupid & the final end scene has to be 1 of the worst endings I've ever seen.If Deadly Friend was remade then I hope it's Wes Craven directing again & this time, I hope he'll be able to direct it exactly the way he wants "},{"Title":"One of my fave Wes Craven films and one of my fave 1980's horrors.","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, it has very over the top plot and some scenes are both crazy and funny, but it's still one of my fave movies ever. For very long time now i am huge fan of it, and i don't care about all the crap i might get, i'm not gonna change my opinion.I know, this movie has lot of problems with mixed direction and forced horror scenes, but i don't think that it's as bad as some of the Craven's other work like Hills Have Eyes 2. And it's important to know that most of the problems that Deadly Friend has is not because of the director, but because of the Warner Bros studio. But getting back to the movie;Screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin did a good job with script, even though it's somewhat obvious that some of it was changed and added because of studio requests. Rubin also wrote scripts for two great movies from 1990; Jacob's Ladder which i am a huge fan of, and Ghost.As for movie, i think that actors did a good job with their roles, script works for about 90% of the movie (hey,i have to be honest, right?), horror atmosphere is quite good, jump scares are sometimes predictable but they work, gore scenes were not really needed (more on that later), but even though some are laughable, i think that they are actually well done with solid makeup effects and infamous basketball kill is definitely one of the funniest kills ever and one of the best head explosions i ever saw in movie, along with the ones in Scanners, Maniac and Prowler. Nightmare scenes from movie are often called stupid, but i think that they were quite creepy to be honest, specially one where Sam dreams about killing her dad. Hey, if Wes Craven is directing a nightmare scene, then you know it's a good one.Some people would probably disagree with me, but i think that ending, at least first part of it, is quite sad. But that second part with ultra stupid and idiotic she's a robot! ending is one thing that i absolutely hate.After doing some research i found out that movie was originally very different then what was released. It was originally meant to be more of a love story then horror, but producers from Warner Bros had different ideas and Craven was told to make the movie bloodier. I think that it's damn shame. If all gore was taken out, movie would still be solid horror and with, like they originally wanted, interesting and dark love story.You can actually see that there was more to this film with the romance subplot, and few of those scenes between Paul and Sam after she's been brought back to life are very well done both by director and actors. And i'm not talking about scenes when he tries to hide her or when he runs into the murder scene, i'm talking about scenes like when Sam is looking at photos of her and Paul and when she shows him one of those photos. Movie would probably benefit more from those scenes, and original cut probably did have more of that.Instead, what we got is movie that jumps from kids horror to usual over the top 80's horror. More serious subjects that it touches, like child abuse are almost overshadowed with gore scenes that really don't feel like they fit anywhere.I can see why Craven and Rubin disowned the movie, which is too bad cause i would really like to see how different original version was before they had to changed it. I'm a sucker for movies that have been tempered with in post production from one reason or another, so maybe that's one of the reasons why i appreciate this movie for what it could have been or for what it originally was.I know that i'm probably one of the few fans that this movie has, but either way, i still love it and i would recommend it to everyone who are interested in entertaining, fun horror movie. "},{"Title":"One of Wes Craven's best","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everyone who knows anything about horror movies knows that Wes Craven is a horror legend because of films like The Last House on the Left, The Hills Have Eyes, A Nightmare on Elm Street, and Scream. But I personally feel this is one of Wes Craven's best films and is very underrated. To start with, it has interesting characters that are easy to relate to which I feel is a very important thing for any film to have because if you don't care about the characters, you won't care what happens to them and if the viewers don't care what happens in a film then it is a total failure. Matthew Laborteaux (who people may know as Albert from The Little House on the Prairie) is perfectly cast as Paul Conway, the main character of the film who is a genius and is even friends with an adorable robot named BB. His convincing performance makes the character likable and easy to care about. Kristy Swanson plays the character of Samantha who I personally felt very sorry for because she had to live with an abusive alcoholic of a father. Her character's life is very sad and she doesn't deserve to go through what she has to on a daily basis. Another performance that stood out was Anne Ramsey as Elvira, the grouchy old next door neighbor the audience loves to hate. Her performance was hilarious because she was so mean and her crotchety attitude made for some great and memorable moments.This film starts out as your typical, cheerful '80s movie about the new kid in town and has a light, comedic atmosphere to begin with. But when the film becomes serious, there are very emotional moments that will definitely leave an impact on the viewer's psyche. It touches on issues such as alcoholism, domestic abuse, love, and death. The story is very creative. It is a love story as well as a horror film and to me it doesn't feel like any other film I've ever seen. There is one death scene that most audiences remember this film for. If you haven't seen it, I won't spoil it for you, but if you have, you know exactly what scene I'm referring to. The death sequence came out of nowhere and was immensely shocking. Overall, this was a well written, well acted film with interesting characters. The only flaw I noticed with the film is the ending. Again, I don't want to give too much away for those who haven't seen the film but it is not the way I would've ended the film whatsoever. But other than that, the film is perfect and one of my absolute favorites of all time. If you haven't seen this film yet, you absolutely should because it is a true, underrated classic. "}{"Title":"Talk about being too smart for your own good!","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a genius can be a plus, and/or it can be a minus. For this movie, it goes both ways. Deadly Friend is one horror classic in the making. In this here sci-fi/horror, you got a young genius name Paul (Matthew Laborteaux, Little House on the Prairie) who have a robot friend named BB. He lives with his single mother (Anne Twomey) who relocated to a small town where Paul can study neurology. Next door there's a girl named Sam (Kristy Swanson) who lives with her drunken, abusive father. Other than that there's a reclusive old woman (Anne Ramsey, 1929-88), who keeps her house locked tighter than Fort Knox. After befriending Sam and Tom, all three have a great time. Until when the mean Elvira take her shotgun to BB, and blow him away, after she refuses to return the basketball. Later, Sam is attacked by her monster of a father, and is left brain dead. When they bring Sam's body out of the hospital, Paul takes BB's chip and put it in her brain. When she is revived, Paul wanted to further study more on artificial intelligence. However, the side effect happens when memories from BB and Sam merges, the inevitable happens. When BB had a disdain of both Sam's father and Elvira the recluse, the rage ensures. Sam confronts and kills her abusive father, and after entering Elvira's house, Sam grabbed the basketball, and crushed her head with it. Paul couldn't believe this is happening he wanted to help a friend, but the consequences follows along when you turn it into a killing machine. This movie could have gone further, it could have had more to the plot. It's too subtle. 2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and underrated 80's teen horror outing","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Precocious electronics whiz kid Paul Conway (a solid and likable performance by Matthew Laborteaux) brings his sweet girlfriend Samantha Pringle (ably played with bubbly charm by the lovely Kristy Swanson) back to life by placing a robot computer chip in her brain after she's killed by her abusive alcoholic father Harry (an effectively creepy turn by Richard Marcus). However, Samantha proceeds to exact a brutal revenge on everyone who's wronged her in any way. Director Wes Craven, working from an offbeat and thoughtful script by Bruce Joel Ruben, relates the quirky and entertaining Frankenstein variant story at a steady pace, grounds the fantastic premise in a plausible suburban reality, brings a real warmth to the opening third with the kids and Paul's adorable robot creation Bee Bee, treats the potentially laughable plot with admirable seriousness and sensitivity (the doomed romance between Paul and Samantha proves to be unexpectedly touching and leads to a heart-breaking tragic conclusion), and, naturally, delivers a few jolting nightmare sequences and several inspired moments of wild splatter (the infamous basketball decapitation rates as the definite outrageously gruesome highlight). The sincere acting from the capable cast helps a lot Michael Sharrett as Paul's wimpy reluctant friend Tom and Anne Twomey as Paul's concerned mother Jeannie register well in their roles while Anne Ramsey has a terrifically nasty ball with the juicy part of mean and paranoid shotgun-toting old bat Elvira Parker. Moreover, Swanson deserves extra props for her remarkably expressive work as Samantha after she's revived as a super strong and murderous automaton. Charles Bernstein's excellent atmospheric score hits the shivery spot. Philip M. Lathrop's slick cinematography gives the picture a neat glossy look. Only the ridiculous surprise bummer ending falls markedly short of the mark. A cool little flick. "},{"Title":"Craven Shoots...And DOESN'T Score!","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, so NOBODY makes that basket every time, even an old pro like Wes Craven. LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT and A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET were already on his resume, but after DEADLY BLESSING, maybe he should've skipped any more films with the word Deadly in the title. DEADLY FRIEND is kind of a goofy ABC-After-School-Special-meets-John-Hughes kind of movie, if you filtered it through SHORT CIRCUIT...by way of WESTWORLD.Brainy geek Paul Conway (Matthew Laborteaux, all grown up from hanging out on the prairie with Laura Ingalls Wilder) is the new kid on the block, with very few friends except for fellow geek Tom Toomey (Michael Sharrett) and the intelligent robot he's built in his spare time, affectionately known as B.B.That soon changes when he meets the blond beauty next door, Samantha Pringle (Kristy I was Buffy FIRST! Swanson), who has eyes for Paul, and bruises from her abusive stepdad. Uh-oh...do I smell trouble?Well, that and tragedy both, when Paul loses his two best friends almost simultaneously. B.B. gets taken out by the wicked old Cee U Next Tuesday next door, a real piece of work named Elvira Parker, (THE GOONIES' favorite villainess Anne Ramsey in one of her last movie roles) and then in a drunken fit of rage, Samantha's old man decides to off her by tossing her down a flight of steps. Is Paul going to let this slide? HELL, NO! B.B.'s brain still works and Samantha's body's still intact...but our young hero is about to find out the same thing that Baron Viktor Von Frankenstein did...the cost of living can be a real bitch...especially when you're talking about the LIVING DEAD!You have to be in the right frame of mind to be entertained by this movie. There's plenty of eye-rolling, forehead-smacking moments that will make you want to shoot yourself rather than watch another minute, so consider this as your warning. If you find you're groaning even in the first five minutes, be sure you rented something else to make up for it...or this will be the longest ninety minutes of your life.Other than that, there is one improbable gore effect that's still cool, and served as unintentional comedy relief for the audience I watched this with. It might make the whole movie worth watching for you, but that I can't say. Only you can make that call.As for me, I liked Kristy in this a lot more than in BUFFY. That definitely helped. "},{"Title":"My thoughts on 'Deadly Friend'","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first started watching 'Deadly Friend' I knew it was going to be a great film, it really pulled me into the characters and made me feel for them all in different ways - for example I really identified with Paul's character as at the time I was very much a loner. When the horror started to kick in I loved the fact that it was so 'tounge in cheek' and was able to mix laughs with gore. I agree with the statements that it is a laughable film but I feel it makes it that much more special as it doesn't take itself too seriously and therefore becomes a pleasure to watch. Watch this movie if you have the chance - 10 out of 10 from me! *LYCO* "},{"Title":"A great plot idea is destroyed by two things, B-Movie short comings and BB!","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot concept for this film is a really good one. Paul's friend Sam has just died tragically. Her brain is dead, and Paul is left behind with a crazy idea on his mind.Paul What if I just use a computer chip as a pacemaker for her brain?Paul, being a wiz with computers and studying to become a doctor, puts the twisted plan into motion and steals Sam's body from the hospital and then implants a chip that is meant to act like a connector from her brain to her spinal cord. The plan actually works and Sam is brought back from the dead, and then the real problems start.Now, this may seem like a cheesy plot idea to some, but to me it sounds like an inventive remake of Frankenstein. The idea of this dead girl walking around and Paul trying to keep it all under control is a good one and could of made for a sweet, interesting little film, but the idea was destroyed by BB! What is BB? BB is the little robot that Paul got the computer chip from. BB was an annoying character before Paul slapped his microchip into Sam's head. It just rolled around screaming out BB, which gets really annoying very quickly, and it was ridicules how strong BB was. Like they really made him over the top and he comes off as a cartoon character.But, even after BB is out of the picture he still wrecks the film. Instead of Sam having her own mind when she comes back from the dead, she now has BB's mind. Going with the mythosis that the film has created this makes no sense at all. The chip that was stuck inside Sam wasn't really BB's mind. It was the electric wire that tied up his mind so he could function. It should have acted the same way inside of her head. Why she suddenly starts moving around and acting like BB I will never know. It just doesn't fit. On top of that she suddenly has supper human strength without any explanation. This is a film that can't fallow its own rules and to top off the BB stupidity a jazzed up song all about BB is played at the end causing you to want to cover your ears to block out the beat.This film was made by the one and only Wes Craven. The man that created Freddy Kruger, the Scream series, and an odd little cheesy gem known as Cursed. Granted, some don't like Cursed, but it was cheesy and fun, this however is not. Wes tries very hard at times to recreate A Nightmare On Elm Street with this film. There is even a dream scene with a burned up man jumping out of a bed. But, Wes comes up short. For such an intelligent plot concept the film is to b-movie for its own good. From the cartoonish BB to a killer basketball, it all just gets on your nerves. Hey, even the name of the film is lame. I should have seen this one coming.As we all know it's remake time and anything and everything is being redone. This is one of the few films that I think should be remade. It could have been so much better.5 out of 10 It had a lot of potential. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  hilarious although it's not really suposed to be it still is what was wes craven thinking ehre was he asleep ???????? i guess so anyway it's not that well made but is fun to laugh at the basket ball scene is awsome that alone is worth the price of the rental i give this movie * Out of 5 for the movie for the cheese level **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"BB!!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ~Spoiler~ Deadly Friend is...something else.  Joe Bob Briggs called it the Breakfast Club version of Bride of Frankenstein.  That's right on the money.  I had a Kristy Swanson weekend with Getting In, Highway to Hell, and this.  Deadly Friend started off looking like it was going to be the worst of the three, and it was.  It's slow going at first and could easily be mistaken for a normal teen movie.  The film really picks up after the death of Samantha.  That's when it becomes a horror flick.  It's a little cornier than I expected from Wes Craven, however, it does contain the best neck-breaking I've seen in a long while.  Also, how could I not mention the basketball scene?  I've never been so horrified yet laughed so hysterically in all my life.  Pure horrific comedy.  In fact I think Deadly Friend should have played more like a horror/comedy.  It certainly wanted to be one and would have worked better that way.  It just took itself a little too seriously in parts.  And that ending was terrible and placed the movie into mediocrity (if it wasn't there before).  Craven has handled the horror/comedy formula better in films like Shocker and The People Under the Stairs, but that's no reason to skip this one (it's better than Vampire in Brooklyn).  Horror fans should still seek this one out just for the basketball head explosion.Note for genre buffs  Charles Fleischer (Demon Knight) voiced the robot BB. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not all that good either.","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing Deadly Friend around 4 years ago, and while it was not a bad movie, it really was not that good either. Basically, it's about this kid who uses his robot's brain for his dead girlfriend to come back to life. While it has one of the wierdest death scenes in it (the basketball decapitation scene.) This movie just isn't scary. The robot B.B. is irratating, and the characters just are not interesting at all. Also the ending is one of the dumbest ones I've ever seen in a horror movie (oh no!!! B.B.'s back!)These people could have learned a lesson from Sleepaway Camp about endings if they wanted to shock people.(Those who've seen it know what I'm talking about. The sick, but shocking ending.)Even die hard horror fans should stay away from this movie it sucks. "},{"Title":"Silly, just plain silly.","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this movie with my mum on tv about a year ago, and I'm still kicking myself. This movie is utterly ridiculous. The plot is about a boy, who moves into a new neighborhood with a robot named BB. The boy (sorry, I forget his name) meets the girl next door (sorry, I forget her name) who is abused by her father. Then, BB is destroyed. I strain to remember what happens to the little robot, but I'm pretty sure he gets blown to bits with a shotgun by the neighborhood hag. Anyway, the girl ends up being shoved down the stairs and dies. The boy steals her body and implants BB's micro-chip whatever into her brain, bringing her back. The rest as I stated before, is just plain silly. Mostly, it's the girl/robot running around killing people and screaming, BB!. The only scene that caught my attention was the basketball scene. Although very implausible, still attention-getting. Too bad the rest of the movie wasn't. Overall, this movie has nothing going for it. Besides the basketball head crushing brain splattering scene, and the just plain stupid ending, you'll feel like you've had a micro-chip placed in your brain. And also, the film is NOT scary. It didn't even scare my mum, and Willow scares my mum... "},{"Title":"Heh.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked the subtle humor in this film.  For horror value, it's a bit below par, but this film does have its share of shocks.  The plot is terrible, though.  Kristy Swanson does a good job and looks beautiful as always, even as an android zombie.Revenge movie lovers take note.  Recommended for 80's-type horror movie fans.  Everyone else, avoid this movie. "}{"Title":"Wes Craven hold's his own ...","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wes Craven rarely disappoints me - and Deadly Friend is no exception.  While it may seem to some as a simple 'technology + revenge' horror flick, it really has some good merit.The cast is pretty solid - including the woman we all hate - the 'Throw Momma From The Train' hag (which gets hers in a 'unique' way).The film is filled with the occasional 'good intent' message and filled with the famous 'dream sequences' which Craven is famous for.  The story line is weak but I've seen much thinner ones for  horror flicks before.The highest marks go to the second to the last scene of the film (I won't spoil it for you) but at least for me, it gave me shivers - not in a bad way.  Maybe being a techno-geek myself made me appreciate the film. )If you like Craven's other work, chances are you'll like this film as well. "},{"Title":"good another case of horror film (80)hated","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" beautiful film. As to the usual one, the usual negative comments which talk about a classical film some years 80 which everyone does not like it to the nostalgic ones are met.Sure Heros that this film had to have a judgment in this site. In fact reviewers' good part has put a high vote to the previous episodes. Because this contrast? I know the reason. Since assumptive reviewers' good part favorably sees the past and as the past is better than the present they have given several credit to the preceding episodes being still the last episode more explosive and spectacular. At this point should reject also the old episodes but there are here two weights and two measure.In fact also cinema masterpieces have been criticized and denigrated. Good part some reviewers of this site belong to the very bad reviewers. Better think separately with its head. I was sure that the god fun old episode did not like it. Who has to be withdrawn is not george lucas but the last reviewer SAMPAT GO AWAY. Cary Guffey "},{"Title":"Decent Horror / Sci-Fi mix","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is pretty old and I've not seen it in probably 10 years or so, so I can't say how it would stand up nowadays. Back when I saw it I was probably mid teens and It was one of those movies I taped off HBO or something and I must have watched it like 5+ times as it was my favorite horror / sci-fi movie for a while. So it's better than the review score lets on, but would I rent it today even if I could find it? Hmm&#133;. Tough question. Remember too that this came out in a era of Nightmare on Elm street, Friday the 13th, and very little else in the way of horror flicks, so given it's level of competition at the time, I thought it was good. There's no nudity that I can recall (so that's a minus) but man Kristy Swanson looks great. She's much younger here as it's one of her first films, little bit of baby fat on her but man o man what a rack she has.Spoilers ahead&#133; I think I liked it so much because it was a mix of things that I was into at the time. For one it's kind of a horror / Sci-Fi combo, which I love and still love to this day. Plus it had a sort of twisted romantic aspect as the Matthew (Paul &#150; the computer geek new on the block) tries to bring back his Girlfriend back to life by inserting his pet Robot's brain into Swanson's brain after she dies by way of her father. Kind of twisted and far fetched, but such are most Sci-Fi's so go with it&#133; At this point the movie changes a bit from being a drama to more of a horror. You kind of feel sorry for Swanson and the situation as a whole being that she's now like a newborn, with a new brain and doesn't understand anything. Meanwhile Paul keeps stuffing her in the closet (so to speak) like an old shirt to conceal her identity. She gets loose though and after a series of murders (the most infamous being the basketball shot to the head, which is good for a rewind or two) the authorities are now on the hunt for her, Paul at this point realizes she's out of control and tries to help. The saddest part is the end when her real brain starts to live again and she starts to regain herself, but it's too late as she's in too deep of trouble.The music for the time was really intriguing as it was a unique synthesizer score and was one of the more memorable things about the movie. Today it might sound a little dated though. It doesn't have the best acting or storyline, but is a decent original horror / sci-fi flick. Would have been a notch or two higher had she lost her shirt at some point in the movie (as that's a horror movie must&#133;) "},{"Title":"Wow &#150; does this suck","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had seen this when I was a pretty undiscriminating kid on TV a couple of times. I remember thinking it was just so-so. Seeing it now, I can't get over how horribly misconceived it is, from its cheesy grabber of an opening, its lame title, and its completely nonsensical surprise ending. The film stars Matthew Laborteaux as a young teen who moves into a new neighborhood with his mom and robot friend and meets the young Kristy Swanson, a pretty girl who lives with her physically abusive father. The opening scenes of this are a mess-mostly it seems as though we are asked to laugh along with the antics of the unbearably cute robot, then he'll do something menacing, and then it's back to more goofball humorous scenes. Then the robot is killed and coincidentally so is Swanson. Matthew puts a microchip from the robot in Swanson's head and voila! she's alive again, but now moving like a robot and in a murderous, vengeful state of mind. The only real reason to see this is the first (and presumably only) decapitation-by-basketball scene in cinema history. I also have to admit to being slightly touched by the (admittedly silly) theme of Swanson regaining her humanity gradually, but this is eventually completely jettisoned for the awesomely ludicrous shock ending. "},{"Title":"Works, in spite of itself","Date":"3 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Talk about a far-fetched plot! Just as a guy is falling in love with the girl next door, her abusive father knocks her down the stairs, causing brain death. The guy has a miracle chip which he inserts into her brain, causing her to regain life. The downside is, she has the mind of the guy's vengeful robot BB,(who was destroyed by an evil neighbor), and she goes on a killing spree, murdering those who were mean to her. This movie just doesn't work as a horror movie, as there are very few genuinely creepy moments. It also tries to be funny, but ends up being lame most of the time. However, for some reason, I was glued to my set the entire time. I think the cast is genuinely endearing and really helps this bizarre picture along. All of the main characters are at least somewhat likable. Even the mom is enjoyable. Kristy Swanson is great as Sam, but her performance as the BB/Sam robot thing was unintentionally funny. Richard Marcus is very Freddy Kruger-ish as Sam's Father. The BB robot looks like it was trying to be a copy of Gizmo from Gremlins thanks to it's annoying speech patterns. Fortunately, he's dispatched pretty early on. Anyway, despite it's many mistakes, Deadly Friend manages to present characters you can root for, a few good death scenes (I think you know which one I'm referring to), and even has a few moments of poignancy. If you watch this one thinking it will be bad, it may be a pleasant surprise. Just don't go into it thinking it's one of Craven's masterpieces, which it most certainly isn't. "},{"Title":"More proof that Wes Craven is an over-rated hack.","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is another horror thriller that simply isn't. Thrilling that is, nor horrific for that matter. A teenage Baron Frankenstein wannabee uses dubious and unconvincing science fiction robotics to resurrect his galpal- next-door but she goes out of control. Wow, an ill-conceived machine runs amok. What a novel idea! Yawn. Well-crafted suspense or a strong moody atmosphere would at least have made this film watchable, but alas Wes craven is no Alfred Hitchcock. There is very little here to like. The performances are stiff, the drama forced, the story predictable and the inevitable violent rampage is dull and non-compelling. There isn't even the dark, moody world of a proper horror movie. Everything in the movie is too bright, shiny and suburban, which could perhaps create an ironic context but it doesn't even manage that much. This is paint-by-numbers movie-making of the worst sort.Avoid. The average episode of Buffy is much more worthy of any viewer's time. "},{"Title":"An blunder from Wes Craven","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wes Craven's major studio follow-up to his influential A Nightmare on Elm Street could be described as a combination of The Bride of Frankenstein, Short Circuit, and an after-school special. It's an intriguing combination of elements, but the end result is a schizoid mess. Craven's direction is surprisingly awkward; it abruptly shifts its tone back and forth between teen-friendly comedy and grisly horror, and lacks the intense, sustained atmosphere of his previous horror hits. Deadly Friend also suffers from a disjointed story line that glosses over characterization and believable plotting in favor of cheap thrills as it degenerates into what is essentially a slasher movie with a technological gimmick. The cast give their roles a decent amount of energy but can't rise above the paper-thin quality of their characterizations. To make matters worse, the film is burdened with a number of nightmare sequences thrown in to capitalize on Craven's success with A Nightmare on Elm Street. These moments show that Craven knows how to craft an effective knee-jerk shock, but they are throwaway bits that further pull the audience out of a story that is already weak and under-motivated. Craven and screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin would soon move on to better things (Craven's next film was the impressive The Serpent and the Rainbow and Rubin went on to write Ghost), but their efforts here are likely to leave even hardcore horror fans cold.  The only thing that makes the film worth wild is the infamous basketball scene. "},{"Title":"One Fricking Horrible Movie","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As I type this, I am watching this movie. My jaw is hanging openin awe at the sheer, amazing AWFULNESS of this movie.This is definitely a so-bad-it's-funny movie. Or a watch itat 3AM when you're completely baked movie. A genius teenagerstarts out by building a yellow robot with an evil brain, whofollows him around everywhere... BEING EVIL.Later, totally believable circumstances force him to implant therobot's brain chip into his dead girlfriend's head. Hilarityensues!Written by-- BRUCE JOEL RUBIN???? I guess everyone has to startsomewhere. Rubin went on to write the outstanding Jacob'sLadder and My Life. It's hard to imagine that he was involvedin any way with this m "},{"Title":"A boy moves in next to a girl . The kid was a nerd and her father pushes her down the stairs . And the boy brings her back . And the girl starts killing .","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was the worst movie i ever seen in my life . I think if anybody wants to see it it is a waste of time. They had bad acting and bad parts. so if you want a good movie i think you should not see this movie. I am so mad that i wasted my money  on that movie  "},{"Title":"Horrible!","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wes Craven should be ashamed of himself,because Deadly Friend is one of the worst pieces of crap I have ever seen.Words can't describe how god-awful this piece of garbage is!The plot is obnoxious and extremely stupid,the acting is bad and there's no suspense at all.I can't also notice hardly any gore here!In the whole film there's only one scene worthy any recommendationthe sequence where an old woman gets her head splattered with a basketball.Avoid this junk like the plague! "}{"Title":"Hillarious!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now I've read all the negative comments here including the girl gets decapitated by basketball thing and I have to say-all of you are missing the point.  Wes Craven has you all fooled!  The only TRULY EXCELLENT horror film that Wes Craven has ever made was THE LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT.  He made this before he was Hollywoodized and turned into a strictly formula director.  I mean come on!  The Hills Have Eyes was a pretty good effort but it then it became formula.  A Nightmare On Elm Street was good but that also became a slasher film.  Deadly Friend really isn't a bad movie but it's just to all over the place and at some points I just got so lost.  I recommend that die hard horror fans give this a look but everyone else should just stay away from this.  And no, to my knowledge no one has and ever can be decapitated by a basketball.  **out of****Wes Craven once commented that every film I've ever made is better than Last House On The Left.  That's pretty sad, because if Wes Craven thinks that films like this are better than that truly excellent and disturbing horror tale then he should retire now.  "},{"Title":"A woman gets beheaded with a basketball","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Look, normally I list when I'm writing a spoiler. But in this case, it couldn't matter less. Go back and read my one-line summary.Either you are the type of person who wants to watch a woman get beheaded by a basketball, or you're not.That's it. That's the only determining factor in this movie. The rest is complete crap. Hell, even that part is complete crap.Cinemax 2 doesn't even have the nads to show this flick anymore, and if you wind up watching it, I encourage you to take up something more productive. Like heroin.PS. This is all based on memory during one night when I was 15 that I came home and couldn't fall asleep. While recently making a short student film, which itself was very bad and which I really wish I wasn't in, I asked ten film school students if anyone had seem this movie. Only one guy admitted it, like it WAS the equivalent of being a heroin addict.Do not watch, unless you like more cheese than a Wisconsin dairy farmer.  "},{"Title":"Slamdunk!!!","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The everyday story of one boy and his robot moving to a new house and making new friends and enemies.But seeing as this is Wes Craven, something sinister is bound to happen. with a basket ball!It's an odd choice of movie for Craven, seeing that he had just made one of the most iconic horror movies of all time two years earlier, but there is still a lot of fun to be had.I had no idea what the main plot device was, I just knew it was a Craven film I had never heard of, so I thought the first act was about a killer robot, and that 'BB' would become more sinister as the film progressed.Then Kristy Swanson, gets thrown down the stairs, and then we are back in full Craven mode, with a little eighties cheese thrown in.The performances are okay, Paul spends the film looking sweaty, Swanson is good, but the Darryl Hannah eye make up thing doesn't look like your decaying. And for some reason, Paul's friend just keeps fainting.The basketball scene is truly amazing, and depending on how you are feeling, you will either laugh or just groan.It's a very hard to find movie, but if you do find it, and love all things eighties, this will suit you.And it's a guarantee this will never be remade.. "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A horror film with heart. A lonely misfit's (Matthew Albert Laborteaux) best friend (Kristy Swanson) dies as the result of her abusive father's ways. So upset over her death he tries a daring experiment by implanting a computer chip in her brain. The experiment works of course, but with deadly consequences, because Swanson comes back to life as a deadly computer intent on killing anybody that hurt her before. Clunky thriller with a lame premise, simply doesn't work even though everybody tries hard. Swanson stands out. Rated R; Graphic Violence and Profanity.  "},{"Title":"Extremely Silly On All Levels","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Deadly Friend (1986)* (out of 4) Whiz kid Paul Conway (Matthew Labyorteaux) and his mother move to a small town. Paul's best friend is a robot named BB that he built by himself. Once in town he becomes friends with neighbor Samantha (Kristy Swanson) who is constantly being abused by her father. After the father accidentally kills the girl, Paul decides to put the brain of the robot into the girl. This brings her back to life but with deadly consequences.DEADLY FRIEND came just after director Wes Craven had struck gold with A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET but no amount of talent can overcome stupidity. The term stupidity is certainly the key word to this movie, which is downright crazy to begin with and it certainly ranks as one of the dumbest horror films of the decade. It's really a strange mix of FRANKENSTEIN, E.T. and a number of science fiction movies from the 1950s but sadly they all mix into a really bad movie that is just too silly to be scary or even entertaining.The biggest problem with the film is without question the screenplay. The whole idea of the robot's brain being put into the girl simply doesn't work and more times than not you're laughing at the entire concept. There's no question that the relationship between Paul and BB is modeled after E.T. but it just doesn't work. It really doesn't work whenever the film attempts for comedy, which usually comes from the supporting friend character. Even worse is the fact that there's not a single scare to be found anywhere in the movie and I'd go even further to say that Craven never even builds up any tension.It also doesn't help that the Paul character isn't very likable and it's clear the screenplay really doesn't know what to do with him. Labyorteaux is okay in the role as is Anne Twomey as the mother. Anne Ramsey plays her typical grumpy character but her performance just really takes away from the story and is rather off-putting. The one bright spot is Swanson who is certainly charming in the early parts as the human and she also is quite believable later on once the robot's brain is in her. It's really too bad she wasn't given something better to work with.DEADLY FRIEND is a pretty awful movie that does feature one terrific gore sequence that at least keeps it from being a total waste. "},{"Title":"A Horrible Horror Movie","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When this movie came out in 1986, I had no car. A friend told me that it was good, therefore I walked through 2 miles of rain, slush, and sleet, to see this movie. All I saw was garbage. The real horror of this movie is having to see it. So I walked through all that muck just to see a woman's head get shattered by a basketball (thrown by a robotic Kristy Swanson).This movie needs MST3K!!!  "},{"Title":"Pure crap","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watched this movie in a theater while I was on vacation driving around the state - just because it was there.The whole audience laughed at the silliness of it, especially the implant-in-the-brain.Somewhere I read that the story was originally called just The Friend, and it got reworked into this bottom of the barrel movie.I guess the exploding head is worth something, but not for me. This is a why did they bother? movie. "},{"Title":"Probably Craven's worst film","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Stupid movie. It's about a teenage genius Paul (Matthew Laborteaux) who falls in love with sweet Sam (Kristy Swanson). He also has a cute lovable robot he invented called BB. No, I'm not kidding. Sam accidentally dies and he steals her body from the hospital (just like real life huh?) and brings her back to life (kind of) by inserting a robot brain in HER brain. No, I'm not kidding. Unfortunately she has this pesky little habit of roaming about and killing people. This all leads to a bewildering and dumb (even for this film) finale that will have you either laughing or rolling your eyes (or both).Sheesh! Wes Craven did THIS??? I knew this was going to be bad when they introduce, right off the bat, an adorable robot called BB. Is this supposed to be a horror film or a Disney film? The plot is, to put it mildly, stupid and it fails completely as a horror film. It isn't scary and the murders are more stupid than horrifying. Would you believe someone is beheaded by a BASKETBALL???? The logic in here is bewildering. Sam is bought back to life--but why does she suddenly have super strength like the Hulk? And why exactly does Paul bring her back to life? For what reason? Those are just the beginning of the glaring lapses in logic here. Aside from everything else this is pretty dull stuff. And wait till you hear the end title music which uses BB in it again and again and AGAIN! To make it worse Laborteaux is a very annoying actor. It's easy to see why he never hit it big. The only good acting is by Swanson (LOVE how she acts like the robot when she comes back to life), Michael Sharrett (very funny playing Tom) and Anne Ramsey having a whale of a time. But this is a boring and stupid film that is best left forgotten. Avoid. "}]