[{"Title":"topnotch","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"89 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies whose virtues and subtleties become more and more apparent with subsequent viewings. The crime story is nothing more than a pretense - a MacGuffin, in Hitchcock's phrase - on which to hang this sensitive and insightful story of the conflict between modernity and the culture of the Amish, which is portrayed here with admiring respect and not a hint of condescension. Harrison Ford's portrayal of John Book is perhaps his finest work on screen so far. In particular, Book's struggle to suppress his rising attraction for Rachel, and his tormented realization that a relationship between them is not possible, is achingly portrayed. Ford's effort is well-matched by Kelly McGillis, whose beauty here is almost breathtaking. The erotic interplay between them, because it is unconsummated, radiates an almost painful tension, and the easily lampooned running through the field scene - because it has been led up to so convincingly - is almost heartbreaking. The character of Eli Lapp, wonderfully played by Jan Rubes, is richly multifaceted. His suspicion of the English outsider and his anger at Rachel's attraction to him, is surmounted by an underlying humanity. His parting words to Book, You be careful out there among them English, are moving testimony to his acceptance of him. His stern yet loving dialogue to his grandson about renouncing hatred and violence is a treasured moment. Both direction and cinematography are splendid. The simplicity of Amish interiors is shot in a way that makes its austerity almost beautiful, and the barnraising scene is an exercise in cinematic lyricism.It would be easy to fault the movie for the facile scene in which the punks taunting of Book's newfound friends and protectors drives him over the edge (Eli It's not our way, Book / Book No, but it's MY way.), but his gift to the young thug of a bloody nose is mighty satisfying to behold.My one criticism is with the music; certainly not with the venerable Maurice Jarre's score itself, but with its paltry synthesized realization. They should have found the money to spring for a full orchestra.In short, a highly satisfying, richly themed, and multifaceted film which is well worth watching. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Crime Moves Ever","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"71 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" You want to know how to make a successful movie? Just look here. You have tremendous suspense, a top-flight popular actor as the hero, a touching romance story, plenty of action, a different kind of setting than normal, people you care about, nice photography, very moral and very immoral people, a little humor.....I mean, this is how it's done.I also appreciated seeing Amish people (of which I am not) portrayed in a better light than secular Hollywood usually puts them. I also liked the wholesome female lead Kelly McGillis (although she was the only Amish character out of character, a bit loose than what you would ever find) and who didn't think young Lukas Haas was the cutest kid they ever saw on film?Harrison Ford gives a typical solid performance as John Book, a Philadelphia detective who winds up protecting the young boy (Samuel Lapp), his mom (McGillis as Rachel Lapp) and others against crooked cops (Hollywood's favorite kind). Along the way, he is near-fatally shot and winds up being cared for and living in the Amish community in which the Lapps reside. During that time, we also have the blossoming romance between the two leads and then a dramatic shootout at the end when the cops find out where Book is staying.There are many memorable scenes in this movie, from the boy hiding in the bathroom stall as a murder takes place; Ford slugging some goon who was making fun of the Amish; Ford and McGillis dancing in the hayloft to an old rock 'n roll tune; the Amish lifestyles and the raising of the barn; and the suspenseful ending. This is a great stuff one of the best crime stories of the modern age and one of the few R-rated films that reached this high a popularity. "},{"Title":"You be careful out among the English.","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"53 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It all starts off when a beautiful Amish widow takes her little son Samuel from their home in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania to visit her sister in Baltimore and try to get over her grief...While passing through Philadelphia, and on entering alone a men's restroom in a train station, Samuel glances up to see two men advancing with unmistakable menace toward a young man... He caught sight of the face of one of the two attackers who killed him...As the plot becomes more intricate, and through a series of interesting events, detective John Book finds himself forced to protect the shy eight-year-old boy and his helpless mother... He disappears for some days in the Amish Country... Harrison Ford stars as a fugitive cop who is initially unwelcome in a community he knows a little about... He tries to learn the importance of family and community, the philosophy of brotherhood and non-resistance... He becomes involved in a case that will essentially change his human perceptions... And later, he finds himself falling in love with a sensitive young woman...Kelly McGillis is captivating as Rachel, a woman who feels a shadow of confusion crossing her mind... She stares at the honest cop, realizing the price he's paid in returning them to safety... In one scene she catches him watching her bath... She hesitates for a moment, but in that precise moment she makes a choice... Slowly she turns to face him, topless, without shame... For a moment she attempts a tender effort to become, for an instant, a woman of his world...In another scene we see her playing the charade of her life... Bound by duty, but tempted by desire, she leaves her white cap - symbol of her identity - on the table, and surrenders to a passion, that makes her sensual nature say it all... Lukas Haas is very fine as the cute kid in the black coat and hat... He slowly raises his hand to point at the black and white photograph... This nice boy remains untouched by the violence interposed into his peaceful world...Jan Rubes is believable as Rachel's father-in-law Eli... He is torn by conflicts between faith, discipline, dedication and humility... He tries his best to protect what's left of his family from the pressures of the outside world... It's pretty clear he doesn't like this Englishman wearing the clothes of his faith... For him his daughter-in-law has brought fear to his house... and now she is dancing to English music!Alexander Godunov brings a solid performance to the role of Daniel, Rachel's discarded suitor... It's no surprise that he wants the disappearance of the policeman... Book's tempting presence will only weak his chance with Rachel... In one remarkable scene and on a road running parallel to the train track, he urges his horse almost to the gallop as he attempts to keep pace with the train...It is quite interesting to see Danny Glover as a crooked cop, who's corrupt and evil... But the heart of the movie is a study of the Pennsylvania Amish through the eyes of an outsider suddenly introduced into their life... Peter Weir tries to paint a realistic portrait of the Amish who are best known for their severely 'plain clothing' and their 'non-conformed' way of life... The Amish also avoid telephones and electric lights and drive horses and buggies rather than cars... Weir delivers a powerful and romantic story, an engaging film of different style, mixing two different cultures, the simplicity of the Amish lifestyle with the urban culture and fashion... The music and cinematography work beautifully to impart all the emotions of the characters...'Witness' (won Academy Awards for Best Film Editing and Original Screenplay. Nominations for Best Actor (Ford), Art Direction, Cinematography, Director, Score and Best Picture..) is quiet provoking.. thrilling and entertaining.. I highly recommend it..If you look carefully, you'll spot Viggo Mortensen in his screen debut.. as Moses Hochleitner, Daniel's little brother... "},{"Title":"not so flawed...","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"62 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An earlier comment on the site suggests that the film is flawed because the Amish boy, coming from a secure, peaceful environment, would not be able to witness a scene of brutality without becoming utterly traumatised.Far from being a flaw, I believe this is a key statement of the theme of the film - that the close, peaceful and loving upbringing he has enjoyed provide the boy with an emotional strength and resilience that allows him to recognise evil and reject it.  Later that same environment will provide the embittered and emotionally scarred with a temporary oasis where he can in part recover from the loveless violence of his own life.Contrast the failure of community in the vast and soulless terminal building, where the first scene is set, where every one is isolated by the indifference and aggression of their fellow travellers, with the co-operative endeavour of the justly famous barn raising scene, where even the outsider is welcomed and included in an act of joint creation. "},{"Title":"Though it obeys some of the Hollywood formulas, Witness proves to be one of the most entertaining, exciting thrillers of all time!","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"45 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just recently watched this movie in my Development of Film class.  We're studying the Social Drama.  Last week we watched Fury with Spencer Tracy, so this week we watched a contemporary film in the genre.  I have to give it up for Peter Weir!  He did a spectacular job!The premise is intriguing.  A young Amish boy goes to the bathroom in a train station and witnesses a bloody murder.  Enter Philadelphia cop John Book (Harrison Ford).  Now, we had several discussions about this film and I started to realize some flaws that didn't exactly come clear in my mind at the time.  First of all, a little innocent Amish boy isn't going to witness something that grisly and recover that well.  Living in an Amish environment, he probably doesn't even know the definition of the word violence.  So the boy wouldn't be able to return to his native environment and go on with his life like usual.  He'd keep having nightmares and flashbacks.  He'd be traumatized 'til the day he dies!  However, I have to note Lukas Haas delivered a terrific performance.  I'm not sure how much appraise he got for this moderately thankless role.  For a boy of his age to take on a role like that, I have to commend him.  Lukas, in recent years, has concentrated on more independent works like Boys with Wynona Ryder and the underrated johns with David Arquette, in which he plays a gay prostitute.  He's still a fine actor, and I'm impressed to see his advancement to more grown-up roles, but many probably forgot about him. So I think he should be remembered for that little role, even to this day. But typical Hollywood, Harrison Ford agrees to do a film--he's the star!  And the whole subplot with the little boy gets pushed aside.  Now, Harrison was terrific in this movie--probably why I wasn't bothered too much about him being the center of attention--and I think he's a very underrated actor (sure he's widely known, but recognize him more as a macho action hero than an actor), but I think if Weir decided to expand that subplot it would've made a more interesting film.Kelly McGillis is convincing as the boy's Amish mother, who gets swept away by Book.  Even as an Amish woman, I think she looked beautiful.  I haven't exactly been traveling around Amish country, but I don't know how often you would find an Amish woman that beautiful.  Plus, that scene where she's sponge-bathing topless--Wow!  That brings me to another point.  I like how Weir never actually decided to put a sex scene to demonstrate the relationship between her and Book.  In the aforementioned sponge-bathing scene, there's a long period where they just stare at each other and there's absolutely no dialogue!  I found that very impressive.  It's a very erotic scene, without them actually having to jump into bed together.  That's something you rarely see in the movies.  The sexual tension between the two characters is simply impressed by their mannerisms.  Danny Glover is convincingly frightening as the villain.  Also look for an early performance by Viggo Mortensen.  He doesn't have many--in fact, I don't if he has any--speaking parts, but he's in quite a few scenes.There's a lot of good fish-out-of-water comedy when the city-born Book tries to learn the ways of the Amish.  I was cracking up when Harrison puts on the Amish garb, with the bottom of his pants above his ankles.  That's a picture worth a thousand words.  Weir is fascinated by clashes in cultures, and it's highly evident in many scenes from this movie.  Those scenes provide some good comic relief.  This may be considered typical Hollywood, but I loved the scene where Harrison Ford gets out of the chariot (now as one of the Amish) to beat the crap out of one of the thugs who was giving them trouble. That was an awesome scene!  Weir also captures some beautiful, sometimes breathtaking, shots of the scenery.  The music is great too, especially in the barn-raising scene.  The ending is well-done, and I liked how it wasn't one of those walk-into-the-sunset conclusions.  I don't want to give anything away, but that was one of the non-typical Hollywood elements of the film.Despite its now-discovered flaws, I still love this movie and wouldn't mind watching it on many repeat viewings.  It's just a fascinating, wonderfully made piece of cinema that will hold its place in the history of celluloid. I urge you to witness this triumphant work!My score  9 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"'Witness' is a remarkably intelligent movie!","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"40 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Won Oscars for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, and Best Editing. Nominated for five more Oscars including Best Picture, Best Actor, Harrison Ford, and Best Director Peter Weir. Weir Directed the 'The Year of Living Dangerously', and 'The Truman Show'. After seeing it maybe 10 times, I find it is one of those infrequent stories that still draws my attention. This places it in the company of pictures like 'The Godfather', and some others which stand the test of repeat viewings over time. Kelly McGillis is the film's intelligent and talented secret weapon. Her performance makes me wonder where she is these days. She is an Amish widow from a rural Amish community. On a trip to the city her little boy witnesses a murder in the restroom of a train station. Police investigator Harrison Ford finds himself targeted along with the boy by corrupt cops in his unit that did the murder. He is hurt in a shootout and hides with the Amish. He wears Amish clothes, and labors with the men of the community as he rebuilds his strength. An attraction naturally develops between the McGillis and Ford charactors. The chemistry is remarkably intelligent, and authentically portrayed. Their worlds are seperated by a cultural gulf. They are drawn by each other, and respect one another. The contrasts are drawn clearly between the quaint honesty and almost dreamlike serenity of the Amish, and the horrible violence intruding upon them from the outside world. The resolution of the story should not be given away to someone who has not seen the movie. This film is a different kind of thriller in more ways than one. It's makers kept it intelligent, instead of resorting to another pyrotechnic joyride. -Robert Hartman- "},{"Title":"Regarding the accents...","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"49 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I would like to clear up a couple of comments made by movieguy1021, who wroteOne thing I didn't understand is how come everyone seemed to use such strong accents yet they've been living in America for a long time.Most Amish communities mainly speak Pennsylvania Dutch, which is a dialect of German, hence the accents in the film. Amish children learn English in school.AndAlso, although I may not be the end-all, be-all of Amish knowledge, it seems like for people so strict in their rules, they broke them easily. They didn't seem to object to riding in trains or cars, or even using technology.The Amish accept some forms of modernisation as long as it is not deemed disruptive to their social structure. Some forms of primitive technology are accepted in their community, such as devices that assist with milking cows. Likewise they accept rides in cars, but members of the community cannot own them. "},{"Title":"Deep and wonderful","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"43 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This beautiful love story contrasts corruption with goodness.Harrison Ford underplays his role so well it is scandalous &#150; his Hollywood buddies must have laughed their arses off at him taking this role&#133; what some cop living with Amish? Sounds lame right, until all the Oscar nom's start pouring in &#133; But he is nothing short of brilliant as Detective John Book. I love the scene when he gets that old car-radio working, that old heap of junk in a barn that opens up his love with Rachel, and she dances and sings for the first time in her life.It is beautifully written, the screenplay is flawless, the editing is flawless. The pacing is flawless but won't appeal to those who want car-chases and guns going off all over the place, and a beer and a hot-dog for dinner ... uh you know who I mean &#133;This film gives a gentle insight into the simple sweetness of Amish life. Us sophisticates with our frequent-flyers and cell phones and iPods and laptops and instant everything &#133; we all may be missing something they already found&#133; A wonderfully inspirational and deeply satisfying film. "},{"Title":"Great story, great filmmaking","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Witness' is about a guy who is a total product of the big city - he's a tough cop, he relies on cars, phones, and guns - who hides at an Amish farm to prevent a boy (the witness) and himself from being found by the killers.The film is less about Harrison Ford learning to live among the Amish as it is the Amish learning to live with Ford. He is a man who at first glance has no matching ideals. The film is fantastic on that level, especially thanks to Peter Weir's direction, who brilliantly shows Ford gradually becoming accepted by the Amish men.There is very little dialogue among the characters, and Rachel (McGillis) talks even less, not because she doesn't have anything to say, but because Amish rules of life don't seem to allow her to. They are presented as a quiet people, so McGillis has the difficult task of making Rachel speak without dialogue, and she does it well, which carries over to Ford (he got an Oscar nomination, she didn't).It's only at the climax of the film, when the action takes over that the film begins to weaken. The filmmakers seem to have some kind of answer to how the killer's storyline should be resolved, but it's not very good.Despite the flaw, the film is excellent based on the performances of the cast, the editor who had to put all the dialogue-less scenes together (and later, won the Oscar for it), and Weir's masterful handling of the story.  "},{"Title":"As good as film-making gets","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen hundreds, maybe thousands, of films, and when asked which is my favorite my decision keeps coming back to Witness, Australian director Peter Weir's masterpiece. Fabulously acted, beautifully photographed . . . it's just perfect. Outside of the well-known stars (Harrison Ford, Kelly McGillis, Danny Glover) look for brilliant work from Josef Sommers and an amazingly understated performance by the late Alexander Godunov. "}{"Title":"Witness This Film!","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford is one of those actors that often times just shows up and then there lies his character. This is the Harrison Ford school of acting. Not the case in Witness. I won't begin to wonder what would have caused this change of pace, but it was quite a surprise to see. Peter Weir is a favorite director of mine, mainly for his life changing films (for the viewer and the characters alike), like Picnic at Hanging Rock and Fearless ... and I have sadly waited a very long time to get around to this one. Even 17 years after its initial release, it seems to still stand up with themes that truly speak. I expected some sort of a courtroom drama, but instead found a film that presents a dichotomy between old world and new world values and sensibilities and really asks whether change is always for the best. This is a profound and exciting thriller. "},{"Title":"We want nothing to do with your laws","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I daresay that I would have enjoyed 'Witness (1985)' even more had it remained a conventional mystery thriller. This, perhaps, reflects rather negatively on my film-buff credentials, but the film's opening act mounted the tension so brilliantly that it was a pity to see that suspense slowly dissipate into the background. Such an appeal, however, seems quite groundless where director Peter Weir is concerned; given my previous experience with his work, both in Australian cinema (the classic war picture, 'Gallipoli (1981)') and following his move to Hollywood (the uplifting 'Dead Poet's Society (1989)'), Weir has always favoured emotion and human interaction over the raw thrill of adrenalin-charged action. Even as it stands, 'Witness' deserves to be celebrated for its strong performances, sensitive screenplay and thoughtful exploration of the contrast between the pacifism of the Amish people and the violence and corruption of 1980s mainstream America. The film was Weir's first in Hollywood, after achieving great success with the Australian productions 'Gallipoli' and 'The Year of Living Dangerously (1982).'Following the death of her husband, a grieving Amish woman, Rachel Lapp (Kelly McGillis), takes her young son Samuel (Lukas Haas) into the city. It is Samuel's first major venture into the lifestyle shunned by his people, and he is initially awed and excited by all the fresh sights and sounds presented to him. But it doesn't take long for the reality of modern society, corrupted and poisoned by the stench of greed and violence, to rear it's ugly head &#150; in the bathroom of a railway station, Samuel witnesses the brutal murder of a city detective, and only he can identify the men responsible. A weary cop, Det. Capt. John Book (Harrison Ford), employs the young boy's help in solving the case, and, when Samuel positively identifies a respected narcotics detective from his own department, Book begins to understand that they've stumbled into something far deeper than anybody could ever have anticipated. Now with a price on his head, Book falls into hiding with the reluctant Amish community, and both parties come to learn a thing or two about the conflicting values of their respective worlds.Harrison Ford has rarely given a better performance. He's not an actor whom one would typically associate with having a lot of emotional range, but John Book is an intriguingly-subtle character. Note, most particularly, the scene in which Book and Rachel dance in the barn to Sam Cooke's Wonderful World &#150; throughout the entire sequence, Book is continually pausing, contemplating the physical contact that is seemingly obligatory in cinematic moments such as these, and consistently deciding against it. Kelly McGillis is remarkably beautiful as the emotionally-conflicted widow, all the more because her character actively attempts to repress any lingering streaks of eroticism (and also thanks to her Amish attire, which fortunately denied her one of those horrifically-dated 1980s hairstyles &#150; see 'Top Gun (1987)'). A crucial benefit of the film's sobering middle act, supplemented by the soft, graceful cinematography of John Seale, is that the audience gradually loses his desensitisation towards violence on film, and so the story's brutal climax is a completely jarring shock to the nerves. "},{"Title":"Ford goes Amish","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Witness' was Harrison Ford's first starring mainstream hit drama, after the Star Wars trilogy, two Indiana Jones flicks, and of course 'Blade Runner.' It showed he could carry a conventional story, in this case a cop thriller in an unusual setting, outside the sci-fi/action genres and launched a movie career that by some accounts is the most successful ever. Samuel Lapp (Lucas Haas), a young Amish boy, is on a rare trip to the big city (Philadelphia) with his mother Rachel (Kelly McGillis). There he is the sole witness to a brutal murder and both he and Rachel are detained by police officer John Book (Ford) for questioning. This leads Book to uncover massive corruption in the police department and he himself is almost killed for discovering it, which leads the three of them back to the Amish community where Book hides out while recovering from his gunshot wound and trying to figure out what to do next. Beyond the inspired novelty of having a crime thriller largely set among the Pennsylvania Amish, 'Witness' is memorable for several noteworthy performances. Lucas Haas, like Heather O'Rourke in 'Poltergeist', is one of those child actors who is almost too endearing for words, not only angel-faced but a natural and believable performer. As Rachel, Kelly McGillis has one of her best roles and gives it a multi-layered interpretation. One can sense just below the surface a resentment in her at her lot in life as an Amish woman. Rachel dutifully goes through the motions required by her position but it is obvious she is forever wondering what it would be like to live in the outside world. Or, in Book's case, to bring him in to live in hers. And Harrison Ford gives another of those performances where you wonder where the actor ends and the character begins. Book and Rachel build up a subtle rapport, where thoughts and feelings are simply understood rather than openly expressed. They even manage a low-key teasing kind of back-and-forth, not easy when they are under the constant scrutiny of the town elders and in fact, just about all of the other Amish. 'Witness' provides a glimpse into Amish society that seems genuine and well-detailed. They are portrayed as industrious, self-sacrificing, extreme pacifists who live apart from the outside world, the world of the 'English,' as they call everyone else, regardless of background. Along with these admirable qualities, it is also suggested that they can be small-minded, gossipy, and somewhat smug and defensive about their beliefs and way of life. When one considers the cloistered, confined life they lead, this shouldn't be surprising; one might compare the Amish village to any small American town where everyone knows everyone else and people are forever talking behind each other's back. An interesting subplot in all this is how the Amish's pacifism comes into play when faced with violence. It is obviously a deeply-held belief that some will find admirable and others unfathomable. At one point, Samuel's grandfather attempts to explain to him why they feel the way they do, using Book's gun as a reference, since it epitomizes the evil of taking another's life. The grandfather asks Samuel if he would kill anyone, and the boy responds, I would only kill the bad man. Then the old man asks how Samuel can know who is bad and who isn't. The boy responds, I can see what they do. I have seen it. So the question that hangs in the air is, does Samuel become corrupted from what he's seen, or has he simply been exposed to the real world and become better able to deal with it, even at his young age? It is a question that 'Witness' doesn't attempt to resolve, and in this case, the ambiguity adds depth to a very thoughtful and satisfying movie. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the eighties and one of the best police thrillers of all time","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If a poll were to be taken on who is the greatest living film director, a strong contender for my vote would be Peter Weir. (Other contenders would be Woody Allen and Martin Scorsese). He is able to produce both brilliantly original films quite different to anything else and also brilliant work within the confines of an established genre, an ability he shares with Scorsese and the late Stanley Kubrick. (As for Allen, he has turned the Woody Allen Film into a genre in its own right). Weir's Picnic at Hanging Rock and The Truman Show are both, in their different ways, strange and haunting films, different to anything before or since, and two of my favourite films of all time. On the other hand, Dead Poets' Society, another of my favourite films, falls within the conventions of the inspirational teacher film, but is in my view the greatest example of that genre ever made. (Only The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie comes anywhere near it).Witness, his first film made outside Australia, is another example of Weir simultaneously working within an established genre and transcending it. On one level it is a traditional police thriller. While travelling with his mother a young boy named Samuel Lapp witnesses a murder in the washrooms at Philadelphia railway station. It turns out that the murdered man was an undercover police officer, and a homicide detective, John Book, is assigned to the case. Book's investigations lead him to the discovery that the murder was carried out by a narcotics officer named McFee, one of a group of corrupt officers in league with a gang of drug smugglers. Book is forced to go underground for safety, taking Samuel and his mother Rachel with him.On another level the film is a love story, as a romance develops between Book and Rachel, a beautiful young widow. Neither the crime story nor the romance element, however, would by themselves make this film anything out of the ordinary. What makes the film different is the third level, a study of cultural differences. Samuel and Rachel are members of the Amish religious sect, and it is among the Amish that they and Book take refuge while hiding from the villains.It would be easy to see the Amish, as portrayed in this film, as being quaint, even comically reactionary. They speak an archaic German dialect inaccurately known as Pennsylvania Dutch (although some of the lines in the film are in standard modern German). They follow a strict set of rules known as the Ordnung which govern every aspect of their daily lives. They may not own a television or a telephone and may not use electricity in the home. They drive horse-drawn buggies as it is forbidden to own or drive a motor vehicle. They have a strict dress code and are even forbidden to use buttons, regarded as a sign of Hochmut, or pride. Those who violate these rules can be punished by shunning. The Amish habitually refer to all non-Amish Americans, regardless of ethnic background, as the English. (News of the Declaration of Independence clearly has not yet filtered through to them).Yet, eccentric though they may seem to outsiders, Weir shows us that the Amish way of life has many virtues. They have a deep faith in God and believe in the importance of submission to His will. They have a strong sense of community. They are pacifists who are opposed to any violence or the taking of a human life; this article of their creed brings them into conflict with Book, who is required to carry a gun as part of his job and who is ready to use it, or his first, in self-defence or the defence of others. Because of the gulf between their value-systems, the love of Book and Rachel is potentially tragic; they can only be together if she is prepared to leave her world, or if he is prepared to enter it.Surprisingly, this was the film that brought Harrison Ford his only Oscar nomination to date. I say surprisingly, as he has given many other fine performances in films such as Blade Runner, The Fugitive and K-19. Witness, however, remains one of his best films; his Book is tough and uncompromising but decent, and capable of tenderness in the love scenes. Kelly McGillis, in her first major role, is luminously beautiful as Rachel; she was to give another great performance three years later in The Accused, and I have always been surprised that her subsequent career has not been quite as successful. None of her films since 1988 have aroused as much interest as Witness or The Accused, and she has not remained a household name in the same way as some of her contemporaries such as Kim Basinger, Michelle Pfeiffer or Jodie Foster.Despite the film's deeper levels of meaning, Weir does not neglect the thriller elements; there are some great Hitchcockian set pieces such as the scene where Samuel is hiding in the lavatories from the killer, or the final scene where Book confronts the villains who have invaded the Amish community in their search for him. In the scenes seen from Samuel's viewpoint, Weir uses low-angle shots to emphasise the boy's youth and vulnerability. The film, however, also has echoes of other genres, particularly the Western. The final scene has been compared to the climax of High Noon in which Gary Cooper also takes out his enemies one by one. (A similar climax was used in another Western, Clint Eastwood's Pale Rider, also made in 1985). The spectacular barn-raising sequence, accompanied by Maurice Jarre's memorable score, also recalls the Western. With its intelligent script, fine acting and fine direction, Witness can be regarded as one of the best films of the eighties and one of the best police thrillers of all time. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Hollywood Wins, the Amish Lose","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw Witness in 1985 in a small town in Oregon. At the time I was enamored of director Peter Weir's work, The Last Wave, Gallipoli, The Year of Living Dangerously. Of late, I'm being drawn more and more into independent filmmaking, and I thought Witness might be a good one to screen again, because as I remember it, it had minimal locations, most of them in a rural Amish community. The setup is bloody brilliant &#x96; a 10-year-old Amish boy witnesses a grizzly murder in a train station bathroom. But the plot begins to unravel immediately when Detective John Book (Harrison Ford) wheels and deals with witness rights and protection &#x96; forcing Amish mother Rachel (Kelly McGillis) and her son Samuel (Lucas Haas) to ride to a bar to identify a potential suspect. He leaves them alone in the police car in a ghetto while he goes inside to roughhouse his pick of the week for a fall guy! Book's investigation continues in like manner for the first act of the film, demolishing any suspension of disbelief. That, and inexplicably bad acting on the part of the bad cop cast, invite comparison to a TV cop show at its worst, talented actors notwithstanding.There was however, an exceptional reveal in Act I Samuel's identification of the murderer is brilliantly staged. Unfortunately, the bad cop setup telegraphs a violent finale, completely wrecking the film's premise &#x96; how do you protect the innocent and vulnerable in a community that embraces nonviolence? This is an extremely exciting, groundbreaking idea. To place an Amish kid as the key witness of a grizzly murder &#x96; these are ingredients for a powerful, game changing film. How are the members of the Amish community going to handle the introduction of guns, a law enforcement system dependent on violence, men who are conditioned to find a violent solution &#x96; how will the Amish disarm this invasion without violating its sacred mission? 99% of the general population are dependent upon and conditioned to violence as a solution to violent crime. This story has seeds of extraordinary promise to explore another paradigm. Alas, the Hollywood machine really made a mess of this one. Book is healed of a gunshot wound by means of Amish medicinal practice; he gives up his gun and ammo to his Amish hostess; he pitches in to help with a communal barn-raising in a scene that is a small miracle, showing the capacity of a community to accomplish substantial things in just one day. Book recognizes the possibility of mutual physical bonding with Rachel, his own sexual needs, as well as hers. He turns away from the temptation to violate the Amish code. At this point it is a heroic action. However, this plot point unravels when they do consummate at a later time.Having shown Book as a man of roughshod integrity, one would hope he has enough chutzpah to honor his hosts. He has the opportunity to prepare himself in a soul-searching manner for the inevitable show down. How do you serve and protect in the Amish way?When the police department goons show up determined to exterminate the witness and his family, the film descends into the same old same old (sic) showdown at the OK Corral. Hollywood loves this stuff, and, based on box office receipts, so do audiences. To be fair, Book does choose one ingenious tactic when he improvises the use of corn in a silo as a defensive weapon. There is a very real temptation to argue (and Hollywood did and won) that the lone town marshal pitted against 3 heavily armed outlaws-made-more-outlawish-by-being-lawmen requires a shoot 'em up conclusion. That works for Tombstone in 1881, but is it necessary in this Amish community of 1985? Does not their faith have more power than the gun?The issue of guns and violence was volatile in '85, and has grown increasingly contentious and dangerous in 2014. This film missed the opportunity to explore authentically the interaction of two distinct American cultures in the Heartland. It is heartbreaking to consider the horrific consequences suffered by the dominant culture's near complete lack of will to examine or act on gun control. That Mr. Weir agreed to direct this mishmash without challenging our 2nd Amendment preconceptions is, in my opinion, tragic. Of course it will take a great deal more than a single film to bring change of this caliber in our American life. Had Mr. Weir and Mr. Harrison brought their considerable talents to bear on the subject, the conversation and the legislation today might be a good deal more reasonable and civilized. "},{"Title":"You be careful out among the English.","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" After her husband's premature death, a young Amish woman, Rachel Lapp (Kelley McGillis), takes her son Samuel (Lukas Haas) on a train trip to Baltimore. While in the men's washroom at the Philadelphia station, young Samuel witnesses a brutal murder. By his own wits he saves himself from the scary murderer McFee (Danny Glover). Detective John Book (Harrison Ford), summoned to the murder scene, perceives that the dead man is an undercover cop. He questions Rachel and Samuel. From a photograph, Samuel fingers McFee, among others a corrupt cop. McFee had stolen large quantities of a chemical substance used in the manufacture of methamphetamine. The bad guys try to set up Book for a hit, but fail (although he is wounded by McFee). Now searched by the bad guys, Book goes into hiding in Pennsylvania German (Amish) country (Lancaster County, PA) to blend in with the religious sect.The middle part of the movie, and by far the greater segment overall, is the focus on the Amish community. This section is almost a documentary. We learn that the Amish shun the new ways, and live much as they did in the eighteenth century. Unlike the nearby Mennonites, the Amish reject automobiles, electricity, and telephones. Gas lamps are used. The Amish ride in traditional horse and buggy units while heavy traffic passes them by (when they can). They wear plain clothes and use hooks and eyes, rather than buttons or zippers, which they consider proud and vain. There is a nice barn-raising scene, where the Amish people together erect a barn within one day for a newly married couple. We see how the tourists think about the Amish, and Book's reaction to human pests. There is the obvious clash between the modern (Book-urban) and the olden (Rachel-rural) ways. Nevertheless, as Book outwardly becomes part of the Amish community, Rachel and he begin to draw closer. The sponge bath scene is probably the most notable one in the movie. If John and Rachel decide to come together, one of them will have to give up his/her ways, for there is no middle ground. What will happen? Meanwhile three bad cops, including corrupt Chief Schaeffer (played by Josef Sommer) and McFee, track down their quarry and arrive in Amish country to do in Book. So the final scenario is the shootout between the good and the bad. What will the peaceful Amish people do? Perhaps not what you may expect! The acting is very good all-around. Harrison Ford may have given us his best performance here as a decent cop (who does not overact), although others may opt with justification for The Fugitive or the Indiana Jones series. Kelley McGillis makes a fine and dedicated Amish lady. Jan Rubes plays moral kingpin Eli Lapp, while Danny Glover is indeed chilling as a bad cop. The subtleties / expressions of the actors work so well. For instance, Lukas Haas's bewildered face when he spots McFee's photo in the police station speaks volumes. Of course, the looks of Mc Gillis and Ford during the famous sponge bath scene do not require a word of dialog. See this movie more than once. "},{"Title":"Murder, Corruption & Doomed Love","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness is a subtle, thoughtful and intelligently directed film which is both a crime thriller and an extraordinary love story. A police investigation into a brutal murder provides this drama with its momentum and drive and a tragic romantic tale adds the intensity, warmth and poignancy that elevates this movie to a higher level than that normally achieved by more routine thrillers. The story about two people from different backgrounds who fall in love, but know that their love can't transcend their circumstances, has a timeless and universal appeal which explains why this movie has retained its popularity so consistently since it was first released in 1985.When a recently widowed young Amish woman and her son are in a train station in Philadelphia, the 8-year-old boy witnesses the murder of an undercover cop. Detective Captain John Book (Harrison Ford) is put in charge of the investigation and questions Samuel Lapp (Lukas Haas), but even after showing him mug shots and arranging line-ups of suspects, the boy isn't able to finger the culprit. A little while later, however, Samuel is looking around the police office when he notices the killer's picture on a newspaper clipping that's pinned up inside a glass cabinet. When he brings this to Book's attention, it's quite a shock because the man in the photograph is the highly decorated Detective Lieutenant McFee (Danny Glover) of the Narcotics Division.Detective Book tells his superior officer Detective Chief Schaeffer (Josef Sommer) about this development and Schaeffer asks him to keep the information confidential. Shortly after, when he's shot at and injured by McFee, it becomes obvious to Book that McFee and Schaeffer are both corrupt and Samuel and his mother Rachel (Kelly McGillis) are in mortal danger. In order to protect them, Book drives them back to their Amish community but after his arrival there, he collapses and has to remain with the Amish where Rachel gradually nurses him back to health.During Book's period of recuperation, he and Rachel fall in love but he soon realises that neither of them could survive indefinitely in the other's world. Book adapts well to living with the Amish and earns their respect as he readily helps with milking cows and building a barn, but his presence in their community places them in danger, as becomes all too clear when the story reaches its action-packed conclusion.Non-verbal communication is used frequently in this movie and provides the action with an extremely natural feel. A couple of the stand-out sequences are those in which Samuel looks at Book in a way that immediately signifies that he's seen something important (when he sees McFee's photograph) and another is when Book and Rachel dance together in a barn to Sam Cooke's What A Wonderful World. The power to convey their thoughts and feelings so clearly in this way is very touching at times and also testifies strongly to the quality of the acting.The differences between the worlds that Book and Rachel inhabit couldn't be greater as the Amish reside in rural surroundings and live a quiet, non-violent existence in which it's normal for everyone to help everyone else. These people embrace old fashioned values and don't use modern conveniences such as cars and refrigerators etc. By contrast, Book's existence as a city cop is far less serene and regularly brings him into contact with violence, corruption and various other forms of errant human behaviour.Witness, with its interesting characters, its absorbing story of murder, corruption and doomed love and its marvellous acting performances, is tremendously enjoyable to watch and leaves a lasting impression. "},{"Title":"An unusual culture clash","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a standard cliché in many action movies, in which a protagonist, having stoically endured the abuse of a bully or bullies, finally reaches his boiling point, lashes out, and gives the antagonist his comeuppance, usually to the delight of the audience. In one of the many special moments in Witness, such a confrontation between a hero and a villain ultimately does not deliver the expected emotional pay-off; surprisingly, the hero's violence calls his character into question, and the villain gains our sympathy. I mention this scene because it best reveals the true character of the movie Witness, which is not so much a police drama, but a film about one man's introspection.Witness is set, for the most part, in Amish Country in Pennsylvania. The opening scenes show simple farm houses, jigsaw-puzzle scenes of farmhouses and livestock, and plain, horse-drawn buggies -- buggies, however, equipped with red reflectors, the first sign that this movie is not set in the eighteenth century. Indeed, one buggy is able to clog a highway full of eighteen wheelers and station wagons full of tourists. The movie commences in the home of the Lapps -- Rachel, her son Samuel and his grandfather Eli. A family tragedy cause Rachel and Samuel to set out for Maryland, changing trains in Philadelphia. While they are in the station, Samuel accidentally witnesses a terrible crime, and he becomes the focal point of the Philly police, including John Book. The family is taken to a bar in a bad part of town while Book checks out a lead, and Samuel has to leaf through dozens of mug shots. The tension increases dramatically when he identifies the suspect, and Book realizes that the boy's life is in danger. It becomes necessary to hide the boy and his mother; luckily, this is rather easily accomplished in their community, where phones are rare and last names are shared by hundreds of the neighbors. Book is also forced to remain with Sarah and Samuel, and become invisible among the Amish. His time among them causes him to re-examine the rules he has lived by.There is a crime subplot in Witness, but it is mostly a device to set up the real story in the movie -- what happens when a large city policeman, skilled in fighting and firearms, is compelled to live among people who have forsworn killing and violence to please God according to their faith. Living among the Amish, Book is transformed for the better, as he remembers his simpler skills and values. Harrison Ford's performance is nuanced note-perfect; an ordinary, uninteresting policeman changes into an extraordinary, gentle neighbor. Yet his big-city edge is never erased, and ultimately he must confront whether to stay in the new world he has discovered or return to the world he knows.Witness is beautifully photographed (one gets an idea where we get the phrase amber waves of grain) and Maurice Jarre's soundtrack reflects the simplicity of the characters and the setting. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"The best of all time","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my oppinion this is the best movie ever made.  You can have your Gone With The Wind and any others.  This film has everything, from violence to tender romance.  The one scene that I clearly remember is when young Samuel is in the police station with John Book.  Samual sees the photo of the murderer McFee.  Their is no talking just facial expressions by Samual and Book.  A great scene in a great movies. "},{"Title":"When two worlds collide","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" &#x84;Witness works on 3 levels &#x96; as a thriller , drama and romance. The thriller elements of the movie appear at the beginning and the ending of the movie, while the middle of the film is basically a drama with a love story in it. It's an interesting combination and while it might not work for those who like pure thrillers or dramas it certainly worked for me. One has to remember that Witness is first a electrifying and poignant love story , then the thriller. A romantic thriller.It's a movie worth watching just for the fact that is first and one of the few films to focus on Amish culture. As a kid I would laugh at their philosophy of life . The more and more I'm getting older the more I'm thinking they are right. The Amish way of life has many virtues - they have a deep faith in God , pacifism , sense of community.Witness is a story about cultural clash between two completely different worlds. Both cultures are forced to come together. Each one had to search out the moralities, prejudices and actions of the other. The film is thankfully devoid of easy moralizing.It's an interesting thing that Sylvester Stallone (Rocky) and Jack Nicholson (One flew over the cuckoo nest) were considered for the role of John Book . While I do believe that they would handle the role very well , I'm happy that Harrison Ford (Raiders of the lost ark) got the part in the end. Harrison Ford gives his finest performance in Witness , the only one which got him an Oscar nomination. Hord walks away from his hero persona (Indiana Jones , Han Solo). His John Book isn't stereotypical cynical and strong cop. His tough enough to be convincing as a city cop , but it's more about his sense of duty and dignity. It's interesting how the film uses Ford's real-life carpenter's talent. Kelly McGillis (Top gun) also gives a great and underrated performance , the best in her career. Her Rachel is very sensible and lonely woman , who finds soul mate in Book. Both Ford and McGillis have a wonderful chemistry together . The say much more by the things they don't say (for example the bating scene , the dance scene). The romantic plot reaches it's climax with one of the best on-screen kisses in the history of film. This brief-scene is powerful , sincere and moving. The love story here is beautiful and tragic. Danny Glover(Lethal weapon) does a nice job as the bad guy. Who could forget Lukas Haas (Inception) as the Amish kid. His cheerful , colorful face is something that can't go unseen. Watch out for Viggo Mortensen (The Lord of the rings  trilogy) in his debut as an Amish. Peter Weir gives a brilliant direction . This is a simple story wit heart . Every dramatic moment is powerful and every small scene is important. Weir isn't a action/thriller director , yet he gives us great Hitchcockian set pieces such as the scene in the toilet and the final confrontation in style of High noon (silo death). The screenplay quite rightfully won the Oscar. The film's script by Earl W. Wallace, William Kelley and Pamela Wallace has become a frequent model for budding screenwriters, often used to display clear structure in a screenplay. It is a film about adults, whose lives have dignity and whose choices matter to them just like it's a story about cops.The soundtrack by Maurice Jarre is good , but I think it would have sounded much better with real orchestra instead of synthesizer. John Searle's cinematography is gorgeous &#x96; the scene of raising the barn is cinematic lyricism.Highly recommended. I give it 8/10. "}{"Title":"Genuine Thriller with a Heart!","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness is a very good thriller with great moments of characterization and that is what sets it apart from other thrillers. Also, you really cannot classify this as thriller for the entire film because the middle portion is a haunting study on a group of peaceful people living away from technology. Harrison Ford gets out of his action movies to have one of the best roles of his career playing John Book.Peter Weir's film is about a hard-nosed detective named John Book who investigates a murder that a small Amish boy witnessed. Thanks to some betrayal, John is forced to live with the Amish and away from being a cop, he forbiddenly falls in love with Rachel, a beautiful Amish woman.As mentioned before, Harrison gives one of his better roles and is full of heartfelt emotion. Kelly McGillis, in her second ever movie, rises to great heights with her shy performance. I also find it ironic how Danny Glover plays a villain who murders cops right before his famed Lethal Weapon series.Overall, Witness is a beautifully shot film that has some intense scenes especially in the beginning and the end. We get to meet a group of people that stay away from society. The music by Maurice Jarre is wonderful and fits well with the themes of the movie. I find it funny how an award-winning thriller like this was released in February. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Witness (1985)","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is a film about adults, whose lives have dignity and whose choices matter to them. The story focuses on a detective (Harrison Ford) protecting a young Amish boy who becomes the target of a ruthless killer after he witnesses a brutal murder. Witness is as much about the meeting of cultures as about cops and robbers, this is one of those lucky movies which works out well on all counts and shows that there are still craftsmen lurking in Hollywood. The film is powerful, assured, full of beautiful imagery and devoid of easy moralising, which is good. Ford is Chicago Detective John Book, assigned to investigate a murder that was committed by crooked cop Danny Glover. The only witness is the son of an Amish widow, played by Kelly McGillis. When Book gets too close to the truth, the crooked cops try to kill him, forcing Book to take it on the lamb and hide out in the Amish country. There, he slowly makes a transition into their society, their way of life, and of course, he starts to fall for Kelly McGillis. (who would later star with pretty boy Cruise in Top Gun). Alexander Godunov, who later played the murderous Karl in Die Hard, makes his debut here as an Amish farmer who is, Ford's romantic rival for Kelly. Also making his debut here is a much younger Viggo Mortensen as another Amish father. Mortensen's barely evident in the role out here,although had his eventual success as Aragorn in Lord of the Rings ........ After Star Wars & Indiana Jones,Ford succeeded in a serious role and his multi-layered performance earned him his only Oscar Nomination till date.Well directed Romantic Thriller by Peter Weir (Director of Dead poet's Society and Truman Show) that earned him his first Academy Award Nomination. Do watch this one for great Cinematography and ArtworkMy Rating - 8/10 "},{"Title":"An excellent movie by all standards.","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most of the reviewers have already stated the premise of the movie and all its details (and well done I might add). I think my only comment is phrased When Worlds Collide. The work put into the Amish community...its faith, ideals, work ethic and implied fears was outstanding to say the least. Harrison Ford is simply a very good actor...it is always a pleasure to watch him work so effortlessly (or so it seems) in playing a character. But it was the different backgrounds of societies that caused me to enjoy this movie so much. Both cultures are forced to come together. Each one had to search out the moralities, prejudices and actions of the other. The Director obviously did his work and it showed. I suppose some will disapprove of the odds of the scenario. But, Hey, it's a movie. Get over it already. For those of you reading this before watching the film...enjoy, enjoy and enjoy.........Q(- "},{"Title":"this film is one of the best in the 80's.","Date":"16 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In his first trip to Philadelphia, Samuel Lap, a child of a community Amish presence by chance the brutal murder of a man. John Book (Harrison Ford) will protect the police charged him and his mother, who want to eliminate the child no matter what. When Book learns that the murder is linked to a web of corruption within the police, takes refuge in the village of Samuel.It's a great film Australian director Peter Weir (The Truman Show, Dead Poets Society) variable genre, between police and dramatic. Harrison Ford gets one of the best performances of his career impersonating John Book,. Photography, beautiful soundtrack, direction, script and performances make this film one of the best in the 80's.In Witness we enter the world of the Amish through a great script by Earl W. Wallace and William Kelley (got a deserved Oscar). The film is a thriller extraordinary, impeccable manufacturing, and develops with wit and ability to suggestion, a subject that deals with police corruption. H. Ford plays a character made to order, as that character caught between two worlds, and that Peter Weir with his management knows the best out of the actor, in one of his best performances. Special mention for photography John Seale and the music of Maurice Jarre, not to mention the perfect work of Lukas Haas and Kelly McGillis. "},{"Title":"Fascinating glimpse into an alternative America","Date":"1 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is simply one of my favourite US films of all time. Unusually for Hollywood, this feels like a small film, and it hasn't really dated, to the great credit of everyone involved. It's a neat, tightly-told story of the flight into hiding of Samuel, a young Amish boy (Lukas Haas) who makes an expedition into the big city with his mother Rachel (Kelly McGillis), and there witnesses a brutal murder. In their flight to the safety of their Amish farming community, they pick up baggage &#x96; a Philadelphia cop, John Book (a super-charismatic 80's Harrison Ford) &#x96; along the way. A damaged Book seeks to protect them by becoming part of their community, and in turn his are the eyes through which we learn about the Amish. But inevitably the ripples his presence make in this serene community spread continually wider, until finally the trouble &#x96; and the city - comes to them.The screen chemistry between McGillis and Ford is electric, and you don't feel as if they've been clanged together (as in most modern romances) they were simply walking towards each other from the first. In addition to being a fine romance and a bit of a thriller, it's a window on a closed world, respectfully scripted and shot. It's the least boisterous, and most contemplative piece of Hollywood that I've seen in many years how often is an alternative vision of America presented, in such a way as to suggest that it may even offer a superior quality of life to that of modern America? Very rare ingredients indeed. Mind you, I'd expect no less from the director of the surprisingly thoughtful Master and Commander. It brings to mind small British films like Angela Pope's Captives, and David Leland's The Land Girls. "},{"Title":"A Thriller, a Love Story","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness is one of the most sensitive and well-written crime movies I've ever seen. The crime itself is mundane an Amish boy witnesses the gruesome murder of an undercover cop; Detective John Book investigates and finds out corruption inside the police; he runs for his life and hides amidst the Amish.What is fascinating is the several contrasts between city life and country life, between the peacefulness of the Amish and the violence of Book's world, between his loud personality and the shyness of the Amish. Its about community. It's also how violence can affect peoples' lives; and more importantly it's a beautiful love story.Peter Weir is a filmmaker who seldom disappoints I've enjoyed his work in The Year of Living Dangerously, Dead Poets Society, The Truman Show, and Master & Commander. But for me Witness is his masterpiece. It's built on simplicity, sharp writing, tight editing, beautiful cinematography, inspiring music, and powerful performances by the cast. Harrison Ford shows what a great actor he can be. Kelly McGillis gave the performance of her life as an Amish widow starting a conflict with her community as she falls in love with an outsider. Danny Glover, Josef Sommer, Lukas Haas and Jan Rubes complement the cast wonderfully.Technically speaking, this movie is excellent. Maurice Jarre, who passed away recently, composed one of his finest scores ever, which suits the images many times. There's especially a sequence in which the whole community raises a barn and I'd say half the charm of it comes from the score playing. The screenplay is concise and clear, and Thom Noble's editing doesn't let the story stray once. The cinematography captures the beauty and tranquility of the fields and the grandiosity of the city buildings which leave the Amish awed.Anyone who enjoys cinema for a good story with rounded characters interpreted by great actors can't miss Witness. "},{"Title":"Skilfully acted and directed","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Probably Peter Weir's best recent film (from the last ten years), this original drama manages to create credible tension thanks to a well constructed plot and some strong performances.Harrison Ford is John Book, a detective who is investigating the murder of a fellow officer, witnessed by a young Amish boy. When Book discovers other officers may be involved, he takes refuge in the Amish community.Ford and Kelly McGillis are very good in the lead roles and their developing relationship adds an extra dimension to the story. Alexander Godunov, Danny Glover and Josef Sommer lend worthy support.A strong, well balanced thriller which is both skilfully acted and directed.Friday, September 24, 1993 - T.V. "},{"Title":"By the Book","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness is the story of policeman John Book, who becomes involved in a murder case where an Amish boy is the sole witness. The film features striking scenes and a score that I found enjoyable even though it frequently had synthesizers in it.Harrison Ford is well-suited to the role of John Book, a tough policeman foreign to Amish ways. Kelly McGillis is likewise memorable as Rachel Lapp, the mother of Samuel Lapp, who is well-played by a young Lukas Haas. Danny Glover gives a fine performance as James McFee even though he has few scenes and Josef Sommer was excellent as Paul Schaeffer.There are three elements to the story of Witness. The first is the crime story developed after the murder takes place. The crime story itself is nothing particularly novel, but it is well-developed with tension and propelled by an interesting early twist. After the conflict is developed, the film shelves the crime story in order to develop its two other elements. Specifically, the crime story is put on hold when John Book must hide in the Amish community to avoid the murderers.A love story is developed between Ford and McGillis which is effective and convincing and leads to great moments like the dance scene. The last element of the story is the integration of John Book, a city dweller, into Amish life while he hides. While this leads to some interesting moments like the confrontation in town and also some amusing ones, it also drags the story down at points, especially the barn-raising scene. Toward the end the crime story is phased back in with an inevitable showdown. This portion of the film was well-done and the film's ending was satisfactory.Ultimately, though, the crime story and thriller elements could have been better developed to make the film more interesting. Viewers looking for an out-and-out crime thriller will doubtless find Witness boring. This movie isn't a mystery film and has a long stretch with no thrills. However, the film has other elements that help keep the film mostly interesting despite the lack of developments in the crime story. "},{"Title":"An Impressive Film(SPOILERS)","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS I was very impressed by this film. Actually, I had never even heard of Witness until a couple hours ago. It sounded familiar, but I just could not put my finger on it. Anyway, this is an incredible film. It had terrific acting, and an amazing musical score. I mean, there was happy and cheery music, and there was also a suspenseful and tense piece of music. This film also had one of the best climaxes I have seen in a while.Here is the plot of this film. A young Amish boy sees a grisly murder by two people in a bathroom stall. A detective named John Book tries to help the young boy find the the killer that the boy had seen. Then they discover that it was an officer named McFee. John tells the police chief. It turns out that the chief was in cahoots with McFee. John realizes that they are in cahoots and him, the boy, and his mother flee to an Amish farm. John tries to live like an Amish person. Then John finds out that his friend had been murdered. The chief, McFee, and the other person involved in the murder named Fergie track them down and try to kill them. John kills Fergie and McFee, and the chief gives up. In the end John leaves the farm.Overall, this is a very impressive film. It had great acting, great suspense, a great score, and very good cinematography. Harrison Ford, who plays John, is always good in his movies and I think that he definitely should have won Best Actor at the Academy Awards. I also think that this film should have won Best Score. This is a fantastic and unique film that should not be missed. I was very surprised with this film, and I think that it should be in the Top 250 here on IMDb. It definitely deserves to be up there. This is an amazing and suspenseful film that also has fantastic performances by everyone in this film. This film is so close to perfection that I wish I could give it a 9.75, but I guess you can not give that rating on IMDb, or can you?9.75/10Recommended Films The Fugitive. "},{"Title":"A brilliant tale of justice and forbidden love","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness expertly details the interesting and sometimes difficult lives of people who are not always accepted in the community. In this case it's the Amish. When a young Amish boy witnesses a murder, it's up to Det. John Book to bring the killers to justice. This is probably Harrison Ford's best performance of his career, as Book has to protect the young boy and his mother (a terrific Kelly McGillis) by joining the Amish community and adjusting to their way of life.It's a very simple script, and McGillis is extremely convincing as Rachel, a mother who gradually falls for the man whose meant to be her protector. The chemistry between McGillis and Ford builds and builds to a divine conclusion, while equally wonderful background music heightens the emotions involved.The final showdown with the killers makes Witness even more compelling viewing, and certainly proves the point that not everyone is to be trusted...The lack of dialogue in the scene in which Book and Rachel finally part adds to the sympathetic and emotional impact of their feelings for one another. The simple gaze in their eyes shows this to great effect, and marked a wonderful conclusion to a wonderful and captivating film. "}{"Title":"Above all, great directing","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is all about a great directing job by Peter Weir. The cop story is just the excuse to let feelings out from the main characters. Harrison Ford and Kelly McGillis give outstanding performances, mainly due to the way the script is done the say much more by the things they don't say. Silences are more important than words. The bathing scene is the best example. Peter Weir is able to convey all these feeling and still maintaining a great pace and rhythm. John Seale's cinematography and Maurice Jrre's music are both remarkable. Saw it first back in 85 (I was 11) and now again (I'm 31) and still amazes me... Such a pity that Kelly didn't get the career we thought she would have... A straight 9 "},{"Title":"Come Out From Among Them Be Ye Separate","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe zenith of Weir, almost attained again with Fearless. This film shows you both sides of traditional society denuded of the idealization of Ford's How Green Was My Valley. I loved that movie, but I prefer this one. Book is chasing a corrupt cop who is leaking information. His witness to this cop's killing of a man was a tiny Amish boy. He almost gets killed by the head crooked cop, played well by Josef Sommer, he is forced to flee into Amish country leaking from a gunshot wound badly. He gets them there but passes out from blood loss. These deeply religious people, who eschew all contact with 'the English,' as they call all non-Amish, are forced to care for him, at great risk, for the crooked cops are looking for him. His partner, left behind, does not fare so well. The beauty of the movie is quite transcendent of this prosaic cop movie you have seen before. Weir's movie, with Jarre's excellent synthesizer score, presents a way of life utterly alien to the surrounding American materialistic civilization. An agrarian people who live on the land collectively, all helping and caring for each other, finds poor Book, truly never a more alien being among people of deep Faith. They do their best to conceal him, dressing him and integrating, as best they can, into their simple, basic life. Rachel tells Book, upon his asking why there are no buttons,Buttons are vanity, they are forbidden.Though I am not a pacifist, my favorite scene is where the grandfather puts Book's gun on the table, he teaches the little boy. He says this gun of the hand is for the taking of human life which belongs only to God. He asks the little boy if he would use it, he says only the 'bad men.' He pushes it away, For what you take into your hands, you take into your heart, put away the unclean thing. He then quotes my header to him, which is the basis of their whole separation from other cultures. The movie, like Valley, does show the dark side of tradition shunning. When Book and Rachel get involved, it is quite forbidden and scandalous. The grandfather takes Rachel aside, warning her of her imminent ostracizing by the community. Weir presents and allows you to judge; he remains firmly non- committal. There is also the beauty, the commonality, community and caring for everyone as a giant family. They all, including Book, help a new family raise their barn with Jarre's score deepening the powerful scene. Book's hiding comes to an end for his salient trait, as a cop violence, erupts in public making him stand out painfully. The local jerks love to harass the Amish when they come into town.They try it out on Book, it doesn't go well. The violence here is realistic, notice how brutal and bloody it is. Book beats him until he is covered in blood as the Amish look on in horror. This is violence how it is not nice and clean like modern movies. Sommer and Glover find out where he is and come for the boy. I won't spoil it, it ends very well. I love the movie for it shows both sides of tradition the Janus' faces, the peace of belonging with the oppression of conformity. Ford did this but it was far more idealized; it ends between Book and Rachel as it must end. They could not be more existentially dissonant, I love when the grandfather yells after Book, as he drives away,You be careful out there among the English! It is filled with images of great beauty, both scenically and people working together as a family. They are effected by him, but he much more by them. There is great little humor all through this classic. Book is not a very good farmer, especially milking cows. The beauty of America, as it once was, you see in this small community.The spots are not hidden yet the unity of deep Faith in God, the togetherness, living life as one will stay with you all your days. They are materially poor, my friends, but they bask in their love of God and their community. Yes, it is a good detective movie but it is more, it is a glance into a whole different way of life besides seeing how much crap you can stuff in your house before you die. Weir's Best Movie By A Mile. Q.E.D.For Whosoever Shall Lose His Life For My Sake Shall Find It. Christ "},{"Title":"A Wonderfully Poignant, Suspenseful Film","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I only just recently watched this film for the first time by catching it on television. I had been aware of it in terms of the title and Harrison Ford, but had never actually read up on the plot. I am very glad that I watched it. This film is so much more than the crime/legal drama that I had imagined it to be.The directing, cinematography, screenplay and acting are all wonderfully executed. The contrast between the overt, aggressive world of police and murder investigations in the city with the subdued, understated world of the Amish, is exceptionally well portrayed.Harrison Ford does a fine job in his role. The single most beautiful performance, though, is Kelly McGillis. As other reviews have noted, she does not have an excess of spoken dialog, but her physical acting, in particular her eyes and face, is incredibly evocative and moving. If anyone should have gotten a nomination, it should have been her. Watching her play this role was a revelation to me. One also has to credit the great performance of the then-very-young Lukas Haas. His impressive turn may be as much a true key to this film's success as any other single element. The rest of the characters are well-cast themselves.I greatly admired the ending to this film. I think that it speaks to Peter Weir's directatorial sensibilities. In the hands of a lesser director, it could have been far more clichéd, but far less powerful. I was nearly thirty years late seeing WITNESS, but I think that it is a timelessly poignant example of excellent storytelling. "},{"Title":"Never get tired of the 'barn-raising' scene","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Whenever I happen upon this movie (cable), I get sucked in, although I've seen it enough times. It's just a good story with it's own suspense.We all are rooting for little Lucas and the fact that John Book has to hide him and his mother away from the 'bad guys'. So many scenes are worth seeing again, especially when John Book gets hurt and must rely on the the Amish people to heal him - no doctors, of course.And of course, when Rachel's father wakes him up at the crack of dawn for milking. And when Radhel gives him some clothes that were her late husband's and explains that zippers and buttons are 'too proud'.And as mentioned, if you once see the barn raising scene, it will stay with you forever. Truly moving and a real example of community and what can be done by all people. "},{"Title":"Poignant and unexpectedly moving","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the most underrated films of the 1980s, WITNESS is a heartfelt exploration of America's Amish community. The Amish are a Christian group who shun modern-day technology in favour of a simple life. Into their midst is thrown Harrison Ford, a tough city cop who must learn to cope with their insular society.The thriller aspects, while wonderfully handled, come second to the film's exploration of Amish culture. Peter Weir is at his best here, directing some sublime scenes (who can forget the barn raising sequence?) and eliciting strong performances from his entire cast. Ford is fine, but it's Kelly McGillis and particularly Lukas Haas who shine as the god-fearing folk who find themselves propelled into a world of violence and the unknown.Pretty much everything you could want from a good film. "},{"Title":"one of my favorites!","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw witness about two months ago.After it got finished all I could say was wow! the story is one of the best about a small Amish boy who witness's a murder and a police cop falling for his mother. Harrison Ford is my favorite actor and this is truly his greatest performance! should have one the Best Actor Oscar!And Kelly Mcgillis is perfect as Rachel,Ford's love interest.Lukas Haas also perfect as the sweet innocent Amish boy Samuel who saw the murder. This movie has everything! It has action,wonderful story,heartfelt,and a wonderful,my personal favorite love story ever! If you have not seen this you must!!!It is a must see movie!!! "},{"Title":"One of my favourite movies - and you'll know why.","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A simple story, with heart - yes...heart.It's not heavy on gun-play, it's not overly heavy on violence.Imagine that - and with it being a cop story too - set in the big bad city.How can this be? I don't know...maybe because it was written well and didn't need explosions and the overused police brutality and abuse scenes.Maybe because Kelly McGillis bears her breasts - and they are nice.It's just a script which is good from opening scene to close. From the script to the screen, this flows very well and is a masterpiece in itself.What future filmmakers should watch when developing a small budget story that has significant story telling.It's close to flawless and will be for years to come.Somehow they even manged to get the Amish story to be kept interesting...I never fell asleep watching people milk cows or raise barns in this movie.Yeah, it's good...and you better agree with me too... "},{"Title":"Beautifully crafted film that excels where it matters","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although Witness is labeled as a crime drama, it spends more time showing us the Amish culture than doing any dirty work. The intriguing contrast between mainstream American society and the elusive Amish culture is the main thing that differentiates Witness from other films. The story involves a police captain named John Book. He obtains a child witness for the homicide of a police officer, but then discovers that other officers were involved in the crime. After being attacked and suffering a bullet wound, he flees into the countryside and submerges into the Amish community.Harrison Ford does a great job as John Book. He has a charismatic and likable personality that suits him perfectly for the role. The Amish characters all look very natural and authentic. I felt that the grandfather made an especially powerful character. The rival officers (acted by Josef Sommer and Danny Glover) take a back seat for most of the film, but are solid characters as well.The cinematography of the film is excellent. An example of good filming easily comes to mind the segment where the Amish people construct a building. This part made me understand their ambitions. The steady camera pans of the countryside (with a good musical score) are also effective. It really felt like the images pulled me into their world.Witness succeeds where it matters in creating another world that we rarely imagine throughout our own lives, and allowing us to experience this world as if we were part of it. The crime drama aspect took a back seat and served more as a contrast than anything else. A worthy view for audiences of any kind. "},{"Title":"A first-a one off","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't think there's been a movie before which was set in an Amish community so this was well researched. There's always an air of mystery about things Amish-people who shun the centuries after the 18th-its probably the closest thing to an Ideal World and this movie shows how the Amish are more or less forced into knowing of the Evil in it because of the boy who witnessed a murder. The Amish live their lives away from 90% of the World but do nevertheless do business in it such as buying supplies from the nearest town or even using a telephone if they need to do.There are also other branches of he Amish like the Mennonites who accept technology to an extent. Their power comes from Generators and music is used mostly accapella singing of hymns-instruments are never played in public only in the Community and are usually harmoniums and accordeons.Thus the background music would have been more appropriate if it had been of this kind. One of the lines you notice in the movie-after Ford has clocked the thug-is somebody remarks-this will spoil the tourist industry This is something the Amish don't directly benefit from but tourists are welcome to visit one of the communities to observe their way of life and they can buy from the gift shops-which is a source of income and its there because people want this sort of stuff. In fact there's now websites you can buy from-again not run by the Amish but there's probably an agreement to license products like models of horses and buggys or even CDs of genuine Amish hymn singing. Very recently the theme of this movie has taken on a kind of reality when there was a fatal shootout at an Amish school and obviously the police had to become involved "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie (sorry for the cliche)","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I write this comment partly in response to the serious but overblown and slightly unfair currently featured comment, with all respect to the author who made the effort.This movie is masterful in every sense.  Does anyone know how hard it is to do a movie that involves another language (correctly done) and another culture?  Kelly McGillis actually impersonated an Amish woman to prepare for this (I guess she had to give up smoking for a while).  The people she lived among quite correctly were offended by this intrusion on their privacy. Sorry, I should not have gone that way.  The peripheries of the careers of the stars are irrelevant to an artistic production like this.  The only thing that bothered me the first time I saw it was the ambiguous  run together and kiss scene between the leads.  In retrospect, it is a triumph of good editorial sense.This movie only lacks credibility if you've never lived in Pennsylvania.  I don't think Ford, McGillis, and Hass, I think real characters in a real but very dramatic story.  One of the finest movies I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"One of Harrison Ford's finest performances...","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harrison Ford finally got an Oscar nomination for 'Witness' ('85) only to lose it to William Hurt (for 'Kiss of the Spider Woman'). Likewise, the film was nominated but came along in the same year that 'Out of Africa' swept most of the awards.The film itself begins to build suspense from the start, with the Amish boy (Lukas Haas) witnessing a murder in a men's restroom at a railroad station. Later, when Ford (as a tough policeman) questions the boy, he discovers there is corruption among his colleagues and becomes a cop in hiding while protecting the boy. The plot develops rather slowly after the initial murder as we focus more on Ford's relationship with the boy's mother (Kelly McGinnis). The interplay between Ford's character and the Amish woman is nicely developed, as is Ford's relationship with the boy. Before the conclusion, there is a scary scene in a silo that is milked for maximum suspense.Beautifully photographed to take advantage of its country settings, the screenplay and editing both received Oscars. Absorbing and thoroughly deserving of its Best Picture and Best Director (Peter Weir) nomination. Definitely Harrison Ford's best role until 1993's 'The Fugitive' in which he had an even stronger character to portray as a doctor seeking to prove his innocence. "},{"Title":"elegiac, romantic crime-thriller about a detective in Amish country","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Amish are 'simple folk', as they say, with a moral conscience that is nearly impeccable. While they are super religious (notice that they will never eat without first praying), their work ethic is next to extraordinary and they've fashioned their lives around a lack of technology, a distance from the rest of the modern world. Peter Weir's film Witness does what should be expected in a genre piece using this subject matter place a regular guy (Harrison Ford) in the midst of this Amish world as a culture clash occurs. It sort of does, but what's trickier, and what Weir and Ford pull off, is to make it personal, of the disconnect between men and women and temptations. It's an R-rated movie, but not at all for sex, but at the same time there's a super hot scene where Ford dances with Kelly McGillis's Rachel in a barn to an old 60s tune. The tension is perfect.But the genre? Yes, it's the sort that we've probably seen in other films, with a corrupt cop story pitted into a unique location. The difference is that Weir wants to put a more visual take on things, to not force the conventions down the audience's throat while also making things enjoyable. The scoop a young Amish boy (Lukas Haas) is with him mother on their way to Baltimore to visit family, and he is in the bathroom of the train station. He witnesses behind a closed door a murder take place between cops. He narrowly escapes, and is the only witness to the crime. He spots the man, and it becomes clear that the case is a lot dirtier than Ford's John Book would've imagined. With this premise, and that Book is shot and must stay put in Amish country for a bit, Weir explores the nature of the characters in this situation as opposed to the by-the-numbers plotting of the story, which are (thankfully) darker than one might usually expect.And a good deal of Witness's success is Ford in the role. He strips himself of most of his devices as a usual star (i.e. from the sarcastic tone of Han Solo or swagger of Indiana Jones), but still has a great 'star' presence; the producer initially cast him as he reminded him of Gary Cooper. He's charming and suave, but usually understated and strong in the performance, finding the right notes with McGillis for a romantic drama of this sort. It's worth checking out Witness for certain if you're a fan, or if you're interested in seeing this strange but sort of beautiful other world. Oddly enough, the musical score sounds a lot at times like that of Blade Runner (the Vangelis-type synthesizer), and it threw me off for a moment hearing those tones put to the film's picaresque scenes. And yet there's something to be said about this kind of being like something from another world, or at least another time.Witness is thrilling stuff for the mainstream crowds, and at the same time Weir's direction is something not to miss, where he provides ample control for the story, but gives it certain twists and with a loom that tells of something more purely cinematic than a standard cineplex offering. "},{"Title":"As 80s thrillers go it's pretty smart.","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The formula of this thriller /Drama is not was new or even flag bearing as regards action set pieces and hide behind your hands suspense, yet it is still one of a kind for the genre and the decade it came from .The plot is cracking as it involves a central theme of outsiders who are considered outside of the mainstream norm. To have a thriller involving the Amish community not only brings into focus how different folks beliefs can be, but to also hit home at just how ignorant many are to the ways of minorities and what they stand for. So many great things about the movie stand out, Harrison Ford is perfect, yes it's a perfect performance, his John Book is gruff and rugged yet as the story moves on he nails the endearment and knowing traits that the character calls for. Kelly McGillis is an actress who I feel drags down nearly all the films she leads in, yet here I forgive her because she is marvellous as Rachael, an Amish woman fighting her inner feelings as much as she is the bad outside world that wants to hurt her son.Peter Weir IMHO is one of the most under praised modern day directors around yes even now, and here his deft hands put the story together adroitly, whilst John Searle's cinematography is gorgeous and out of the top draw. It's an almost perfect movie as regards acting and the process of making a film, I do however fly in the face of popular opinion as regards the score, it doesn't work for me i'm sad to say, Maurice Jarre's drawn out synth seems to me out of place for the piece we are watching, I personally would of liked a more subtle string arrangement, but that is me.For those looking for a first time viewing in the Drama/Thriller genre can do no worse than seek this one out, because it's put together so well, it delivers on a plot front, and the ending doesn't pander to studio yearnings, 9/10.The S/E DVD has a wonderful making of feature that is crammed full of quality input, and for Ford worshippers such as I, it contains none aloof input from the legend himself, that alone was worth the 5 Euros it cost me for this cracking film . "},{"Title":"Probably Harrison Ford's best work","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Star Wars made Harrison Ford the matinee idol of the late 70s and early 80s with his sardonic wit, good looks, and forceful presence. Raiders of the Lost Ark hinted that he could carry a film without playing a smart ass. Witness proved he deserved our respect and movie stardom because it showed that he could be interesting without being the midst of lots of action.Ford is Chicago Detective John Book, assigned to investigate a murder that was committed by crooked cop Danny Glover. The only witness is the son of an Amish widow, played by Kelly McGillis. When Book gets too close to the truth, the crooked cops try to kill him, forcing Book to take it on the lamb and hide out in the Amish country. There, he slowly makes a transition into their society, their way of life, and of course, he starts to fall for Kelly McGillis.Ford himself has rarely been better in any of his other films. Here he perfectly displays the quiet, easy going, go-about-my-business attitude that we associate with the everyman character, and it is this appeal that has led to Ford's lasting success. This is also the only film Ford has ever received a nomination for best actor, but he lost out that year to the guy from Kiss of the Spider-Woman. Damn shame, really.Kelly McGillis holds her own admirably as the Amish widow who wins Ford's heart.Alexander Godunov, who later played the murderous Karl in Die Hard, makes his debut here as an Amish farmer who is, alas, Ford's romantic rival for Kelly. Also making his debut here is a much younger Viggo Mortensen as another Amish father. Mortensen's barely recognizable here, making his eventual success as Aragorn in Lord of the Rings all the more ironic.Well crafted, well directed, well made film by Australian director Peter Weir.  "},{"Title":"The Big City as dirty and corrupt...the Amish as waxworks saints","Date":"20 November 2010","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" An Amish youngster, away from the family farm in Lancaster County for the first time while visiting Philadelphia, witnesses a men's room killing, the victim a police officer; a good-hearted cop smells corruption and goes into hiding to help protect the child, falling in love with the boy's mother in the process. When Witness originally played in theaters, so much promise was built up by the intriguing scenario--and so much good will was brought forth by the combination of Harrison Ford in the lead and the fish-out-of-water story elements--that nobody seemed to mind when the film derailed near the end. Corny and clichéd throughout, the picture still manages to make a direct connection with its audience, and shameless director Peter Weir mounts the proceedings for emotional impact. It works most of the time. ** from **** "},{"Title":"City cop Harrison Ford nursed and hidden by Amish Kelly McGillis","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Why split hairs? Witness (1985) is a great picture. In this film, Weir uses the available means of a film, including his talented cast and cinematographer, to the maximum and does so beautifully. Director Peter Weir makes the most of an excellent story. This movie has subtle instances of communication through eyes, expressions, movement and body language that are not only skilled but just right, emotionally full and intelligent. Acting is often reacting. This notion permeates this picture in which so much is conveyed by character interactions.Meanwhile the story combines a neo-noir thriller and a love story seamlessly as well as bringing out the contrast between the corrupt irreligious city world of cop Harrison Ford and the plain, hard-working and more primitive world of the Amish that makes do with horses rather than automobiles and tractors.Every role is filled out with care. Every line seems natural, unaffected and important to the story and its themes. This film stands out among films of the eighties and any decade. "},{"Title":"A Visionary Film with Details Not To Be Taken For Granted","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is easy to see why Witness took home the Oscar for Best Screenplay. In the first 15 minutes, fewer than 20 lines are spoken, and they are all inconsequential. Even the first full line of the line of the film spoken by a recurring character is just a joke about a horse's prowess. Nothing is said, and yet everything is so clear. Too clear. We see everything and feel everything, just like the boy. It takes a very good screenplay to say so much with next to nothing. The scenes where Simon takes the train and wanders through the station could be its own short film... Amish Boy Takes The Train. I don't think that these moments, and the beautiful shots of Pennsylvania country, should be taken for granted. This film was made with care. I believe it's a visionary film, and I was transfixed. It is a film about a boy, as the title suggests, not about Harrison Ford. Samuel is part angel, witnessing the deeds of humanity, and he is human, witnessing how we share our sins. We learn from this boy, as do the other characters.The most important detail is this... the little boy witnessed a murder. This isn't something that will go away for him or be given compensation. Some reviewers have said they don't like how certain scenes and characters appear smarmy. Well, to a little boy with innocence, any person who doesn't have the highest personal integrity and truthful intentions appears smarmy. The murder itself is messy and mean, because that's what most murder is. It isn't some slick and stylish operation carried out by highly intelligent hit men. About the music. It sounds like the score by Maurice Jarre was influenced largely by Aaron Copeland. Jarre was regularly hired for visionary films; ones with a person who sees the value in what other people don't theme like Gorillas In The Mist and Dead Poets Society, or ones with religious themes like Almost An Angel and Witness, or supernatural themes like Ghost and Jacob's Ladder (and Prancer!). The synthesizer is dated, yes, and therefore it's slightly unnerving, but if taken at face value and in context you can hear the otherworldly effect that Jarre is going for. It is music for strings, but airing in sampled sounds... so what you hear are the ghosts of the strings, the echo, the strings reincarnated. It's eerier. Besides that, the music is complex, sophisticated, and it's front and centre. It isn't in the background, nor should it be. I believe that for the average moviegoer who doesn't regularly enjoy listening to a variety of orchestral music, the score might seem like too much and therefore distracting. It's too bad that some people can't admit that complex orchestral music isn't too their taste, and instead they judge the music as bad. It most certainly isn't bad. Perhaps in places it really is too much, but there are places where the movie overall is too much, music aside. Easily forgiven. "},{"Title":"Amish on Film!","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" An Amish boy, Samuel (Lukas Haas) witnesses the murder of a police officer. Officer John Book (Harrison Ford)is assigned to the case. His investigation leads to corruption and crime within the police force. His bosses want to silence him and he his forced to go into hiding in the Amish community.The movie gets off to business with a gripping murder and Samuel's clever escape from being found by the killer. We get to see some cop work before going into the Amish community. What we see there is in complete contrast with the crime-riddled cop-world. I must say I do not know much about the Amish way of life and hence, I do not know how accurate its portrayal is in this movie. But, what we see is soothing. The people are close-knit, simple and have their own rustic charm. The verdant landscapes are beautiful. Book finds love in Samuel's widowed mother Rachael (Kelly McGillis). But, we are constantly reminded of the threat to Book and Samuel's lives.The climax is once again intense to match the opening scene. There three memorable scenes in the movie; Samuel hiding from the killer in the toilet cubicles, the death of one of the bad guys and one where the entire Amish community comes forward to build a house for a newly-wed couple.The acting is top-notch. Ford is unrecognizable from his Han Solo and Indiana Jones roles. Haas is cute and innocent looking. McGillis gives her best performance. The supporting cast playing the Amish are all likable, even the one playing Book's rival in love. The cinematography and the pacing of the movie add to the serene atmosphere. It is an under-rared gem. "},{"Title":"An  Amish Witness","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film interested me because of the Amish setting and to see Harrison Ford. His stylish and dramatic scenes as well as playful moments made him the show stealer. A young Amish boy is the only witness to a murder and Harrison For d's character , John Booker, hides in the Amish country and taking on their lifestyle to protect this young boy. All goes well until he falls in love with an Amish girl. I thought the issues and differences were handled respectfully and true. As the story unfolds more and more of the Amish tradition is brought to light in a good way. Positive and inclusive. His charm and humor win the hearts of many but not all the Amish. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford is the man!","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love Harrison Ford, every film he stars in he's a bad ass. This film, I was told was a little different from the adventures of Han Solo/Indiana Jones films. This drama is what gave Harrison Ford his first and only Oscar nomination, which amazes me because he's such a great and iconic actor. Either way it's well earned in this multi award winning drama.After an Amish boy witnesses a murder, special agent John Book, (Harrison Ford) helps him identify the murderer. When they figure it out, his cover is blown and he's forced to go into hiding with the Amish people and their community in order to prove the murderer guilty.I thought the performances by all were very nice. Harrison Ford plays his normal badassness, which i'm fine with. The kid isn't the best, but he isn't bad. His mother, played by Kelly McGillis, is also quite convincing, making you feel sympathy, but also seeing her as very strong willed. A lot of the film after John goes into hiding focuses on him adapting to life as an Amish person, as he learns their ways and finds a whole new respect for them, and adapting a family of his own. The film quickly heats up and cools down when it needs to, giving us our appropriate reveals at the appropriate times, never bs'ing around. The film adds a lot of controversy to John and the mother falling in love, yet realizing their ways are too different, which adds a lot of emotional scenes in the film.The film's score was very nice, it's very well complimented with the lighting and cinematography, which captures very detailed scenes of Amish lifestyle, tourist bus stops, and just about every place it visits, while the music builds tension and on certain parts, makes you just wanna smile.This film, while not a masterpiece, is very solid. Well directed, excellently paced, well acted, and well filmed. I wouldn't called it one of Harrison Ford's best roles, but it's the only one that he got nominated for, (which I still can't believe) but either way it's a very memorable film that is definitely recommended. "}{"Title":"What you take into your hand, you take into your heart.","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good and evil, right and wrong, themes familiar, but told a different way her. The cultural clash between the Amish and the modern world.A funeral service has just been held for Rachel's (Kelly McGillis) husband. Later she prepares to visit her sister in Baltimore with her eight-year-old son Samuel (Lukas Haas). A trip to the restroom, and the boy sees the murder of a policeman. Enter detective John Book (Harrison Ford), who insists that the two Amish visitors cannot leave town. He takes Rachel and Samuel to his sister's house for the evening.A decorated narcotics officer (Danny Glover) and Deputy Police Commissioner Schaeffer (Josef Sommer) are both involved in criminal activities, so Book takes them back to their community. Book is forced to stay and he quickly is attracted to Rachel.The film was poetic and moving, and Ford and McGillis do super jobs. "},{"Title":"Typical '80s in many ways - which can be a good thing.","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's been a while since I last saw this one, and it's still quite a nice one. The rather crude assembly of two plots, one (romantic) drama and one thriller, may not work for everyone, but I'm okay with this odd, yet clear structure. The obvious soundtrack of the eighties, Maurice Jarre taking it away on the synths, may also not work (anymore) for everyone in this day and age, but, again, I liked it. The acting, also sort of eighty-ish but I'm not sure how to describe it, works just fine within what 'Witness' really is, as I see it a tale of a culture clash that is formed by showing both sides, and with plenty of room for interaction. When Eli and Samuel talk about revenge, for instance, that must be as close to the core of what Peter Weir had in mind. Striking debut by Lukas Haas.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Witness is another Harrison Ford winner.","Date":"11 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In this move away from the Indiana Jones/Star Wars movies, Harrison Ford comes up trumps yet again. Playing Philadelphia detective John Book he is forced to go into hiding amongst the Amish community to protect a young Amish boy Samuel played by Lucas Haas. After travelling with his mother Rachel (Kelly McGillis) he is the only witness to a murder which takes place in a train station toilet. After scrolling through the mugshots of criminals at the police station, the boy identifies the murderer as one of John Book's fellow detectives. Police corruption rears it's ugly head as Book's immediate superior is also in on a lucrative drugs scam, which was the motive for the murder. After an attempt is made by the murder detective (Danny Glover) to murder Book he gets a gunshot wound & goes into hiding with the Amish. Whilst recovering from his wound he falls in love Rachel. Without trying to give the whole film away there follows a couple of really loveably entertaining sequences before the final confrontation with his crooked boss & his criminal associates. Whilst trying to repair his car there is a most charming interlude with Rachel when John Book falls for her when over the car radio is played Sam Cooke's Don't know much about history. After this a barn is built by the Amish men of Lancaster County in a communal effort of a single day. The work is done to a delightful piece of music by french composer Maurice Jarre. How could anyone not love this movie?. "},{"Title":"Amish Community","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter Weir directed this interesting thriller that stars Harrison Ford as Philadelphia policeman John Book, who is assigned to protect a young murder witness, an Amish boy named Samuel(played by Lukas Haas) while he was traveling with his mother Rachel(played by Kelly McGillis) at a train station. Book goes undercover in Amish country, and gets a dose of culture shock by this peaceful, hard-working community, and he finds himself falling in love with Rachel, which is doomed by their differing beliefs, not to mention the killers have tracked Samuel down, and are on the way... Well acted and directed film works much better as a character study and look into a unique culture, rather than a thriller, which is nothing special, though is at least handled reasonably well. "},{"Title":"A classic thriller with a great setting","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great thriller story and setting. Not sure if the child witness angle was new but certainly his background was, the Amish community, and that's the main pleasure of this movie. The film's pace slows down but the interest and drama is heightened when Book is holed up at the farm. That's well worked by the writers and the love interest is nicely done, and there is real chemistry between Ford and McGillis, what a match! For the ending, the natural thriller pace comes back, it's intense too because we know Book is a good guy who's protective of his hosts. They could have overdone this with a DePalma style OTT shoot out, but this was just right for the movie.The only flaw is a pretty incredible decision by Book just to go into hiding at the Amish farm, putting them all at risk. In reality he'd be shopping his bent police chief to the FBI, the press and anyone else who'd listen and seeking witness protection for the boy. A major flaw, but the creators wanted to finish the movie at the Amish community as well, which is understandable.Overall a real breath of fresh air for the thriller genre, a well rounded movie with something for everyone, an original setting and a fantastic lead link up with Ford at his best and an almost unknown McGillis proving sex appeal doesn't need glamour at all! One of my favourites, a little gem of a thriller. "},{"Title":"One Of Ford's Best!","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harrison Ford, Kelly McGillis, Lucas Haas, Jan Rubes, Danny Glover, Josef Sommer, Patti LuPone, and Alexander Godunov star in this 1985 thriller. This film begins in Pennsylvania in a small Amish town where a widow, Rachel Lapp (McGillis) attends her late husband's funeral with her family and friends. Soon, Rachel and her young son, Samuel (Haas) head to Baltimore to visit her sister until Samuel witnesses a cop's murder in Philadelphia. Ford plays John Book, a cop who investigates the case and tries to protect Rachel and Samuel. When he's almost killed by crooked cops, John takes Rachel and Samuel home, but hides there with them learning their Amish ways. Rubes plays Rachel's father-in-law, Eli, Glover plays cop, McFee, Sommer plays John's mentor, Schaeffer, LuPone plays John's sister, Elaine and Godunov (Die Hard) plays Daniel, an Amish friend of Rachel's family. This is one of Ford's best and he and McGillis are great together. Maurice Jarre's score is also excellent and I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Witness Ford As The Dramatic Actor Instead Of Ford As The Action/Adventure Icon","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness is a film directed by Peter Weir.It stars Harrison Ford and Kelly McGillis. The screenplay by William Kelley, Pamela Wallace, and Earl W. Wallace focuses on a detective protecting a young Amish boy who becomes the target of a ruthless killer after he witnesses a murder in Philadelphia.It was nominated for eight Academy Awards and won two, for Best Original Screenplay and Best Film Editing. Rachel Lapp (McGillis), a young Amish widow, and her 8-year-old son Samuel are traveling by train to visit Rachel's sister. At the 30th Street Station in Philadelphia, Samuel inadvertently sees two men brutally murder a third. Samuel witnessed the murder, a slashing, in the restroom and escaped the killers' detection by hiding in a stall. Captain John Book (Ford) is the policeman assigned to the case.He and his partner, Sergeant Eldon Carter, question Samuel. He is unable to identify the perpetrator from mug shot photographs or a police lineup, but notices a newspaper clipping at the police station with a picture of highly regarded narcotics officer James McFee and recognizes him as one of the killers. Book remembers that McFee was previously responsible for a drug raid where evidence had mysteriously disappeared from the police department.When Book discovers that the crime was part of a conspiracy involving several officials in his department, he flees Philadelphia where Samuel lives. Slowly assimilating himself into the Amish community, Book eventually finds himself falling in love with Rachel in the midst of his investigation. Eventually, the corrupt police track Book down, and he is forced to confront them, while also trying to protect Rachel and Samuel. Harrison Ford renders one of his best dramatic performances, for which he won his sole Oscar nomination, in Weir's beautifully shot feature, which is effective as a cop thriller as well as a chronicle of the rural Amish subculture.Playing John Book allowed viewers the opportunity to see him as the actor instead of the action/adventure icon. It is one of the few times he has been given the opportunity to play in a straight drama.Aside from that,the movie has got some action, some romance, a few drips of comedy, and a lot of fascinating insight into a culture we know very little about.This is highly recommended to any viewer who loves to watch a good movie. "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing--unless you can't see it because of your religious values!","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am certainly no expert on the Amish (a name give which covers Old Order Mennonites, Conservative Mennonites, Hutterites, and Old German Baptist Brethren ) and I am sure this film would have bothered many of them had they been able to watch it--though the Amish, especially, would shun such modern contrivances as movies. The film was violent and showed a woman whose convictions suddenly vanished because of raging hormones--surely this might offend a few. I doubt if minor details would have offended (such as all the sexy Quaker guys had no beards!). But, despite these difficulties, Peter Weir did manage to direct a very compelling film.The plot is very believable. I have spent tons of time in Philadelphia, so seeing the Amish walking about (especially at Reading Market downtown) is believable (these are generally the more liberal-minded Amish). And, a scene where a guy is brutally stabbed in a bathroom is very believable for Philly (I've personally witnessed 6 or 7 only this year alone). I am not sure, however, how much the Philadelphia Police Department appreciated the film, as it said that they were run by a group of evil racketeers.An Amish woman (Kelly McGillis) takes her son on a train trip to Baltimore to see her sister. However, at the train station, the boy just happens to be in the bathroom where a cold-blooded murder of an undercover cop occurs. The boy is smart, however, and hides---and manages to be the only witness to the slaying. When the police investigate, the Captain (Harrison Ford) takes the case personally (is this realistic?) and uses the kid to try to track down one of the killers who he can identify. However, when it turns out that the killer is a police lieutenant (Danny Glover), there is a problem--as the problem turns out to be a lot bigger and the Chief is clearly part of a much deeper conspiracy. So what is Ford to do now that he realizes that he and the boy are both about to be killed to protect this criminal empire? Yep, he and the kid and the hot mom head back to Lancaster County--to the so-called 'Amish Country' to hide out among the good, honest folk.The film gets kudos for very good acting, a nicely relaxed film style and a great story with a very exciting ending. Even with the gratuitous scenes of McGillis' breasts (again, had the Amish been able to see the film, they would NOT have been amused), it is a case of excellent story-telling. Compelling throughout and it works best for me because of how they ended the thing--without a cop-out perfect ending like you'd expect from many Hollywood productions. "},{"Title":"Why Witness rhymes with Greatness ...","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always loved the conclusion of Roger Ebert's review It is a movie about adults, whose lives have dignity and whose choices matter to them. And it is also one hell of a thriller. Indeed, Peter Weir's Witness appeals on a primal basis as a thriller, and a great one while the romance and the immersion into the Amish community are only one of these layers that convey the comfortable feeling that we're watching something different.Cinema is sometimes like cooking, with the same ingredients, you can either make a delightfully exquisite plate or a vulgar sandwich and what makes Witness great is that it brings to the screen something new by using familiar elements. The hero is John Book, a man who has neither the physical super strength, nor the cynical detachment of the typical leading cop, yet he manages to appeal because he exudes a sense of dignity, of competence, and attachment to his line of duty, without falling in any stereotypical trap. This has something to do with Harrison Ford's performance, a subtle and powerful incarnation of a character who, more than anything, is profoundly human and doesn't try to be an archetype. With such a solid character, Witness already gains our heart.But a character doesn't make a film, the plot also is a masterstroke of simplicity and genius. It opens with Rachel, a young Amish widow played by Kelly McGillis, and her young 8-year old son, Samuel, the young Lukas Haas. Coming back from a family visit, little Samuel witnesses a horrific murder in the toilets of Philadelphia's train station. A gentle-looking man carrying a notebook, is killed by two others, one of them is the fierce looking Danny Glover as officer McFee. What follows is intense and suspenseful on a Hitchcockian level, as it uses a clever trick to make Samuel miraculously escape from the menace of Glover's character. Twenty years ago, I was shocked by the slashing, but it was the convincing sign about McFee's mercilessness, no doubt a little kid wouldn't discourage them for a bonus murder.The toilet scene alone illustrates the symbiosis between the engaging atmosphere of the film and its intelligent writing, winning Oscars over masterpieces of originality such as The Purple Rose of Cairo or Back to the Future. After the murder, Book questions the kid and tries to get the maximum of information. The film could have contented its audience with Samuel saying that the man was black like Book's partner, and a big guy, not a 'schtumpig', then Book would have deducted that McFee was the one; I don't think it would even have been perceived as lazy writing. But the film offers us one of the most memorable silent tracking shots when Samuel is slowly pacing through the police office and then pauses when he recognizes McFee's face in a newspaper. Then, there's something in Ford's look where he sees what he sees, and think what he thinks, the moment when Samuel points his finger is pure genius.Book quickly understands that poor Samuel is a more important witness, that McFee killed a cop who was getting some seriously damaging elements for his career, after sharing this information with his superior Chief Paul Schaeffer (Josef Somer), Book is coincidentally confronted with McFee, and nearly escape from an attack. With enough to time to take the boy and his mother to the Amish Camp, Book finally faints from the loss of blood due to a bullet wound, and must be cured by the Amish. The film then plunge us into the austere and respectable Amish community, with enough patience to develop the relationship between Rachel and John, and Book's progressive integration, undermined in a few instances, all extremely memorable, when John and Rachel dance together, their unforgettable frenetic kiss under the rain, when she shows her body naked to her and of course, one of the most satisfying punches in the face when a young tourist prick gets his comeuppance.If a great movie features at least three great scenes, with the punch it makes three with the killing and the recognition of the killer, yet they're not even the highlights of the films. It's also interesting to note that this scene isn't gratuitous and will be the pivotal moment that brings the attention of Schaeffer and the two other corrupt cops. By acting according to his principle, Book makes the confrontation finally possible, a necessary mistake because somehow, he couldn't hide forever, that's against his nature, his sense of dignity. Not a hero, not a cop, he's also man, and it's interesting how the film uses Ford's notorious carpenter's talent for the rising barn scene, as it really enriches his character by portraying him as a man with other talents than using guns.It's indeed without a weapon that John manages to escape and finally defeat the three cops coming to him, in an unforgettable climactic scene where, another surprise, the bad villain receives an instant and quick death while the most horrifying and painful was reserved for a sidekick in one of these scenes that are impossible to erase from memory, the silo death where the villain receives tons of corn on his head. It was so beautifully shot that I really felt like he was suffocating and coughing snots and blood. No room for clichés till the end where finally Schaefer is forced to leave his gun, after facing a whole community of Amish standing for Book, the film is beyond the eternal hero vs. villain shootout, this is the kind of maturity and confidence that deserves respect.So many memorable scenes to list them all, a dazzling cinematography and gripping atmosphere Witness is a heart-pounding experience on many levels, that I never forgot since I was 10? If only because it taught me something about the Amish community, and I can't conclude without quoting Ebert again, yes, it's one hell of a thriller. "},{"Title":"The best","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness is, quite simply, my favourite movie of all time. I would choose this above The graduate, The godfather, One flew over the cuckoo's nest and all the other great films of the last 50 years. It tells a simple tale of innocence and corruption superbly well. There is visual cinema of the highest order in the building of the barn. There is this total contrast between the rustic peace of the community, and the chaotic brutality of the outside world. There is a career-defining performance from one of our great actors, Harrison Ford. All the supporting actors play their parts with understated dignity, I would single out Kelly McGillis who has never looked so beautiful, and Lukas Haas who shows the fragility but also the robustness of childhood. As has been pointed out, much of the acting occurs without dialogue.Perhaps the movie is now beginning to show its age. Yes, the ending is a bit lame, but it must have been hard to find a suitable ending for such a near-perfect piece of film. "}{"Title":"If you witness this film, you will find it most touching and thrilling, a terrific movie!","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Book (Harrison Ford) works as a detective for the Philadelphia police department. As one might expect, the crimes are serious and dangerous. One day, he is called to an unusual case at the downtown train station. A young Amish widow, Rachel (Kelly McGillis) and her son, Samuel (Lukas Haas) were traveling to Baltimore, through the City of Brotherly Love, when Samuel witnessed a horrific murder in the men's restroom. Book offends Rachel right away, with his brusque manner and insensitivity to their culture but Samuel adores Book immediately. Asked to describe the killer, Samuel says it was a talk, very muscular black man. As they are getting the details written at the police station, the little boy in the black hat suddenly points to a photograph. Only Book sees him. Unbelievably, Samuel is fingering another detective, McGee (Danny Glover), who is receiving an award in the photograph. Its an inside job, Book surmises. But, why? Although Book arranges for Rachel and Samuel to stay overnight with his sister, more problems arise, putting Book, the young Amish widow, and her little son in extreme danger. They take off in a car, back to the Amish community, although Book gets shots in the process. Once there, Book is healed with Amish medicine only, as Rachel guesses that the authorities can't know where he is. Soon, Book is becoming part of the community, helping raise barns and making toys for Samuel with his carpentry skills. The peacefulness and beauty of the Amish village is the polar opposite of Philadelphia. He even realizes he is in love with Rachel and she with him. Yet, their two worlds are so far apart. Meanwhile, the bad cops of the Phillie squad, including McGee, learn where Book is and they soon arrive in the quaint village to take him out. What will be the result? This is a supremely lovely film, very touching and thrilling, that most any fan, casual or dedicated, will appreciate. Yes, the violence is scary and upsetting but doesn't take over the merits of the film. All of the performances, from Ford to Haas to McGillis and beyond, are perfect. Naturally, the scenes in the Amish town are lovely and true while the photography is out of this world. Have you not yet witnessed this amazing film? Book a showing now. "},{"Title":"With a compelling story, excellent performances, and assured direction, Witness remains one of the most successful examples of the romantic thriller.","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness is first and foremost an electrifying and poignant love story, but it's also a very good thriller. It is a film about adults, whose lives have dignity and whose choices matter to them. The story focuses on a detective (Harrison Ford) protecting a young Amish boy who becomes the target of a ruthless killer after he witnesses a brutal murder in Philadelphia's 30th Street train station.Witness is as much about the meeting of cultures as about cops and robbers, this is one of those lucky movies which works out well on all counts and shows that there are still craftsmen lurking in Hollywood. The film is powerful, assured, full of beautiful imagery and devoid of easy moralising, which is good. Harrison Ford offers a performance of surprising skill and sensitivity. Witness is also notable as the screen debut of future star Viggo Mortensen. "},{"Title":"When Worlds Collide","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This solid thriller stars Harrison Ford, given his first chance to truly act, as a detective who must infiltrate an Amish community in order to protect a little boy who accidentally witnessed a murder. Director Peter Weir and his screenwriter use the story as an opportunity to examine the culture clash between the modern world and the peaceful, insular world of the Amish. Ford's detective brings with him the violence and aggression of the outside world, but he also brings an understanding to the Amish, and especially to the mother of the little boy (played by Kelly McGillis), that at heart he's not much different than they are, even if their cultures are.It's a good if unremarkable film, hampered somewhat by an obligatory and unnecessary love story that merely serves to slow things down.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Still holds up after 20 years","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time as a child, maybe 7 or 8. And even though I have seen it many times, it is still one of my favorite films. While the story line is incredible, the acting is superb. Harrison Ford is very subtle in a role that could have been overdone and contrived. He is completely believable as the slightly arrogant, but kind hearted detective John Book. Kelly McGillis is perfect as a dutiful Amish woman suddenly longing to step outside of her community's restrictions. She brings a quiet dignity to a people most of us know nothing about.The barn raising scene is my absolute favorite part of this film. It shows us the true identity of the Amish people; a community wholly dependent upon each other, and each other's willingness to help out one of their own. "},{"Title":"What a Great Movie","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you ever wonder where Harrison Ford got his chops as a leading man, all you have to do is dial in this movie. He's effectively understated in role of detective caught up in lethal police shenanigans, eventually forced to hide out with the Pannsylvania Amish. McGillis is equally effective as the mom of the young witness Ford wants to protect, exquisitely played by Haas. Hard to believe Danny Glover is a bad guy but he does a nice job as the heavy. We live near the Amish in Lancaster County and they seem to do a good job with the culture, I don't know enough to say more. Refreshing to have a movie where the love angle doesn't end up quite where you might expect it to. The dirty police angle is handled just a little too simplistically and unbelievably, for which this gets docked a point. I never saw Out of Africa but just the same it's hard to believe it should have beaten this for the Oscar. Wonderful score. "},{"Title":"trivia and tidbits","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm the grandson of Jan Rubes, so I've obviously got some bias towards this movie. Rather than share my opinions of this movie I thought I'd tell you all some trivia that you can't find on IMDb.In the scene where Book opens the corn feed hatch the stuntman down below drops the gun in a different position than planned by stunt coordinators and Peter Weir. When watching the movie you will notice that Book is searching for the gun for about 2-4 seconds. It was actually about 20-30 times that long (1-2 minutes) because the gun was not right beside the stunt man as originally planned.If anyone has been in an acting class and told the importance of timing watch the scene where Book and Eli discuss milking a cow.Eli Lapp You never had your hands on a teat before. John Book Not one this big. The delay is quite lengthy, and then the laugh is classic. "},{"Title":"It's a bit unusual, but it really works","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always been a fan of Harrison Ford's work, although I must admit that what he has done in the last 10 years couldn't always convince me (What Lies Beneath and Sabrina were still OK, although not exactly perfect, but Hollywood Homicide is just an awful movie). In my opinion his last excellent movie was The Fugitive, but he has done some very fine things before that as well as this Witness proves.While traveling with his mother Rachel, a young Amish boy called Samual Lap, witnesses a murder in a washroom at the train station in Philadelphia and detective John Book is assigned to the case. Shortly after the first investigation, the boy recognizes narcotics officer McFee as the murderer. Book soon discovers that McFee was involved in the theft of an ingredient used in the making of drugs and he gives all the information he has to his boss. Shortly after, McFee comes after him and wounds him in a shootout. Book decides to flee and sees no better option but to stay within the peaceful Amish community to which the Lap family belongs. While Book and Rachel start to get feelings for each other, he helps the community as much as he can, although sometimes in his own 'modern' way, which the Amish do not approve of. But hiding for them doesn't mean that the crooked cops have forgotten about him and one day they find him...I've already said it before and I'll say it again Even though Harrison Ford now seems to have lost that feeling, in the past he really knew how to pick some very good scripts. The entire story is original and in a way also very daring. Who comes up with the idea to bring violence into the world of the Amish, who are seen as some kind of attraction, as some kind of freak show even? It's an incredible contradiction, just as the forbidden love between Book and Rachel is, but somehow they managed to make a very good movie out of it. It has some action, but not too much; the relationship isn't corny at all; the outcome of the movie isn't too obvious;... I must say I really appreciate that. This could easily have gone wrong in so many parts, but it didn't. This was a very strong movie.Also very good were the performances of the different actors. Except for Harrison Ford, Danny Glover, Viggo Mortensen and perhaps Kelly McGillis, I can't say that I know any of them, which isn't a very big surprise if you know that some of them are really Amish and no professional actors. Still, they all did a great job, the professionals as well as the amateurs, and they all gave this movie that extra touch which really made it believable and powerful. I really liked this movie for several reasons without having any really negative remarks and that's why I give it a rating in between 7.5/10 and 8/10. "},{"Title":"Unassuming 80s crime/melodrama with an uncharacteristic human heart","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter Weir's Witness (1985) is a disturbing thriller set against the backdrop of an Amish community. When Samuel Lap (Lukas Haas) goes into a Philadelphia railway bathroom to relieve himself, he becomes an accidental witness to a brutal murder. The plot thickens when it is revealed that the murder victim was actually an undercover cop. Samuel's mother Rachel (Kelly McGillis) is understandably shaken and apprehensive about having her son testify as to what he saw. But dedicated cop John Book (Harrison Ford) is not about to give up. He installs Samuel and his mother at his sister, Elaine's (Patti LuPone) home &#150; a move that puts everyone in danger. Book eventually learns that dirty cop, James McFee (Danny Glover) is one of the men Samuel saw committing the crime. An attempt on Book's life leaves him wounded. But by then, Book has taken his witness back to the farm &#150; literally &#150; and is in hiding with Rachel and Samuel until protection can be arranged for the trial. Weir's prowess as a director is suspect during the opening sequences. He seems to be just going through the motions &#150; rarely exploring interesting camera angles or staging techniques. But once the plot moves back to the Amish community there is a definite taut and unsettling atmosphere that settles in and carries the film to its inevitable conclusion.Thank those lucky stars that frame the Paramount trademark mountain that someone at the studio is finally starting to pay attention to the way their DVD's are mastered. After a rather lackluster initial transfer with NO extras, we get a special edition worthy of the moniker. Extensively cleaned up with narrowly a blemish to be seen throughout, this DVD delivers a generally smooth, consistent and accurate film to video presentation that simply sparkles. Colors are dated but nicely balanced. Contrast levels are bang on. Blacks are deep and solid. Whites are clean. The audio has also been cleaned up. Extras include a five part documentary, audio commentary and trailers. Bravo! If only Paramount would readdress its dismal Fatal Attraction DVD of a few years back, we'd have even more to cheer over. "},{"Title":"Well Done!","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A very well executed film. Not a false note in the directing or the writing. Weir is a master storyteller and it's never been more evident than in this film. A terrifically thrilling beginning and ending, and the middle of the picture is a sensitive, poignant exploration of the differences in the cultures. Harrison Ford and Kelly McGillis play their roles flawlessly, as does Josef Sommer and the remainder of the cast. Were this film to be released today, it would surely be noticed by the Academy. Wonderful use of locations. Having spent time in the Amish Country, this film puts the viewer in the heart of it. A wonderful soundtrack by Maurice Jarre. One of only three movie soundtracks that I have ever purchased. Highly rated. "},{"Title":"Probubly the only well done movie about Amish people","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is pretty good, the first time I saw it , I thought it was extraordinary, but than the second time knew what to expect. The film gives a very vivid description of amish life, and it is great because its not one of those movies like Out Of Africa, that just focuses on the lifestyle and becomes very boring, but Witness also throws in a lot of suspense, which makes it exiting. Witness is probubly Ford's best performance next to The Mosquito Coast, also directed by Peter Weir, who directed this. This film is a great if you are looking for suspense and also are interested in Amish life. 9 out of 10  "}{"Title":"Weak points diminished by great casting and the right ending","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll be brief to keep from giving the movie ending away.  The film had several weak points in the plot that I thought were less than thrilling, but they were overwhelmed by a wonderful plot of romance and drama that Harrison Ford dominated.  I thought the casting for the film was some of the best I've seen.I felt that the ending of the movie was the right ending, and even though I might have wanted something else, it was rewarding to have seen the film through to its own conclusion.Great movie - 8/10 "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Peter Weir seems to have a fascination for fish-out-of-water stories (Year of Living Dangerously, Gallipoli, Green Card). This is terrific. You couldn't ask for a better portrayal of a hard-bitten urban cop totally out of his depth than Harrison Ford's work here. And by the end, he turns the unfamiliarity of the surroundings to his own advantage. Terrific scenes where the actors don't speak, and Maurice Jarre's music is excellent. "},{"Title":"When the stars align","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" If there is one Australian director who has the cred to sit at the grown-ups' table with the likes of Spielberg, Coppola and Scorsese, it's Peter Weir.He has many movies under his belt now, and they include a few that are pretty close to masterpieces Picnic at Hanging Rock, Gallipoli, Dead Poet's Society, Master and Commander, and maybe this one.Although we have seen the basic ingredients before, Witness approaches the cop movie genre from a whole new angle, setting a tough urban detective amongst the insular and peaceful Amish of Pennsylvania. Some of the most intriguing scenes contrast the Amish lifestyle with that of the modern world such as the deep-focus shots of the horse-drawn Amish buggies with semi-trailers thundering by in the background.This was Weir's first Hollywood film, and as Australians have often found with our own cinema, the outsider view can be the most penetrating. Weir also brings humanity and humour to all his films &#x96; lightness of touch is one of his trademarks.The heart of the film is the growing relationship between Harrison Ford's John Book and Kelly McGillis' Rachel Lapp; he the tough city cop, she the young widow from a sheltered, devout rural community. The ending is bittersweet; they come from worlds that just don't intersect.Many other elements came together to make this film unique. The inspired original screenplay draws us into almost another world while the cinematography captures the sweep of the rural setting as well as moments of great intimacy.And then there is the music. It's often said that a background score should not be noticed, but Maurice Jarre created a work that is right to the fore. Jarre created some great scores &#x96; Lawrence of Arabia, Doctor Zhivago and The Professionals, although later he tended to become predictable. However, like Jerry Goldsmith, just when you thought you had heard everything the guy had to offer, he'd take your breath away with something totally fresh and original. Witness was his first electronic score; he could have gone orchestral, but that organ sound is perfect for the story. In the building the barn sequence, the music builds and builds and then soars as John Book and the Amish raise the wooden framework into position &#x96; a triumph of film scoring.Recent documentaries would indicate that the Amish haven't changed that much since Witness was made 30 years ago; the film has hardly dated; it's just a great piece of filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Greater than the sum of the parts","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness mixes Amish exploitation with a corrupt cop thriller, two core elements that wouldn't seem likely to yield a good and original movie. Making a movie about Amish people is haphazard and, as with Witness it is often a compilation of clichés (barn raisings, riding in buggies, etc.) that doesn't have much depth, it shows us what we already know about Amish culture but doesn't have any particular insight into it. The corrupt cop plot is a tired one and Witness has nothing particularly new to add, the story is just about corrupt cops being corrupt. No real depth there either.Despite this, Witness manages to be pretty good. The pacing is very slow but appropriate, spending the first third of the movie introducing us to Rachel and her son Samuel, two Amish heading to Baltimore when Samuel witnesses a brutal murder that he learns was committed by a Philadelphia cop with connections. Harrison Ford is John Book, the good cop police captain who inadvertently tips his hand to the bad cops, survives an assassination attempt and has to hide out in Amish country of all places.This movie can be looked at a lot of ways but the consensus seems to be that the basic cop story plot is simply an excuse to put a gritty Harrison Ford character in the bucolic and appealing Amish setting for an hour or so. There he must negotiate an alien culture and deal with the mutual feelings developing between him and Rachel. It is obvious that Ford's excellent natural acting skills carry the movie, easily smoothing over the potential absurdities of the plot. Everyone remembers the barn raising scene, but the moment where Book and Rachel dance in the dimly lit barn to the wonderfully slow cover of (What a) Wonderful World is a stunning and excellent scene, perfectly capturing the emotion between the two characters in a way just about everyone in the audience should be able to fondly relate to.The directer does a good job of showing you the way of life of the Amish (or at least, his version of it) without hammering you over the head with it, and Harrison's low-intensity acting is the perfect match for that. Sure these aren't real Amish people by any stretch of the imagination, but it's a Hollywood movie, what were you really expecting?The result of this is that a bunch of potential cinematic duds just happen to work right. The generic cop story is just interesting enough to hook you in to the charmingly exploitative adventures of Indiana Jones in Amish Country. This movie is not particularly deep, the Amish on screen probably don't accurately depict real-life Amish, but it is still a very enjoyable and fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Truth and integrity","Date":"15 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie. Perfectly paced, and every performance exactly nuanced. Clever writing too. I'd wonder how the general attitude in the US might have been at the rather shocking corruption in the Police. I need to view it again and note when John actually realised that the Boss cop was seriously bent as well as the perpetrators who the lad had seen. Book certainly hadn't discerned this, at the time of reporting to him at first about the bathroom murder.Harrison Ford is masterful in his actor craft in this film. It helps too that he has a naturally 'tortured' facial expression! The decision to seem to be a fly on the wall with many of the Amish scenes, and the decision not to sub-title the quite long passages of dialogue in the German dialect gave an extra layer of authenticity to the movie. Today's gender equality mores were somewhat challenged as the big day - putting up the barn - took on a choreography bordering on ritual; men bonded in the great task; women glided about re-filling glasses of juice and serving good food in deeply joyful respect of their men's work. A very engaging, at times scarily tense in thriller style, with a great balance of male-female tenderness with nuances deeply respectful of the Amish' values. A terrific movie. "},{"Title":"The Police Drama Is Nothing Special But This Is A Fascinating Look At Amish Culture And Community","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was certainly a different role for Harrison Ford. In 1985, he was known mostly for his work in action/adventure movies (in particular, of course, the Star Wars and Indiana Jones movies.) Aside from that he had done mostly guest work in TV series. Witness - although it has some action scenes - is about as far removed from an action/adventure movie as you can get, and Ford pulled it off well. The movie is book-ended by a story about police corruption, as a young Amish boy (well played by Lukas Haas) witnesses the murder of an undercover police officer, and then identifies the killer as another cop. Ford's Det. John Book (an appropriately simple name) decides to root out the corruption, but then has to hide out in the boy's Amish community to protect both the boy and himself from the cops he's going after. A story about crooked cops is nothing really special, but the appeal of the movie is really this look at the inner workings of an Amish community.This is rather slow-paced, and while that's usually a criticism, in this case it fits the Amish setting perfectly. Book - taken in by the boy's family - has trouble adjusting, but develops an affection for the community - and, of course, for the boy's mother Rachel (Kelly McGillis), although their relationship is kept platonic. Throughout the movie you get a real sense of the tightness of the close-knit Amish community through such depictions as the barn-raising for a newly married couple and the entire community rushing to Eli's farm when the bell rings. The movie makes good use of what I would call low-key humour. It's never laugh out loud funny, but there are simple scenes, like old Eli waking Book up with the words 430 - time for milking! that you can't help but smile at. What I see as the inherent contradiction of Amish life is also shown here. They're a simple community, deliberately keeping everything simple to avoid any sense of pride, and yet by keeping themselves so simple they turn themselves into the centre of attention - a tourist trap for Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. Strange, but not being Amish I'll comment no further on that.The action returns to the movie in the last 20 minutes or so, as the crooked cops find Book and their final confrontation takes place on Eli's farm. Book finally has to leave their world to return to his own, but the fondness his host family has developed for him is shown at the end, when old Eli says to him as he drives away, you be careful out there among them English. This isn't exciting for the most part, but it's a very pleasant and enjoyable movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, well made drama that mixes forbidden romance and thriller nicely.","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" After losing her husband, Rachel Lapp (Kelly McGillis) decides to take her young son Samuel (Lukas Haas) to trip to visit in her sister in Baltimore. Which Rachel lives in the Amish Community with her father-in-law Eli (Jan Rubes). When there's train is postponed in Phildelphia, they waited into their next train arrived. When Samuel needs to go to the bathroom, he witness a brutal murder of a innocent man (Timothy Carhart) killed by two men but Samuel sees only one of the men, who's African American (Danny Glover) is one of the killers. The detectives are changed in the case are John Book (Harrison Ford) and his partner Elton (Brent Jennings), the murder victim turned out to be a undercover cop. Which Book has no choice to keep Rachel and her son for police protection. When Samuel is looking through mug shots of Criminals, while he was looking around the police station. Samuel looks at a photograph of a dedicated police officer named James McFee is actually the murderer that Samuel witness. Which Book was shocked that a local police officer is the crime of his case.While Book tells to the police chief (Josef Sommer) that James is responsible of the crime and James' crimes are involved more than murder. Which Book and the police chief keep it for themselves at first for finding more evidence but later that night. Book finds himself getting shot by McPee, which McPee was trying to kill Book. Now Book is forced to be on the run with Rachel and her son. While Book brings them back home, he finds himself nearly dying after not cleaning out his gun wound. Now Book is keeping a low profile at the Amish Community... while he finds himself a loving bond with Samuel and a forbidden passion with Rachel.Directed by Peter Weir (Green Card, The Mosquito Coast, The Truman Show) made an fascinating thriller that is also a forbidden love story, drama and some moments of unexpected comedy. Ford is truly good in one of his best roles as a police detective. The supporting cast are excellent here... including Patti Lupone as Book's sister, Alexander Godunov as a possible love interest for Rachel and a bit part for a young Viggo Mortensen as his brother. This movie certainly helped for actor Ford that he was capable to go beyond his roles like the popular Star Wars series or Indiana Jones series to find an audience. Which Witness was a box office hit and also Ford was nominated for his strong performance.For the 20th anniversary edition, DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an decent Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD also includes an interesting documentary with new interviews with the cast and crew, deleted scene, trailers & TV spots. Weir also received an Oscar nominated for Best Director and it was also nominated for Best Picture. Witness did win an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay by Earl W. Wallace and William Kelley. Pamela Wallace also gets story credit. It also won for Best Film Editing. Witness went on to be a classic over the years, it is still remembered for the performances and the simple storytelling. Weir and Ford worked together again in The Mosquito Coast, which it less successful but that feature went to be a cult classic. Perphas the only flaw in Witness, it gets to be slow at times but it manages to be pretty believable just the same. Don't miss this very good feature. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"caught in between two worlds","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's hard not to admire this great film. Weir once again uses the power of visuals and a simple but effective score to heighten the emotions that give this film its power. By showing the vast differences between the violent and corrupted world of crime in Philadelphia, with the apparently simple world of the Amish, we are given an opportunity to be reborn through the adventures of Book (Harrison Ford) and the Lapp Family (McGillis and Haas).Our perceptions and knowledge are altered by the end of the film. No one's world remains the same once the inhabitants of one interact with the other. The change is gradual and leaves permanent marks on everyone. Some of the changes will alter their lives forever. There is romance, murder, jealousy, beauty, and these are portrayed in an almost poetic way in both universes.Much of the credit goes to the dexterous Weir and its very capable cast. It's good story telling, plain and simple... "},{"Title":"Memorable scenes and themes in a romantic thriller","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a fabulous romantic thriller, with Harrison Ford at his most magnetic as the hardened big city detective, John Book, and Kelly McGillis portraying his Amish love interest, Rachel Lapp. This movie has broad appeal with both plenty of suspense and action but also a tender romance.The plot revolves around a lovely young Amish widow, Rachel, and her young son, Samuel, who are traveling from Pennsylvania's Lancaster County to Baltimore, where they will visit her sister who may help heal her grief in the recent loss of her husband. At the Philadelphia train station washroom en route, Samuel is the sole eyewitness to the murder of an undercover narcotics officer, and John Book is the detective assigned to the case. Naturally the young boy must be protected from the killer, so Detective Book accompanies Samuel and his mother to Amish country which they hope will serve as a retreat. However, the villains are hot on their heels. Needless to say, John and the young widow soon develop a mutual, though necessarily restrained, attraction.This film is ripe with conflict, and not simply the hero of the piece trying to evade pursuit by the killers. John faces inner struggle in his forbidden attraction to this Amish woman. Rachel in turn is also conflicted, torn between the exacting standards of her moral Amish background versus her worldly desires and passions...a dilemma that comes to be dramatically represented by her simple white Amish cap.In terms of scenes, there is drama, comedy, and romance. It's certainly a dramatic moment when young Samuel identifies the killer from a book of photos and Detective Book comes to realize the significance of this killer's identity. Amusing pictures include Rachel's father, Eli, giving John instructions on the finer points of milking a cow, not to mention John's unforgettable response to some tourists who are mocking the Amish. As for romance, John struggles with temptation when, in a very erotic moment, he inadvertently sees Rachel taking a sponge bath. There is also a beautiful, touching sequence where the pair are dancing in a barn, wonderful chemistry and sexual attraction, but restraint.As to themes, this film paints a portrait of Amish life with its horse and buggy travel, lack of telephones and electric lights, as John is introduced by Rachel and Eli to a lifestyle and values completely alien to him. Likewise, Eli must deal with the threat of the outer world intruding upon his household, with the sudden arrival of the city detective. It contrasts the peaceful Amish ways to the worldliness and especially the violence of the society outside. The sense of community among the Amish is portrayed through a barn raising sequence, also their very dramatic method of communication (I won't give it away) when a member of the the community requires help from the neighbors. Finally, we have in this story of two people from very different worlds that fall in love. Rachel already has a would be Amish suitor named Daniel, who has set his cap for the young widow. For her and John to build a life together, one or the other of them would be forced to completely give up his / her world and live totally in the other's.The young boy, Samuel, in his black coat and hat, is quietly and charmingly played by Lukas Haas. The actor is probably best remembered even today for this childhood role. A high recommendation to this incredible suspenseful and touchingly romantic movie, with its engaging plot, Amish backdrop, conflicted cultures, wonderful music and cinematography. "},{"Title":"Another Harrison Ford Masterpiece,That's Taut And Extremely Suspenseful, With An Oscar Worthy Perfromance From Harrison Ford!","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is another Harrison Ford Masterpiece, that's taut and extremely suspenseful, with an Oscar worthy performance from Harrison Ford!. All the characters were fantastic, and the story is extremely gripping, plus Harrison Ford is simply incredible in this!. Ford and Kelly McGillis had fantastic chemistry together, and the story is very believable as well, plus Danny Glover, and Josef Sommer are extremely menacing as the crooked cops!. I really dug the romance, and, Harison Ford literally pours his heart out into every scene, plus the opening is quite unsettling and disturbing. The finale is filled with tension and suspense, and it was really cool to see Danny Glover play a villain, plus, the ending was very fitting. The setting was quite unique, and it's brilliantly written and made as well, plus the situation they were in was quite creepy!. This is another Harrison Ford masterpiece, that's taut and extremely suspenseful, with an Oscar worthy performance from Harrison Ford and i say Go see it immediately!. The Direction is brilliant!. Peter Weir does a brilliant job here, with wonderful camera work, great angles, and keeping the film, extremely engrossing and suspenseful throughout!. The Acting is Oscar worthy!. Harrison Ford is AMAZING as always, and is incredible here, he is extremely likable, incredible in the acting department, deserved his Oscar nomination, had fantastic chemistry with Kelly McGillis, poured his heart out into every scene and just did an incredible job overall! (Ford Rules!!!). Kelly McGillis is beautiful and does fantastic here, she is very likable, vulnerable, had fantastic chemistry with Ford, had a very interesting character, and just did a fantastic job overall!. Josef Sommer is awesome as one of the main villains, he was very menacing, and downright creepy at times, i liked him lots!.Lukas Haas, is excellent as the kid, he was very likable, and gave a great performance, and while he did't have much dialog,he had some great facial expressions. Jan Rubes is good with what he had to do, and was quite likable. Danny Glover is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he was quite scary at times, and shocked me on how, cold and menacing he was,and i loved it!. (Glover Rules!!).Rest of the cast do great. Overall a must see immediately it's another one of Ford's masterpieces!. ***** out of 5 "}{"Title":"Amish You Much; 'Mish, 'Mish You Much!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an OK film.  It is interesting from the stand-point of learningabout the somewhat mysterious (for me!) Amish culture, and to alesser extent, seeing a street-hardened cop, played by HarrisonFord, placed in that pacified and devout Amish world.  However,the whole battle of  good cop vs. bad cop is a little typical and notparticularly well executed here.  There are some good chuckleshere and there centered around Harrison's character, John Book,and his attempt to fit in with the Amish lifestyle, and some tenseaction sequences, as well.  The acting is solid, though nothing tooinspiring.  Ford actually plays a character that doesn't have a HALOrammed up his BUTT, as he has with much of the rest of hiscareer choices (I will never give him full-credit as an actor due tohis outright refusal to play a villain!).  (Unfortunately, I also thinkthis might have been where he turned down that somewhatdistasteful path as the man-at-odds/action hero that he hascome to personify). **SPOILER**The most redeeming feature of Witness is the non-Hollywoodending.  Despite the romantic build-up, and probable audiencewishes, it DOESN'T end with John and Rachel together.  I'll admitthat even I was hoping, despite the obvious improbability of itworking out between them, that I wanted to see that Happily EverAfter ending.  So it was a bittersweet moment to be somewhatsad and satisfied with the ultimate conclusion.I'm left with this one question though; why do the Amish men havethose big beards but NO mustaches?!!!7/10  A good Amishly hand-woven yarn (not to be watched withMicrowavable popcorn, though!) "},{"Title":"An unstereotypical view of a very misunderstood culture.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Omish are a strange culture who have been tormented for having such a backward way of living. The movies are as much to blame for this torment as anyone. Kingpin anyone? I'm not complaining about the Farrelly Brother's farce, it was undoubtedly funny but I needed a less stereotypical view to better understand this misunderstood culture.Peter Weir's Witness is such a movie. He accomplishes a lot in this picture. He has a fine romance, some accomplished action and expert acting. However, the movie succeeds most in its depiction of the Omish people. Their very religious ways were greatly contrasted with the ordinary way of living. Weir doesn't preach however that their way is better, he gives an objective view. Weir highlights their sensitive culture but his praise of it in the beautiful barnraising sequence is contrasted by the obvious taunts of their unbelievable stubborness to enter the twentieth century.I admire Weir's unpredictability as a filmmaker. It seemed obvious to me that one of the Omish would become jealous of Harrison Ford's character but it never happened. I was surprised that the bad guy didn't struggle more at the end. I was surprised throughout.The movie was in no way conventional but in some ways this let it down. It has dramatic elements but as a whole not a lot happens. The characters are strong and the acting is great but the plot itself is shallow. Sure the police corruption is a nice touch, but perhaps more of the movie could have been used to highlight the obvious culture clash. "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great movie about a witness to a murder, who just happens to be Amish. Peter Weir's great direction combined with The great performances by Ford and McGillis,make this a terrific film.Rating****1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"The Terrible English World","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" When Harrison Ford is not playing Han Solo, Indiana Jones, or Jack Ryan he's done some other really outstanding films and Witness certainly ranks among the best. It's a wonderful drama about two worlds meeting over a homicide.The film is seen through the eyes of its title character, young Lukas Haas who plays the Witness to a homicide. And it isn't some ordinary street crime either. While traveling to Baltimore from Amish country with his mother, Kelly McGillis, the little boy goes to the men's room in the 30th Street station in Philadelphia. There he witnesses two men kill an undercover Philly cop. But there's a whole lot more to it than that, the story involves police corruption at the highest levels in the Philadelphia, PD. When Ford tries to shield McGillis and Haas, they are found out and Ford is nearly killed. He decides they are safer indeed back in their neighborhood where outsiders would really stand out.It's quite a change for Ford as he adapts into the Amish world. And of course there's a growing attraction between Ford and McGillis.Witness succeeds on every level it operates on, as a police drama, as a romance, as a thriller. The movie was shot in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania in the actual Amish country and in Philadelphia.Witness was nominated for several Oscars including Best Picture, Best Actor for Harrison Ford, and Best Director for Peter Weir. It did win for Film Editing and for Original Screenplay. Original it is because I don't think the Pennsylvania Amish were ever the subject of a motion picture before.You will also like Danny Glover and Josef Sommer as a pair of corrupt Philadelphia ranking police officials and Viggo Mortenson has a role as an Amish suitor for Kelly McGillis. McGillis herself loses the glamor for her part. Hard to believ the sexy flight instructor in Top Gun is the same woman.Though Ford got the nomination in the acting category, the film really belongs to Lukas Haas. With minimal dialog and a set of expressions on his young face that conveys all, it's one of the best juvenile performances ever filmed.Witness should not be missed, rent, tape it, buy the VHS or DVD, but definitely see this film. "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is hard to understand what all the buzz is about, concerning this movie.The story Amish boy witnesses brutal murder, becomes only witness. Through some construction involving police corruption and one of the least plausible conspiracies, a cop ends up hiding among the Amish, trying to protect the boy and stay undercover until he can arrest a few of his colleagues and superiors.Where are the strengths of this movie? It allows a glimpse into a tiny subculture in America that enjoyed little awareness before this movie - I would bet the Amish people have to suffer many more tourist incursions purely due to this movie. It is also non-standard in its setting, and provides an interesting tension between characters that is quite unique - without the setting, the erotic tension between cop and mother, the tension between mother and society, and the everpresent threat of someone's lives falling completely apart would have been difficult to imagine in our world.But there it all ends. On the weaknesses front, we have implausibilities, a formulaic story development (a typical corrupt cop movie), a mixture between thriller and educational drama that does not exactly work, lots of long dialogue-free moments that should be inspiring, but are boring in quite a few cases (eg the barn scenes), some weak humour and a bad lack of thrills. The ultimate problem is that for a thriller, the movie lacks excitement between the start and the showdown. It is a social drama fit inside a thriller sandwich, but the story does not flow from one to the other it switches abruptly. Without the Amish setting, this movie would be completely average, or even sub-average. I believe it would have been better, and more plausible, to justify the outsider's presence among the Amish without a cheap cop plot - it could have helped the movie a lot.Finally, for some Amish fun, watch For richer, for poorer, which has a similar theme and setting, but is funny and does not take itself seriously. "},{"Title":"Witness","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness garnered eight nominations (including best picture, best director, best actor in a leading role, and best screenplay written directly for the screen) at the 1986 Academy Awards. Today, in fact, its screenplay is still used in teaching beginning screenwriters. Details like this suggest that Witness is probably a great film. The question is, is it really that great, or is it perhaps a bit overrated?An Amish widow named Rachel (Kelly McGillis) and her young son named Samuel (Lukas Haas) are outside of their familiar Lancaster community. While waiting at a train station in Philadelphia, Samuel experiences something that most of us never will -- witnessing a murder. Again, not only is Samuel young (as in about eight), but being from a safe, isolated Amish community, this sort of thing is completely unknown. Rachel and Samuel soon find themselves in the presence of a policeman named John Book (Harrison Ford). Despite Rachel wanting absolutely nothing to do with this non-Amish matter, Book obviously needs the two, in an attempt to figure out who committed the violent crime. Unfortunately for all involved, when Book eventually learns from Samuel that the killer was another policeman named McFee (Danny Glover), all of their lives are essentially in serious danger -- unless Book maybe just gives up on this pursuit of justice.The pursuit continues, however, with Book informing his superior named Schaeffer (Josef Sommer) about McFee. The high-up corruption (which includes Schaeffer) then leads to Book getting shot by McFee. Luckily, Book survives -- and he, Rachel, and Samuel escape to a safe haven (the Amish community in Lancaster). There, Book heals; a romantic relationship develops between Book and Rachel; two very different cultures attempt to coexist with each other, and so forth.While the first half -- or so -- of the film felt pretty strong and impressive to me, my main complaint would be that the second half -- or so -- of the film sort of felt like it was in Hollywood autopilot (if you will). Basically, almost everything that you would expect from a predictable Hollywood movie happened/neatly fell into place during the second half of Witness.In regards to an overall star rating, Witness is certainly pretty good and worth watching. The high praise that it received back then, however, like a best picture nomination at the Oscars, was probably a bit too generous. As opposed to a best picture nomination, Witness is more like a six or seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"Possibly Harrison Ford's Best Performance","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love him as Indiana Jones, likewise Han Solo in the Star Wars movies, but Witness may just feature Harrison Ford's best performance. I actually think he should have took home the Best Actor Oscar home that year as opposed to William Hurt for Kiss of the Spider Woman (Though I understand why he got it) Plot In A Paragraph A young Amish boy is a witness to a murder in a train station, Philadelphia detective John Booker (Ford) is assigned to the case. When he realises the murderer is a fellow detective he is forced to flee to the Amish community to protect the witness.In a role turned down by Sylvester Stallone (Not one of his better decisions) Harrison Ford is superb. Tough yet vulnerable, Brave yet scared. And he hurts, at a time when all our heroes are superheroes or indestructible one man armies, Ford gives us a good guy who is scared and feels pain. Kelly McGillis (whilst I've never fund her attractive) is appealing here as the grieving widow and mother. Of the supporting cast Jan Rube&#x9A; as Eli stands out as the best, Lukas Haas is very good as the title character, Alexander Godunov is very good and convincing as Daniel (A potential love interest for McGillis) look out for a young Viggo Mortensen as his brother Moses. It's interesting seeing Danny Glover as a corrupt cop.One of my only gripes is the music, very dated and of its time. "},{"Title":"Witness this compassionate movie with the most compassionate actor and an amazing future stars (rental)","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have a moving story with this movie. I first watched it by glimpses when I traveled America coast to coast this summer 2014 with 6 friends in a big tourism bus! I think our guide put it the day we did Cleveland &#x96; Niagara Falls. As I'm hard-of-hearing and there weren't subtitles on the screens, I just couldn't hear clearly what was said and so the projection was useless. Next, after 23 days of travel, it was broadcast the day I came back but I had to postpone it again as I had to get up early the next day to go to work again! Now, as I begin my Harrison's run, I just can't pick another movie!Now, i can say that it's still an excellent testimony about my travel as it tells really the America I have discovered a farming country in the east with endless green meadows, a land of liberty and spirituality! This Amish country just couldn't exist in France as my fellows are intolerant against believers and our administration just can't let citizens do what they just want to do! In a way, this movie prefigures « the last samurai » as it's about a modern man getting into another culture and giving as well a sense to his life. Harrisson was the best pick ever as he has this amazing quality to be as remote and distant as warmly and caring. In addition, his partners will have a tremendous career after  « top gun », « lethal weapon », « mars attacks », « lord of the rings »&#x85; This movie just confirms that Weir is a top-notch director with fundamental opinions  compassion, technology and faith.It offers also one of the best scene I have seen about faith when the Amish Grandpa explains guns to the kid  the total prohibition of guns and killing is indeed the best, clear statement to consider life as sacred and thus the only criteria to judge a « good » guy from a « bad » one. Nowadays, we find logic to kill the bad guys but I disagree  As bad guys want already to annihilate good guys, with this reverse propaganda, at the end, everyone will kill the other for a reason, so everyone is one and the same ! So as Grandpa says, one man can't indulge the right to judge that other has to die (it's God stuff) thus nobody can kill and indeed weapons are devil's tools ! "},{"Title":"The film makes your heart pound.","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is suspense made in America at 1985. A little Amish boy Samuel witnesses a murder in the station. A police officer John Book takes Samuel and his mother Rachel to a police station in Philadelphia because the boy only knows the criminal. When John Book realizes that McFee who is also a police officer is the criminal, he goes to Amish country to hide. It is not easy for Book to live in Amish country, because the life style of Amish people is completely different. As time passes, he gradually gets used to living there and is attracted to Rachel. The film is mainly suspense story, but it also can be human drama. You can also learn many cultural things at the time. "},{"Title":"Ford at his best","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness is often cited as Harrison Ford's greatest cinematic performance and it is not difficult to see why in this detective/drama/thriller story about an unfortunate witness to a deeply layered crime. The witness is a relatively mute, 4-5 year old boy with an unfortunate haircut (not too dissimilar from Danny Torrance in The Shining &#x96; red rum, reed rumm, reeeddd rummm) who belongs to an Amish community.We are presented this Amish country in the opening scenes, immediately introducing one of the film's more important themes of the contrasts between the Amish lifestyle and a *normal* lifestyle and what problems this can induce.After the boy thrillingly witnesses a murder in a public bathroom and just as thrillingly escapes the murderers' grasp, man of the hour (or meagre 112 minutes) Harrison Ford as a monotonous (bar the famous and rather cringe-worthy It's a Wonderful World scene ), dry, robust hero prone to falling in love (sound familiar Chewy or Shorty?) takes on the case.Once the boy identifies a policeman as the murderer, Ford discovers the Head of Service is involved too. A break in the thrilling suspense and action sees Ford seek refuge and convincingly adjust to life in the boy and his mother's Amish community (set in a place called Intercourse, something which never failed to amuse me when I stayed last year).Making time for Ford in plain Amish clothing and singing It's a Wonderful World is not something you will regret. This culturally- enlightening thriller captures Harrison Ford at his emotive best as this far-from-home cop, but is Han Solo/Indiana Jones enough to satisfy his returning fans. "}{"Title":"An Interesting Look At The Amish","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A young Amish boy is sole witness to a murder; policeman John Book (Harrison Ford) goes into hiding in Amish country to protect him until the trial.First of all, I have to point out that this was the first big screen role for Viggo Mortensen. Well done, sir. Although they did not know it then, you went on to be a big man in Hollywood. Great to see you here.More importantly, how to judge this film? From an entertainment point of view, it is pretty darn good. I loved Harrison Ford, and I think this is one of Peter Weir's more fun films. I am sure more people enjoyed this than Picnic at Hanging Rock (which is probably the better film, but not a fun movie by any means).And yet, is this a fair portrayal of the Amish? Is it accurate? Is it exploitation? Were they consulted on how they would be shown here? I suppose in some sense it does not matter because the strict Amish would never see the movie, but it does not do them any favors if they are presented as being something they are not... "},{"Title":"Witness (1985 Paramount) starring Harrison Ford is the most important movie ever made set in Lancaster County Pennsylvania old order Amish country telling their story!","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness (1985 Paramount) starring Harrison Ford is the most important movie ever made set in Lancaster County Pennsylvania old order Amish country telling their story! It's a thriller movie about a Philadelphia PA police detective (Ford)on the lam in Amish country, and being hidden by old order Amish types on their large Lancaster County PA farm.We get to see old order Amish life in this movie, and in a sense the movie is a quasi documentary about an interesting but seldom treated subject in USA life.....the old order Amish in Lancaster County PA and how they live and get treated in a world they don't agree with and which doesn't agree with them.I live in Lancaster County Pennsylvania (Columbia PA near Lancaster City PA), and watch the old order Amish show in my area.....they work at the Columbia Market which is an enclosed large brick 19th century restored building in the 5,000 person town of Columbia PA USA, located exactly on the Susquehanna River where US Route 30 (the Lincoln Highway) crosses the river on it's way to Oregon on the West Coast.The Amish show here in Lancaster County PA is quite a show, and food for thought. Witness (1985 Paramount) is a brilliant telling of the old order Amish story, and a brilliant picturization of those people and their lives, habitat.It's sort of a documentary done by Hollywood's best technical people....nothing touches it.It was nominated for Best Picture Academy Award and got beat out by trendy Wall Street starring Michael Douglas in the Reagan years when Hollywood Democrats fired movies aimed at heartless (probably Republican!) businessmen like Gorden Gekko, played by Michael Douglas.But Witness (1985 Paramount), a quieter, simpler, non-big city movie was nominated, too........and deserved to be.It's a classic all should see, including the old order Amish, who never get to see it due to the rules about no TV's, movies, etc. part of their culture and lives.Oh, well....nobody's perfect, including them! ---------------- Written by Tex Allen, SAG-AFTRA movie actor. Visit WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen for more information about Tex Allen. Tex Allen's email address is TexAllen@Rocketmail.Com.See Tex Allen Movie Credits, Biography, and 2012 photos at WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen. See other Tex Allen written movie reviews....almost 100 titles.... at http//imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments (paste this address into your URL Browser) "},{"Title":"Great elements, but not a perfect film","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness is generally considered a monumental film because of its great depiction of forbidden love and because of Harrison Ford's great performance. For me, this film is good, but far from perfect. It starts off with a great concept, in which Harrison Ford is helping protect an Amish mother and son from assassins after the son witnessed a murder in the restroom at a train station. Once Ford goes to stay with the family in the country, however, the film tends to get a little slow, as it relies too much on the tired-out plot concept of forbidden love and why Ford cannot be with the Amish woman, with whom he has fallen in love. The scenes tend to drag a bit here, and I found myself wanting more excitement and more focus on the assassins and murder case. Ford's performance may have been nominated for an Oscar, but I do not personally believe that was deserved. His performance comes off a bit awkward here, and not entirely appealing. However, the film managed to pick up a little toward the end with more excitement and chase scenes. Not a bad film, but not really a great one either. Had good potential, but not a personal favorite. Of course, I still found it worthwhile and enjoyable in parts, but not necessarily good to see over and over again.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"He Must Protect His Witness","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" WITNESS **** This film fits Peter Weir's style perfectly. Harrison Ford, as a proficient detective, has to protect the witness, an eight-year-old Amish boy, of the homicide case he's in charge of when the killer (Danny Glover, the ultimate menace) grows wise of the boy existence. As the bad guy's attempt of interrogation gets into the realm of his station, Ford, finding his life in as progressive danger as the boy's, flees with the title character to the Amish village to take shelter. There, he adjusts to his new surroundings, and falls for the boy's sheltered mother (Kelly McGillis); but the hunters aren't giving up their search, and greater suspense is at the heart of what follows. "},{"Title":"need info","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" what was the toy perpetual motion type machine that Ford built for the kid? I'd like to build one but I don't know where to go to get a plan. Can anyone help? It was obviously made of wood and the falling motion was very interesting to my Grandson. He checked his local toy store and was told to try a hobby shop. The owner told him to try a local woodworking club but still couldn't get any info. The Grandson is frustrated and so am I . Does anyone know how to get me any help with this? The picture was very entertaining but as a visitor to the Amish area around bird in Hand I found that a dozen people in town seemed so upset with our being there so we just left. I will say it was the lushest farming country I've seen. "},{"Title":"Therefore come out from among them and be thou separate","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watch this movie every time it comes on television just to see and hear the wonderful Jan Rubes tell his grandson the consequences of using guns and violence. When his grandson says that he would kill the bad man, his grandfather asks if he can see into the heart of this bad man, and as for the gun, what you take into your hand, you take into your heart. The beautiful green Lancaster County countryside and the dark seedy streets of Philadelphia are as different as lives of the two main characters. Despite the forced romance, the acting is very strong especially Jan and Lucas, and this is the only film I've ever seen that shows the strong character of the Amish, people who actually live by the values they claim to hold. They're poking fun at us instead of being the butt of the joke. "},{"Title":"Ford in Amishland","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What causes a normally upstanding, Youth Project Honoree/ Narc Officer to revert to a life of crime?  Even stooping to a cheap homicide hit in a men's public washroom?  Mucho moola, man. So it goes with Danny Glover's Det. Lt. James McFee, and he's just the tip of the iceberg he's got other highup cops turncoating for love of greenbacks.With a young Amish boy as sole witness, Harrison Ford's Det. John Book probes this dangerous case to uncover the corruption from inside the department out. What results is an intense investigative journey, landing Book in Amishland outside of Philadelphia, where he meets and has a brief affair with a comely Amish lass apparently in need of more than spiritual solace.This widely seen crime-drama was directed with skill by Peter Wier, with an effective score Maurice Jarre.   "},{"Title":"Surprisigny good drama...","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness I think is one of Ford's greatest film if not the greatest. I have never seen Ford portraying such a personal role.Playing a policeman on the run for discovering corruption in his own department he finds shelter in the Amish community of the East Coast where despite initial adaptation problems he becomes to love that community and feel part of it. Highly psychological and slow paced Witness makes an interesting view from start to finish, touching issues such as trust, family bonds, forbidden love and what it feels like to be a cop, innocent and on the run. "},{"Title":"'Witness'","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford plays John Book, a Philadelphia detective who is assigned to take charge of a witness to a murder involving a police officer.  The witness is Samuel Lapp (Lukas Haas), a young Amish boy.  When Book discovers that certain members of the police force are responsible for the crime, Ford flees with the boy and his mother (Kelly McGillis) to hide in Amish country.Superb director Peter Weir, brings excellent direction to the film and draws top-notch performances from the cast.  Notably, Ford and McGillis, both of whom have given arguably their best performances.  The subplot involving the romantic tension developing between Ford and McGillis is masterfully underplayed in the film.  The filmmakers could have turned this love story into standard Hollywood romantic fluff. Instead, we see two characters that are in love, but cannot express it partly due to the completely different lives they lead.Perhaps, the one most notable flaw in the film can be found in the subplot involving the conspiracy within the police force.  These under-developed characters are simply reduced to being the 'bad guys' and nothing more.  No matter, the film is at its best when it examines the cultural differences that exist between these two worlds.  The result is a touching and, yet gripping, film.Rating (9/10) "},{"Title":"*** out of ****","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Peter Weir's first Hollywood film places Harrison Ford as John Book, a big city police officer, who, after investigating a case involving police corruption, hides out in an Amish community.  Ford's performance is spectacular, proving his capabilities as a dramatic actor.  Many of the scenes work well &#150; Weir uses his trademark `stranger in a strange land' theme to create an interesting premise.  The little details about Amish culture and how Book fits in with them are fascinating.  However, in the movie's attempt to tell several different stories &#150; a love interest, the culture clash, and the police conflicts &#150; lead to the latter one being undeveloped and almost feeling unnecessary.  To make matters worse, the film resolves itself in a very standard, tacked on payoff, that seems grossly out of place in an otherwise touching, well crafted film.  A very strong film overall, brought down just a little by Hollywood's desire to please its crowds. "}{"Title":"A good cop movie. Great for a date.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Witness is one of the few movies that I have seen that will appeal to both sexes. It has a good cop story for us guys, and a little bit of romance and drama for the female audience. This is definately a film that I would recommend for a date, or a film to watch with your spouse.When a young Amish boy witnesses a murder of a police officer in a Philidalphia train station, it is up to John Book (played by Harrison Ford) to protect the only material witness from the people that committed the crime. Book takes the young boy back to his Amish town in Pennsylvania to hide out from the criminals, and in his duty of protecting the boy, learns a little bit about the Amish ways. Until the people that are searching for him finally find him.The movie opens great, and builds up a lot of suspense. However, things do tend to slow down when Book gets back to the Amish community. Here is where we witness a bit of the romance between him and the young boys mother. Don't worry though, by the time the film is over, we do get some of the suspense back that we witnessed in the first 20 minutes of the film. The most memorable scene is where a bunch of young punks decide to pick on the Amish, while John Book is with them. Classic Harrison Ford style! Just loved that scene.It was also great to see Danny Glover (however small his part is in this film) to play a different role than usual. Not many films will show him as the bad guy. Overall great casting was done in the film.This is easily one of my favourite Harrison Ford (who is my favourite actor) movies. If you have not seen this old gem, do yourself a favour and rent it from your local video store. You will be pleasantly suprised. "},{"Title":"Great Movie - lousy DVD Transfer","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I won't go into plot detail as you can read plenty about that elsewhere - my main comment is that I throughly enjoy this movie and have the VHS copy of it and so was looking forward to obtaining a DVD transfer to enjoy. WRONG!!! I must admit that I should have read the DVD evaluation included on this site and would have saved myself the $15.00 I plunked down for this. The transfer was awful - there were numerous scenes that were grainy and dark (my VHS copy was a better print). I was soooo disappointed. If this is the best that Paramount could do I'll make sure I don't get stiffed again!!!! All I can say is before you think of tossing all your VHS tapes in the garbage and replacing them with DVD's - remember to read all the reviews beforehand - and remember - BUYER BEWARE!!! "},{"Title":"A fine crime story","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford gives a good performance in this slightly dull but nicely made film about how a tough city cop becomes embroiled in police corruption. Ford is Book, a Philadelphia detective who must protect a young Amish boy who witnessed a brutal killing that involved other cops. Sparks soon fly as the boy, his mother Rachael (Kelly McGillis), and Book must flee from the killers. Ford is good as the cop, but this movie can put you to sleep if you don't pay close attention "},{"Title":"If for nothing else, see this film for the cinematography.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Besides being an extremely interesting story with a great cast, this movie made me fall in love with Peter Weir's directing.  The cinematography in this film is really beautiful.  You have to see this movie on a big screen to really appreciate it, but there are several scenes which I find beautiful every time I see it  the scene in the beginning of the movie with the Amish walking across a green fields with the wind blowing the wheat like an ocean, and several scenes in which he plays with light -- the bathing scene comes to mind.  The only light in the scene is the kerosene lamp, it's just beautiful.  If the mystery, adventure and romance don't entice you, see it for the great cinematography. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lets just say I took a break from the IMDb, but I am back in the saddle now. This is a great movie, not only does it show you what amish life is like, it has action, suspense, romance, everything is here.  For my comic relief of this movie, (I have to have a little...) this movie would be a good start for Playboy's Amish Babe Tour, as a commenter said before, this is the only time you'll see an Amish nude!!!  P.  Allright, on to the review... We start out as the little Amish boy witnesses a murder, and barely escapes with his life.  The cop on this mission (Harrison Ford) gets betrayed, and is forced to live with the Amish for safety.  He falls in love with an Amish woman and walks in on her bathing!  (Refer to above, P)  Well, the police track him down, and the showdown begins!  A great movie, and well worth watching!  Rated R for violence, language, nudity (Once again, refer to above P) , and disrespect towards amish people.  It receives an 8 out of 10.  Probably suitable for 13-14 and above.  Check it out! "},{"Title":"Suspenseful with effective romantic quality","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent story of a gruesome murder, offset by the innocent and sedate life of the Amish. This movie has the right amount of romance, sensuality, tension and suspense to really keep you watching. Well acted all around as well as written and filmed. McGillis is very seductive as the Amish girl with a curious mind. Deserves to be listed in the top 250 films, and among the best from this great director. "},{"Title":"Where else can you see a topless Amish woman?","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The great thing about making a film about the Amish is that you can make it as offensive as you want, because the Amish will never see it. They don't go to movies. They have no TVs or VCRs. So if the Farrelly Brothers want to pose ZZ Top as an Amish Jug Band in Kingpin, or if Peter Wier wants Kelly McGillis to play a topless Amish single mother in Witness, who's to protest? Nobody. Definitely not me.This is a great movie. I saw it when it first came out in a small town drive in, in the back of Dave's truck. I'd probably had 6 or 7 beers by the time the previews were over, and I still managed to stay awake for the whole thing. I always thought this was probably Harrison's best shot for an Oscar. He's never been this good again. Danny Glover, one of the most underrated actors of our time, is great in it. And Lukas Haas has to be one of the best kid actors of all times. And, except for the fact that he's an official member of Leonardo DeCaprio's groupie club, seems to have turned out fairly normal, albeit less talented.And what can I say about Kelly McGillis? She looks great in a little white hat and even better with her frock and apron pulled down below her navel. Oh, and she a good actress too.  "},{"Title":"It rocks!","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Witness is one of my favorite films of all time.  I've always regarded Harrison Ford as a great actor, and I've always thought Witness was one of his best films.  As if the part where John Book slugs the townie wasn't enough to make the film worth seeing, the other parts, such as the raising of the new barn and the scene where the guy gets buried in the corn, were awesomely done.  All that, woven together with great action, romance, and drama, conjoined with a great plot, superb acting, and great directing, are what give me enough reason to give this film a rating of 9.5 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen Witness many times.  Now I just ordered the video, so I can watch it again and again.  Excellent story line, exciting, suspenseful, tender, true honor and heroism, romantic, great acting, superb casting, beautiful scenery and soundtrack.  There wasn't a thing I didn't like about it.  A wonderful film! "},{"Title":"A wonderful, touching film","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was a wonderful film.  The scene in the police station where Samuel recognizes McFee as the killer and his subsequent eye contact with John Book still gives me chills every time I see it.  The love story just added to the film.  It was obvious from the start that Rachel and John Book's love was doomed - neither could leave their respective culture for the other's.  I also enjoyed the barn-raising scene; watching the whole community work together.  Finally, the soundtrack is haunting.  Definitely a movie to watch over and over. "}{"Title":"great crime drama and clash of cultures","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rachel Lapp (Kelly McGillis) recently lost her husband. She and her son Samuel (Lukas Haas) are traveling from Pennsylvania by train to visit her sister in Baltimore. While waiting for a transfer, Samuel witnesses a murder at the Philadelphia train station bathroom. The victim is a policeman. Det. John Book (Harrison Ford) hounds Samuel for an ID. At the police station, he recognizes James McFee (Danny Glover)'s picture as one of the two killers but he's a police lieutenant. Book tells Chief Paul Schaeffer (Josef Sommer) but he's in on the corruption. McFee shots Book. He drives them back to their home to hide. He passes out as he's leaving the Lapp home.Director Peter Weir infuses this with tension. The main actors are all terrific. The clash of cultures is compelling and handled well. It's well written. The crime drama is tightly wound like a great coil readying to spring. "},{"Title":"Some of Harrison Ford's Finest,","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness is a great movie with a very well developed storyline and a terrific cast.It is a very enjoyable drama which contains elements of both crime and romance that manage to balance out very nicely in this despite how different the tones of the romantic scenes and the crime scenes are.Harrison Ford delivers one of the best performances of his career in this movie,I'm a huge fan of him,but he honestly isn't someone who would take my breath away with his acting skills and someone that I think deserves an Oscar,but he easily could have received one for this movie,he takes a break from his big franchise roles to play a much smaller and more human character,and this makes for very sincere acting.I feel like it definitely needed more scenes between John and Rachel,there is plenty,but I felt that in the last thirty minutes it started revolving around it much less and I would have liked to see it develop some more.Dramatic and very well acted,I would recommend Witness to anyone looking for a good crime film or romance. A tuff cop is hired to guard two murder witnesses,a gentle Amish mother and her son,from the killers out to silence them.Best Performance Harrison Ford Worst Performance Alexander GodunovIf you have any recommendations on films/TV series I should watch or review,or any questions to ask me,just tweet me @DillonTheHarris "},{"Title":"The film that showed us that Harrison Ford could act!","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A young Amish boy (played by a VERY young Lukas Haas) witnesses a murder while in Pennsylvania with his widowed mom Rachel (Kelly McGillis). Policeman John Book (Harrison Ford) is assigned to the case and discovers that two policemen ARE the murderers. He's hurt in a gun fight and ends up hiding out (and recovering) in an Amish community. Feelings grow between him and Rachel but they could never marry and the murderers are hunting him.This was a BIG bit back in 1984 and proved that Ford can act. Before this he was only known for the Star Wars movies and he was terrible in them (not his fault--the scripts were lousy). Here he gives a very good performance as Book. You can see the confusion in his face when he falls for Rachel but realizes he can never have her. McGillis is also excellent as the widowed Rachel. Exverybody else is pretty good and look for Brodway legend Patti LuPone in a small role. Haas is pretty terrible but he WAS very young. Also there's beautiful cinematography, great direction by Peter Weir and a haunting music score. Storywise this is nothing new--a man trying to adjust to a different way of life and finding love. It's been done before MANY times but this was well-done and is compelling. One BIG problem--The Amish are peaceful people and don't believe in fighting or violence and we're encouraged to cheer Book on when he punches out a kid making fun of the Amish! "},{"Title":"Sadly couldn't be made in todays cynical world","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll go on record right now and say this is one of my all time favourite films. Easily in my top 5 all time movies.The strength in this movie lies in 3 things-Ford, McGillis, Haas and Jan Rubes performance Peter Weirs directionThe time it was madeThis film couldn't be made now. Kingpin has been made since for a start. That has ruined our perception of the Amish. We live in a far more cynical and suspicious world now we view other cultures differently than when this was made. Technology has moved on. You can't just disappear like you could back in the 80's. If you tried it now you'd be found in minutes. But this is just me being grumpy and digressing. The star of the show here is Peter Weirs soft and beautiful direction. The light and scenery and sound all make this film as much as the plot. The quick, tight camera's in the city to the soft focus in Amish country all help make this more of an experience and help contrast the difference in Book's worlds. The barn raising scene is respectfully and carefully shot and the way the men and women are kept separate is always emphasised. But then Rachel allows Book to see her wash and he's ashamed to see her nudity because he's becoming part of their community is just glorious to see. Ford is such a great actor. He might be wooden as an Ikea wardrobe in real life but the lad can act his pants off.Special mention must go to the chemistry between the boy and the old man as well, they really worked well together, a joy to watch. The boy in particular was always believable and never stilted or precocious. Credit to Weir for making him that way and the adult actors around him for making him comfortable.This is probably a film you should see. You might not like it. You'll probably think it hasn't aged well if you've not seen it before. But watch it anyway. Its worth seeing if only to see Danny Glover do bad guy "},{"Title":"Strong but somewhat dated 1980s thriller","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A fairly straightforward thriller with high concept and big name lead (in Harrison Ford). Imagine Sister Act without the laughs but more sexual tension. It also stars Kelly McGillis, pre-Top Gun, burning the screen up with Ford as she tends him back to health and defends him against the whispers of community mistrust. It's powerful stuff and the denouement does their situation no justice. The best acting comes from the morally stout Jan Rubes, as Eli.I enjoyed the tension Peter Weir brings to the film and almost exactly half of Maurice Jarre's music the straight-out blocks of synthesised sound are fine, if dated, but the bold attempt to refashion pastoral American melodies with a synth-based string sound just doesn't work. It's well-filmed. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Still excellent, and some clarification","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Not so much a review, but for all of those who had questions about the authenticity of the movie's portrayal of Amish life...I am not an expert, but here are the basics All of the rules that Amish obey are more or less derived from interpretations of the way Christ lived, hence basic tenets like pacifism, hard work, denial of worldly goods, etc. Central to their beliefs, then, are the integrity of family and community, as well as humility and simplicity. They do not reject technology for technology's sake. They reject those technologies that they view as distractions from, or detractions from, community, family, etc., and that contribute to vanity, worldliness, and so on.Therefore, it is OK in most Amish communities to travel by car, since it is an effective way, for example, to get goods to market. They just can't own one, or dive one, because next thing you know the kids would be off partying and dad would be down at the bar and so on and so on...taking the train is OK, because it's generally done collectively, and does not lend itself to excess or to easy and impulsive departure from home and community the way a car might. Some of the less strict Amish even occasionally fly in commercial airplanes. Commercial electricity and telephones are off limits since they're on the grid and can lead to distraction from family and community, draw focus on material possessions, and do not promote face-to-face interaction. Since having a generator keeps you off the grid, and can be turned off entirely, it's a lot more widespread and accepted.Conversely, barn raisings are a big deal because they get everyone in the community together cooperating to get something done, and thereby contribute to the community's strength. The Amish community is one of the stricter groups of people to adhere to the WWJD concept.So, it's not about shunning technology, it's about shunning uses of technology that don't jibe with their interpretations of Godly life. Hopefully, with this insight, some of the details in the movie will make a bit more sense.Cheers! "},{"Title":"Solid Thriller","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A Philadelphia cop tries to protect an Amish boy who is the only witness to the murder of a fellow cop. Ford gives one of his best performances as the tough cop who takes refuge in Amish country and falls for McGillis. And who can blame him? The actress looks beautiful and turns in a credible performance as the mother of the Amish boy. The film is at its best in the scenes set in the Amish country, where the cinematography has the beauty of paintings. Particularly memorable is Ford and McGillis dancing to Wonderful World. The plot thread involving the crooked cops pursuing Ford is not very well scripted. As with other films by Weir, the pacing is somewhat lethargic. "},{"Title":"fantastic film","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A young Amish boy (Samuel) witnesses the murder of a police officer and is promptly thrust into a dangerous game of cat & mouse.The thing i love about witness is that the film completely tricked me into believing it was one thing only to turn out to be so much more. On the surface you would be forgiven to believe this was just another cop movie where corruption is rife and greed has overshadowed why indeed people become police officers.This is the basic premise and it works very well with Harrison ford faultless as the upstanding john book, but this is just a distraction from the very personal and unforgettable journey that john, Rachel and of course Samuel take.When john returns Samuel and his mother to there community he wants to leave as soon as possible but forced to stay due to the fact that he has a rather nasty bullet wound that needs urgent medical attention he has no choice but to recover in the care of Rachel.It is here where the story really began to unfold for me, having been bought up with a steady diet of TV and the hustle and bustle of police life at first john seems like a fish out of water at the way this Pennsylvanian Amish community live, given time though john seems to embrace this way of life and suddenly seems to become free in a way he has never experienced and never expected, growing closer and closer to Samuel's mother Rachel (kelly McGill's),this tense thriller suddenly becomes a much more personal film with love and loss its central themes. "},{"Title":"has best  kiss on film","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In addition to being gripping and cinematically flawless (goof's aside), Witness contains one of the best on-screen kisses in the history of film. The scene marks the peak moment in Witness's romantic plot-line when the two protagonists discover who they truly are to one another, and what the future holds for them. As an audience, we behold two people from radically different societies, who have shared both personal and cultural antipathy, fall in love both with each other, and with each other's worlds. The result is a passionate and organic expression of love and sexual desire that is at once titillating and moving. Admitting neither the customary fondlings nor the rote shedding of clothing, this brief love-scene stands alone in movie history for its power, sincerity, and beauty. "},{"Title":"Peace and beauty of the Amish","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" A commentator says that Rachel's beauty is unique and suggests that Amish women are not beautiful..On the contrary, most are beautiful. Their dress is quaint to most people, but no matter what they wear they have beauties all over the place as in any other place in the world. Their simplicity and plain style and manner makes them more attractive. Their plain way of living somehow makes their beauty more radiant and luminescent. The commentator surely has not been in Amish country. I have been there and always feel a sense of freshness and elevation of the spirit. When living in Pennsylvania I worked in the Hershey Children's Hospital where their children were hospitalized. The sense of family and community just oozed from their beings. It was also interesting to hear them speak in their German dialect. It was more interesting to see how they look so at ease with us the members of their outer world. "}{"Title":"Taut, tense and believable","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Witness has always been one of my favorite films and one that has struck close to home. My family comes from Pennsylvania's Amish country and I spent a great deal of time growing up around the Amish, even visiting their homes once in a while. When Witness came out, people finally started to take more of an interest -- or at least become aware of -- the Amish. Without this film, I very much doubt Randy Quaid would have played an Amish man in Kingpin. And so on and so forth.Witness is a very faithful adaptation of the Amish way of life, remaining respectful of the culture without resorting to the typical Hollywoodinization of the material. Yes, Kelly McGillis' character does transform a bit, but that's essential to the story. All the other characters remain the same, and do not change, which I felt was a very important aspect; how believable would this have been if, at the end, they all drove away in a car or something and ditched their roots. It'd be pretty embarrassing, I think.Witness is one of the best films of its genre and an excellent character study. It is intelligently made, almost never (if ever) insulting, and features one of Harrison Ford's best performances.The conclusion does draw out a bit and perhaps a few minutes here and there could be cut without really harming the flow, but in my opinion the movie is only better due to its length -- it doesn't cater to the teen audiences who can't appreciate longer and quieter, subtler thrillers.In a decade when chills and spills were almost always involving teens having premarital sex and being sliced and diced by nameless, masked killers, Witness had a new angle to draw upon -- and it's about a hundred times more thrilling, and believable, than any of the other films released during the era. "},{"Title":"Ford's Oscar worthy performance","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" And his most outstanding dramatic performance of his career it puts all his other great great performances to shame. He certainly would have gotten the little gold guy if Amadeus had not also been released that same year. Ford is Detective John Book, a no nonsense, cynical Philadelphia cop who is assigned to work a homicide case involving a narcotics officer being taken down in a train station bathroom with the sole witness being a little Amish boy named Samuel Lapp (Lukas Haas cast perfectly) who saw the policeman killed by two other men. Book believes and rightly so that the killing was committed by drug dealers and he sets out to catch them. The catch is he doesn't figure on the drug dealing killers being cops themselves. When Samuel ID's a fellow boy in blue, Ford tells his good friend and mentor Chief Paul Schaeffer (Joseph Sommer in a top notch showing)who tells him he will take care of everything. Sommer mesmerizes you with his subtle malicious badness while Glover shocks you with his. Book is ambushed and shot by none other than Lieutenant McFee of Narcotics (Danny Glover in his best acting performance ever he is flawless)who is only the tip of the corrupt iceberg departmentally speaking. Watch your back Schaeffer is in this too! Ford tells his partner and flees with the boy and his attractive mother back to the Pennsylvania farm where they came from and slowly recovers while trying to clear his name and protect them from harm. But the trio of bad cops have other ideas in mind and are dedicated to killing Book and Samuel no matter what it takes or who they have to kill to do it. Book, now a stranger in a far stranger land, must become an Amishman and live like one indefinitely which turns out to be more difficult than originally planned as he falls for Samuel's mother Rachel (Kelly McGillis in her biggest role) and realizes his life can never be the same if he lives long enough to live it. Ford's acting starts off great and keeps getting better with each passing frame. His character is perhaps the most dynamic well fleshed out character in cinema history. Also features the late Alexander Godunov who is terrific and Viggo Mortensen in a small, early screen role. Watched it a thousand times and best drama of 1985. "},{"Title":"Gritty, well paced, and wonderfully acted","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Harrison Ford's only academy award nomination was for his performance in Witness. There is a mix of everything in this, which is part of the reason for being so successful. Witness is appealing to both men and women, the reason being that there is a gritty look at inner city police corruption, a sensuous love story, and a rare look at the misunderstood culture of the Amish.I guess this movie could be shown in a high school American culture class. It has plenty of useful information about the Amish that not too many people would know about.The story follows a young Amish boy who has witnessed a murder, and a tough Philadelphia cop(played by Harrison Ford) who is supposed to protect him. There isn't a whole lot of action in this movie, but there are some gritty and suspenseful scenes that add to the excitement of the movie. The clash of culture is interesting and realistic. The love story is also pretty good, as it never becomes a soap opera.The direction by Peter Weir is masterful in Witness. The synthesized music doesn't really fit into the movie, it sounds more like something that would be in a science fiction movie, but the music does have a few high points.If you're looking for a movie with no story and just action, then this isn't the movie for you. If you want a movie that has a good plot, character development, great acting, and a realistic love story, then Witness is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Good Film Throughout.","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WITNESS stars Harrison Ford (in a very credible role) as a Philadelphia detective who retreats to an Amish community while protecting a young boy who witnessed a murder.  This film is not very intense, but it never tries too hard. Kelly McGillis is good in her role of the young boy's mother.  Alexander Godunov and Danny Glover are also great in their small roles.  Overall, WITNESS is a fine film that's always watchable.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Solid drama; Ford's best performance & McGillis' most adept","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WITNESS (1985) **** Harrison Ford, Kelly McGillis, Lukas Haas,Danny Glover, Alexander Godunov, Josef Sommer, Viggo  Mortensen, Patti LuPone, Timothy Carhart.  Arguably Ford's bestperformance (he garnered his first Best Actor nomination) as Phillycop John Book on a murder case involving an Amish boy  eyewitness (Haas surprisingly excellent in his big screen debut)and the implications of the killer among the police force, sendinghim incognito into the world of the peace keeping anachronisticsect.  Superb direction by fellow nominee Peter Weir as well as anod for Best Picture (losing ultimately to Out of Africa and itsdirector Sydney Pollack), but winning an Academy Award for its tautediting by Thom Noble and Original Screenplay by Earl W. Wallaceand William Kelley.  Memorable scene Ford and McGillis dancingin a barn to Sam Cooke's What A Wonderful World This CouldBe; magical. "},{"Title":"Good Film That Received a Best Picture Nomination in 1985","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Witness is a good film, not great, about a police detective (Harrison Ford in his Oscar-nominated role) who is trying to protect a young Amish boy (Lukas Haas) from some bad guys after he witnesses a murder in a train station restroom.  Peter Weir's direction is solid and the Oscar-winning screenplay is adequate.  However, the film never does do anything truly remarkable.  Ford is strong, but no one else really matches his character.  The Amish people are boring, Kelly McGillis is disappointing, and Danny Glover lacks the material to really make a lasting impression.  A ho-hum ending does not help either as it takes away from some of the good things done earlier in the film.  Good, but could have been better.  4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Why it is the best movie I have ever seen","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Quite apart from the casting and the plot, which were both superb the main reason why I loved this film was that it is the only movie that I have ever seen that felt so vivid and real as if I was part of the 'action'Prior to the finale my teeth were clenched and my body rigid with tension and at the end I broke out in uncontrollable shaking. I have only ever experienced this during my time in the military. "},{"Title":"'Witness', the film itself, is like its title  Stunning, clear, and heartfelt.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Any movie that involves the Amish that I've seen (this one and the Farrelly brothers' comedy Kingpin), pictures them as people who live a different life from everyone else. Witness, the film itself, is like its title Stunning, clear, and heartfelt. Peter Weir, an Austrailian director, made this film his first in the U.S. and Weir has carefully made a masterpiece.Witness is a great and clever thriller about a young Amish widow, Rachel (Kelly McGillis) and her son, Samuel (Lukas Haas) take John Book (Harrison Ford), a bitter and impatient Philadelphia detective who's wounded and on the run from a good friend now foe, Schaffer (Josef Sommer) and a pair of corrupt cops, to their home in the middle of an Amish community.The few scenes that Book (Ford) has with Samuel (Haas) involves mostly facial expressions is one of the strong parts. So is the love scene that Book and Rachel have and the musical score by Maurice Jaffe captures that scene very well. Another scene that I liked very much was the construction of barn for an Amish couple that just got married.The showdown that Book has against Schaffer and the two cops is well-done and the timing is near perfection. How the showdown ends with a few other Amish families come to see what has happen and some of the looks (on their faces) shows Schaffer that he should surrender peacefully.Ford gives a great and solid performance as Book, but Haas manages to steal most of the scenes that he's in very well. Haas doesn't say much, but looking at the cheerful, colorful face of his is something that can't go unseen. "},{"Title":"One of the best thrillers of the 80's.","Date":"18 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Peter Weir's film about culture clash and an a mediation of violence in some of the most dangerous cities in America has culminated into a exciting, original, and even, powerful movie that I think is one of the most entertaining thrillers of the 1980's. That movie is, of course, Witness.Harrison Ford plays a Philadelphia police detective who's assigned to investigate an murder witnessed by a 8 year old Amish boy. In the beginning of the movie, the little kid and his Amish mother, (Kelly McGillis), is on their way to visit the mother's sister in Philadelphia. Once the little boy witnessed and identified the person who's responsible for the murder of a policeman inside the train station's bathroom, Ford realizes that the boy and his mother are in danger of those who do know about the murder. After a short shootout inside a parking garage, Ford is forced to live among the Amish community in order to protect the boy and his mother. Soon enough, he starts to become one of them as he, at one point during the movie, raised a barn and even is greeted more kindly to the locals. But, it isn't long before the bad guys show up to interfere with Ford's relationship with the Amish locals.The movie tells two stories. One is the murder story involving the little kid, which I mentioned above, and the other is a story of forbidden love. Ford and McGillis begins to show affections for the two of them and realized that their love for one another is banned due the Amish standards in the community. The most interesting scene that I like a lot is when, after Ford's character watches Gillis' character bathes alone and is surprised to see him, watching her, the two run into each other arms, confessing their love. Now, some people might think that this scene is corny. But, to tell you the truth, it is not. Their romance is very effective in this very well-told story.Witness is one of the best thrillers, I think, of the 1980's. This is the kind of movie that Alfred Hitchcock would to make if he was still alive. Harrison Ford really does bring all his has into this movie. I was very impressed by how Ford was able to channel his action hero stardom into a more human character. His performance as John Book earned Ford his first and only Oscar nomination. He really deserved the nomination and it would've been something if he did win. Kelly McGillis is also riveting as the little boy's mother. Many people might think of her as a very sensitive person, when in doubt, her character really wants to break out of her culture and into the open world where she wouldn't have to follow in the local standards.I also want to give credit to some of the other actors involved in this movie, including Danny Glover, who plays one of the cops that is involved in the murder and Lukas Haas as the little kid. Haas is, like Ford and McGillis, really does a very good job of portraying Samuel as a kid who's not like any other child actor that I ever saw. I believed him as Samuel from the moment we see him at the Philadelphia train station in the beginning of the movie. We can't really take our eyes off this character and either the other two mentioned above, but that what makes Witness all the more enjoyable. This is a great thriller. See it if you haven't seen it already. ★★★★ 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Eight-year-old Amish boy Samuel Lapp (Haas) is the sole witness to a homicide that took place in a train station restroom while he and his widowed mother Rachel (McGillis) are attempting to visit a relative in Baltimore. The two get caught up in the English's laws and crime when the boy is pressured to testify. Detective John Book (Ford) realizes the danger the Lapps are in, and tries to keep them safe from the killers by hiding them back in Amish country. Ford is great at being controlling but gentle, and the action-packed thrills in Lancaster County makes for some unique intensity. Flaws include forced romance between the detective and distressed mother, while supporting characters are so underdeveloped that it feels like director Weir may have cut out an entire subplot, and Naas' character gradually becomes less and less important as the story progresses. Keep an eye out for Viggo Mortensen in his first role.**½ (out of four) "}{"Title":"Very good script.","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" In my first impression after watching this film, i was like wow. The script is really very good. I mean, really good. Well written, maybe a few dull dialogs and a couple of dull and forced situations (an important and dull plot turn) there is no complains about it good quality. It's also very entertaining. We have a sight of the Amish world, which however isn't so truthful to reality in the film, still being interesting. Harrison Ford brings arguably one of his best performances in his career, as the irresponsible detective which decides to once in his life being a responsible person, with compromises. The cinematography is also very good. The film was shot on location in Philadelphia and the city and towns of Intercourse, Lancaster, Strasburg and Parkesburg. I just find a problem. I didn't felt so involved with the characters. Their development is not the one which priority is to set the characters, but the story. So i didn't cared that much about the characters. But yes, it's a good film, and recommended. Just don't expect a very good film because this isn't one. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Plain and Stylish","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I know only too well from bitter experience that films seen in youth and subsequently revisited have a low strike-rate in the holding up department. Last year Witness celebrated its quarter century so when I watched it again I was prepared for a disappointment that failed to materialize and I found it - with the usual reservations - as enjoyable as the first time round. The idea of bent cops is not exactly new nor, alas, the idea of corruption stretching all the way to the top - see LA Confidential for one - so ideally if you're taking that route you need a gimmick and Witness has a doozy, the social clash between the 'plain people' aka the Amish of Lancaster County, Pa, and the big city violence represented by Philadelphia. I've actually visited Lancaster County though not so much to gawp at the Amish as to visit the stamping ground of a favourite writer and whilst I did actually glimpse the Amish going about their business I know little more about them than that they speak 'Pennsylvania Dutch', wear plain clothing and eschew technology to the extent that there are no telephones, automobiles, dishwashers, televisions etc in their community. So I was a little surprised that Rachel (Kelly McGillis, would both elect and be allowed to travel by train to Baltimore to visit her sister. I was equally surprised that this very recent widow - the film opens with the funeral of her husband - should be more than prepared to form a new relationship with fellow Amish male, Daniel, and enjoy a sexual one with 'outsider' John Book (Harrison Ford). But these are relatively minor cavils - as is the last-reel shootout which pits and unarmed Book against three armed men from the Philadelphia plain-clothes division and including the corrupt chief of police. Book is able to take one of them out of the game but his cat-and-mouse game with just one of three was unbalanced, allotting a good five minutes of screen-time to this one encounter when in reality the other two men would be only metres away. Despite these flaws Witness remains a fine and extremely watchable film "},{"Title":"Plot has too many holes","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are a couple of things in this movie that just defy belief. If the crooked cops wanted to kill an undercover cop before he got them why would they do it in a public restroom during the day in the middle of one of the busiest train stations in the U.S. instead of waylaying him at night in a deserted spot? Why wouldn't Book contact either Internal Affairs or the FBI or even someone in the media while he was hiding out in Amish Country instead of just waiting for Glover and company to come get him? After Book was healed and knowing what danger might come to his family if Book stayed there why wouldn't old Eli Lapp show Book the door? The scenery and acting make this a very good movie but the plot has too many holes. "},{"Title":"School house murders reminded me of this little gem of a film","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yesterday's crazed gunman's rampage in Lanacaster County PA against those poor little Amish school girls reminded me of this movie and its premise of bad guys looking for the little Amish boy. The movie gives an all-too-short glimpse into the innocence of these often misunderstood folk, and the terror they must feel when threatened from the outside.True, they choose to be defenceless by their faith, but that does not lessen any fear they must certainly have.Sadly, today's headlines in the aftermath of the bloodbath in Nickel Mines remind us that not everything can EASILY be dismissed as just a movie. "},{"Title":"Witness","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Book(Harrison Ford in perhaps his best film as an actor)discovers through the eye-witness of a young Amish boy, Samuel(Lukas Haas), that cops have murdered one of their own because said slain had uncovered a drug ring taking place with confiscated materials used to create speed. Unfortunate for John, he goes to a man he believes he can trust, Chief Paul Schaeffer(Josef Sommer), but doesn't know he's actually the mastermind behind the whole operation. Book is fired upon by Lt. McFee(Danny Glover), the cop who slit the throat of the cop. Book, bleeding profusely, flees with Rachel(Kelly McGillis, who is excellent)and her son Samuel to their Amish residence in order to keep them from possible harm. Book has been bleeding so badly, the Amish doctor will have to heal him and this opens the door for the film's fish-out-of-water theme never utilized better than in this film about a man who discovers the wonderful people in a village often criticized and slanted because of their differences in living in regards to society. It's always present, though, that Schaeffer would not rest until he finds Book and the child..their operation would ruin him. An important piece to Book's whereabouts lies in his partner Carter(Brent Jennings)who knows where he is. Schaeffer obviously understands their relationship is tight and needs to squeeze the information of Book's location from him. The film's main centerpiece is the growing bond between Book, an outsider, and Rachel. We can clearly see that this will never come to complete fruition because their worlds are so far apart, but we understand this love that permeates when they are near each other. It's a beautiful thing to watch slowly develop because upon Book's arrival, the village were quite worried of what troubles he might bring to their peaceful co-existence. The violence Book comes from is stagnant in one particular scene where John breaks the nose of a trouble-maker wishing to cause emotional distress the Amish people just desiring to go home. Eli(Jan Rubes, who is wonderful)tries in many ways to tame John, but he can not stand by, as the Amish people have, and see them mistreated because of who they are. His reaction is seen as immoral, but there seems to be an understanding that takes place here. We see that John absolutely cares for these people and when someone wishes to poke fun at their modest and quiet ways, it brings out the worst in him. I think the film's true beauty is how director Weir casts a respectful eye to the Amish way of life rather than the jokingly scornful way they are often portrayed. As most films of Weir are, this is magnificently photographed with a haunting lyrical score. The film also shows the clashing of two different ways of life as Rachel shows throughout her growing attraction to John. A suitor possibly for her is Daniel Hochleitner(Alexander Godunov), but the film thankfully stays away from him clashing with John over Rachel. John knows where Daniel stands and vice versa. We actually seem to see a camaraderie form between the two during a sequence where all the men band together and build a barn for a newly married couple. Book's being able to use his abilities at carpentry brings him a workman-like tolerance from the village despite being not one of them. Slowly but surely, John has been appreciated and loved by all as they accept him with the understanding that he will eventually go, but be remembered fondly. The final twenty or so minutes is the eventual encounter of Schaeffer and his two cop cronies trying to find John so they can silence him for good. John has found out that his partner was killed and threatened Schaeffer's life. In the confrontation, Schaeffer and John will meet and this shows a stand-off against the violence that has existed for too long. John wishes for the killing to stop after his successful survival against McFee and Fergie(Angus MacInnes). I think this is another great example that the 1980's was the decade of Harrison Ford. Hit after hit starred Ford and Witness is simply another fine example of marvelous work. Weir frames some magnificent shots of the green fields(I call them The fields of life)and the camera lovingly captures the landscape of a peaceful group of people who just want to live without the outside corruption. Perhaps a little of what they live rubbed off on John..I believe it did. "},{"Title":"Regarding the bloody nose scene","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Book loses it and breaks and bloodies the nose of one of the townsfolk taunting his new Amish friends. Viewing this scene out of context, it does seem as though the trigger is just the uncalled for derision getting to him because of his growing appreciation for this community. While the taunting does nothing to soothe his state of mind obviously, it is the sudden and shocking news (received over the phone prior to making the trip in the carriage) that his partner in the police department has been killed that sets things brewing in this scene and lends fury to his punches. Otherwise, I don't believe this character would have acted out this violently. He might have just stepped out of the carriage and delivered some scathing sarcasm. In other words, the bloody nose scene was not a facile insertion to satisfy the audience's desire for some comeuppance. Rather, it flowed naturally from the previous action. "},{"Title":"A cop (Ford) must hide among Quakers to escape crooked cops.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A clash of two cultures is rarely and so beautifully examined in this excellent piece of cinema.  A young Amish boy witnesses a murder in a Philadelphia train station and a resourceful cop, John Book (Harrison Ford), trying to protect him uncovers a conspiracy among his crooked brethren.  Book must hide among the Amish population while recovering from an attempt to kill him by these cops. Danny Glover is very convincing as the murderous villain.  While the formula of the tough city copy falling in love with the Amish boy's mother (Kelly McGillis) is predictable, the performances are so convincing it pulls the audience closer to the characters and sets the standard for such films.  There is an exceptional (and rather chaste) sponge bath scene (her back is turned to the audience) though lacking any dialogue, where the two characters stare at one another and communicate such passion, longing and sexual tension, with only their eyes and a few mannerisms to convey their feelings.  I was very impressed at how the cast and director handled this scene in particular as it is something we are rarely treated to in films.  The showdown is inevitable and the tension mounts skillfully.  A wonderful film I would see again and again. "},{"Title":"Really Great Movie","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although this movie is not Harrison Ford's best known, which is probably The Fugitive, this is still my favorite movie.  This movie has action, romance, and is a very enjoyable movie (so are The Fugitive and Air Force One).This movie also contains a scene that I think everyone who has seen the movie will never forget--What A Wonderful This Would Be.  This moment combines one of my favorite songs with one of my favorite actors, and the result is amazing.  If you don't watch the movie for any other reason, watch it for this scene.The plot for this movie is creative and I thoroughly enjoyed watching all of the actors and actresses who did a marvelous job in it.  1985--what I great year--both Witness and MacGyver made their premieres.  "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford's Finest Performance","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford gives his finest performance in Witness. Though this is not my favorite Harrison Ford movie, his performance is tough, sympathetic, and convincing. Though he has played characters like this before he has never been better than he was here. The film itself is also good, suspenseful, thrilling, and well directed. This is a very good movie. "},{"Title":"The thriller as a passionate love story","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a connoisseur of the thriller genre I can tell you this is one of the best ever made. Harrison Ford is better than I have ever seen him; the scenes with eight-year-old Lukas Haas are magical, and Kelly McGillis projects the primeval power of a woman like few you'll ever see. Peter Weir's direction is practically flawless. The evil cops are as evil as evil can be, and the Amish are treated kindly, with respect and admiration. Quite simply though, the reason this is a great thriller is that it is a powerful love story.The passionate love that is felt and built upon, but not consummated, envelops the audience in anticipation. What makes this happen is some real-not contrived-obstacle to the expression of that love, such as the lovers being from different and warring families, as in Romeo and Juliet, or from different cultures, as here in Witness. She is Amish, and he is a big city cop who whacks people. For their love to work, a gulf as wide as the Pacific Ocean has to be bridged. I think the carefully constructed script by William Kelley gives us an ending we can live with. Watch it and see if you agree.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "}{"Title":"Harrison, Harrison, Harrison!!!!!!!","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is a scene in Witness in which Harrison Ford, tough police officer and Kelly McGillis, Amish woman who lost her husband dance to an oldies tune in the Amish barn.  It's my favorite scene in the film because just about everyone's had that experience--dancing with someone you're crazy about but still unfamiliar with.  They laugh, spin, get close, spin again, and even though they don't kiss, you aren't disappointed.  It's such a natural and perfectly believable scene; it's the second biggest reason I love this film.The first is, of course, Harrison Ford. Ford, People Magazine's Sexiest Man Alive in 1998 is well deserving of the title, not just for his weathered, tough-but-tender looks, but because of his enormous audience appeal earned through his *almost* flawless acting. I'm not sure on this, but I believe I heard Ford has starred in 7 of the top 20 films of all time. However, Ford has not won an Academy Award (yet) although he was nominated for his role in Witness. His expressions speak volumes (as does Samual's, played beautifully by Lukas Haas). The end of the film seems a little too Hollywood-ish after such a novel first half, although the scene in which deadly corn pummels an assailant from above is great.  The outcome of the film seemed a little unlikely to me, and I was dissatisfied with its conclusion.  But this is still a marvelous film, as has been the case with all of director Peter Weir's movies. "},{"Title":"great plot ... great action ... this is what a movie should be!","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  you can't go wrong watching witness!  this is one of the best conceived ever!  by now, i think everyone knows the basic plot.  i think the only thing i want to add is that this movie has one of the sexiest fully-dressed scenes i've every watched - the one between mcginnis and ford in the barn dancing to an old tune!kelly mcginnis is at her best in this movie! shows how truly sexy a woman can be! "},{"Title":"Listen, lady, you take my picture and I'm going to rip off your brassiere and strangle you with it.  - John Book","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw 'Witness' for the first time last light on AMC (American Movie Channel). I was expecting something really great since it was nominated for 'Best Picture' and won an Oscar for 'Best Original Screenplay'. Well, I have to say a was a little disappointed with it. 'Witness' starring Harrison Ford as a heroic police detective on a mission to save a little boy was a very good movie, but nothing close to being worthy of the Oscar status. It would be like 'Lethal Weapon' (which came out by the way, the same year, and is more deserving of praise) winning an Oscar, it's a good film and fun to watch, but it just isn't in the same league with other films. But then again, 1985 wasn't the best year for films, point in fact it was one of the worst. But just because I don't think 'Witness' should have won an Oscar doesn't mean I think it's a bad movie in the slightest. It's an interesting and mostly entertaining film about a little Amish boy, Samuel (Lukas Haas) who witnesses the of a cop at the hands of a dirty cop named McFee (Danny Glover - Lethal Weapon). The boy and his caring single Amish mother, Rachel (Kelly McGillis - Top Gun) are taken into hiding by the brave, clean and honest police detective John Book (Harrison Ford). They hide out at an Amish plantation, a perfect spot where the dirty cops can't locate them. There Book plays Amish, and milks cows, does carpentry and raises barns. The film makes a transition into the suspenseful crime/drama to a kind of comedy with a romantic love interest between Book and Rachel.You see I enjoyed the beginning of 'Witness' more then what preceded it. It started out a cool dark suspense mystery and turned into Harrison Ford shirtless at the ranch milking cattle or beating up yanks who pick on the poor ole Amish -- ughhh. It was very funny, but I didn't care for the shift of seriousness to stupid silly slapstick in the slightest bit. The ending was a little hokey, but had a great shoot-out scene before hand. The acting in 'Witness' is perhaps the best quality. Harrison Ford gives what is perhaps his finest performance (well, maybe with the exception of 1993's 'The Fugitive') as the determined, loyal and dedicated officer of the law that is John Book. Kelly McGillis is solid as to be expected as Rachel, and young Lukas Haas was nothing short of impressive in the way he handled his role. It was interesting to see Danny Glover, whose usually stuck playing the hapless good guy, playing a ruthless and mean dirty cop. Josef Summer, Alexander Goudonuv, Jan Rubes and Patti Lupone also have parts in the film, and watch out for a small role played by a very young Viggo Mortensen. Peter Weir provides great directing as to be expected and the screenplay is pretty decent (a far cry from Oscar worthy if I may say so) for the genre of this kind of flick. All in all, 'Witness' is a good motion picture despite it's flaws and shortcomings. I recommend you taking the time to watch it if you spot it on television. Grade B "},{"Title":"One of the Best Thrillers and Romances of the Eighties","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Minor SpoilersRachel Lapps (Kelly McGillis) and her son Samuel (Lukas Haas, with seven years old) live in an Amish community in Philadelphia. Rachel has just lost her husband and is traveling by train to visit her sister, in Baltimore. While waiting the train, Samuel  witness a violent murder in the restroom. John Book (Harrison Ford) is the detective in charge of the investigation and brings the boy with him to the police station for identification of the criminal. John finds out that he is the  highly honored detective James McFee (Danny Glover), from the Narcotics division.  John looks for his chief and friend Paul Schaeffer (Joseph Sommer) asking for support, but he is also member of McFee`s gang. John is chased by McFee and wounded. He escapes with Rachel and Samuel to their small town  and there among the Amish, he heals, getting stronger again. Rachel and John falls in love for each other, and due to an incident, the dirty policemen find where John is hidden. This film has a great end. `Witness' is certainly one of the best thrillers / romances of the Eighties. The plot is very well developed, the actors and actresses have outstanding performances, lightning, shadows and soundtrack are wonderful and the direction is perfect. Kelly McGillis is very beautiful, even wearing the Amish costumes and without make-up. The now-a-days famous Viggo Mortensen has a minor participation, in the beginning of his career, acting as an Amish from Rachel's community. There are fantastic scenes in this movie, such as when Rachel and her relatives receives the compliments of Daniel Hochleitner (Alexander Godunov); when Samuel witness the crime, with his frightened eyes; when Samuel identifies the picture of the murderer; when Rachel and John kiss each other; and the last silent scene, when John leaves the Rachel's house and crosses with Daniel. The soundtrack from Maurice Jarre suits perfectly to this magnificent film. My vote is none. "},{"Title":"Must Be Seen","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Musical Score - 9; Screenplay - 10; Direction - 10; Cast - 10; Story - 10; Production - 10.  What else is there to say?Is it the most thrilling movie ever? No.  Is it the most romantic movie ever?  No.  Is it the best 'fish out of water' movie ever?  No.  But it stands as one of the best movies ever.To weave all the different threads of the story into such a wonderful tableau is an outstanding cinematic achievement.  Weir's vision and deft touch made me want to stand up and cheer his artistry.The story doesn't lag, it develops the characters.  There are just too many wonderful scenes to describe.  Don't read about this movie - SEE it!  "},{"Title":"Harrisons a hunk","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Witness is a dramatic movie which begins with an Ain Pennslyvannia. Samuel Lapp and his mother Rachel Lapp catch a train to Philadelphia. While they are in Philadelphia, Samuel witnesses a horrible murder.The murder leaves Samuel scared for his life. Police Captain John Book is determined to find the killer, and takes on the responsibility to protect Samuel and his mother.Harrison Ford plays Police Captain John Book in this action movie. He plays the tough guy. Harrison Ford has the main role in this movie because he has to protect the witness and catch the killer.The Witness contains both drama and action. The action scenes are full of colour and the dramatic scenes are full of emotion. This movie is recommended for anyone who is in for a good action and dramatic movie. Anyone who believes that the good guys always win will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Witness","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've never understood the hoopla about this film. It received Oscar nominations out the wazoo. Ford is an okay police officer who must protect a young Amish boy, who was a witness to a vicious murder.Ford must go into the depths of the Amish way of life to protect the boy from the murderers who also happen to be cops. Peter Weir directs. Danny Glover, Kelly McGillis and Josef Sommer co-star. "},{"Title":"Witness the boredom of an 80's drama","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie may have been well received in the mid 80's but unfortunately it doesn't hold up to well. It's a very slow paced and uneventful movie, that being said it's not necessarily a bad movie. The movie follows the seemingly pointless hiding in an Amish community of a detective (Harrison Ford) who is investigating a murder witnessed by a young boy from the community. During his stay Ford falls for the mother of the child (Kelly McGillis) which serves no more purpose then to give us a god awful dance scene and inevitable forbidden love scenario, the one good thing to come out of this arrangement is the obligatory 80's tit shot. The films 3rd act is no better or worse then the proceeding two before it, winding down with two murders and a stern talking to as it's climax this movie leaves you with a feeling of mediocre satisfaction because while the plot and script are paper thin the acting is quite good.Featured on episode 57 of The Emerald Reprobates Podcast. "},{"Title":"Weird Al Yankovic must have watched this movie while writing Amish Paradise.","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" On the train headed for Philadelphia, Amish widow Rachel Lapp (Kelly McGillis) tells her son Samuel (Lukas Haas) You're going to see a lot of interesting things there. She doesn't know just how right she is! In the men's bathroom at the train station, Samuel does see something interesting a murder. Det. Capt. John Book (Harrison Ford) tries to protect Rachel and Samuel, but through a series of incidents, the murderer - corrupt Det. James McFee (Danny Glover) - shoots Book, and Book has to hide out with the Amish. Over the next few days, he gets to experience every aspect of Amish life milking cows, raising a barn, etc. At the end, he has to protect the entire Amish community from the corrupt cops who were behind the murder.I have liked every one of Peter Weir's movies, and Witness is part of that crowd. Weir does a masterful job dignifying a culture which we often regard as quaint or even weird. The Amish may have a different lifestyle, but they are non-violent if nothing else. In the movie, we even get to see a contrast between Book's violent world, and the peaceful Amish life; in one scene, Book decides that he has to punish some tourists who are abusing the Amish.On other thing is that I get the feeling that Weird Al Yankovic probably watched this movie to get ideas for his song Amish Paradise (a parody of Coolio's Gangsta Paradise). The Amish probably didn't like that song, but you know Weird Al he lets everyone have it equally. "},{"Title":"A Genuinely Dramatic And Suspenseful Thriller","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Peter Weir's Witness released in 1985 would become one of a trend of crime/police/detective thrillers that would enjoy success well into the 90's. Harrison Ford is tailor-made for the role of John Book, a tough but sensitive NYC cop. He has played the hero before in such thrillers as Clear and Present Danger etc. An Amish boy, played by Lukas Haas, goes to an station bathroom and accidentally witnesses a murder. The murderer turns out to be none other than a treacherous cop played by Danny Glover, who is out of his usual portrayals of good guys in the movies. Kelly McGillis portrays the boy's widowed Amish mother Rachel. While the film is undoubtedly a thriller dealing with crime, it works on another level, the juxtaposition of two different worlds- the real world of New York City and of crime and the more peaceful world of the Amish, who shun anything modern- electricity, telephones, televisions. The Mennonites seem to be a bit more moderate and more modern and even in this film it's mentioned. Having tracked down the killer, John Book and the Amish boy must escape and live in hiding in the Amish community.It's said the director and writers spent time in an actual Amish community. I find that a bit hard to believe since they are indeed very suspicious of strangers, but some are quite warm and friendly and don't mind visitors as long as they keep a real distance and don't' mingle or blend. It is actually a bit of fiction to have John Book living among the Amish even apparently falling in love with Rachel. It just didn't work for me. The Amish remain isolated from the world to this day, even though we are now in the 21st century..2005. But this movie is well-written, quite suspenseful and interesting to watch. Kudos to Harrison Ford who carries most of the weight of the film. "}{"Title":"One of the greatest ever","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites ! First I like Harrison Ford he`s doing a great job and see Kelly McGillis who hasn`t looked better in any other movie ! This movie shows it all. Action, romance, love and even more. It is fun watching it ! It also shows the conflict between the amish and civilisation ! The whole movie is fun watching it. And although it has something like a happy end there is still something remaining that could bring tears in your eyes. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford acts as Indiana Jones-like hero","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is really good, and VERY corny. That last comment was referring to the scene where John Book (Harrison Ford) dumps a whole silo of corn on the bad guy. I just saw the last part of this movie last night, but the first time I saw it was long ago, so I don't remember it very well. Rent it, watch it, and be happy.  "},{"Title":"Witness","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" From Golden Globe nominated director Peter Weir (Dead Poets Society, The Truman Show), comes a really interesting story about crime, love and religion. Basically Rachel Lapp (Top Gun's BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Kelly McGillis) and her son Samuel (Mars Attacks! star Lucas Haas) are Amish, a religion who avoid modern convenience, such as cars and electricity. They were heading back to the home town from Philadelphia, but in the train station washroom, Samuel witnesses the brutal murder of a police officer, he only saw one face of two men. Detecive John Book (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Harrison Ford) is assigned to get a description from Samuel, and using many methods, e.g. photographs, rough handling, until eventually, Samuel sees the man on a newspaper sheet in the trophy cabinet, narcotics officer McFee (Danny Glover). To help protect them, he asks his partner to hide the case files, and he goes to join the Lapps in their community, also because he got wounded (gunshot) in his stomach. While there he gets to know the family, including husband and father Eli Lapp (Jan Rubes), helps the community with things, e.g. building a barn, but more prominently, he and Rachel almost fall in love, and a couple of scenes see there feelings grow, e.g. dancing to the car radio, John seeing her naked, and towards the end when they snog. Eventually though, the real villain, Deputy Commissioner Schaeffer (Josef Sommer), with McFee and a group of killers find the town and attempt to kill the witness and his family. Also starring Alexander Godunov as Daniel Hochleitner, Brent Jennings as Carter and The Lord of the Rings' young Viggo Mortensen as Moses Hochleitner. It won the Oscars for Best Film Editing and Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen, and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best Cinematography, Best Music for Maurice Jarre and Best Picture, it won the BAFTA for Best Score, and it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography, Best Editing, Best Original Screenplay and Best Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama, Best Original Score and Best Screenplay. Harrison Ford was number 5 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and the film was number 82 on 100 Years, 100 Passions. Good! "},{"Title":"Good but bad","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only thing wrong with this film was the annoying kid (why does every drama have to have an annoying kid it in anyway? its not a cereal commercial!) and Harrison Ford, who was fine in American Graffitti through Raiders of the Lost ark, but lost his steam here. Kelly McGillis was convincing (if not slightly irritating) and Alexander Godunov and Viggo Mortensen (who respectively played a violent mercenary and a sadistic navy seal in later films!) were terrific. Maurice Jarre's cool score, effectively conveyed through an electronic synthesizer, was a highlight, as was the scenic shots of Lancaster, PA. The film would've been better if it had toned down the violent, scummy element and instead been more creative and adventurous (the sex scene between McGillis and Ford, which is strangely foreshadowed and left to the imagination, was poorly conceived, even her awful love montage with tom cruise in top gun was better)Now that I think of it, the film was kinda crappy in many ways, but see it anyway, at least for the music. "},{"Title":"Yeah Now I Got A Witness","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Young Amish widow Rachel Lapp is taking her young son Samuel to Philadelphia for the first time. While in a washroom at the train station, Samuel sees two men savagely murder a third. The detective assigned to the homicide case is Det. John Book who informs them that the murdered man was a police officer. It isn't long before the young boy fingers Philadelphia narcotics officer McFee as the murderer. Book soon discovers that McFee was involved in the theft of something called P2P, an ingredient used in the making of methamphetamine. Shortly after Book tells his boss this information, McFee comes after Book and wounds him in a shootout. Book determines that the best way to avoid detection is to blend in with the Amish community, which he does, working with them on their farms and helping with building a new barn. But the corrupt cops Book has exposed are determined to keep their dirty work a secret, and they come looking for Book & Samuel to silence them for good....After I Saw ROTLA I Went Looking For More Harrison Ford 80's Movies. I Found This. Its Okay. I Didn't Like Lukas Haas' Performance But He Was A Child Actor So What Do You Expect. Besides Showing The Conspiracy I Didn't Find Much Point In Danny Glover's Character. The Action Sequences Were Fast Paced & They Were Still Kind Of Violent Even 25 Years After They Were Released(I Don't Mean In A Gory Way). This Film Is A Classic Action Film Now & Enjoyable...If There Is Only One 1/10 Review How Bad Could It Be? "},{"Title":"Decent, but a tad overrated","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised that this film got as much recognition from the Oscars as it did.  Peter Weir's directing is certainly praiseworthy and the cinematography is outstanding, but overall, the film falls a little flat. The romance between Ford and McGillis was forced and the end was predictable.Ford puts up a decent performance, but unfortunately I find that this one is much like many of the other movies that Ford has been in since.Overall, 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good thriller that sags badly in the middle","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Amish woman Rachel and her son Samuel travel into Philadelphia to get a train to see family. At the station Samuel witnesses the murder of an undercover police officer. Detective John Book leads the investigation into the murder but when Samuel identifies the murderer as a police officer a group of crooked cops act to cover the whole thing up. John takes Rachel and Samuel back to their commune where they hide out and wait until things die down. However the cops begin to track them down.This starts slowly with the murder coming early. The film then stays in Philadelphia as the ring of dirty cops is uncovered and the treachery is revealed. However once they flee to the commune and recover from their wounds the pace of the film drops off and becomes a story of culture clashes as Book tries to fit in with the Amish way of life. This is an important part of the film but it does feel like a letdown after the thriller start. However the inevitable showdown constantly looms and is a reasonably good conclusion to the story. Happily the film doesn't bottle it with an unlikely happy ending but stays true with a rather downbeat final shot.The culture clash element is interesting and is better than other Amish movies I've seen (mind you Holy Matrimony is my benchmark!), it is a lot slower than the thriller sections but that is the point. Book tries to fit in with the community but can't totally leave his English ways behind. The film doesn't judge his rough ways and uses his inability to conform to get some gentle comedy. However his violent attitude is the reason that they are tracked down by the cops - surely the film should have made more of a judgement on his English ways. Much of the action in the Amish village is boring and the romance between Book and Rachel doesn't really convince.The romance isn't convincing because McGillis is a poor actress - she doesn't really develop any sort of character during the film. Ford is better as Book, but he isn't that good when the plot is slower and more introspective. Some scenes feel like they've been included just to show off Ford's carpentry skills. Lucas Haas is unbelievably young and gives the best performance of the film considering his age. It's good to see Danny Glover as a bad guy for once, although his role is quite small. Ballet dancer Alexander Gundov also is good in a small role - it was about this time that he became a more recognisable face in America with this film and a bigger role in Die Hard.Overall the film starts well but becomes too slow as it focuses on the culture clash and the romance. The final conclusion is simple but thrilling but a greater focus on the thriller side of the story would have made it a better film. A good film but not brilliant. "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" IMDb has this film tagged as Crime, Drama, Romance and in that order. They need the change it to Romance, Drama, Crime. After the first part of the movie where we see a murder scene and a young Amish by is the key witness, we are lead to believe that it will be the main storyline and the movie will go down this path. It doesn't. That story takes a back seat and the pace gets slower and the movie gets extremely boring. Amish people are quite one dimensional, if you know what their lifestyle is about, then I'm pretty sure you can guess how exciting the movie is considering that most of it takes place in their community. This movie was described as a Thriller...the only time I was thrilled was when it ended.Oh, and at the end, Harrison Ford just ends up telling the guy off like it was a toddler misbehaving. "},{"Title":"Witness makes a feint at originality but quickly lapses into lazy predictability","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's not often that movies are made about the Amish, so it's especially disappointing that Witness is such lightweight fluff. It starts off promising enough, with an interesting character and a strong hook a young Amish boy on his first trip to the city is the only witness to a grisly murder that happens just feet in front of him. Oddly, though, he and his young, widowed mother seem unaccountably calm about the event, and their only concern is that the police investigation causes them to miss their train. This isn't because they're secretly involved or anything like that; it's because they're stunningly underwritten. Unfortunately, the plot fares no better than the characters. After the boy identifies a police officer as the murderer, a predictable twist requires the lead investigator, Harrison Ford, to go into hiding with the witness and the mother. When Ford's stereotypical hardass cop, who has the distracting name of Book (a reference to the Good Book? to booking criminals?), finds himself confined to an equally stereotypical Amish community that doesn't cotton to his citified ways, it becomes eye-rollingly obvious where the movie is heading. Book and the young widow grow unaccountably close&#x97;maybe she likes short-tempered city slickers, and maybe he likes women whose life experiences have no overlap with his own&#x97;as they take part in all three of the recognizably Amish events outlined in Weird Al Yankovic's parody about the sect. The ostensibly crucial witness is off-screen for these activities, which include barn-raising, being bullied by townies, and milking cows. Book, of course, comes to respect these people in spite of their different way of life, and they come to respect him despite the fact that he's given to violence, corrupts the young widow, brings mortal danger to their community, and uses the child as a meat shield. An obligatory near-kiss, an obligatory lecture from a paternal figure, and an obligatory actual kiss later, it's finally time for the shootout sequence in which, no kidding, the Harrison Ford character emerges triumphant. He receives assists from a cow patty, a grain silo, and the fact that his foes apparently arrive without a plan. The movie's Amish setting is never more than the skin on a bare-bones, by-the-numbers Ford thriller. Amish ideas about morality are introduced but never come into play. The simplicity of Witness's plot and characters would make it a good training film for a child of the witnesses's age, but the kid is barely around and the language and occasional deaths of the adults are perhaps too harsh for that set. Ford is asked to do nothing out of the ordinary for him, and his Best Actor win, his very nomination even, is one of the mysteries of Oscar history. "},{"Title":"Weired","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here's some things to look for in a Peter Weir movie --Foreign language (Javanese, Latin, German, etc.)--Music that just begs to be written by Vangelis, but more often than not is done by Maurice Jarre--Character living delusional existence, called to greater good.This is your only spoiler warning...Here he starts with a 'Blade Runner' approach to Philadelphia that loses momentum and becomes 'Black Rain' with mist and shotguns.  I actually feel ashamed comparing two superior films (by a superior director) to 'Witness'.  The acting here is a joke--all reactions--and Weir just loves heavy-handing everything to pure melodrama.Thus, 'Witness' is neither romantic or exciting.  Half the plot is stolen from 'Romancing the Stone'.  The style itself has evaporated in the last few decades.Overall, the best part is when Weir tries getting into the eyes of the child.  The images he creates from that perspective are the only strength.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "}{"Title":"fabulous...until the end","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was impressed with Weir's film, that is until the weak conclusion.What I Witnessed was Harrison Ford in a role he seemed uncomfortable in(the stand off scene) and another film in which Kelly McGillis was uneven. I think the tension between Rachel and Eli could have been explored further. To demonstrate further the clash of worlds. I did actually like this film, my favourite scene being the barn raising. But the ending was terrible! Schaeffer gave up to easy and their should have been some bood shed among amish.  "},{"Title":"Wildly over-praised film.","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Witness is a wildly over-praised film that doesn't really deliver. There are so many lulls that you sometimes wish you could wake up director Weir and remind him that he was supposedly making a thriller. It sure began like a thriller, and it looked promising. But then Weir wastes his time with a love story between Ford and McGillis that is never as touching as it was supposed to be. The characters are treated as symbols (a Tough Cop, a Peaceful Amish Woman) and we never really learn anything about them. Their love seems forced. Finally, Weir remembers that some killers are pursuing Ford and you feel that the movie will finally reward you. But it doesn't. While one of the three villains dies in a terrific (and scary) scene, what happens with the other two is a real disappointment. "},{"Title":"Maybe it had a point at the time...","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, so John Book is in dire straits, and so is a kid and probably his mother, but he seems to feel none of this urgency, and we watch irritating scenes of him falling in love, drinking lemonade, barn-raising, milking a cow...just not very well crafted in my opinion. And the soundtrack was cheesy. Great acting, cinematography, I'll give it that. I think the film took on too much. I just found it nearly impossible to believe his calmness in the face of one of the worst realities a cop can face the corruption of his friends and mentors. And maybe I'm just jaded by better films on this topic which were made later L.A. Confidential, 13 Blocks, even Copland. But I just felt antsy watching this in 2012, and I usually really dig Peter Weir films, even the cheesy ones. "},{"Title":"This is the story of a cop who is used by a family and his completely unrealistic love affair with a woman","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the best thrillers of all times. One of the most exciting thrillers so far. And finally, one of the best movies of all time. Really? Only beautiful cinematography and reposeful atmosphere. Witness is neither a thriller and also nor a romance, but the love affair is totally unrealistic, it is another problem. The murder scene was poor, lack of suspense and uninspiring, even if it is the key scene of the film, or is it? Unbelievably, Peter Weir does not put emphasis on this scene. Imagine, if Hitchcock had shot it. I don't mean Rear Window, talk in general. Harrison Ford goes to the rural area. A cop does not do that, a cop does not serve a family which he tries to protect from the people who pursuit child the witness. Let's say it is a part of his job and he is a good guy. However, they say you stay in our house, you eat, drink and sleep in our house for nothing, so work! This recalls me Shane, but John Book is not a drifter. Towards morning, the father comes, pokes him and says go and milk the cows! By the way, the woman makes fun of him, when he wears the Amish costume. Oh the Amish family. I read that an audience bothered, because thinks that during the film making process, the filmmakers disturbed Amish people. People rave about this family. It seems that they adore them. Why? Why? Why? Sorry, but I just don't get it. It is like if any of them had shot Ford, people would have said it is OK. I did not like those characters at all, not because of their live style or ideas, I am respectful, but because of their attitudes. And the love story (in fact not a love story, it was just one scene!) is extremely unrealistic. The change of this character is extremely unrealistic, she was a woman who wants to get rid of him, made of him, disliked him. An Amish woman does not do that also. What happens to their conservatism? One in a million, yeah one in a million. Therefore, what is the point? Probably, it is to make housewives and women who like soap operas happy. It is an example of typical, cliché, audience-driven approach. The last part is exciting and fun, but that's all. Lastly, my expectations had been completely different. I had supposed that in a rural area, a child witnesses to a murder in the field. Then, Ford comes to there to protect him and his mother, but the murderers harass the family in order to kill the child. Yes, the story in my mind had been something like that. As said there are only two good things in this movie besides Harrison Ford. Cinematography and atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Witness 6/10","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While in the midst of shooting the Indiana Jones series, Harrison Ford decided to make Witness, a slow thriller that basically just highlights how good the Amish are and how barbaric most others are. Back in 1985, in its initial release, it could be thought of as escapism entertainment and nothing more, and perhaps it's just the excessive cynicism of the new millennium, but it really seems like Peter Weir is trying to tell us something here. If this movie was released for the first time nowadays, it would just be discarded as propaganda, as it basically is. Once you look past that, though, you'll find Witness is basically another cop thriller, but with a twist to it that actually works.Ford is Detective John Book, your average detective, and he's called into a case where an Amish boy (Lukas Haas) witnesses a murder at a train station. To save his, and the boy's, life, Book moves into the Amish country. He must adapt, obviously, and the movie shifts gears from a good detective story to a slow moving adaptation story. In fact, many times short scenes were inserted into the film that basically reminded us that there WAS a case going on here, it isn't all just the farm.One of the first scenes, the one in which the murder actually takes place, is very tense, all because of the music. Also, towards the end, there is another exciting scene, not because we don't know what will happen, but because of the music. The music is the key to the movie. It sets the tone and makes the overlong middle more tolerable, and it very haunting throughout, adding a thin layer of suspense to much of the movie.However, the main problem lies in the script. William Kelley and Earl W. Wallace's script has so many one-dimensional characters and throw-away subplots, especially the main one about Book's romance with Rachel (Kelly McGillis), which is about as thin as Lara Flynn Boyle after going on the Subway diet. Many secondary characters are barely talked about and yet come into play later. One thing I didn't understand is how come everyone seemed to use such strong accents yet they've been living in America for a long time.Also, although I may not be the end-all, be-all of Amish knowledge, it seems like for people so strict in their rules, they broke them easily. They didn't seem to object to riding in trains or cars, or even using technology. What they did have at their houses did seem rather advanced for these, for lack of a better word, primitive people. The middle of the movie seemed to drag on a bit; better editing could have been done.Overall, if you are thinking about seeing Witness, see it for the music, which IS the movie.My rating 6/10Rated R for some language, violence, and brief nudity. "},{"Title":"What a waste of time","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Before I get started i would like to inform you that i like  Harrison Ford  and i've seen most of his films it's a movie starring  Ford  and in the 80s That's looks so good ...... But actually it's not the plot of this movie is about ....... I don't really know what is it about Because it's such a nasty thing And i don't know of it's an action movie or just a cheap romantic movie with a hilarious dialogues Yeah and the kid what the hill is wrong with him !!!! Why is he not acting ? ! ....... Why is he just staring at people That's makes me really mad This is one of the worst kids actor I've ever seenAnd know let me talk about the worst thing in this movie It's the  Farms  scenes The movie gets veeeeery slow here And there's not even 0.00001% of suspense as I said before at this point this movie The movie will turns from an action movie to a F****** slow romantic movie there is a scene where  ford  is milking a cow Oh my Lord ....... Who in the world is want to see captain han solo orindiana jones Milking a cow !!!! In the end i will say stay far as you can from this garbage..... Go see any other movie Even if was ( Batman & Robin ) Thank you very much for reading this And if you like this movie I'm sorry That's my personal opinion And have a nice a day "},{"Title":"Bad, and I'll tell you why.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers.This is the `one they missed' pick.  The part where Harrison Ford drops the corn on the guy in the silo.  As another bad guy closes in Ford digs through the corn finds the gun and simply pulls it out and shoots his adversary.  Very prosaic in my opinion. It would have been more suspenseful if you see the bad guy come up on Ford as he is rummaging for the weapon, pulls the hammer back and just as he is about to zap the hero a bam goes off, corn flies everywhere and the bad guy falls.  Ford pulls the gun out of the corn and you see that he got a hold of it just in time.  Not probable I know, but much more entertaining.  This flick also features one of the worst endings ever as Ford enters in a philosophical debate with a antagonist character who has not been developed at all.  "},{"Title":"Great Film But Wasn't As Good As I Expected","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film is definitely good. Packed with action but not enough suspense. All the gaps are too easily filled in the viewer's mind. Not even 2 hours longs. Too short. But there are some good acting performances from Ford and others. Starts off brilliant but the end comes way too quick and sudden. Danny Glover has a small role. There should have been more action and suspense. And what the hell was up with the guy who got suffocated by the corn?? A bit mediocre? And the fact that the police chief handed over his shotgun to Ford was just plain stupid. No climax. Boring. i wouldn't say the film was overrated but definitely not as good as some make it to be. "},{"Title":"Raiders of the Lost Ark Meets The Time Machine (sorry for flippancy)","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Undercurrent of forbidden attraction.  Harrison Ford in his film career prime seasoned innocent.  Peter Weir.  Urban  Rural.  Violence and Distrust  Peace and Community.  Repeat viewing might see elements of timelessness in its themes. "},{"Title":"the one movie you can see nearly any weekend in the year on American cable TV. (spoilers)","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" what's the big deal with this movie that nearly every cable channel has taken the opportunity to run this movie at least once (if not exhaustively more) so that it is one of the few movies that you can see almost every weekend of the year. the licensing sure must be cheap, because i sure can't see it being so great that it would get such loyal broadcast. the movie was by no means bad, but what the hell is that great about it? 'tis a mystery that may be more perplexing than the pyramids.the story is nothing new sometimes hard ass cop is hired to protect a murder witness. here, that witness is a young amish boy (played by adorable little Luke has) who saw the murder at a train station. harrison ford is that sometimes-hard ass cop who goes undercover in amish country to protect the boy until he is called to testify at the murder trial. and what movie with kelly mcgillis wouldn't be complete without a love angle? yes, even in amish country. despite the cultural and religious inconveniences.despite the thematic clichés, it still offers enough suspense and good performances all around. if it's a murder mystery/thriller you're in the mood for, it's enough to do the job. "}{"Title":"Good movie but not THAT good.","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was surprised by the overwhelming amounts of positive comments and reactions, not only on this site but by the public in general.Yes I admit that Witness is the best movie about Amish people ever made (I am not counting Kingpin). But does that automatically mean that it's one of the best movies of all time? I don't think so.In my opinion the movie suffers from some serious pacing problems. I don't always like the point of view the story is told from and the order it's told in.But the movie also has good some good things in it. Actually lot's of them! For one I really have to say that this is possibly Harrison Ford's best role till date and Lukas Haas was a great child actor at the time. Way better then most of the kids these days. Also the little soundtrack from Maurice Jarre is very good. I also like the portrayal of the Amish people, actually watching this movie is a great lesson about the Amish. One more thing I liked were the characters.The story however is not always interesting and seems to take forever even though the movie has a good finale without falling into any cliché moments.Better as an Amish documentary then as a movie.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not bad but too politically correct for it's own good","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  * Terrible * * Below Par * * * Not Bad * * * * Good * * * * *  Brilliant WARNING *SPOILERS* It was back in 1985 that this oscar nominated picture from Australian director Peter Weir was released in cinemas world wide.The movie as far I can remember never won the best picture gong.It's star Harrison Ford also missed out(A shame I suppose even though he should win for a better movie)on the coveted best actor award.The movie tells the story of LA police detective John Book(Harrison Ford)who is assigned to the case of finding the murderers of a fellow cop in a public Lavatory.The only witness to the crime is an eight year old Amish boy named Samuel Lapp(Lukas Haas) who was visiting the city with his mother, Rachel(The beautiful Kelly McGillis).The young mother was visiting the city with Samuel to pick up supplies for her people in the Amish community.As Book looks in to the case it becomes more and more apparent that things are not quite what they seem.It transpires that the killers of the policeman(who happened to be working undercover) are in fact detectives themselves.Corrupt men who's own chief officer and supposed friend of John's is in on some kind of crooked plot.They realise that there can be no witness to what they did and proceed to try and kill the young boy.Book ofcourse tries to protect the youngster and reveal the villains for who they really are but in doing so loses one of his colleagues, a close friend in the process.Not only that but John is severly wounded and is forced to go into hiding with Rachel and Samuel back in the Amish community.Nursed back to help by Rachel and her father Eli(Jan Rubes),John tries to fit in to the Amish way of life while trying to figure out a way to defeat and expose his former allies.Meanwhile it begins to become apparent that strong feelings are also beginning to grow between John and Rachel.Can John have a future with Rachel, woman who comes from a society, miles different from that of John's?Witness isn't as good a film as you would think.Sure the direction by Austrailian film maker Peter Weir is first rate and the detail put into creating the world that the Amish people live is a hundrerd per cent convincing.All round the performances from the ensemble cast is outstanding.If you look closely you may recognise Danny Glover, a truely great and under valued actor as one of the crooked cops who Ford takes on.You may also recognise Alexander Godunov who portrayed the evil bloned haired hench man of Alan Rickman in the orignal Die Hard movie.Here he play's a fellow Amish citizen and friend of the Lapp family.The chemistry between McGillis and Ford is also amazing and Haas is a genuinely endearing title character.The young 'Witness' who Ford must protect.What lets the film down is it's pompous political correctness and naievity.We're asked by Weir to feel sympathy and understanding for the Amish which isn't completly easy to do.If how the Amish are represented is as accurate as it seems they are, then I'm certain in what I am about to say.While there is some wisdom in the Amish way of life(Their hatred for guns and the simple life they lead),their is equal naievity.I am not a violent person and abhor violence.But the Amish attitude to not raise their fists in anger when provoked is a tad unreasonable.The scene where a band of the Amish accompanied by Book(disguised as one of them)are taunted by a a group of tourist thugs while they do nothing is a simple testament to that.Weir also tries make us feel tollerance and understanding for a creed of people who quite simply have little, if any for us.You only need hear Eli Lapp and his chastising of the common American, if not most of the civallised world,referring to them as the English.I don't know about you but if he called any scotman where I live that they would knock the crap out of him.Overall, 'Witness' is not a bads night entertainment but i'm certainly not surprised it never won the top prize at 1985's oscar ceremony.Lets face it.When compared to the likes of 'Silence of the Lambs','Dances with Wolves' or 'American Beauty' there simply is no comparison.I can only hope something like LOTR(Lord of the Rings)finally gets the true recognition it deserves.Rating* * * "},{"Title":"I'm sorry this won two Oscars?","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was not that good at all. Here is the first clue and that it is not gonna be a strong movie, Harrison Ford's name not only appears first but it is also bigger than the title. The music was nominated for an Oscar, What the heck was that? That music was probably the most annoying thing in the movie. The acting was sub par at best, except the Amish boy he did a decent job for being so young. Then you have the story which was weak and a little over the place, and it won for adapted! The music was horrid, I know I already said something but it was really bad. The premises was real good and it should be remade. Well that's all I really have on that.Your Average Movie Guy,-Trever "},{"Title":"Don't witness","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Harrison Ford playing a playing a cop in a crime thriller. The perfect ingredients it SEEMS for top entertainment with Harrison back to his Indy and Han Solo best, protecting a witness from ruthless and merciless murderers. How easy it is to be fooled. If the film concentrated on the main, supposed, themes of crime and suspense instead of putting up barns and shoving ice creams in peoples faces it possibly could have been more worthwhile. Unbelieveably predictable with the best method of despatching of a foe is with corn. "}]