[{"Title":"Revenge of the 80'sThe reinvention of Rodney Dangerfield continues..","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Back to School (1986) was a surprise hit for stand up comedian actor Rodeny Dangerfield. After making a big impression with audiences with his spot in the golf comedy Caddyshack and a lead role in Easy Money, his star was slowly rising. But it was this film that cemented his spot in American pop culture as a true icon of the 80's and a transition star.Rodney stars as Thorton Melon (nee Meloni) a successful entrepreneur who had to drop out of school when he was younger to take care of the family business. Years later his son is in college but feel dissatisfied with life in general. After a series of comical events, Mr. Melon decides to visit his son's exclusive university to see how he's really doing. Along the way he decides to give book learning a try.A very enjoyable film. Rodney Dangerfield made the transaction from a stand-up act to an actor. The director wisely let him improvise his dialog and work in some of his material into the movie. The cast features Sally Kellerman, Robert Downey Jr., Keith Gordon, Burt Young, Terry Farrell and guest star slots for Adrienne Barbeau and Ned Beatty.Not a masterpiece by any means but an enjoyable film none the less. Recommended, especially on a slow Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Classic Dangerfield","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Rodney Dangerfield made this movie with his hilarious one liners. I still find myself quoting many of these lines which he delivers beautifully throughout the movie. The more you watch it the funnier it gets, and I'll be watching it for a few more decades yet. "},{"Title":"Rodney You're a Genius!!!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Without Rodney Dangerfield this movie would be in the bottom 100 for sure. However with Rodney Dangerfield (in my opinion) it should be considered for the top 75 comedies of all time.Lines like I like teachers. If you do something wrong they make you do it again are what carry this movie. There's not a lot of them but when they do pop-up they're hilarious.I do believe the director and producers made a mistake not taking Jim Carrey on for the role of the History Teacher because he was too young, because it wasn't a believable kind of movie any way. I must say though that the man who did play the History Teacher did a great job and seeing him teaching was one of the best parts of the movie.So if your into comedies or a Rodney fan don't be put off by how old this movie is like I was because its age, if anything, makes the movie even better. "},{"Title":"Prime Rodney Dangerfield With Strong Supporting Cast","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" This in many ways is the best Dangerfield film. Harold Ramis is genius in working in a lot of Dangerfield quips into the script. The movie flows well, and the supporting cast is appropriate & stronger than any of Rodney's other films.Sally Kellerman is in her best form since M*A*S*H as the English Professor who is Rodney's love interest. Robert Downey Jr. is cast perfectly as a character who resembles him in real life - a drugged out pacifist who protests campus life & all about it without knowing what message he is really sending. The actors who play straight men for Rodney from Dean Martin to the Business Professor are perfectly cast. The late Sam Kinneson is perfect in his small role in this as the History Professor. Wish he could have done more work like this. If there any extra scenes of him cut in this film, it would be great if they could be restored.Harold Ramis, who also did work ranging from GHOSTBUSTERS (trendy) to GROUND HOG DAY (classic), touches show in the script. He works Rodney's character in perfect & the plot shows some of the imagination that makes Bill Murrays classic comedy so great. He allows Rodney to be himself, but frames his character so well that he is a perfect a fit as the clothing store Mellon runs.Special kudos to Mellon's son, as he plays straight very well to his dad. Weakest of the cast is the girlfriend, but she is not given quite enough script to work with here so she makes do with what she has. At least she does OK with it. All the characters show a lot of class & this film is a fine comedy from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Dangerfield University Lampoon Still Contains Truth","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Back to School is a cherished member of my VHS collection not only because of the late but inimitably immortal Rodney Dangerfield and his outrageous persona, but also because of its laceration of a favorite satiric target - college. Back to School came out in 1986 -a year after I graduated from Tufts University- and it nearly perfectly encapsulates (if slightly exaggerates) and skewers college life during the heedlessly hedonistic and materialistic '80s.At first Thorton Melon (Rodney's character in the movie) seemingly has two altruistic motives for applying to college 1) personal improvement, and 2) desire to help his only son Jason (Kevin Gordon) succeed, especially when Thorton discovers that Jason is not exactly the epitome of the BMOC. However, once he essentially bribes his way into college by convincing the venally avaricious Dean Martin (he, he) to let him endow the Thorton Melon school of Business Administration, high school dropout Thorton apparently has it made. One might argue that this scenario is implausible, but given universities' rapacity for more cash, I could believe they would bend the rules to let wealthy Thorton in.Thorton then proceeds to embody every college student's wet dream - to be the perpetually fun-loving slacker who has the dough to show himself and others an endless good time and buy himself out of any trouble! Again, philistine critics may argue that no college would tolerate Thorton's party-boy person; wouldn't the cops arrest him for the voyeuristic dormitory scene or the out-of-control party scene, instead of reprimanding him or bringing Lite beer (remember Rodney was one of the shills for Lite)? However, Back to School's college satire necessarily must employ a little hyperbole to get its point across.For example, in the classroom scenes with the history professor (the late Sam Kinison) and the business instructor (Paxton Whitehead), the movie does also go a little over the top but also tweaks college for its well-meaning but unrealistically theoretical approach (i.e. head up its a$$ approach) to working and life. Yeah, especially Thornton's take on the corruption and shady dealing it would really take to start a business really do have a germ of truth. Also, the way Thorton prepares for his classes -his secretary takes notes for him in class and his research team does his reports and homework- is off the wall but also possesses scientific veracity. I'm sure at Tufts and other colleges, some students never went to class and got others to take notes and do reports. However, (and this is one of my favorite scenes from the movie) only Thornton would heft a report created by his research team and crack, I dunno; it feels like a C; add some more multicolored graphs. And of course only Thornton would hire Kurt Vonnegut to appraise his own work.Nevertheless, Back to School lets Rodney collide with harsh, poignant reality without sacrificing laughs. Thornton is failing his classes; even the professor most sympathetic to him (Sally Kellerman) suspects him of plagiarism. His son Jason angrily refuses to let Thornton's think tank do his astronomy work. Thornton will be expelled unless he passes a multi-part oral exam (!) by all of his course professors. After a pep talk from Thornton's chauffeur (Burt Young) about Thornton's School of Hard Knocks life, Jason realizes that just as his dad came to school to show him how to loosen up and enjoy life, he must show his dad how to handle college responsibilities. And isn't that what college is all about - balancing responsibility and fun to have a meaningfully productive experience?Therefore, Back to School is more than just an Animal House retread. It uses Rodney's older, wry perspective (and those priceless one-liners) to point out both the absurdity and importance of college life. Heck, I would even recommend high school seniors applying to colleges to give Back to School a look if only to show them (with a grain of salt, of course) that while college is a worthwhile experience, it's also a unique, unfamiliar world all its own.P.S. I would advise Cedric the Entertainer to abandon his 2006 remake of Back to School as an ill-advised travesty. "},{"Title":"Typical 80's fun","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" I don't think that Rodney Dangerfield is funny all the time, but in this comedy he delivers perfectly. He fits perfectly it the role of a rich, successful businessman who starts college to achieve a certificate, which he doesn't have. The way he does this in his own, relaxing and laid back-style is great and really funny. A very cool plot indeed, that's for sure. The movie is full of great fun and has many exciting moments in it, so I suggest that everyone check this out for themselves to experience that. The last scene on the diving board is especially great. Totally hilarious, and I laughed all the way through it. "},{"Title":"How great would it be to have Rodney Dangerfield in your class!","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  A funny post-Animal House college film with a pretty distinguished cast. In addition to Dangerfield, who is terrific as usual, we also get to see Sally Kellerman, Burt Young, Ned Beatty, and an introduction to the brilliance of Robert Downey Jr. who is unforgettable as Derek Lutz. Although the movie is silly, lacking any convincing realism or plot, it is nontheless wonderful fun...especially if you are a Dangerfield fan. His rendition of Twist and Shout is a classic. And the scene at registration where his chauffeur Lou, played by the redoubtable Young, is priceless when he holds up a sign by the limo with Bruce Springstein's name on it and all the students rush out to mob the car while Dangerfield, his son, his son's love interest, and Lutz have the pick of classes.Generally good viewing when you want a brainless, fun night.  "},{"Title":"Classic Rodney about to be Cut to Ribbons","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" This is as classic (though campy) as Rodney gets. I just had to comment ahead of time that any remake of this, especially one involving Cedric the Entertainer, cannot possibly live up to the original.I'm really tired of Hollywood trying to win over the hip-hoppy, shallow culture by instilling Cedrick the Entertainer in this remake-to-be when the original was done by a classic entertainer. What's next...a remake of Animal House with P-Diddy as Bluto (or whatever he calls himself these days)? Rodney is already turning over in his grave knowing how bad the remake is going to be. Somewhere up there I hope he can convince God to strike the set with thunderous bolts of lightning and 14 inch hailstones. Can't Hollywood leave well enough alone? Rodney, now that you're dead....they give you even less respect! "},{"Title":"school is cool","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" In what might be the apex of Rodney Dangerfield's career, he plays boorish millionaire Thornton Melon, finally attending college. The movie is really an excuse for Dangerfield to be a complete goof-off, containing every silly thing imaginable. Possibly the best line is Thornton's comment about Longfellow.As for the other characters, Keith Gordon does OK as Thornton's son Jason, but Robert Downey Jr. is even neater as Jason's ultra-left-wing friend Derek, who even has a theory about the fascism of football. Sally Kellerman, Burt Young, M. Emmet Walsh, Adrienne Barbeau, Ned Beatty, Sam Kinison and Robert Picardo are all pretty good in their roles (there's even an appearance by Kurt Vonnegut). It's just that this is Rodney Dangerfield's movie all the way. I think that it's quite safe to assert that the Man Who Got No Respect will truly be missed.A hilarious movie. "},{"Title":"good natured with a lot of laughs.","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I love Rodney Dangerfield.  Always have.  His one-liners, and all-around smartass attitude have made him a living legend and he never fails to crack me up.  Back to School is a great example of what he can do and I never get tired of watching it.  Keith Gordon is great as his son and Robert Downey Jr. is pretty hysterical as his best bud.  The ever-reliable Burt Young is a lot of fun as Dangerfield's limo-driver/best friend and he does his duty at supplying the laughs.  It's a shame that more people haven't seen this.  I believe that it's one of Rodney's best.  It's got a great premise, an outstanding cast, and the laughs are nonstop.  "}{"Title":"Rodney Dangerfield is Terrific","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rodney Dangerfield's best film and finest hour (or 2)... He plays a crass self-made millionaire whose son is away at college. After divorcing the second wife--a shrew (Adrienne Barbeau)--he drops in on the kid (Keith Gordon) to discover the kid is not if a fraternity or on the diving team. The kid wants to drop out so Rodney decides to go BACK TO SCHOOL to encourage the kid. Great premise.Of course Rodney becomes a free-spending, beer-swilling college frosh to the delight of the student body and school administration. Rodney spews and almost unending barrage of jokes and one-liners and is hysterically funny. But beyond the crass character, this is one time when Dangerfield also shows some acting chops and some sweetness to his character. And it works! Top supporting cast helps out a lot too. Sally Kellerman is the English prof. Paxton Whitehead is the snotty business teacher. Robert Downey is the bizarro roomie. Ned Beatty plays Dean Martin. William Zabka is the obnoxious rival. Terry Farrell is the too-tall girl friend. Burt Young plays Lou the bodyguard. Edie McClurg is the secretary. Sam Kinison is the shell-shocked history prof. Severn Darden is the lab guy. M. Emmett Walsh is the diving coach. Jason Hervey is Dangerfield as a kid. And Danny Elfman appears as his Oingo Boingo self and scored the film.The diving finale is hysterically funny and the perfect ending for this sweet and funny movie. "},{"Title":"You're a Melon!","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I had forgotten how much f-ing fun this movie is! I remember having enjoyed it when it came out fifteen years ago, but who knew it could stand beside 'Caddyshack' as a timeless comedy about the anti-establishment starring some guy in his fifties?Nowadays you could never assemble such a talented cast for such a light-weight comedy. The best thing about this film is its restraint to avoid easy, obvious jokes. The humor is simple and inoffensive and the characters are believable in this setting. Here, a college world is created that could never be, but we are sucked in because the story makes its own rules and doesn't go overboard trying to be unconventional. Even when the late Sam Kinison as a history teacher is screaming about Vietnam, we buy it because his schtick is funny, to-the-point and above all, brief. The individual jokes come so fast that even if you don't like one specific bit, it's over in the blink of an eye and another zinger is right behind it.The stock characters are all here but they are never boring or entirely predictable. The pretty teacher played by Sally Kellerman is smart and honest. Although she would probably never be attracted physically to someone like Rodney Dangerfield, we can see how she would be drawn to him because of his popularity with the other students. The stuffy business teacher (Paxton Whitehead) would also be on hand to try and keep the rowdies down, but if this were made today, he'd end up in the hospital or worse due to a college prank. The only disappointment is Keith Gordon who plays Dangerfield's son. He's not charismatic enough to play such a major role, but his love interest Terry Farrell is just as bland so they're perfect for each other. Robert Downey Jr. is perfect as the misfit rebel. Something tells me he was really like this growing up which is why he is still thumbing his nose at authority and sitting in jail or rehab as I write this. Adrienne Barbeau is, as usual, playing the busty bitch, but I've been in love with her since 'Maude.' Burt Young as Rodney's chauffeur is basically playing Pauley from 'Rocky' while wearing different funny hats (why the beret at the diving meet?). Ned Beatty and M. Emmet Walsh are also on hand to round out the school faculty with their character acting chops firmly in place (actually I always thought they were the same person).There are classic scenes that will not be forgotten. The young Rodney in 1940. The bookstore spending spree. The secretary taking notes in Rodney's absence. The last-minute studying session. The combining of three dorm rooms into one. The Kurt Vonnegut Jr. scene. I already mentioned Sam Kinison but it bears repeating. The 'Twist and Shout' song. The hot-tub party. And, of course, the Triple Lindy.All this and Danny Elfman and Harold Ramis to boot. If you haven't seen this and you're a fan of Rodney, shame on you. Go get it tonight. Right now! Go, before someone beats you to it.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie displays Rodney Dangerfield at his finest. I loved his down to earth character, showing how the REAL WORLD exists compared to the text book. The actors portray a great amount of energy in their characters making the film very lively. This movie goes to show there is nothing a parent won't do to help their child. "},{"Title":"Rodney's Best Movie Ever","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Ever since i was four years old,this movie has been my favorite.Rodney Dangerfield stars as Thornton Melon,a self-made millionare who gets a second chance at college to be with his son who wants to quit cuz he can't get any friends or make the diving team.Throughout the film Rodney makes hilarious wise-cracks and metaphors as usual(a laCaddyshack,Easy Money),he also has a chemistry between him and Sally Kellerman,his teacher he falls in love with.The movie is full of silly,inspired,and ocassionally crude humor.Sam Kinison has a cameo as a former mental patient history teacher who blames his students on the Korean War.Very funny.A young Robert Downey(Jr.)stars as his Jason Melon's weirdo friend(with various hair-do's that are also funny)Derek Lutz,and Burt Young(famous for Pauly in theRockyseries)stars as Rodney's tough italian chaffaur Lou.And all these charecters are so funny,it makes this movie great.Back To School Rules,10 of 10. "},{"Title":"A Dangerfield Romp","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Back to School is Rodney's vehicle for an hour and a half of fun and quick laughs.  He shares writing credits, stars, and appears in just about every scene.I absolutely was in stitches with some of the one-liners, and visuals, but I won't divulge even one of them!!!The casting was probably done by several people expressing opposing styles of acting. There didn't seem to be any gel there.Performances Sally Kellerman (the love interest), Adrienne Barbeau (briefly as the unscrupulous wife), Burt Young (same act, no matter the role), a baby-faced Robert Downey Jr (who was sorely underused, and should've been cast as Rodney's son), and cameo roles by Kurt Vonnegut Jr, M Emmet Walsh, and a hillarious Sam Kinison.Rodney also takes a sarcastic poke at the ivory towers, apparently echoing some autobigraphical sentiment towards self-made men, such as himself, who make it big despite not having fancy diplomas to back them up.  One such scene puts his street smarts squarley at odds with a hooty professor who gets a lesson himself in how to open a manufacturing plant in the real world.If you like Rodney Dangerfield, rent this movie. "},{"Title":"Dangerfield's best movie.","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Very funny movie, the lead role could only be played by Dangerfield he was perfect in it. This movie has the funnest lines of probably any other Dangerfield movie. I really like caddy shack easy money was pretty funny too. But this was his best movie work i think. i am huge Dangerfield fan i really miss him. he was my favorite comedian of all time. Its movies like this that fans of his can enjoy again and again several funny n memorable parts. n some great lines. I wish he was in more movies that were this funny. Ladybugs wasn't half as funny as this. or meet wally sparks. This however is the movie he should be best remembered for. "},{"Title":"Witty, fast, fun a keeper","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  A very funny film. Classic Rodney Dangerfield's one-liners mixed with some fun skits. The movie is awfully devoid of any plot, or semblance to reality to college life, but this doesn't detract from its overall crazyness. The thing that impresses the most here is Rodney's fast one-liners; not as crazy as Groucho's ones, but equally sarcastic and maddening.And remember the best thing about our kids... is making 'em! "},{"Title":"Why don't you call me sometime when you have no class?","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Self-made millionaire Thornton Melon (Rodney Dangerfield) enrolls in college to help his son (Keith Gordon), who's having trouble fitting in. Doesn't take long before Thornton is the big man on campus, which doesn't sit well with everybody. Very funny comedy that never gets old. The cast is wonderful. Rodney Dangerfield is hilarious and his one-liners come one after the other. His best starring role, for sure. Sam Kinison is a riot. Loved every scene he was in. A young Robert Downey, Jr. is also lots of fun. Not for those who overthink their movies. This is for people who like to have fun and laugh. They got Kurt Vonnegut to appear in this! How cool is that? An '80s classic you have to see. "},{"Title":"You get my respect, Rodney!","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rodney Dangerfield exudes great charm, and in Back to School he really shines. A gifted stand-up comedian, Rodney is an old school Las Vegas comic known for delivering scathing, self-deprecating, yet wholesomely witty one-liners. His unique comedy is further enhanced by his bulbous eyes, deep voice and hysterical intonations.Rodney plays Thornton Melon, an eccentric millionaire, doting father, and former college diving competition champ. Thornton went from rags to riches selling men's custom-tailored suits to the big and tall. His only child and son Jason is a freshman in college, painfully single, and having a tough time adjusting to academia, campus life, and his chosen sport - diving. Hilarity ensues when Thornton comes to his son's rescue by enrolling in the same university, partying, throwing money around and slacking off. Then he is literally put to the test, having to pass a series of exams, or get expelled by his nemesis, the pompous Dr. Phillip Barbay, Dean of Students. Thornton also has to learn to stop smothering his son and be a normal dad. Of course, Rodney doesn't do normal, which brings the laughs consistently, with an explosive dive competition-climax that has to be seen to be believed. Back to School immortalized Rodney Dangerfield like no other movie. This movie also has a great supporting cast (Burt Lancaster and the late Sam Kinison come to mind) and a fitting, cheery score by none other than Danny Elfman (three years before he did Batman and The Simpsons). You'll laugh and cheer for Thornton Melon, and after you do, you'll watch this wonderful 80's comedy gem again and again. "},{"Title":"Oh, man, do I miss Rodney!","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" I was watching on VH1 I love the 80's and Back to School got a mention, I remember seeing it in my mother's VHS collection and I recently saw Easy Money, it was my first Rodney Dangerfield movie and I absolutely loved it. So I decided to go ahead and give Back to School a chance. I really had a good time watching it, I just miss comedies like this where it was dirty or over the top, it was just plain fun to watch and you have a good time viewing the film. Rodney is such a lovable goof and he always makes it look like he and the cast enjoy making these comedies. The story is so crazy, but so hilarious that it makes you wanna go back to school with Rodney and just have a good time with him and his son.Thornton Melon's father made one thing clear to him at a young age, no matter how old, young, poor, rich you are, education is one of the most important things in life. Well, Thornton has grown into a successful clothes store owner and is very rich and powerful. But when his son, Jason, is discouraged with college, Thornton goes back to school to help encourage his son to get through it. While for Jason it's all studies and trying to fit in, it's all fun and games for Thornton and he's having the time of his life while being the big man on campus.Back To School is a great comedy that I highly recommend, it's all in good fun and Rodney is just such a great comedian. I just loved it when he was going to the college to visit his son and he accidentally enters the sorority house and walks in on a girl showering and says Oh, don't worry, you're perfect, lol, I just couldn't stop laughing. Also I loved Keith Gordon in the film, I can't believe this guy didn't make it big in acting, but he just does such a terrific job keeping up with Rodney. Back to School is a fun film and I'm sure you'll have a good time watching it.7/10 "}{"Title":"Surprisingly Great","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" I was amazed at how entertained I was when I sat down to watch this older movie!!I usually don't get into the older 80's movies because I usually just don't find them that funny, being that I am more of a child of the 90's but when I caught this one on TV the other day, I didn't stop laughing. Even though the movie is from 1986, the comedy in it is surprisingly hip to even today's generation. I have not really caught much of Rodney Dangerfield's work and I was not a fan of Caddyshack, but everyone it was at the top of their game in this movie!!!If you haven't seen it, rent it and if you have seen it, buy it!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"turn off your brain and laugh","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Okay, this isn't a super well-written film, as it has a few lags here and there (such as the ridiculous way Rodney is able to pass the test towards the end of the film). And, at times the acting is totally cheesy and downright poor (Keith Gordon and Paxton Whitehead are standouts for their poor performances). But, despite all this, someone was really thinking as this movie allowed Rodney Dnagerfield to let loose and be funny--giving him enough plot but not too much plot for his brand of humor. Plus, some of the supporting cast, such as Robert Downey and Sam Kineson, are really funny and don't get in the way of the fun.Rodney is a rich guy with not an ounce of class. On a lark, he enrolls in the same college as his son and creates mayhem where ever he goes. Some great laughs plus you get to hear Rodney sing TWIST AND SHOUT. "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is a great movie.  Rodney Dangerfield is perfectly cast (I can't think of anyone who could do that role better).  After this and the Karate Kid, how did William Zabka fade into obscurity?  This was funny back in the theater as a 12 year old, and is funny today.  This would be a good double feature with Old School, but not My 5 Wives.  Any film with Sam Kinison, Ned Beatty and Kurt Vonnegut Jr. is a movie that shouldn't be missed.  "},{"Title":"Funny as a monkey! Rodney Dangerfield is the greatest. Rodney you sure did receive some respect for this work!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  I remember back to college football season I believe 1987, me my father and his old high school friend who is a dentist and his son watched this movie one Friday night while on a trip to Blacksburg to see a Virginia Tech football game the next day. Actually we stayed in Roanoke and watched this in a hotel when my dentist friend ordered it. Just like a pay-per-view-service. I was then delighted with laughter my dentist knows how to pick a funny movie! He reminds me of Rodney Dangerfield in a way due to his comical way. Back to School has probably become more of a hit over the years it continues to receive many showings on both basic and premium cable. This movie became such a hit due to the story what better stuff could you ask for as Rodney Dangerfield as a self-made millionaire who becomes a college drop-in. Sure I know this story is far from real everybody knows that a high school dropout doesn't receive admission to college no matter how rich they may be! The scene with the dean (Ned Beatty) when Thornton Melon (Rodney Dangerfield) buys his way admission is just funny and crazy. This comedy is not like other comedies it is not a comedy of parody, Dangerfield makes Back to School funny with his dialogue and actions they are just down-to-earth even though we know the story is so not true. Other characters in Back to School that made this a very successful movie are Keith Gordon he was just right as the goofy son that Dangerfield drops in at college to help out. No matter how different you just wanted to cheer for his character so much as he tried to become a winner. Robert Downey Jr., Terry Farrell, and M. Emmet Walsh all gave great and funny performances. The characters who worked good with Rodney and great with the story had to be Sally Kellerman as the concerned and caring literature professor who makes Thornton Melon learn and understand that life is more than money and a good time. Paxton Whitehead also can't be forgotten as the cold and snobbish economics professor. I just love the scenes when Rodney puts him in his place! The funniest scene in the movie is the face to face between Rodney and Sam Kinison in history class, that is all most sure comedy history! I don't want to forget the great Burt Young who was the best at being the chauffeur for Thornton Melon (Rodney Dangerfield). I'm sure you are like me year after year time after time you know this movie line by line and heart by heart. Back to School is a classic that never gets old, a great movie to have in your video collection. I took the message from this movie as many others should have that life should be fun not serious all the time learn to love to be funny. Now Rodney you have became an earner of some respect! "},{"Title":"Makes you want to go back and take a few courses","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Cool, funny show with the always zany Rodney D. throwing campus parties, p***ing off the professors, and doing no studying. A total spoof on the way academia should never, ever be. Sam Kinison was in fine form with his signature scream. "},{"Title":"Fun Charming Rodney Dangerfield","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Thornton Melon (Rodney Dangerfield) disobeyed his father about school but still became a big rich success as the owner of Big and Tall stores. He can't stand his high maintenance cheating wive. When he visits his son Jason (Keith Gordon), he finds that Jason isn't the big man on campus like he assumed. Jason wants to quit college. Now Thornton must enroll in school to keep Jason from quitting.It's great to see Robert Downey Jr as Jason's wacky manic best friend. Sally Kellerman is Thornton's love interest. Burt Young is Thornton's body man. Terry Farrell is Jason's object of desire. Keith Gordon is great as the lead. Rodney Dangerfield is his lovable self. This movie is driven by his immense charm. There's a lot of it around and that's what saves this movie. "},{"Title":"You're A Melon!","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rodney Dangerfield stars as Thornton Melon, a self-made millionaire whose one big regret in life was that he never went to college. When his son Jason(played by Keith Gordon) says that he wants to drop out of college, his father makes him a deal; if Jason stays enrolled, he'll enroll himself, which starts a comedic chain of events that will change their lives,(and the college!) forever.Reasonably good-natured comedy has Rodney's bright performance and self-mocking routine going for it, and the hilarious scenes with Sam Kinison as a most unorthodox(and angry) history teacher. Other aspects and characters are not so funny or believable, but film's pluses outweigh the negatives in this amusing comedy. "},{"Title":"If you like Dangerfield , you will like this movie","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rodney Dangerfield (RIP) has got a specific and recognizable sense of humor. Some like it , some not . I happen to like it , so I also liked Back to school . The whole movie is basically Dangerfield's tour de force . He's almost constantly making a snappy comments or fun jokes. He's rarely not on the screen. This doesn't mean the movie not offers him support.Sam Kinison is fun as professor Terguson history teacher . The first lesson of history of America is HILARIOUS . I was crying from laughter. I wish they give him more screen time. I was surprised by appearance of young Robert Downey Jr. as Derek . He's quite a colorful character with his weird clothes , hairstyles and beliefs. I also loved Burt Young (Paulie from Rocky) as Lou - Thornton's driver and best friend. His strong and street wise. Paxton Whitehead (Philip Barbay) makes for a nice snobbish economy teacher. Keith Gordon is likable as shy Jason Melon &#x96; Dangerfield's son. Sally Kellerman (Diane) and Terry Farell (Valerie) are both lovely ladies. M. Emmett Walsh plays coach Turnbull . William Zabka (the bully from Karate kid) once again plays bully (Chas). There is also special guest appearance, but I won't spoil the surprise. There are some great songs here  Jude Cole Back to school , Oingo Boingo Dead man's party , Aretha Franklin Respect and Rodney Dangerfield's version of Twist and shout .Harold Ramis (Groundhog day , National lampoons vacation , Ghostbusters) is one of the writers . He and Dangerfield worked earlier together in Caddyshack . There is even a picture from Caddyshack in the opening credits of the movie.This is Dangerfield's best movie from the 80's and best overall. It's one of best 80's comedies. It was one of the first comedies to earn 100 millions worldwide . That tells you something. Oh , and don't forget about the famous jump at the pool.I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"Funny Rodney Dangerfield movie","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rated PG-13 for Language,Sexual Content and Mild Violence.Back to School is a 1980's teen film starring comedian Rodney Dangerfield.I haven't seen many of this man's films but from what I have seen, he seems to be very funny.The other films I saw with him are Easy Money and Rover Dangerfield.Back To School is about a millionaire who decides to enroll in college with his son so his son will not want to drop out.Rodney then becomes the most popular guy at the school while his son tries to woo this girl.The film has Robert Downey JR in a supporting role.Back To School is a pretty funny teen film and if you like Rodney Dangerfield, watch it. "},{"Title":"Dangerfield romps through college for his kid's sake...","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" He may be brash, bombastic, crude and uneducated and doesn't get much respect--but RODNEY DANGERFIELD gets just about all the laughs in this travesty of college life in the '80s. He's seen to it that it's full of memorable one-liners that are just as sassy as any he uses in his stand-up nightclub act.And he's surrounded himself with a cast that really gets into the spirit of things. SALLY KELLERMAN is the vivacious English professor that soon becomes the love of his life; ADRIENNE BARBEAU is his shrewish ex-wife; KEITH GORDON is the son who is not exactly Big Man on the Campus; and ROBERT DOWNEY, JR. is the kind of left-wing activist you can find on any college campus, making the most of a role that he could play in his sleep. For subtlety, if there is any, there's a Dean Martin (NED BEATTY) who allows the uneducated Dangerfield to enter the halls of ivy merely because he's got a pocket full of cash and wants to splurge it on the school's administration, good philanthropist that he is.It's strictly a funfest for RODNEY DANGERFIELD fans -- of which there are many, judging from the comments here -- but it's an enjoyable romp that has some telling truths to say about a variety of college subjects, all the while injecting its own brand of wild humor on every situation. Clever writing makes it all very enjoyable. "}{"Title":"Rodney at his best!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rodney plays Thornton Mellon, a successful businessman married to Vanessa (Adrienne Barbiou) who fools around with any man she can find. Thornton does not really care because he is worried that his son Jason is failing in college and may drop out.In order to keep his son in school, Thornton has to go there himself and do something he has never done - study for himself.Thornton's problems are compounded by Phillip, the know-it-all Business professor who hates the street-smart Mellon. Phillip will do anything in his power to see that Mellon is expelled from school.Thornton falls hard for his English teacher (Sally Kellerman) who happens to be dating Phillip, causing a bigger rivalry between Thornton and his teacher.There are side splitting hilarious moments in this movie including a couple of tirades by Sam Kennison as the crazy history professor. One of the funniest movies I have seen! "},{"Title":"Head of the class!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rodney Dangerfield, Billy Zabka (Johnny in the Karate Kid), Oingo Boingo, Robert Downey, Jr., Burt Young, and Kurt Vonnegut making an appearance as a guy hired to write a report about his own book? How can you go wrong? 'Back to School' is definitely a comedy worth seeing. It is one of the best of Rodney Dangerfield's performances.Jubilent Thorton Melon (Dangerfield) is a pretty wealthy businessman. As a kid (the younger Thorton is played by Jason Hervey), he never put much stock in school. It was enough to know the basics, but he just wanted to inherit the business. Now it's years later. He may be stuck in a rotten marriage, but otherwise, business is great. His son, Jason (Kieth Gordon), is having doubts however, about his future. He's a quiet kid with one solitary friend, Derek (Robert Downey, Jr. as a total fun-loving goofball), he's just a towel boy for the diving team, and even his grades aren't so hot. Thorton is willing to help his son out to put some self-esteem in the boy. So, Thorton dumps his dumb wife and grabs his slick driver, Lou (Burt Young), and off to college they go.Thorton pretty much makes a mockery out of a college education (although I guess that could be done anyways), expecting to coast through the semester by buying off those obstacles along the way. In fact, Thorton seems to be the campus hot shot now in part because of his wild attitude and extreme generosity (he thinks any problem just requires a little cash). He expanded Jason's and Derek's dorm to be high class resort. He hires a huge staff to do the homework for his finals. And, it starts to annoy those around him, especially his son, because he doesn't expect something to come to him so easily (like making the diving team or passing a test), and he doesn't want his dad to bribe someone to make it that easy. He's gotta show his father that once in a while, he has to put some real effort into doing things, or otherwise he's never going to learn anything, much less appreciate it. Thorton's excursion teaches his son to lighten up a little, too.It's a pretty good movie about what a middle-aged rich businessman would do as a college freshman. It's got a big 80s cast with Billy Zabka as the typical jock bully that he seemed to type casted for in those days. Likewise, Keith Gordon, who plays Thorton's son, Jason, is the typical timid geek type that he always seemed to be as well (see Christine). Frankly, I like the guy better as a director. Plus, Oingo Boingo rocks out the dormitory? And I think it is one of the best comedies I've seen Rondey Dangerfield in. His sarcasm is terrific when met with the resistance of the stuffy English professor who doesn't want Thorton around. In fact, Thorton, with his great sense of humor, gets everyone to lighten up.Have a go, eh? "},{"Title":"Rodney deserves respect for this classic","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This movie is easily Rodney's funniest in my opinion playing super rich Thornton Melon.  He is married to a gold-diggin wife who he ditches and tries to make up with his son (who hates his step-mom) by surprising him with a unexpected college visit.  Rodney finds out that his son, Jason, is about ready to quit college so he decides to enroll and help him get adjusted to college life by doing it with him.  Ned Beatty is hilarious as Dean Martin, a college administrator who never met a rich donator he didn't love.  Poorly educated but rich Rodney donates a ton of money as a bribe so he can be admitted, has a new school building named after him due to this generosity and several of the teachers have it out for him as a result.  Sam Kinison is hilarious as a dedicated psychotic history teacher and Sally Kellerman is great playing Rodney's college love interest (as well as the college poetry teacher.  There are plenty of hilarious moments in this film, especially when Rodney is scuba diving in his hot tub with several college beauties and asks on of them what her favorite subject is.  Poetry, she remarks.  Well, I bet you can straighten out my Longfellow, Rodney replies.  There are other hilarious scenes, especially Sam Kinison's hilarious tirade about the Korean War as he tears up a chair and leaves a petrified student in tears on her lack of morals and conviction.  The 1st time I saw this movie, I laughed myself into tears.  This is easily Rodney's best movie and deserves a much higher rating than the 5.9 that your poll has given it.  Good supporting cast, funny storyline from start to finish.  For a comedy, easily a 9 out of 10.  I felt obligated to come to this movie's defense when I saw the mediocre rating that you experts gave it.  This 5.9 rating is further proof that Rodney gets no respect.      "},{"Title":"A Fun Movie,nothing more, nothing less!","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rodney Dangerfield doesn't do many movies,and some stuff(Ladybugs for one)isn't much to comment about,but this offering might be his best! His Thornton Mellon,a bored and lonely super-successful clothing magnate is the perfect blend of his Don't get any respect! stand-up persona with a rollicking,fun-loving dad who wants nothing more than to hang out with his college age son. I saw this in the theater seventeen years ago,and sometimes films lose their impact or quality over time,but when I watched it again a few years ago(and numerous times on Comedy Central of late),I've found myself still laughing at the one-liners. Perhaps it's because I haven't quite grown up myself,but I feel like this is a contemporary classic for anyone who remembers the fun aspects of college or ones who wish they had. Nine of ten stars! "},{"Title":"Greatest of All-time","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  For as long as I can remember I have been a Rodney fan. Nobody does it like the tie-twisting, constantly sweating, overly depressed Dangerfield. The one-liners in this movie are unbelievably funny. The cops bringing beer to the party, classic. There is NO comedy out there better than this. Rodney Dangerfield is the King of Comedy, and will hopefully remain that way for a long time. "},{"Title":"good 80's comedy","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Rodney Dangerfield shines as a self-made millionaire who decides to enroll in his son's college.  Rodney's trademark one-liners are combined in this movie with a likable character.  BTS also has good performances from the rest of the cast especially Burt Young(from Rocky fame) as his driver, Sally Kellerman(MASH) as the love interest, and Sam Kinison in a great scene as an overly intense professor.  I saw it in the movies back in '86 and I have recently seen it on TV.  It still made me laugh. "},{"Title":"Another Dangerfield Blockbuster!","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Rodney Dangerfield gives a hilarious performance in this gem of a movie as a millionaire who visits his son in college and decides to enroll.  The other actors are not perfect, but they are good enough, including future film director Keith Gordon as Dangerfield's son.  Robert Downey, Jr. is good as Gordon's best friend.  While this movie only gets a B on my scale, Dangerfield gets an A for his brilliant performance in such a funny movie.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Rodney at his funniest since Easy Money","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  BACK TO SCHOOL (1986) *** 1/2 Rodney Dangerfield, Keith Gordon, Burt Young, Sally Kellerman, Robert Downey, Jr., Terry Farrell, Sam Kinison, Paxton Whitehead, Ned Beatty, William Zabka, Adrienne Barbeau, M. Emmet Walsh, Edie McClurg, Kurt Vonnegut (cameo).  Outrageously funny comedy with Rodney as self-made millionaire Thornton Mellon who learns his son wants to drop out of college and to inspire him, decides to go as well.  Hilarity ensues with plenty of sharp one-liner zingers and some great sight gags.  Best bits are  The Triple Lindy dive sequence and Rodney's recital of Dylan Thomas.Look for film's composer Danny Elfman fronting his band Oingo Boingo during the party scene.  Harold Ramis, who co-wrote, also co-produced.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  What a display this film is. A lesser person would find a million faults with Back To School, but this is the perfect film to just sit back and watch in the most lighthearted mood you can be in.Back To School is Rodney Dangerfield's best film overall, with huge laughs and a terrific cast.When Thornton Melon's (Dangerfield) son Jason (Keith Gordon) decides to drop out of school, Thornton must take matters into his own hands in proving that getting an education is one of the most important things in life. To prove it, he enrolls himself in the university.With excellent supporting roles by Sally Kellerman, Ned Beatty, Robert Downey Jr., and a show-stopping sequence with the late Sam Kinison, Back To School offers harmless fun for everyone.One of the best products of the mid-1980's.Grade A "},{"Title":"Hilarious; Rodney at his best.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Extraordinarily witty comedy starring Rodney as a turgid, self-made millionaire who enrolls in college to encourage his student son, then causes an uproar with the staff and pupils.Crammed full of Dangerfield's trademark one-liners, this one stands out as Rodney's best comedy vehicle and does so without resorting to the  excessive raunch and vulgarity that pervaded (and sold) so many comedies of the 1980s.However, it did not deserve the lenient PG-13 rating that the weird-as-ever MPAA awarded it.  This film's language and content are stronger than previous Dangerfield films EASY MONEY and CADDYSHACK, which both received R ratings.All told a great view for even non-Rodney fans (though I can't imagine who wouldn't be a Rodney lover).  *** out of ****. "}{"Title":"Rodney tries to get respect at school and from his son.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Rodney Dangerfield plays a billionaire type who enters college himself to help his son become BMOC. While his son, played by Keith Gordon, is not very appreciative of his help at first, he soon gives in and comes out of his shell. A fun movie with some good comedic moments..Look for a gorgeous Terry Farrell and other good performances by Sally Kellerman Rober Downey Jr and especially Sam Kinison as a slightly enthusiastic history teacherOn a scale of one to ten...7 "},{"Title":"Dangerfield at his Best!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  A real treat for all Rodney Dangerfield fans.  The late Sam Kinison is terrific as Professor Terguson,  as is Paxton Whitehead as Thorton Melon's rival.  Great quotes abound - He wants you to dress up like Wonder Woman, tie him up with the golden lariat and force him to tell you the truth - Always good for a laugh!   "},{"Title":"Lots of fun, Rodney makes the movie, full of quotes.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Bad acting, great punchlines.  Don't watch it as a movie, watch it as a comedy.  Thornton Mellon is afraid he is loosing touch with his son who is to busy as the fraternity brother and swim team champion to see him.  When Thornton, the millionare owner of the Tall and Fat Stores, finds out that his son is actually a college reject, he decides to go back to school to relive both their dreams!!  You got a problem?  No, I don't got no problem.  Now you do!  Rodney Rules in his verson of Animal House. "},{"Title":"Several memorable moments make this film worth seeing","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is basically your typical warmed over school type comedy, but with several exceptional moments that to me make the film worthwhile and funny.  The scene with Kurt Vonnegut is particularly memorable. "},{"Title":"Back to School","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Dangerfield is at his comedic best as a stinking rich owner of a chain of Big Man clothing stores who decides to go back to college. Based on a story by Dangerfield himself, the film is unsophisticated, unambitious and crude...but it's hilarious and Rodney plays it off beautifully.  "},{"Title":"Dangerfield Finds His Niche.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Good, almost very good, comedy from the 1980s that transcends the weak genre with a creative twist that works amazingly well. Dangerfield is a self-made man who owns a national chain of clothing stores that cater to over-weight people. His son (Keith Gordon) is a struggling freshman in college who has aspirations of dropping out and trying to make it as his father did. Dangerfield worries about this and decides to go to college with Gordon, taking classes, partying and turning the university upside down. During his stay he falls in love with his English professor (Sally Kellerman) and has numerous hilarious run-ins with other teachers and faculty members (most notably priceless performances from M. Emmet Walsh, Sam Kinison, Paxton Whitehead and the under-rated Ned Beatty). The entire cast shines and the screenplay is written to give all the major characters at least one memorable scene. Dangerfield's limo driver (Burt Young) and ex-wife (Adrienne Barbeau) are legitimate scene stealers as well. Watch for a young Robert Downey, Jr. (in a substantial role) as Gordon's best friend. A winner overall. 3.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"A great comedy","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Rodney Dangerfield makes a great comic effort here as Thornton Melon, a clothing tycoon who sees that his son is hating college, so to help him out (morale wise to the least) he decides to become a student, with hilarious result.  Formulaic in the wrong hands, but in the hands of the Rodfather, we see some great no respect comedy take place with his charm and personality (now that's what I call marine biology).  But the ultimate highlight is the scene with comedian/screamer Sam Kinison who brings one of the greatest scenes in comedy film history as Professor Turgeson (of contemporary American history).  A "},{"Title":"Education is like Karate, we study things not to have to use them in real life...","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" A colleague once told me a funny anecdote while he had successfully passed his 4th grade exam, his cousin, of the same age, didn't have the same luck, so his father made him work as a mechanic. Thirty years later, this colleague was twice my age with half my wage, while his cousin turned out to be the successful manager of six garages all over the town.So much for the merit of education! So when Alan Metter's Back to School came to its fifth minute, I was immediately thinking of this story. The film opens with young Thornton Meloni, decided to leave school and work with his father, an Italian immigrant who's obviously failed to communicate about the virtue of education. Was that a loss? Not quite the opening sequence is a brilliant illustration of the American Dream, showing Meloni's ascension, becoming Melon, the head of a 'Fat and Tall' tailor-made costumes empire. Whether it's Melon, or the garage owner, are typical self-made men who didn't wait for any certificate to work hard, they had the talent, the personality, and luck did the rest.And Rodney Dangerfield, with his bulging eyes, obnoxious mannerisms and self-deprecating one-liners, proves that you can be wealthy and successful in business without being corrupted by a snobbish etiquette or pompous arrogance. You can be among the city's top businessmen and speak people's language. There's also no doubt that 'education' isn't his strong suit he's not comfortable with tuxedos and his driver (played by Burt Young) looks like a truck driver crossed with a moving mug-shot from America's Most Wanted. So, it doesn't come as a surprise that the dinner organized by his gold-digging socialite second-wife gets as disastrous as Mr. Burns presenting his son Larry in the Simpsons episode that guest-starred Dangerfield. The divorce is quickly set and Melon had one urge, visiting his son, Jason, played by Keith Jordan.Jason is an interesting character, in a frustrating way, despite obvious diving skills inherited from his father, he's just the locker boy, and despite his only friend's encouragement to talk to the girl of his dreams, he's more or less resigned to give up (the friend is played with delightful zaniness by a young Robert Downey Jr., and you could tell the promising talent rising even from a secondary role). Melon can't believe Jason is not some fraternity member or just more popular, much more, that he's about to drop college. But the father's experience doesn't convince on the necessity of education, but like any father, he wants the 'best' for his son, and if it can set an example to his son, he'll also study with him, and pass the same exams.The set-up is as simple as that, but it says something very nice about the film, it's moved by the love of a father for his son, and all Melon's good intentions are built on that, no matter how over-the-top and sometimes disastrous they end up. But Dangerfield plays such a charming, positive, cheerful character that it's impossible to resist to his appeal, he makes everything fun and enjoyable, like a never-ending party, and the embarrassing moments cause more harm to him than his son. And what I liked about the film is that the son likes his father and doesn't mind his presence. In a lesser comedy, the father-and-son relationship would've been the source of predictable gags consisting on one ruining another's fun, but the dynamics is more subtle and touching, and makes the conflict more serious when it happens.And the conflict says a lot about the film's commentary on money and education. The class's jock and Jason's rival accuses him of being an opportunistic nouveau riche benefiting from his father's helps, including him being part of the diving team. Jason thinks his father bribed the coach (played by M. Emmet Walsh, oddly enough, a role he also played in Ordinary People). But the bribe accusation isn't that irrelevant as Melon literally bought his way to the school, through a generous donation, that left the spineless Dean speechless (Ned Beatty makes a funny pairing with Dangerfield) and that didn't please the Business Professor and main antagonist, Professor Barbay, played by Paxton Whitehead. But Melon thinks money is the answer.Melon is actually a pragmatic guy, and in what constitutes the best scene of the film, he deconstructs the whole theoretical approach of Barbay's business course, reminding him there are many extra-costs to count, from the politicians to grease, to the waste disposal, to the unions (and you see students taking notes). Melon has made his way by learning how to make things simple and quick, and if he can buy people to ghostwrite his work, if he can hire someone for the NASA to work on his son's project, he doesn't see any harm to it. Melon is ignoring the basis of education, which, as worthless as it can be (and it can) for a man's success is also the builder of a positive state of mind, something that allow people to surpass their level and learn things that go beyond practicality&#x85;.like a beautiful English teacher, played by Sally Kellerman, who'd unveil the man's sensitive side.As the fun comedy as it is, Back to School has the merit to keep constantly in line with its message, not much an hymn to education, but an invitation to enjoy the time that is given to have fun and learn, before getting to the real world. And on a personal level, it reminded me of my preppy and school years which ultimately made me realize that education is like Karate, we study things not to have to use them.Not sure this one-liner would have done well in this comedy&#x85; but there's one that I immediately put in my Top 10 funniest ever Say hello to my nieces (especially when you know the context). "},{"Title":"Honoring all those Back-To-Schoolers","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" One of the truly, funny if irreverent modern comedies and Dangerfield's best. A fun way to take the load off your new students by showing this. Rodney and Sally Kellerman make a great pair with Rodney his usual bumbling 'no respect' self. Yet he somehow gets the girl, for awhile anyway as the oldest student on campus. Favorite scene is at the swimming pool where Rodney takes quite a dive.This was Rodney's first movie, from 1986 but holds up well, better than most current movie fare.(Surprised at the 6.5 rating). For us, it's almost a 10. Show your kids/students along with this great poster gift ROAD TO SUCCESS Famous 100-Yr- old Motivational Poster -Great back to school gift or Business Promo http//buff.ly/1i5SocU #success #backtoschool "},{"Title":"Rodney's All-Star College Special","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" If it were the mid-1980s, and you were casting a formula-driven, broad-premise comedy film, and you needed two actors to play a tweedy pair of college professors, my God, you couldn't have done better than Sally Kellerman and Paxton Whitehead. Or if it were the 1980s, and you needed a rapid-fire quipster who could credibly laugh in the face of a muscled goon and get away with it, how about an SNL-era Robert Downey, Jr.? And what if your comedy was about the college underdogs, the smaller, slighter, offbeat undergraduates, and you wanted to inject a love interest that was gorgeous but also had a little, you know, geek cred? What about (then future) DS9 heart-throbber Terry Farrell?And what if, after you had signed your comedy's straight men, your sidekick, and your love interest, you also landed Ned Beatty, Adrienne Barbeau, Burt Young, Sam Kinison, and Kurt Vonnegut-yes THAT Kurt-freakin'-Vonnegut (to play himself, naturally, it's a film about higher learning) for minor roles and cameos?Pretty ding-dang good, right? But wait, it's a college film, so for the heavy, you need a classic, turned-up collar, sneering, bro type. And you go get William Zabka--yeah, the 'Cobra Kai' kid from The Karate Kid. Ring the bell (wait, do colleges use 'bells?'). This movie, an absolute mid-1980s gem, exists, with this cast, and it stars Rodney Dangerfield. It is the best comedy and best film he ever starred in (Caddyshack excepted, but was he a lead there, really?). It is called Back to School. Rodney Dangerfield is Thornton Melon, captain of industry, millionaire. Thornton's normal-guy son Jason has started college, but it's been a bumpy ride, and he wants to drop out. Thornton, who never went, offers to enroll in college with him so the loving father and son can tough things out together. He enrolls, both son and father face down their natural rivals, and a wonderfully acted feel-good comedy ensues. Back to School is, it seems, permanently underrated and under-viewed since most people who haven't seen it will mistake it for a Dangerfield yuck-yuck schtick groaner, and never press 'Play.' This movie is worth your time on a quiet evening, and it is extra fun for parents and older teenagers to watch together. "}{"Title":"One Of Dangerfield's Best Movies. Simply Hilarious.","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" To help his discouraged son get through college, a funloving and obnoxious rich businessman decides to enter the school as a student himself.In case I haven't mentioned already, Rodney Dangerfield is one of my favorite comedians, he is always capable of making me laugh. And in this movie, he certainly made me laugh. Back To School is one of Rodney Dangerfield's best movies, it's a simply hilarious motion picture that contains a big amount of laughs in it. Basically, seeing Rodney Dangerfield enrolling in college is just a recipe for disaster. And during the course of this film, he experiences triumphs and tragedies, as well as delivering to the audience a big amount of big laughs. Considering what a fan of Dangerfield that I am, I decided to give this movie a viewing, and I was not disappointed at all by what I watched. Throughout the course of this movie, I laughed, and I laughed hard. Along with Caddyshack and Easy Money, this movie ranks as one of Rodney Dangerfield's best efforts. Dangerfield was a genius in more ways than one, he was great not just on stage, but in movies as well, and whenever he appeared on screen, he stole the show.Dangerfield steals the spotlight in his hilarious performance as Thornton Melon, a businessman who decides to help his son in college by enrolling as a student himself. Sally Kellerman gives a good performance as one of Melon's professors, to whom Melon takes a liking. Burt Young is very funny as Lou, Melon's friend, bodyguard, and partner in crime (if you could call him that). And, Paxton Whitehead is very effective as Dr. Phillip Barbay, an economics professor that serves as an antagonist to Melon. Naturally, Dangerfield stole the show in his role, every single minute that he was on screen shined like gold, he put the 'L' back in laughs. But hey, that is usually expected in just about any movie that he appears in, and in this movie, that definitely applies to him.How many hilarious scenes does this movie contain? There are too many to list. Among them include the scene near the beginning featuring Melon's Tall And Fat Brand, then there is Melon's first economics class in which he keeps interrupting it, not to mention the scene where he donates the building. Then there's a scene featuring Sam Kinison as a professor who goes absolutely nuts while teaching his class. All in all, if you are a fan of Dangerfield, then the chances of you enjoying this movie are very high, as it contains a very big amount of laughs. So sit back and join Rodney Dangerfield on a trip to school that you will never forget, that is his 1986 marvel, Back To School.9/10 "},{"Title":"She gives great headache.....","Date":"15 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Millionaire businessman Thornton Melon is upset when his son Jason announces that he is not sure about staying at college. Thornton insists that college is the best thing for him, and to prove his point, he agrees to enroll in school along with his son. Thornton is a big hit on campus always throwing the biggest parties, knowing all the right people, but is this the way to pass college?.....Here in the UK, Dangerfield is a drama that was shown on the BBC back in the nineties starring some bloke your mum used to fancy, because he looked trustworthy, not a stand up comedian.So the only thing I've ever seen him in is Natural Born Killers. I knew of him, but the only films of this that had anything near a prolific release here were, Ladybugs, Rover Dangerfield, and this.And if it wasn't for him, this would have been your average fish out of water comedy,that would have had mild success, because during this stage of the eighties, college movies were the fashion, so to speak.But he lights up every scene he's in, treating the film like a stand-up routine rather than a narrative, and this kind of hides the predictable fish out of water clich.But you find all the regular tropes that you would expect....The Professor who wants him to fail.... The Love interest who just happens to be seeing said professor..... The Jock who causes trouble..... The make or break exam..... And of course, the last minute act that saves the day......But it's never dull, there are a lot if laughs, and it's always good to see Downey Jr.A good addition to the sub-genre.. "},{"Title":"Classic '80s Dangerfield vehicle.","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" The late, legendary comedian Rodney Dangerfield shines here in a vehicle for which he also helped concoct the story. He's at his funniest and most engaging, reeling off one priceless one-liner after another; you just can't help but like his character. He plays Thornton Melon, a self made millionaire who created a big business without the benefit of a higher education. When his geeky college age son Jason (Keith Gordon) expresses desire to drop out, not happy with his lot in life, Thornton is motivated to do whatever he can to help out the kid. His brainstorm is simple enroll in college himself! He manages to buy his way in (donating money to a new business centre) and once settled in proceeds to not exactly take his education that seriously, becoming a life-of-the-party type who sometimes embarrasses Jason. He even has a team of professionals do his homework for him. When he's found out, it's up to him to actually learn some things in order to salvage the whole endeavour. With a screenplay co-written by Harold Ramis, director Alan Metter allows the cast and subsequently the viewer to simply have a lot of fun. The movies' good vibes are pretty hard to resist. There are some brilliant touches; just to name one, author Kurt Vonnegut Jr. cameos as himself, hired to write a paper about his own works, after which a professor exclaims that the writer doesn't know the first thing about Vonnegut! Dangerfields' lines are instantly quotable (They should donate my body to science fiction!) and he also has a whale of a time singing a cover of the Beatles tune Twist and Shout (the same year that Matthew Broderick did this in Ferris Bueller's Day Off). The supporting cast is equally solid and memorable, especially adorable Sally Kellerman as Dangerfields' English professor and love interest. Also appearing are Burt Young, Robert Downey Jr., lovely Terry Farrell, M. Emmet Walsh, Adrienne Barbeau, Karate Kid villain William Zabka, Ned Beatty, Severn Darden, the late, great Sam Kinison, Robert Picardo, Edie McClurg, Timothy Stack, and Jason Hervey of 'The Wonder Years'. It's particularly great to see composer Danny Elfman on screen, performing with his band at the time, Oingo Boingo. Overall the movie IS very much of its time, but this is nothing but good if you are like this viewer and retain a fondness for the comedies of this era. If Thornton weren't a basically likable man who just wanted the best for his son, this wouldn't work as well as it does. But it DOES work, and we want to see these characters succeed, and take satisfaction in the way things turn out. The choice of Aretha Franklins' Respect to accompany the end credits is most appropriate. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dangerfield's School Days","Date":"19 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Back to School (1986) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Box office hit has Rodney Dangerfield playing Thorton Melon, a millionaire who decides to go back to school when his son (Keith Gordon) talks about dropping out. Melon is a hit on campus and even hits it off with one of his teachers (Sally Kellerman) but soon all the attention begins to push his son away. BACK TO SCHOOL is certainly a charming movie and it certainly has some funny moments but overall I don't think it works as well as it could have. For the most part the entire story is poorly written and there's really not too much that happens. The entire father-son relationship just comes off fake and especially towards the end when they have a falling out. This here leads to some scenes that are meant to be touching but they just come off rather melodramatic. Another problem I had is that there really aren't any funny moments that just happen. In other words, all of the funny material comes from Dangerfield's one-liners that he basically just looks into the camera and says. Some of these are certainly funny but the way they're filmed it really takes you out of the movie. With all of that said, yes, there's no question that seeing Dangerfield back at school contains a certain cuteness that can't be denied. The actor does a good job in the role as he has no problem throwing out the jokes and he handles the more dramatic moments just fine even if they are melodramatic. Burt Young does his typical good performance as does Kellerman in her role. Robert Downey, Jr. isn't too bad in his brief role and we get brief but entertaining spots by M. Emmet Walsh, Ned Beatty and Adrienne Barbeau. I found Gordon's performance somewhat annoying and the same with the quick cameo by Sam Kinison. BACK TO SCHOOL is pretty much pure 80s in term of its style and comedy. The cast makes it much better than it actually is but fans of Dangerfield will still want to check it out. "},{"Title":"One of Rodney's Best!","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rodney Dangerfield, Sally Kellerman, Keith Gordon, Robert Downey Jr., Paxton Whitehead and Burt Young star in this 1986 comedy. Dangerfield (Caddyshack) plays Thornton Melon, a self-made millionaire who owns a chain of clothing stores and never finished school. Gordon (Christine) plays his teenage son, Jason who is just starting his first semester at college. Jason is having trouble fitting in and Thornton decides to enroll to be with him. At first, Thornton has a bit too much fun and doesn't take his academics seriously. Soon, things get a little tough for Thornton and Jason, but they help each other get through them. Kellerman (Moving Violations) plays Diane, a professor Thornton falls for, Downey Jr. (Iron Man) plays Jason's roommate pal, Derek, Whitehead plays professor, Phil who can't stand Thornton and Young (Rocky) plays Thornton's friend, Lou. This is a great 80's comedy that's definitely one of Rodney's best with a good cast & great score by Danny Elfman who also makes an appearance. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Back to School (1986)","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rodney Dangerfield is one of the greatest stand up comedians ever. His timing and delivery are simply perfect. This films shows that he also had some great acting talent. Nothing that pushes him too far, but certainly enough to propel the story along. Dangerfield decides to attend his son's college to help his son through the hard times. Obviously they each learn a little about each other along the way. There are many sequences and characters you will be familiar with, but Dangerfield is particularly lovable. He's supported by a strong supporting cast. The best moments are when Dangerfield proves himself as more than just a one-liner comedian. "},{"Title":"great movie..but can't find the soundtrack on any compact disk","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" back to school is a great movie,and it would be nice if they made the soundtrack available to buy,because I would buy it.I'm sure I'm not the only one who'd like to see the soundtrack on compact disk.if anyone has heard anything please post.I have looked all over the internet.I came up empty.I checked amazon,nothing.it must be a hard compact disk to find.I don't think that they have put it on compact disk yet.I'm hoping they will.it would be nice.it's a great movie and has a great soundtrack.I have watched it many many times,it gets better each time.not sure if it will ever go to blu-ray,but that would be nice also.lots to like about the movie,and good actors.rodney dangerfield is always funny,as well as Sam Kinnison.they are both missed.I had no idea that Jim Carrey was considered for the movie.it's definitely one of the top comedy movies of all time.it would have been nice to see Sam Kinnison in more movies.this movie will be remembered as a great comedy,and will make anyone laugh.one of my favorite movies for sure. "},{"Title":"Rodney Dangerfield scores high marks in this total riot","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Blithely loud and vulgar self-made millionaire Thornton Melon (Rodney Dangerfield in terrific lovably crass form) goes back to college to complete his education and help out his son Jason (a fine and likable turn by Keith Gordon). Thornton discovers that college is harder than it looks and must learn to be more responsible for his academic studies or he'll get expelled. Director Alan Metter, working from a bright and witty script co-written by Harold Ramis, keeps the pace hurtling along at a constant zippy rate, maintains a winningly wacky tone throughout, and, most of all, gives Dangerfield free reign to really strut his hilariously hearty and obnoxious stuff. The supporting cast are likewise on the money excellent and effective Sally Kellerman as sexy and passionate English professor Dr. Diane Turner, Burt Young as Thornton's grubby, loyal chauffeur/bodyguard Lou, Robert Downey, Jr. as Jason's sarcastic misfit roommate buddy Derek, Paxton Whitehead as stuffy, pompous economics professor Dr. Phillip Barbay, Ned Beatty as the jolly, unprincipled Dean David Martin, Terry Farrell as the sweet, fetching Valerie Desmond, Sam Kinison as crazed, irate history Professor Terguson, William Zabka as mean, cocky frat jerk Chas, M. Emmet Walsh as nice guy diving Coach Turnbull, Severn Darden as the flaky Dr. Borozini, and Adrienne Barbeau as Thornton's shrewish adulterous second wife Vanessa. Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. has an amusing cameo as himself. Comic highlights include a wild barroom brawl, a rowdy frat bash (Oingo Boingo appear as themselves singing the great Dead Man's Party), and Thornton doing his famously dangerous Triple Lindy dive. Danny Elfman's jaunty score, Thomas E. Ackerman's slick cinematography, and the cool rock soundtrack are all up to speed. But it's Dangerfield who makes this picture such an always enjoyable and often sidesplitting treat to watch The Rodman's obviously having a ball in a tailer-made lead role and brings a positively infectious sense of incredibly lively and zany fun to the whole film that's impossible to either resist or dislike. An absolute hoot. "},{"Title":"Dangerfield Earns Respect in this Wonderful Comedy!","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Although I have never been a Rodney Dangerfield fan because of his excessive profanity in other movies and night-club acts, Back to School contains the comic's finest work.The story opens with Rodney's father in a flashback sequence, upset because his son brings home a report card, showing grades that demonstrate that he is not working up to his full potential. Taking his father's advice to work harder, we flash forward many years and Rodney opens up his own clothing store business called Tall and Fat. (Some very funny lines in this part of the film, when we see the ad commercial!) Meanwhile, Rodney discovers that his no-good wife is unfaithful at a party, and Rodney's son, played by Keith Gordon, is having problems fitting in at his college.Eager to help his son, and to instill confidence in himself, Rodney decides to visit him at college, and discovers that they can both help and learn from each other, so Rodney decides to enroll as well!!! He pulls a few strings by using the company funds from his Tall and Fat store to donate a new business building for the school. After being accepted by Dean Martin, (LOL!) Rodney's antics don't suit well with one particular professor, who intends on making life as miserable for him as possible. Meanwhile, he falls in love with the beautiful English professor who is not only teaching his Literature class, but also happens to be dating the business professor who hates him! Dangerfield struggles because all through life, the movie shows that he has been somewhat of a slacker himself. Using his business background, he bribes professional people to do his son's and his homework for him while rapidly becoming the campus party guy. His son Jason has trouble making the diving team, until Rodney pulls a few strings with the coach. Eventually, Jason becomes fed-up, because the entire campus learns what Rodney is doing. Jason wants to do his own work. Father and son have a big blow up fight about this, and the college administrator's determine that in order to prove evidence that Rodney did not plagiarize his work, he has to take oral final exams in all of his subjects.What I like most about Back to School, is that Dangerfield finally shows that he can be funny, without being obscene. There is a soft, sympathetic side to him in this movie that I don't see from him in other films. All of the supporting roles of Rodney's professors are very good. Rodney's jokes about his classroom and exam experiences, are well related from college students, especially if college was/is a trying time for them.The only downside is the song Twist and Shout. It was not only too long, but unnecessary. However, the movie is recommended. See Back to School. It is a fun time! "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies I've ever seen","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" Rodney Dangerfield, the king of the one-liners, is hilarious. The movie is a personal favorite of mine. He plays the role so well and anyone would love this movie. Not only will it last the test of time, but it appeals to all ages. Screw Hollywood for remaking this comedy classic with Cedric the Entertainer. They've remade far too many movies in Hollywood and attempting to butcher a classic is pathetic and makes me sick to my stomach. I know the classic will be forever loved. Much love for comedy central showing it often. May the remake bomb like Meet Joe Black. Rodney is my hero. -peace god bless, Sammy Mo "}{"Title":"See Back to School if you love to laugh- and if you love literature","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Back to School has two of the best moments regarding literature in film. One is Sally Kellerman as the English professor beginning her class by reading Molly Bloom's speech from Ulysses. I read this speech in my classes and Kellerman's performance is an inspiration to me. The other is Rodney discussing Do Not Go Gentle in that Good night. Bless Rodney. I saw him at Gator Growl in Gainesville, Florida, back in the 80s he made a whole football stadium rock with laughter and afterwards thanked us - we were the biggest audience he had ever performed for. He was hysterical. He's unforgettable in this movie. From the moment he tears through his wife's party saying, Look out! Hot stuff! he had me smiling. I hope up in heaven they're giving him respect.  "},{"Title":"Witty one-liners from Dangerfield carry this intelligent comedy.","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Dangerfield and the story line aside, this movie has some great writing. Lines such as when Dangerfield tries to pick up his English teacher by telling her to give him a call when she has no class are prevalent throughout. Another great example is the idea that comes from an executive in Melon's (Dangerfield) company. Combatting cabbage patch kids, who are orphans, the new idea is Melon Patch Kids - kids who are abandoned. And my personal favorite is when Melon and Kurt Vonnegut tell each other to F#$& off over the phone. My kudos to the writers for an excellent job. I only hope to meet one of them one day, so I can learn from such masters.  "},{"Title":"Comedy With A Story","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Written by obnoxious funnyman Rodney Dangerfield, he wants his son to finish school and get a diploma so he will get ahead, but like father like son, Keith Gordon the actor, he doesn't want to either.  Neither is motivated.  But daddy who is wealthy indulges his son as well as himself so they both attend together.  Some very funny situations.  Finally, the son who displays wonderful swimming and diving championship (what a body he has)for graduation.  The crowd urges daddy to be an alternate diving champ, and what a terrific display Rodney shows (maybe it was not really him, but he sure looked real to me).  Both of them graduate together after much hoopla.  What a fun movie this was!  I haven't seen Rodney for many years, but understand from TV commercials he is planning a new show this year.  In this movie, Sally Kellerman plays Rodney's love interest.  Other famous stars include Robert Downey, Jr., Ned Beatty, and Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.plays himself.  7/10 "},{"Title":"I was a lot happier when I was miserable.","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  For some reason, I always remember that line.  It kind of rings true sometimes, actually.  Great comedy, one of the best of the eighties. Dangerfield is terrific, as is the entire cast.  Looking at the few negative reviews, they kind of remind me of Phillip in the movie, the boring, jealous business prof.  This is a feel-good, funny movie that holds its own against just about any of its kind. "},{"Title":"This film is animal house's sequel","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  This is such a great film. Rodney Dangerfield singlehandedly equals the legendary 'Animal House' in Back To School, with inspired delivery & lines. There are just SO MANY jokes here that I laugh if I just think of any point in this film.  There is a great supporting cast, though it seemed Robert Downey Jr was at points trying to upstage Rodney.  If you get a chance, watch this film & record this film. you'll be kicking yourself if you don't. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A considerable improvement over Easy Money","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Comedian Rodney Dangerfield's previous starring vehicle Easy Money was a disaster but this follow up is much better and funnier. Dangerfield portrays Thornton Melon, a millionaire whose only major problem is being illiterate. This is explained by the fact that he never actually finished his schooling. After he embarasses his wife (Adrienne Barbeau) and several guests at a high society party, Thornton winds up being divorced and having to take a college credit. He chooses the same college that his son (Keith Gordon) attends in an effort to have more bonding time with his son and possibly make him a popular student. Chaos ensues when the two of them get together and they both just turn out being campus embarassments at first but as time passes Thornton hilariously makes some strong determination efforts in order to prove all of the doubters that he can finish his schooling. Dangerfield portrays this kind of role with some of the best comic timing of 1980's comedies.  "},{"Title":"Rodney goes back to school with some humorous and some not so humorous results.","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" I can not believe this one ranks higher in score than Easy Money. To me that one is a lot funnier than this one, which has some good stuff within it, but it just runs to long and gets to sentimental near the end. The story has a successful business man who never went to school with a son in college. Well the son is not having a good time of it and wants to drop out, but his father does not want him to. Well the son says the father did not go so why should he and this spurs the father (played by Dangerfield) to go to the same college to prove a point. There are some funny things initially, but like a lot of comedies of this type it gets to sentimental at times, there are a few lags between the laughs and after a point you just wish it to be over. Dangerfield is mostly funny in this one, though he is at his best near the beginning of the movie while at a party thrown by his wife. A few good scenes when he is first going to college as I enjoyed his first meeting with Sam Kinneson as a professor. Like I said though this movie just seems to go on to long and they have to invent plot points to make the movie more serious than it need be. Sure some people may like this kind of thing, I am just not one of them though. So for me the movie was almost an even split making it not good, but not bad. "},{"Title":"Mostly un-funny attempt by Rodney Dangerfield to carry a movie...","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" 1st watched 1/6/2007 - 3 out of 10(Dir-Alan Metter) Mostly un-funny attempt by Rodney Dangerfield to carry a movie with his bad jokes, bad taste but somewhat charming elderly man trying to do things the way he knows how film. The movie tries to pull off the fact that he has a good heart in the end which pulls the movie up a little bit but not enough for me to recommend it. This is basically the story of a man who's made it in life the hard way without even a high school diploma but decides to follow in his kid's footsteps and tries to attend college himself to help his boy's attitude after he hands divorce papers to his second wife. He starts out doing it the way he knows how -- by buying people and getting others to do the hard work but is caught by the college authorities and has to shape up. Dangerfield & a young Robert Downey Jr. are good for a couple of laughs but that's about it, so it was a nice try but this comic can't carry an entire movie with his schtick, and the basic boy meets girl premises added into the mix for both himself and his son doesn't help the movie much either. "},{"Title":"thank god for Rodney...","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" this movie would be perfection had they cast did people for the role of Jason Melon and his tall and annoying girlfriend.  Cause Rodney is just hysterical, in a role where he doesn't play it too nice, but still earns sympathy.  but what were they thinking in casting his son, who i think is trying to fake an italian accent...  i think he really played Jason a little too tormented.  what a shame, with Robert Downey Jr. sitting right there, playing Jason's best friend...  7/10 for pure Rodney and pure Triple Lindy Fun! "},{"Title":"rodney dangerfield is brilliant here","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  > Forgive me, but I liked this movie. I am not generally a Dangerfield fan, > nor do I usually like this type of silly comedy, but Dangerfield's timing > was impeccable and the gags, while sometimes cliched, were still funny. > >    Keith Gordon plays Jason Mellon, a nerdy college kid and son of Thornton > Mellon (Dangerfield), a self-made millionaire who made his fortune in > building Tall and Fat men's clothing stores. Thornton Mellon has a > problem, however. He never got an education. So he decides to enroll in > college and becomes his son Jason's classmate--and source of embarrassment. > Sally Kellerman is breezy and wonderful as the idealistic English professor > who falls for Mellon, Paxton Whitehead is brilliant as the snooty business > professor, and Ned Beatty is truly hateful as Dean Martin, the college > administrator.  Every cheesy comedy device and cliche is used here, but the > delivery (especially by Dangerfield) is inspired, and they work in spite of > themselves. There was one scene that literally had me in tears I was > laughing so hard. It's the scene where Dangerfield must take an oral exam > in front of all his teachers. Paxton Whitehead asks him a series of > multiple-part, convoluted, impossible questions on the more esoteric aspects > of economics, certain that Dangerfield is too dumb to get it(he hates him, > you see, because his ex-girlfriend, played by Kellerman, has left him for > the earthy Dangerfield). The sleep-deprived Dangerfield's delivery of his > one line in this scene must be seen to be believed. Maybe it's just me, but > this one moment transformed Back to School from a so-so comedy to a > brilliant farce. It's not even what he says, it's how he says it. It's an > inspired moment and worth waiting for. All in all, a good comedy with some > hilarious moments, despite its somewhat predictable plot and stereotyped > characters. "}{"Title":"Flunk Me? I'll Flunk this movie!","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" You know how after eating at a Chinese buffet, no matter how much you eat you never get full? That's how I felt after watching this movie. There should have been more.Don't get me wrong, I don't want the movie to be longer - I want more jokes. This was a comedy, right? I think jokes are an important part of comedy.I have seen episodes of Lost with more comedic relief than this movie.I've seen Youtube videos that were better than this.It's hard to believe that such a talented writer as Harold Ramis of Caddyshack and National Lampoon's Vacation could have hatched this bad egg out of his mindgrapes.This would have been a great movie in Fantasyland. "},{"Title":"Deserves no respect","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" This is a Rodney Dangerfield vehicle, and I suppose it must be considered in that light. It is full of his snappy zings, a few of which are quite funny. But not nearly enough of them. The plot is ridiculous, which I suppose is okay. Some of the supporting cast is terrible, which is not. It has Robert Downey, Jr. (who wasn't bad as the campus leftist, who really doesn't understand leftism) who was on the upside of his career, and Ned Beatty and Sally Kellerman and Adrienne Barbeau who were on the downside of theirs, and Sam Kinison who was on the only side of his. (Kellerman actually turned in as good a performance as the material allowed.) But this movie is for Dangerfield fans only. If you're not, don't bother. "},{"Title":"What a Film!!!","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" I think Rodney Dangerfield looks like Dan, and I'm sure Dan would agree with this. More importantly, we're all hoping that Dan fulfils his lifetime ambition and finally stars in a movie (preferably a romantic comedy) with his all-time hero Terry Funk - the greatest wrestler ever to have lived...I think the film should have a cheesy but wholesome beginning in which Dan is walking his pet dog James Waters in a park and then he sees the future love of his life - Terry Funk, who luck would have it is also walking his pet dog in the very same park. Obviously their eyes will meet and there'll be no turning back. Little does Terry Funk know that Dan harbours a dark secret - he's a wannabe jaffa!!! Cue hilarious hi-jinks and such like... "},{"Title":"Absolutely stupid. Absolutely hilarious!!!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" This is probably the best stupid movie I've ever seen. Whenever I'm in the mood to watch something funny that has absolutely no point at all, this is the pick. I don't really like Rodney Dangerfield but in this he's awesome! Some of the best linesFlunk me? Flunk him!; You don't lie to me &#151; you lie to girls.; You can help me straighten out my Longfellow. You simply can't beat this movie for shear fun and stupidity. Anyway, everyone should see this film, but don't expect anything monumental.What's up with the 10 line requirement? Doesn't anybody appreciate a short comment? "},{"Title":"...help me straighten out my longfellow...","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  ......ah one of Rodney Dangerfield's best lines in his best movie. I loved it. Who could blame him either-what with Bubbles in the hot-tub w/ him? (who Was she??)-very funny.This movie is very good-Kellerman, Sam Kinison, William Zabka, Oingo Boingo--about as '80's a cast as you can get. I always associate this one w/ 'Ferris Bueller'-both out same month, filmed in Chicago(I think), 'Twist and Shout' in the soundtrack, etc. All good.You also find out things you didn't know at the time the movie was out-Terry Farrell was the girlfriend, later of Deep Space Nine, for example, along w/ Severn Dardern being the prof. as well. You gotta like Ned Beatty and Kurt Vonnegut slumming in this......plus the plot about him going to school and salvaging the college run of his son and his own self-respect...hey it works, ya know?*** outta ****, still quite good. We miss ya already Rodney.  "},{"Title":"Sophomoric humor","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":" .....even though he's a Freshman! This is pretty typical Dangerfield. He's loud, boisterous, obnoxious and any other word you can think of to describe that sort of behavior. Dangerfield is a MASTER at that kind of humor and indeed, it's his signature. The film revolves around a rich, boorish man who enrolls in college to prod his son. He then parties to his heart's content while skipping classes and not studying. Some example! Anyway, he manages to meet Sally Kellerman and they of course fall in love. The whole premise is ridiculous but Dangerfield pulls it off. It's a fairly funny film and worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Schematic and predictable.","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Overly predictable, overly formulaic comedy has some amusing gags but also some mildly dramatic moments which feel particularly phony because the whole plot (and its inevitable happy ending) is believable only as a fairy tale. The film is easy enough to digest, but thoroughly ordinary. Note-worthy, extremely winning performance by Sally Kellerman as an attractive literature teacher.   (**) "},{"Title":"Not worth seeing.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sport","Review":"  Not a good comedy. No crazy hijinks, no cool laughs, no shock humour, no one liners, no point! Dangerfield looks like he is having a great time, and everyone else look like they want out! I want out of this movie as well! "}]