[{"Title":"A Comedy With A Few Surprising Touches","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was a nice surprise. I figured it would be stupid and not all that funny. Wrong. It WAS funny. Yes, it's a harmless no-brainer type of movie but it was fun and had likable lead characters, people you could easily root for to make good. In this, it was a pair of security guards Frank Dooley (John Candy) and Norman Kane (Eugene Levy). Every comedy has its stupid moments, this included, but the good outweighs the stupid. What also makes this above-average is that it is not just a comedy. There is action and suspense in here and the combination works. Believe me, this film is not all laughs.I watch this and makes me sad that Candy is no longer with us. He was a great entertainer. "},{"Title":"Great John Candy movie!","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Armed and Dangerous is one of John Candy's best films! Eugene Levy, Meg Ryan, Brion James, Robert Loggia, James Tolkan, Kenneth McMillan, and Tom Lister Jr. were all good. I loved the performance Lister and Candy did together! I don 't like to make fun of anybody but it was so funny every time Candy would make fun of him and I loved Lister doing his Zeus Trademark in the film! If are a fan of John Candy and the above cast mention and love hilarious action packed comedies with good music then I strongly recommend that you watch this classic movie soon! "},{"Title":"Classic Candy","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although I'll probably take some heat from saying this, but I love this film.  I grew up watching it and it gets funnier every time I see it.  If you're a die hard Candy fan, you have got to see this movie.  Although this isn't Candy's best film, it definitely shouldn't be overlooked. "},{"Title":"Well.. I liked it.","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the movies that I dont see why people hate it. It was too me a funny movie. Maybe it's the fact im a fan of the talent involved with this movie. John Candy is good like usual. Eugene Levy is good as usual. Meg ryan looks good.. D what? Was this supposed to be the godfather? no. its just fun, and funny movie. It's too me a good movie. But since I am trying(and failing) to add more meat to these reviews i post here's the plot outline i stole from imdb. hehehFrank Dooley is an ex-cop, thrown out of the force after being framed by corrupt colleagues. Herman Kane is an out of work attorney who quit because he lost his nerve. Both men turn to a private security firm to find employment, but everything goes quickly wrong when the first warehouse they guard gets robbed! Dooley and Kane suspect foul-play, and there's something fishy about the security firm's union too. Our two heroes decide to investigate, and uncover intrigue and conspiracy, with only their ingenuity and resourcefulness keeping them aliveThanks to Simon N for that plot summary. It's a decent plot, I still cant see whats so bad about this movie. Oh no. theres one scene that might offened people but im not going to get into how stupid i think getting offened by a movie is but that scene is when candy and levy go into this sex store and stuff happened. I wont ruin it because that's probably the funniest part of this funny movie. 7/10 or 70% "},{"Title":"An all-time classic Candy Movie","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is an all-time movie classic.  Candy shines in this clumsy romp with the laughs flowing thick and fast.  The all-star cast shows the obvious appeal of the script and doesn't fail to deliver in a film that appeals to a wide age-range.  The plot takes a back seat as the best enjoyment comes from watching the cast deliver and the effervescent John Candy performing at his comedy best.  This film has a feel-good factor and the quality of the performance has brought me laughs again and again. "},{"Title":"John Candy's 2nd funniest movie!!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time last month, and im still laughing about it!! This movie has some of the funniest parts ever in it. This movie isnt as funny as Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, but it's pretty darn close!! If you liked Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, you should definately check this one out. "},{"Title":"An instant classic, underrated.","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" While most reviews describe this movie as 'just an average comedy', even at this, Armed and Dangerous is a laugh and a half. It's charming, fast-paced, and furthermore, I adored Candy and Levy's interactions on-screen. One minute, they're ragging on each other, the next, they're the best of friends.The movie also has, though almost impossible to find a copy of, an excellent soundtrack, including Armed and Dangerous by Atlantic Starr, and, of course, half a dozen or so other popular 80s hits. With that, the movie is also on DVD, and while it doesn't have much in the way of extras, it does include anamorphic widescreen with Dolby Stereo 2.0 Surround Sound.Possibly the only complaint one could make we might all agree on was that it was just too short. At just under an hour and a half, as endearing as each minute is, the film does leave much to be desired.All in all, Armed and Dangerous is a mid-80s classic well-worth watching. It's the perfect blend of action and comedy, and SCTV fans will find that it's no flop for either Candy or Levy; even as the script is considered by some to be lacking, both hide it well. "},{"Title":"Armed with a thousand laughs, this film will boost your spirits, absolutely","Date":"26 July 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Frank (John Candy) is a good policeman but he is framed for theft when he catches other officers pilfering electronics. He is kicked off the force in short order. Meanwhile, Norman (Eugene Levy) is an inept lawyer who messes up big time when he assigned to defend a Charles Manson type offender. The judge in the case orders Norman to find alternative work. With few options, Frank and Norman both enroll in a security guard officers training school, where they become fast friends and partners. This is, in part, because so many of their classmates are complete idiots, like the man who wonders if he should put his own name on the application line that says name! Frank and Norman's first assignment is to stand watch inside a factory but they soon realize that their company, Guard Dog Security, may have some criminals on the staff, ones that are stealing from the companies they are supposed to be guarding. Can Frank and Norman, with the help of the firm-owner's daughter, Maggie (Meg Ryan), expose the bad elements in the company, without getting fired or killed? This is a very funny film with abundant laughs. Yes, it may be considered a more low-brow vehicle, but it is still very mirthful and will cause any viewer to laugh themselves silly. Just watching the less-than-intelligent guards on the staff of the security firm makes for a fun, fun evening. Candy, Levy, and Ryan are terrific but, then, so are the relative unknowns who round out the rest of the cast. Sets, costumes, and production values are great, too. If you want to see a classic Candy film, this is a great choice, for it displays his marvelous and abundant talent, no doubt. But, anyone truly wishing to transport themselves to a world of laughter will find this one a very good choice. "},{"Title":"Dangerously entertaining!","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I loved this movie about a framed police officer and an inept lawyer - turned - security guards. Once licensed and assigned to their new jobs, they uncover a labor union (teamster/Mafia) plot to embezzle a load of money from the employees Pension and Welfare Fund. John Candy is almost serious in this role as he ferrets out the bad guys, defends the honor of Meg Ryan's character (Maggie Cavanaugh) and helps to reverse her father's wayward ethics. Oddly enough, Eugene Levy is the funny guy to Candy's straight man act. It is an odd formula, but it was quite effective. This is one of Candy's better movies, and the most serious role in which I've seen him, thus far. (LOVED Candy's small role as Augie Morosco in Once Upon A Crime, 1992) ---(On the firing range, after a demonstration) As you can see, it's really quite simple. Just remember, when you pull the trigger, the bullets come out going very, very fast. So make sure to keep the weapon pointed away from you. Now that's about it, you are now ARMED guards, God help us all. Maggie Cavanaugh.---I am a true John Candy fan, and own most of his movies. But while many of his fans have all but dogged this production, I found it quite entertaining and a breath of fresh air. Also starring Tom 'Tiny' Lister Jr. as Bruno (President Lindberg in Fifth Element and many, many more), Robert Loggia as Michael Carlino, a Jimmy Hoffaesque character, and Kenneth McMillan as Captain Clarence O'Connell, Maggie Cavanaugh's father. Meg Ryan's performance was sweet and honest. She has done better, but this was in 1986 and her experience was not yet as worldly as it is now. Even without taking that into consideration, hers was one of the brightest of the supporting roles. In the end, Candy's character's reputation is redeemed and his life as a law enforcement officer is restored and plays out to a very satisfying 1980's ending.While there are better comedies out there, and also while most of Candy's other movies are better, this is one of my favorites of his line.It gets a 6.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"With Splash, Armed and Dangerous and Once Upon a Crime, it's clear that John Candy and Eugene Levy were a great team.","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In a way, maybe it does weaken Armed and Dangerous just a little to have so much high action, but how can you not like a John Candy/Eugene Levy movie? In this case, they play security guards who discover all sorts of corruption. But mostly, it's an excuse to be silly. Low humor, sure, but still likable (especially the clothing-switching scene; I bet that they liked filming that!).Anyway, it's one of many movies that shows what we lost when John Candy died. In other words, it's armed and dangerously funny. Also starring Robert Loggia (happy birthday, Robert!), Kenneth McMillan and Meg Ryan.A 50 caliber... "}{"Title":"classic!","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of John Candy's funniest movies, the supporting cast is also hilarious. Sure, this is not a brilliant plot but I guarantee you will be laughing non-stop. If you are a fan of SCTV, it is a must watch. C'mon, a little toxic waste never killed nobody "},{"Title":"Movie worth watching","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I used to watch this movie every time it came on TV when I was younger. This movie didn't get a lot of attention; and it's not as good as Planes Trains and Automobiles, but it still worth watching. The last 30 or 40 minutes is great. I like the part where John is riding in truck with the cowboy and John pulls out a huge handgun. The cowboy says I've never seen a gun like that before. John says It's a 50 caliber, only legal in 2 states and this isn't one of them. Another part to mention is John on the motorcycle. John is in this old style biker outfit and riding an old police motorcycle. The outfit is reminiscent of something out of Rebel Without a Cause. The old motorcycle was probably a old Harley police bike. For you gun fans out there, the gun John is using is probably the 50 caliber revolver made by Ruger. This pretty entertaining film. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie bombed at the box office but seems to have picked up a small cult through video and frequent showings on cable.  Admittedly it's not a classic and Candy HAS done better films, but this one has its share of funny moments.  Candy and Levy work well together.  The film is somewhat reminiscent of Police Academy (the first one) and is certainly funnier than any of the increasingly kiddie-oriented sequels that followed that movie.  All in all, a good deal of undemanding fun if you check your brain at the door.   "},{"Title":"The trucker steals the show.","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" John Candy plays a security guard who is truly armed and dangerous. I don't remember much about the first four-fifths of the movie. Something about John Candy dressing in drag in a porn shop. I think he caught a big fish, too. Anyway, bumbling John Candy is stuck in a traffic jam, and he needs to be at a certain place at a certain time, and people's lives are at stake, and he asks a trucker to take him there. What should the driver do finish his run, or cause thousands of dollars of damage to possibly save lives? It's a classic moral dilemma. Well, wheels are turnin'. He even manages to upshift. They couldn't have cast a better truck for the part than the Ford CL9000, the cab bobbing up and down. This movie leaves you with the question If a tankerload of rocket propellant exploded, would the force go straight up? "},{"Title":"What one would expect from a Candy movie","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" John Candy is not one of the all time great actors, but he is memorable in his own way. His characters tend to be cute, cuddly, and sometimes simply clumsy. His characters were enjoyable and his movies entertaining. Unfortunately, now that he is dead, others try to imitate his style of acting and just don't seem to come close. Everybody is an original and that goes just as true for John Candy as it does for everybody else. Armed and Dangerous is about a police officer, Dooley (John Candy) who catches a couple of crooked cops stealing television sets, but is framed instead. Another character, a hopeless lawyer, is encouraged by a judge to quit law and find another career, so they both become private security guards. As guards they are forced to join a union and discover that this union is conducting some very illicit business, including staging robberies when the security guards are off duty. Dooley and the ex-lawyer are caught by this scam and decide to expose the crooks. This movie is an anti-union movie. In every part of the movie, the union is portrayed in a very bad light. The union bosses are all crooks and the cast is made up of very thuggish looking characters. The boss is corrupt and the union is more concerned with making money for themselves than for looking after the workers. When confronted with a lawyer who asks too many questions, they ban the lawyer from the meetings so that they might continue with their crooked schemes. The purpose of this movie seems to reinforce in our minds that unions are evil and that they should be disbanded. Americans have always hated unions because they are too left and infringe on the right of the individual to make money. The movie ignores that facet of the union that protects the worker though. Instead we are constantly forced to see the evil side of the union and not the good side. It is an entertaining movie with its share of comedy. Armed and Dangerous is a movie that John Candy fans will appreciate, and though I do not consider myself a devout fan, I do not mind him. In another way this movie seems to be like Police Academy, except it does not focus on the training but rather the work. "},{"Title":"Police Academy Movie for Rent a Cop's","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have watched this movie mindlessly whenever I see it on TV, it's got to be an addiction, but I can think of worse addictions! It's just such a STUPID movie and I guess thats the charm it holds for me. Candy is the mainliner here but I really liked Levy's hapless character getting in all sorts of crap because he's following Candy around (as a rent a cop no less!). It's probably a 4/10 star movie for the objectionable viewer but I guess I grew up on this flick seeing it in the 80's and the scene of the two of them coming out of the porn store wearing the drag and s&m getup is gut bustingly priceless stuff! I'll really miss Candy and it's a shame he didn't make better choices for movie script's because some are really really bad, but although this one may fall in that group for some, it's a funny flick in my book! See it with Dragnet as a double feature and an early Police Academy flick for a triple feature (one with Bobcat in it!). 7/10, so bad it's funny. "},{"Title":"Armed and Dangerous is dangerously funny!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  John Candy and Eugene Levy star in this classic comedy about an ex-cop Candy and a lawyer Levy who become  security guards. Soon they're convinced that their boss Robert Loggia is behind numerous crimes!John Candy and Eugene Levy both give excellent comedic performances and Meg Ryan's well-casted as their boss' daughter. "},{"Title":"Armed and dangerously funny","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've got to love Mark Lester. There's no movie of here's I hate. Here, away from the norm of usual of action dramas, etc, out pops a comedy with some dramatic moments. Here, he succeeds again. AAD is funny, let me tell ya. Candy who's set up by bad guy cops, in a t.v heist, teams up with American Pie's Levy (one of the worst lawyers you'll ever meet) who's forced to resign. Their new careers have em' working as security guards for an Armaguard company, but soon smell something besides mounds of garbage (check out that scene) where corrupt union figures, and some other bad guys are robbing genuine employers off their doe. Candy and Levy make a great team and get up to some real shenanigans, while also getting to the core of this operation. Steve Railsback, is unforgettable as a wild out there oil tanker driver, the most accepting, when his rig goes up in flames. Too, this is the first flick I saw Ms Ryan in, who plays the daughter of the cranky boss running the business, forced into working with the bad guys. This film also has a lot to offer like shark catching, and is a teaching tool to cops who climb trees to rescue cats from them, although how Candy got up there is a big visual fault upon the director, while not showing him clinging onto any others on the start up. Too, what the hell's wrong with always angry Tiny Lister Junior, as the big pointy bald guy/security honcho Bruno. See him in 8 Million Ways To Die and work that out too. Although running for only a week in Adelaide cinemas, here's one comedy flick I really liked and still do up until this day. Judy 'Boobs' Landers as one of Candy's girls is another comedy asset. One of the better comedies of this ilk. "},{"Title":"A comedy that is okay with flashes of brilliance.","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This comedy at times was just your average mediocre comedy that presented nothing really new. Still at other times it really got a person laughing good as Candy and Levy were a pretty good comedy tandem. This one has Candy as a former police officer framed and kicked off the force and Levy as a very bad defense attorney. In fact, the scene where his ineptness is displayed is one of the best scenes in the movie as he must defend what looks like a Charles Manson type of criminal, a guy so bad the police found things in the place he lived made of human hair. Both men end up trying to find work as security guards in a company with a very fair and good union, well not really but this too makes for one of the funnier scenes in the movie. Well they end up sort of messing up on their first night on the job and get some really bad assignments after that as they have to guard a trash dump and a toxic waste dump, two places not really known as being places people wish to break into. Well they figure something is up and they start to unravel a conspiracy, which still makes for an okay film, but I almost wish they just continued to have misadventures as security guards. As I have said though there are a couple of good scenes even during the unfolding of the diabolical plot as a scene in a sex store as Candy keeps needing quarters to think is good and the whole thing with him and the trucker is rather good too. So all in all this is a good comedy featuring a rather good duo, to bad the only other movie I know they were in together was the bizarre Cannonball run sequel Speed Zone. "},{"Title":"Fun Flick, Good Hair","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Let's talk a bit about Eugene Levy's hair in the mid 80s, was it just a perm? No, I think it was borderline mesh. What's worse is that I have recently discovered via Mesh Sweats that Levy had a molester moustache in the late 70s. This is fascinating, perm over the ears and a porn stache. Where did our sense of style ever go? If I had lived in the 80s and been in my prime, I would have lived as Gene Wilder's hair or Eugene Levy's hair. Either way, it is one fine species, with style, girth, and attitude. Of course, there's always Kurt Rambis hair, stache, and glasses if we must talk basketball, not bad there either. I wish Rambis was on the waiver wire.......Feb 21 2001 717PM "}{"Title":"Good, Underrated 80's Action-Comedy!","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" John Candy. Eugene Levy, Meg Ryan, Robert Loggia and Kenneth McMillan star in this 1986 action-comedy. The late, Candy (Summer Rental) plays ex-cop, Frank Dooley and Levy (Splash) plays unfit lawyer, Norman Kane who team up together after getting jobs as security guards. Soon, they get into action and mishaps when discovering a criminal conspiracy involving their Captain, Clarence O'Connell (McMillian) and Union President, Michael Carlino (Loggia). Ryan (Top Gun) plays O'Connell's daughter, Maggie Cavanagh who finds romance with Norman and Tony Burton (Rocky) also appears briefly as Cappy, Frank's friend & retired thief. I grew up watching this and always enjoyed it. I think it's underrated and Candy & Levy were great together. I recommend this good 80's action-comedy. "},{"Title":"Funny In Parts...","Date":"21 January 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Armed and Dangerous' is Funny in Parts. The humor does work, but only in bits. Overall, an above-average fare! 'Armed and Dangerous' Synopsis A fired cop and a useless lawyer sign up as security guards and find they've joined a corrupt union.'Armed and Dangerous' runs for a brief 84-minutes, and to give its due, some of the jokes are crackling. But, some fall flat. Also, the lack of some dumb dialogue disheartens. The Screenplay isn't without merit, but it isn't as funny as it ought to have been. Mark L. Lester's Direction is passable. Performance-Wise The Late/Great John Candy is in good form. He contributes enormously in the goings-on. Eugene Levy is strictly okay. Meg Ryan is very charming. Kenneth McMillan & Robert Loggia are adequate.On the whole, 'Armed and Dangerous' is harmless, but not hilarious. "},{"Title":"John Candy's Best","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This has got to be John Candy's best movie. I like comedic crime movies and John Candy and Eugene Levy are two perfect people to be in one. Best yet they were together. You just got to feel sorry for a character who gets framed in a movie. You also just got to love the harmless, nice, somewhat confused guy, in this case being Norman. Then there's the hot girl that they like and of course the criminals and the suspected criminals that are actually on the good guy's side. I also liked the theme song to the movie which was actually called Armed and Dangerous. If you want to see a great Candy classic watch Armed and Dangerous. "},{"Title":"Some excellent moments but this movie is missing so much!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When I think of films that just seem like they never were edited and the stories were never re-written to work out all the kinks, I can't help but think of this one.Having been a huge fan of SCTV, I was looking forward to seeing this film. In fact, my wife and I had just gotten married and could barely afford the price of admission but we found a way because we thought with Eugene Levy and John Candy is HAD to be great! Wow, were we disappointed. While we had a few laughs here and there, the film never really gained any momentum and could have been so much better. In particular, Eugene Levy was mostly wasted in his flat and uninteresting performance. Someone apparently forgot to tell him it was a comedy! As for the plot, it's about two security guards who make good. That's really all I care to say. I mean, considering the lack of effort of practically everyone involved, why should I bother saying anything else? If it's on TV, it's worth a look if you have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Likable leads can't save this","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Frank Dooley (John Candy) is a patrol cop who catches fellow cops Nedler and Rizzo stealing TVs. However they turn the tables on Frank and he's the one dismissed from the force. Norman Kane (Eugene Levy) is an incompetent defense lawyer who leaves after his client threatens him. Dooley and Kane end up as security guards. Captain O'Connell is the owner of the security company. Lazarus and Klepper are union reps. Maggie Cavanaugh (Meg Ryan) is an instructor for the security company and O'Connell's daughter. Frank and Norman catches a group stealing from the warehouse they're guarding but they're outgunned. They are fined $100 and try to complain to the union president Michael Carlino (Robert Loggia). Kane challenges the union leaders and the guys are forced to guard the toxic dump. They investigate and find corruption in the union.I understand how Dooley ends up as a security guard but it makes no sense that Kane becomes one. There's no point in the first act. It's not funny and the two comics aren't together developing chemistry for their characters. Once they get together, it has some better moment that is worthy of a good Police Academy movie. However there are too many moments worthy of a bad Police Academy movie. It's pretty broad and badly directed. Lester is not good at directing comedies. Candy and Levy can't salvage much from this. "},{"Title":"Moderately amusing","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  John Candy's second starring vehicle (after Summer Rental) is a minor improvement but its lack of genuine memorable comedy bits still makes Candy fare best in supporting roles. The chemistry between Candy and Eugene Levy results in a few laughs but too few. The story deals with two security guards (Candy, Levy) who attempt to expose a corrupt union being run by the mob. Putting these two comic talents together for such a plot should've been much funnier than what it actually was. "},{"Title":"Armed and Dangerous","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Candy stars with fellow SCTV alum Levy as two inept bozo's who work for an armed security service and get tangled with a gang of thieves and their boss. Good fun, especially for Candy. Not one of his best, but not horrible either.  "},{"Title":"Whack!","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Worth seeing if only to see Candy punching up dogs and female body builders, only hilarious after a few beers. Nearly as good as 'Who's Harry Crumb', better than most of his other. The evil union boss really does fancy himself as De Niro. "},{"Title":"Barely passable entertainment at best","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This picture is barely passable entertainment at best, with Candy and Levy as disgraced cop and solicitor respectively sniffing out corruption and murder in the security firm which they have both joined to forge new lives. Candy is given meagre opportunity to display his undoubted skills in a picture which relies too heavily on sight gags and chases (most of which fail to come off, and many of which are, in truth, distasteful), and too little on verbal comedy at which Candy often excels. Levy is lightweight and inconsequential in a role which is too underwritten to warrant the buddy status for which the film would have you believe it hankers. Robert Loggia does his best to instil some menace into his part as a crooked union leader cum gangster, but the strictly formulaic nature of the plot and character development and the unfortunate attempts at comedy, suffocate the best efforts of all involved to lend credibility and accomplishment to the production - one which Candy could hardly have looked back upon with affection.     "},{"Title":"The film's main problem is its lack of intelligence, humor, and wit, as well as containing some boring and typical dialogue expected from a film like 'Police Academy,' not a film with John Candy and Eu","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Armed and DangerousWell, here's another cop-buddy comedy from the eighties with a weird sense of humor `Armed and Dangerous.' It features old SCTV Canadian buddies John Candy and Eugene Levy in one of their most forgettable roles. John Candy plays Frank Dooley, a policeman who, one day, finds some corrupt cops stealing some TVs. Unfortunately for Dooley, the tables are turned when he confronts them and gets the blame, causing him to lose his badge and suffer.Eugene Levy plays Norman Kane a bumbling, inept lawyer who we feel got his job because he either had extremely rich parents, or just made some fake certificates to prove he is a lawyer. One day while defending a client, Norman realizes that he is about to lose the case. The man he represents is a psycho, who will almost surely kill him after he gets out of jail. So, Norman makes a deal with the court judge; the judge hates Norman, so he tells him that he will put the psycho behind bars forever if Norman quits his job, because he is a `Disgrace to lawyers.' And that's exactly what Norman does. He quits his job.So now both men decide to enter the `Watchdog Security' program, where they meet each other for the first time, as well as the daughter of Watchdog president, Maggie Cavanaugh (Meg Ryan). Candy and Levy are later assigned night watch at an old factory, and unfortunately for the two men, they have no idea that something more than meets the eye is going on; if they wish to keep their job, they must discover the truth and reveal it.John Candy is great as Frank Dooley. I thought his character would be the bumbling one, but in fact, Dooley is smart, and Levy's character Norman is the stupid one. Dooley's motivation behind it all is that he wants his respect as an officer back; he took the blame once, and he wants to get his badge back.Eugene Levy is endearingly dumb as Norman, a guy we all find a place for in our hearts. He obviously has a crush on Ryan's character, but is not as persistent or cocky as Dooley is; he just can't muster up enough guts to ask her out. However, he is not completely stupid. He isn't the kind of character that talks with a lisp and has crossed eyes. He is just&#133;Eugene Levy.Despite the two comedians' great performances, however, the film is simply average. The gags become old after a while, and the ending is quite ridiculous and not even fun. Candy and Levy try their best at delivering laughs, but fail miserably, mainly because the script is so awful and the direction wonders around aimlessly searching for the right direction.The beginning/first half of the film is, actually, quite funny, but eventually, after the men join Watchdog Security, the film suffers from lack of dialogue and lack of direction; director Mark L. Lester must have lost the film's script during filming, because I find it hard to believe anything so average and basic could be coughed up by co-writer Harold Ramis.There are some laugh-out-loud sequences in `Armed and Dangerous,' but only a few in the beginning. The film just withers away into a laugh-free zone after the first act, and the ending is just plain typical of an eighties cop-buddy film high speed chases, stunts, and explosions, topped off by a corny, stereotypical ending that has the audience cowering in their seats.No matter how much I love John Candy as an actor, I simply can't muster up enough to recommend this film. The film's main problem is its lack of intelligence, humor, and wit, as well as containing some boring and typical dialogue expected from a film like `Police Academy,' not a film with John Candy and Eugene Levy. It is quite a tragic comedy, and is the exact definition of `average.' I've seen much worse, but nevertheless, average is average.  Perhaps you should see it only for a glimpse of Meg Ryan's early career, but that's pushing it.My summary `Armed and Dangerous' is `Harming and Ridiculous.'2/5 stars &#150;John Ulmer "}{"Title":"Barely passable entertainment at best","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This picture is barely passable entertainment at best, with Candy and Levy as disgraced cop and solicitor respectively sniffing out corruption and murder in the security firm which they have both joined to forge new lives. Candy is given meagre opportunity to display his undoubted skills in a picture which relies too heavily on sight gags and chases (most of which fail to come off, and many of which are, in truth, distasteful), and too little on verbal comedy at which Candy often excels. Levy is lightweight and inconsequential in a role which is too underwritten to warrant the buddy status for which the film would have you believe it hankers. Robert Loggia does his best to instil some menace into his part as a crooked union leader cum gangster, but the strictly formulaic nature of the plot and character development and the unfortunate attempts at comedy, suffocate the best efforts of all involved to lend credibility and accomplishment to the production - one which Candy could hardly have looked back upon with affection.     "},{"Title":"Dumb","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's really too bad that John Candy wasted his skills on so many horrible films (Delirious, Wagons East, Who's Harry Crumb?, etc..  This one has maybe a few chuckles, but it's mostly just really bad one-liners and dumb physical stuff.  Let's honor this comedian's memory by remembering things like Planes, Trains & Automobiles and Uncle Buck. "},{"Title":"Lazy and Disappointing.","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ARMED AND DANGEROUS is not one of the greats of John Candy.  This film about a fired cop who ends up working for a small security system run by the mob is very weak and not very much a comedy.  There are some moments that I did enjoy, like looking at Candy in a pilot suit, but it doesn't seem to matter much.  ARMED AND DANGEROUS is still a dangerously disappointing dud brought to us by the director of the equally dumb actioner COMMANDO.  What a sad excuse for a comedy!1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Watchable, but not that funny.","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm a fan of the old SCTV show from the late 70's and early 80's and John Candy was a major reason why. He was given very funny off the wall characters and was simply hilarious. Unfortunately he could not get these roles to play in the movies. Time after time I was disappointed by the mediocre movies in which he was almost playing the straight role instead of the funny guy. Armed and Dangerous rarely tries to use John's comedic abilities, or that of Harold Ramis, for that matter. It is simply a very predictable cops and robbers type of movie. If you are a John Candy or Harold Ramis fan the movie is watchable, just don't expect to laugh much. "},{"Title":"Comedies are usually funny, right?","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  John Candy and Eugene Levy star as inept security guards who chase down a big time mobster. Inept is truly the right word for this alleged comedy...a few laughs but mostly groans and thoughts to yourself like why am I watching this c**p? Yes that is Meg Ryan in this too..which i am sure she doesnt want to be reminded of..a waste of a talented cast..on a scale of one to ten ..0 "},{"Title":"Another John Candy Bomb","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Armed and Dangerous is a really dumb film about a fired cop (John Candy) and an up-tight attorney (Eugene Levy) who decide to become security guards. They unwittingly get mixed up in some shady dealings involving their employers and an evil businessman (Robert Loggia). The typical inane comedy takes place, but few will even care by the film's final act. 2 stars out of 5. "}]