[{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is from a time that I sorely miss.  It is about having a good time, and nothing else.  There's no violence, no crude sexual comedy, just the legendary John Candy doing what he did best.  Given, the music and clothing are extremely dated, but this is without a doubt the best feelgood lighthearted movie I've ever seen.  All of the characters come together perfectly to tell us the tale of Jack Chester.  One of the most memorable is Scully, the sailor/pirate.  To this day, I see Scully whenever I see Rip Torn in any movie.  This story just makes me feel good for days after I see it.  John Candy is surely one of the best comics of the past 30 years, pulling this move together. "},{"Title":"Candy is dandy!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Summer Rental is a very pleasant comedy vehicle from director Carl Reiner and star John Candy. Candy stars as Jack Chester, an air traffic controller under alot of stress. His boss tells him he needs some time off from his job. So he packs up his family and heads for Florida hoping to have the time of their lives. But it doesn't go exactly that way, especially for Candy. He experiences about as much stress vacationing as he does at work. The funniest part of Summer Rental is the opening 5 minutes, with Candy exhibiting the kind of stress that causes his superiors to suggest a vacation. This part is a riot, and the movie is very funny for the first half. The film loses a little of its comic edge in the second half, when Candy takes up sailing and tries to win a bet against one of the locals, an obnoxious yachtsman played gamely by Richard Crenna. The second half still has some funny moments, but not as much as in the first half. Still, Summer Rental is a nice little movie, with the late John Candy giving one of his better leading performances. Karen Austin is very good as Candy's supportive wife Sandy; a very young Joey Lawrence (several years before Blossom, back when he was starring on Nell Carter's '80s sitcom Gimme A Break!) shines as Candy's son Bobby; Rip Torn is somewhat amusing as Scully, owner of a local restaurant on a boat who becomes Candy's good friend; and Night Court's John Larroquette also makes an appearence in a bit part. Summer Rental is one of director Reiner's better films, and it gets to show off Candy's considerable comic talents that are sorely missed today.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"John Candy and Carl Reiner what could be a better combo?","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For most of his career, John Candy played a bunch of rather silly roles that - while they were completely goofy - were great nevertheless. Summer Rental is one such role. Candy plays overworked air traffic controller Jack Chester, who takes his family on vacation in Florida. Naturally, it ends up being not as much of a vacation as they hoped. Finally, Jack and his family decide to take one last chance to restore their dignity.I will admit that Summer Rental is pretty much a big excuse to be silly, but you gotta love it. This is John Candy doing what he does best. It's really too bad that he died; he really had a good track record. "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one movie that shows how your summer vacation all goes wrong. John Candy plays Jack Chester, an over-worked man who decides to bring his family on vacation...and fails miserably. Instead of bringing them on vacation, he leads them strait to the gates of hell. Through several acts of trying to do good, Jack only makes things worse for himself. This movie was one of the best movies of John Candy's career. There was no over-acting and no artsy stuff. Just a good old fashioned comedy. Just how they should be. This is an old fashioned romp of a good belly laughing comedy. See it, if you are a Candy fan. See it anyway, even if you aren't. SUMMER RENTAL is one of the best comedies that John Candy ever did. 5/5. "},{"Title":"Good, clean, family fun ...","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  John Candy's wit and humor shines through as Jack Chester, the over worked air traffic controller who reluctantly takes a vacation to the beach with his family.  The laughs keep coming as Jack and his family spend the summer at the beach with many mishaps occurring throughout the movie.  The movie is about family and new friends pulling together, working side by side, believing in a dream and achieving an impossible goal.  We've watched this movie many times, but we still laugh and feel good when the movie ends. The standing joke at our home, when we eat dinner out at a restaurant that passes off breaded fish as an expensive seafood item with a fancy name, is Look - it's Scully's Catch of the day!  This movie is good, clean, family fun - entertainment for the entire family!    "},{"Title":"Classic Early John Candy","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoy watching this movie every time they show it on Comedy Central or USA or TNT.  This movie is classic John Candy all the way. Candy has scenes, no matter how many I times I watch, that make me laugh so hard I fall from my chair.  Like when he kicks all the people out of his house wielding a crutch. Sure the story may be weak and a little corny with the whole boat race but it ranks up there among my favorites.It has some other memorable moments including Rip Torn's character of Scully.  My of my favorite parts is when he is teaching Jack (played by Candy) to sail.  They are on the boat late at night and they are both drunk. Scully announces to jack, Here's and little ditty me mother used to sing to me, at which point he breaks into The Theme from Love Boat and Jack joins in with him.  And then there is the scenes between Scully and Angus when Scully refers to Angus as a dumb Swede even though he is a Scot.It is a good rainy day rental. "},{"Title":"Harmless Guilty Pleasure...","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The type of movie you can watch once a year and never get tired of. Typical John Candy film. Why did he always get mediocre scripts, save the John Hughes films? Was Hughes the only director who saw his talent? Either way, Candy rises above the material and makes the film fun to watch, but not necessarily a great film by any means. Great line regarding The Smurfs.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Funny movie!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw SUMMER RENTAL on cable one night and thought that it was pretty funny so I decided to rent it. I laughed even more the second time then I did the first. I have not bought it yet, but I'm planning on it. John Candy is really great in this movie and it's not too crude or vulgar like most comedies from the 1980's are. Infact, this is actually one of the better comedies from the 1980's. "},{"Title":"The Florida vacation","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jack Chester, an air traffic controller, is burned. He almost provokes an accident when a fly lands in his computer screen. His boss suggests some time off. To this effect a house is secured in a Florida resort area. Jack and his family pack a U-Haul, and go to the Sunshine State. Little do they know they are in for a big adventure.The house where the Chesters land is a dream come true. Wow, how lucky can they be? The fun doesn't last as the right owners come to claim their property as the Chesters have gone to the wrong address! The real house they rented is another story. Suddenly, their vacation turns into a not so pleasant experience.Jack Chester, who has made a good friend in Scully, the owner of The Barnacle, wants to rent one of the boats to teach his young son how to sail. He becomes quite a pro with the help of Scully. For the regatta that is going to be held at the beach resort, Scully proposes to refit The Barnacle for the race. Al Pellet, the wealthy resident of the resort, has won the cup for the last seven years and wants to keep the trophy. Little does he know who he is racing against!Carl Reiner directed this 1984 film. He was lucky in having John Candy, a wonderful comedy actor to star in it. The whole thing is a tribute to the late Mr. Candy, a man who died too soon, as proved by this film, that although is not one of the best that both the director, or its star made, it has some sunny moments. Rip Torn and Richard Crenna, appear as Scully and Pellet. "},{"Title":"Feels like something's been cut out","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" At 86 minutes and half a dozen subplots not being wrapped up or developed in any way at all. For example the subplot involving John Laroquette is never given the chance to become anything. His whole presence in the movie is totally pointless and I suspect there was a whole 'Candy's wife may be cheating on him' plot that was cut out because it just too similar Chase/D'Angelo in Vacation.We never know what happens to Richard Crenna or Rip Torn after the Regatta and we never know how the rest of the Summer Rental went. It's like the writers knew there was no plot, chucked in this Regatta crap and thought that would be a good place to end the film when it's over. And what was wrong with the popcorn Candy and Crenna eat? I found that pretty weird.Although I have already made comparisons to Vacation I still feel like this film is good enough without being a copycat movie. It's seems more realistic and doesn't have any slapstick humor. Candy feels more like a real guy who needs a real vacation. We want him to relax but still can't help laughing when everything goes wrong. My fave scene is when he returns home to find it transformed into some kind of free-for-all Funhouse.But for a film set in Florida there is a huge lack of nice scenery and the photography isn't so cool. I wonder why Kerri Green (who starred in The Goonies the same year) never made another mainstream movie tho. Joey Laurence did so why not her?If you like comedies, but hate the scatological humor that most present day comedies have, then this is a good enough escape. I miss John Candy and wish he made more movies before he died. "}{"Title":"A Good John Candy Film","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Though this film could easily be classified as a slob comedy, similar to so many that were made during that time, and Candy was prolific as an actor in many of those films, there's one moment in this film where it rises high above the typical slob comedies of it's era. John Candy is despondent about his chances in a yacht race, and tells his daughter You can't win them all. Daughter responds, But winning one would be nice, huh Dad?. Candy responds with perfect timing Yes, (perfect pause) winning one would be nice. At this moment in the film you feel all the pain ever felt by anyone who ever wanted to win just one time and show the world they could. He knows his limits and accepts them, but this one time wants to rise above them and prove his worth.Candy is an overstressed air traffic controller who takes an enforced vacation with his family, and has a summer of things go wrong. The filmmakers resisted the temptation to engage in an overly cute family, and just allowed the actors to play a fairly typical family. Candy, who rarely played a family man, handles the role very well, bringing a realism to the role of the father. Though not on anyone's Oscar list, this movie is worth the time it takes to see it. "},{"Title":"Like two movies .... First half comedy.. Second half a stretch ..........","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The first half of Summer Rental is fun, with a stressed out John Candy, at the beach. He encounters some offbeat characters, the best scenes are with Rip Torn and Lois Hamilton. The latter expounding on the obvious merits of her new breasts is classic material (hint, freeze frame the DVD to see why she is so proud). Unfortunately the rest of the movie involves a contrived sailing race with Richard Crenna playing the, all too typical, snob competition. Compared to some of Candy's misfires like Armed and Dangerous, this is a success, but one or two great scenes are unfortunately stretched between a lot of weak material. - MERK "},{"Title":"Long live the Candyman!!","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  John Candy stands alone as one of our true comic geniuses. I was so saddened when he passed away so young. He left the world a truly sadder place. We were all robbed of a priceless national treasure. This man was a true comic giant, but he was also a fine actor. He made you CARE about the characters that he played. John reminded me of Charlie Chaplain in so many ways. Chaplain could make an audience laugh and cry without using one single word. John Candy did that in Planes Trains And Automobiles and it was one of the finest acting jobs that I have ever seen in a movie. Lee Strassburg would have been so proud. Its in the scene where Steve Martin bawls him out in a motel room, he tells him basically what a pain in the ass he is. There is a hurt look on John's face that I will never forget as long as I live. He made you FEEL the hurt and the pain in his heart. John Candy lost his father at an early age and was haunted by that death all of his life. I guess it is true that some of our greatest comics have tears in their hearts. In Summer Rental John gives what I would consider one of his typical performances. He is a loving family man who just decides to get away from it all. Richard Crenna and Rip Torn are both wonderful character actors and both give Candy able support. I can tell that everyone who made this film had a ball doing it. It sure comes through in the finished product. Carl Reiner is a true giant of comedy and I am so glad that he directed this film. He and Candy worked so well that it is a shame that they never made another film together. This is one of those films that doesn't carry an important social message, the idea is that you should just leave your brain and social conscience at the door of the cinema and just relax and have a good time watching a true comic giant at work. I truly believe in my heart that John was one of God's gifts who was put here to make us laugh. Considering the current state of our world and the current state of comedy, almost 10 years after his untimely death, I think we need John Candy now more then ever before.  "},{"Title":"Disposable but perfectly watchable disaster-vacation comedy.","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The 1980s saw a glut of disaster-vacation comedies &#150; National Lampoon's Vacation, National Lampoon's European Vacation, The Great Outdoors and Summer Rental are just four that spring to mind. A common factor between most of these films is that many of them feature John Candy. He had just a short cameo in National Lampoon's Vacation, and had to share the comic honours with Dan Akroyd in The Great Outdoors&#133;. but Summer Rental is very much a starring vehicle for big John, and he is the best thing about this otherwise very obvious and predictable beachfront farce.Overworked air traffic controller Jack Chester (John Candy) is ordered by his superiors to take a little time off after losing his nerve one day at work. Jack takes the opportunity to travel down to Florida for a summer vacation with his family &#150; beautiful wife Sandy (Karen Austin), blossoming daughter Jennifer (Kerri Green), cheeky son Bobby (Joey Lawrence) and toddler Laurie (Aubrey Jene). Almost from the moment they arrive the vacation is a catalogue of disasters. Jack falls asleep on the beachfront and gets heavily sunburnt; the holiday home they think they've rented turns out to belong to someone else and they find themselves in a run-down shack instead; Jennifer starts getting a little too friendly with the local lifeguards; etc. etc. Jack also crosses swords with local playboy Al Pellet (Richard Crenna), little suspecting that Pellet actually owns the holiday home in which his family is staying. When Pellet orders the family to leave they are devastated, but Jack comes up with the idea of challenging Pellet by betting that he can defeat him in the annual sailing regatta. Problem is that Jack doesn't even have a boat, but he solves this by persuading local restaurateur Scully (Rip Torn) to convert his floating restaurant so that it can be used in the race!This is Candy's film and he comes across affably as the parent whose determination to please his family usually ends in disaster. Austin is very attractive as his wife (surprising that she never went on to enjoy much of a career), while Crenna has obvious fun as the obnoxious playboy. Torn rounds off the principal players in a typically hammy but occasionally amusing role as a one-handed, piratical restaurant owner. Summer Rental loses marks in the script and story department because it's so thin and obvious. We've seen variations on this basic concept time and again, and the writers (Jeremy Stevens and Mark Reisman) and director (Carl Reiner) make no attempts to freshen up the familiar material. Also, the film's contrived climax is so improbable and sentimental that it provokes more groans than smiles. At least Summer Rental is a short film, so even when it slips into its periodic mawkishness it never really outstays its welcome. It's one of those films that you'll watch, you smile at from time to time, and then you'll forget. "},{"Title":"Summer Rental  Rent -a- Laugh.","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In 1985,this was the first John candy movie I paid to see and all i can say over 20 years later is it's still as funny as it was then. That meaning,I laughed quite a bit but I went away feeling there could have been more to laugh at,with a bit more creativity in script writing.It's not a bad script but it's not great either. Some of the set-up's and payoffs are predictable. Like John getting caught looking at a woman showing off her new bust job,only to have her husband walk in. Not predictable is his reaction of,Are you at it again? That and encouraging Candy to feel if they seem real.The end of the boat race is very predictable,you know John & family are going to win. I had hoped he'd make his victory funnier somehow. The rest in between,well,the humor is there but again,just could have been more spectacular or memorable in some way.I've watched it many times since then but my reaction has been no different than before. I guess it could be a simple fun film to watch (which it is)but for a comedy with a talent like John Candy,it's so-so. I stand by my 6 star rating and end by saying if simple fare is what you want,rent a laugh. It's here. I just like comedy on a higher octane level.(End) "},{"Title":"John Candy is the king","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jack Chester (John Candy) is an over-stressed 13-year air traffic controller. His boss forces him to take a vacation. With his wife Sandy (Karen Austin), kids Jennifer (Kerri Green), Bobby (Joey Lawrence) and Laurie, they drive down to Citrus Cove, Florida. The town big shot Al Pellet (Richard Crenna) cuts in line at the restaurant right before the Chesters and takes the last of the lobsters. Their luxurious rental turns out to be a wrong address. Their actual rental is a rundown beach house. Jack rents a boat and crashes into Pellet. The rivalry gets even worst when Pellet buys the rental house and throws the Chesters out. Jack challenges him in a yacht race using restaurant owner Scully (Rip Torn)'s old decommissioned boat.On the page, Jack is boorish and rather clueless. He's a sitcom dad and could have been a rather tired caricature. The difference between the page and the screen is John Candy. He is absolutely charming. He is the engine that drives this boat and Carl Reiner knows it. The kids and the wife have only a few sections by themselves without Jack. This is a silly 80s comedy which is elevated by Candy. "},{"Title":"The very first video I ever bought, still a fav and a good pick for the family","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jack (John Candy) has been an air traffic control for 13 years. Maybe it is bad luck, for the stress is finally getting to him and, when he mistakes a fly on his screen for an airplane, he is called into the office. He MUST take a four week vacation or be let go. Naturally, with a wife and three kids, he doesn't want to lose his position! So, its vacay time, to the delight of his family. From Atlanta, the group decides to travel to a resort city in Florida. When they arrive at the rental home, their good fortune is almost beyond belief. The house, on the water, is large with every amenity. All are thrilled. Yet, there are problems. Almost immediately, Jack has a run in with a local rich big wig, Al (Richard Crenna) who despises temporary renters. Then, folks try to break into the house one night. But, alas, they are the home owners, who quickly point out that Jack has the wrong address! Fortunately, they don't press charges if all go immediately. As can be expected, the correct rental address is a rundown shack with heavy beach traffic. Then, too, Al is able to bump Jack's loved ones to a lower place on a restaurant wait list and eats the last lobsters available. In a huff, Jack and the troop go to Scully's (Rip Torn) smaller place where they make friends and have a great meal. In fact, Scully teaches Jack how to sail. This becomes important as Jack challenges Al to winning a local sail race. Can the renter get his revenge on the snooty Al? This is a fun film, made better, naturally, because of Candy's great talents. Watching him chase unwelcome guests out of his rental house, on crutches, is pretty funny. Crenna, Torn, and all of the others do funny work as well. In addition, the beach setting is lovely while the script has plenty of hijinks and laughs. An energetic direction completes the picture. This was the first film I ever bought on video and when I re-found it the other day, I was happy. Nearly 30 years later, its still a very entertaining film for all. "},{"Title":"Vacation on the shores of St. Petersburg with John Candy","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" John Candy plays Jack Chester, a burnout air traffic controller in 1985's Summer Rental, where he takes his family to the beaches of St. Petersburg for some r & r. While the family has fun, they also clash with a champion yachtsman (Richard Crenna) and settle their differences in a sailboat race.Candy's always good as a comedic every-man and Karen Austin and Kerri Green shine as female eye candy (so you get the best of both worlds &#x96; older babe and younger babe, lol). The first half features the expected beach vacation antics while the second half focuses on the yacht race. Rip Torn plays the pirate-like companion that helps Chester compete. The film delivers just enough amusement for this kind of flick to give a marginal thumbs up. The film runs 87 minutes and was shot in the St. Petersburg area with the opening scenes in Atlanta.GRADE B- "},{"Title":"Not Candy's finest, but still fun.","Date":"15 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Burned out air-traffic controller Jack Chester (John Candy) takes his wife Sandy (Karen Austin), teenage daughter Jennifer (Kerri Green), son Bobby (Joey Lawrence) and younger daughter Laurie (Aubrey Jene) to Florida for some much needed rest and relaxation, where, after a series of mildly amusing mishaps that threaten to spoil the vacation, they pull together as a family to settle a feud with an obnoxious local yachtsman (Richard Crenna).This mid '80s John Candy vehicle starts off very much in the style of National Lampoon's Vacation, with a series of comedic episodes in which Candy's well-meaning character repeatedly comes a cropper. The second half of the film introduces a classic underdogs storyline that, while not exactly original or particularly funny, provides lots of wholesome, feel-good entertainment guaranteed to put a smile on the face.Candy is his usual affable self and handles the material like a pro, Austin looks uncannily like Vacation's Beverly D'Angelo (which I suspect was deliberate, given the film's other similarities), Crenna is suitably loathsome, and jail-bait Green, teen up-skirt queen of '85, doesn't flash her knickers, but does look rather fine in her bikini. Rip Torn also puts in a fun turn as pirate restaurateur Scully, who teaches Jack a thing or two about sailing.Profanity and nudity are at a minimum (a running joke about a woman's breast implants is as rude as it gets, and she is only ever seen topless from behind), while a potential sub-plot about Sandy cheating with another man is notably dropped (one can definitely feel its presence), making the film suitable viewing for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Can I play with Yorku...","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jack Chester, an overworked air traffic controller, takes his family on vacation to the beach. Things immediately start to go wrong for the Chesters, and steadily get worse. Jack ends up in a feud with a local yachtsman, and has to race him to regain his pride and family's respect.....It's the eighties, John Candy is the head of the family, and they go on holiday, and bump into special guest star Richard Crenna, and you get exactly what you would expect, a fun breezy comedy were Candy gets into all kinds of hi jinks.Things go awry when Candy puts a hole in Crennas boat and he forces them to move out of their summer home. Candy challenges bets him he will win the regatta, and if he wins, he gets to stay.So they get help from Rip Torn, a hilarious Scotsman, and the most uncomfortable playmate ever. And the film is ready to serve.If you've seen Reiners other movies from this era, you know what to expect.Its enjoyable fluff, something that you could watch from time to time, and forget it straight after. "}{"Title":"Fun but not John Candy's best","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a good family flick, with some minor sexual/adult situations. The jokes are solid and there is plenty of sight gags for giggles. I enjoyed it a little less than when Dan Aykroyd joined John Candy in The Great Outdoors but more than Who's Harry Crumb?John Candy really carries the entire movie and it is amazing to see him so much lighter in weight. It's strange to see an extremely young Joey Lawrence who plays the annoying brother opposite Kerri Green (The Goonies).Humor .5 Visual gags .5 Family fun 1 John Candy 1 Acting .5 80's memories 14.5 out of 6 "},{"Title":"Good 80's Summer Comedy!","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" John Candy, Richard Crenna, Rip Torn, Karen Austin, Kerri Green, Joey Lawrence and John Larroquette star in Carl Reiner's 1985 comedy. Jack Chester (Candy) is a burnt-out, air traffic controller who decides to take a vacation with his wife, Sandy (Austin), son, Bobby (Lawrence) and daughters, Jennifer, (Green) and Laurie (Aubrey Jene). They travel to Citrus Cove, Florida and Jack gets into some mishaps plus a bad sunburn. Crenna (First Blood) plays Al Pellet, a wealthy snob who is also a 7-year boat race champion, Torn (Defending Your Life) plays Scully, Captain and restaurant owner of The Barnacle and Larroquette (Blind Date) plays Don Moore, a nice guy who befriends The Chesters. This is a good 80's flick and Candy & the cast are great in it. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Movie But Not Top of the Heap","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the sort of movie that plays with more impact in a theater than on TV or DVD. On the small screen, not only do you miss interacting with a sympathetic audience, but the timing and the editing seem not quite right. Oddly, the movie's screenplay construction which relies heavily on one-off episodes would seem ideal for television, but this is not the case. The climactic yacht race does not come across with the impact a live audience would give it. Instead, the editing often seems mistimed and fails to build as effectively as it should to the anticipated climax. In fact, it cuts out just at the point where it should start to get really exciting. Instead of building to a climax, the race almost fades away. It seems as if director Carl Reiner was telling us Well, you all know what's going to happen so it's no use making a big thing of it. We've got one joke to pull, and that should do it! John Candy gets the director's rapt attention at all times. So does Rip Torn. But Richard Crenna's role is not built up sufficiently (although he has his moments). In fact, aside from Rip Torn (and briefly, Miss Are they real?), director Reiner always seems to be aiming his camera squarely at Candy at the expense of almost everyone else in the vast cast, "},{"Title":"summer video rental...","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Candy's one turn as a family man is somewhat lightweight but has enough to keep you grinnin'.  After 20 years on the job at an airport, he's forced to take a vacation and cool off.  Nothing goes right of course, but we like it that way.  If the trip is a success the movie is off.  Though it can be said his family keeps themselves busy with fun, but Candy is laid up early with a bum leg.  This leads to afternoons of bad television reception, his pain in the rear dog, and an insecure neighbor who just had her breasts done.  The film's funniest, and maybe Candy's funniest moment ever on film, comes when he treks onto a crowded beach with his daughter on his shoulders and a leaky picnic cooler.  The reactions of the people and the verbal lectures from Candy still make me bust up big time.  Unfortunately the film is running on fumes after only an hour and the writers resort to a boat race to pad out the running time.  But it's not enough to kill all the previous moments, as Candy and the cast are great, especially Torn as a pirate wannabe.  Crenna also has a hilarious scene with Candy where the two choke on popcorn.  I must note there are a couple of technical aspects that get annoying, like Reiner's constant dissolving of one scene to another.  Or pointless moments that don't belong, like in the middle of the boat race a badly dubbed little girl asks Mommy, is it ok if I play in the basement with Yorku?  Well, if it's ok with Yorku.  Then this ancient looking Chinese guy gets his hair combed by the little girl who tells him he looks pretty.  Ah, well, aside from those quibbles this makes for a good Summer-video-Rental but works in the off-season as well. "},{"Title":"SUMMER!!!!","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am noticing now that, in this day, why they are not have films with summer in the name. In those times, 1980's, they are, why I do not know. I think in 80's summer was big celebration, like ONE CRAZY SUMMER and THE SUMMER RENTAL (this one). I miss this. It is innocence. This film remind me of when we have betamax, and we bought (for one night only,  A SUMMER RENTAL!!! < stupids joke) we also have it Nightmare On Elms Street, which was very scare and fright me, and this one, nice one, funny one, relaxt my nerves, it help it to calm me. I think it is good film for this, to watch peoples paying with fun, meeting adventures, this is the kind of thing. I like one when they are at the beach, near the mountains, and the fat guy sit on the small guy when he eat chilli. YES YES YES YES GO SEE NOW!!!!! "},{"Title":"Worth A Rent, But Little More.","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fair little comedy from the 1980s that starts well and proves to be entertaining for the most part, but loses its way with plot resolution late. John Candy, Karen Austin and their children decide to take a vacation at the beach and end up getting into all sorts of wild situations. Richard Crenna is the comic-book-styled bad guy who ends up locking horns with Candy over and over again. It seems that a twist of fate will create more friction between the two. Candy has a plan though to get even with Crenna by winning a sailing contest with the help of run-down restaurant owner Rip Torn and the restaurant itself. Fair in the end. John Candy fans will appreciate the film more than others. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Summer Rental is a classic Candy that has its place amoung the 80's best.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Summer Rental may be no Breakfast Club, but it is one for the ages.  This softly Romantic Comedy about a man's quest to find his lost youth, set right the wrongs of his life, save his family, and owe yah get away from it all, is a movie worthy of anybody who's life isn't exactly as planned. Starring John Candy, in role only he could play, this 80's flick has the perfect balance of romance, comedy, drama, and the ocasional action sequence.  It like One Crazy Summer, Pretty in Pink, 16 Candles, and many other hits of the 80's has it's place on your shelves. "},{"Title":"Candy gives his best shot at a humdrum movie.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  John Candy sure wasn't having a whole lot of fun during his free time, and neither will you and I. SUMMER RENTAL is a relatively harmless family comedy with unexpected situations that can go haywire or just perfectly normal. Of course, the long-late Candy is excellent at being an idiotic screwball, which best fitted his own personality. He alone is what makes this worth the fun. Otherwise, it's pretty flat and monotonous all the way through. Take a trip to Miami Beach and your summer vacation will be far more pleasant. Joey (BLOSSOM) Lawrence looked very young on screen, though! "},{"Title":"Inoffesive, predictable, great.","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A great family movie. It's one of John Candy's forgotten bests... he plays a stressed out father trying to make the best for his family. The family are great and Rip Torn plays an excellent pirate fabrication. John Larroquette is also there for some reason. It's predictable, it's disjointed, it's sappy and it's over too quickly. Worth a watch as a study of inoffensiveness and cheezy 80s synth-pop. Completes a Candy collection, but don't forget the others.Odd that it feels like filler and complete at the same time.IMDb needs more, so here's a quote from Neitzche And we should consider every day lost on which we have not danced at least once. And we should call every truth false which was not accompanied by at least one laugh. "},{"Title":"The Funniest John Candy movie ever!","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Being overworked is not a good thing. That's why we have to take a vacation. In Summer Rental, this vacation is anything but ordinary. John Candy plays Jack Chester, an highly burned out air-traffic controller who takes his family out to Florida for a vacation. During the route things don't always go as planned. They get the rental house that was owned by someone else, and they get another one that's near the beach route entrance. When they go to a restaurant, they meet a very nasty yachtsman named Al(Richard Crenna) who insults the Chesters. Things were funny on the beach when the spigot from the cooler broke, and Jack gets a Frisbee to the groin. Following the boating accident, he meets neighbor Vicki(Lois Hamilton) who offers not only refreshments, but a critique of her goods. To me, that's a little too intimidating for me. Then there's the yacht race which the Chester decides to win back their pride. With the help from everyone, family and friends of a local restaurant, they were able to win the prize. Great cast they got there John Laroquette of Night Court along with his first season co-star Karen Austin playing Candy's wife. Joey Lawrence of Gimme a Break! Plenty of casts, plenty of fun, I enjoyed this movie whether it's a keeper or a rental. HAHAHAHA!!! 5 stars! "}{"Title":"I love the Flyswatter!","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Beware of nose picking kids at your window!! I honestly played that part back several times where J Candy fly swats the window where the kid appears. I can imagine WC Fields doing something similar. I think this movie falls far short of something like P, T & A (truly a piece of comic masterpiece and one of my all time faves); and it does accomplish much with being crass or sexually offensive. That whole 80's montage bit with the family repairing the boat to some 80's song sort of starts the bile rising, however. After reading on IMDb that J Candy was truly one of the nicest/most genuine men in Hollywood makes me feel the loss of his early demise all the more. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie for all ages","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the best movie I have ever seen. John Candy is superb in his best performance ever. I always like to see the underdog win and this film portrays it beautifully. The entire cast is excellent and the plot is both interesting and realistic. Movies such as this are an all time classic and many like to watch over and over. I saw this movie for the first time when I was in the U.S. Army in Ft. Hood , Texas and I instantly loved the movie and I have watched it several times since. John Candy became my favorite actor and I love every movie he ever made. Summer Rental is a decent family movie that any age can watch and enjoy as a family. Everyone will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Good John Candy movie!","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a classic John Candy movie in My opinion.Richard Crenna and Rip Torn are also in it!I don't want to spoil it but here is just a sample of what's funny in this movie!The eggs in the car,the woman that got breast surgery,the restaurant scenes with Crenna and Candy,all of the beach scenes,and last but not least the heavy set belching smurf watching man!This is a good John Candy movie that I recommend! "},{"Title":"Comedy is hard to do!","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Comedy is the hardest script to write.  How can you make a film continious funny.  Action paced is easy, but jokes tend to fall flat.  Candy raise this film too a 6 out of 10, but the script lags in places.  It is not a bad comedy, but is no Home Alone either. 6/10 "},{"Title":"1980's fashion comedy","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie twice. The first time I was impressed by the comedy of the late great John Candy and the beauty of Kristen Dunn (Goonies). The plot is laughable yet predictable sort of mix of National Lampoon's vacation and Beach Blanket Bingo. The second time I saw this movie is when the UPN network in my area cancelled Demolition Man and played this movie. As I watched the movie the second time I began to notice the fashion and other artifacts of the time. And I thought my goodness I am getting old, I remember when it ultra cool to wear ostrich egg size ear phones "},{"Title":"You couldn't beat my dingy!","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not one of John Candy's best films (nor Carl Reiner's for that matter) but still worth seeing for a few amusing lines.  I wouldn't recommend actually renting the film but give it a shot if you run across it some Sunday afternoon on cable.  Richard Crenna gives a good performance as the typical jerk and Rip Torn does his best Captain McCalister impression.  John Laroquette is in this film too, but don't try to figure out why.  I've tried to figure it out and can't.  He's just there for some reason. "},{"Title":"Not the best of summer rentals","Date":"1 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a pretty weak feat for comedy. If watching it at the cinema, when I was fifteen, I thought while viewing it recently, if I would of laughed more. Laughs run pretty sparse in this one, the late Candy who I liked, responsible for most of them. Remember at the time this comedy was also competing with the Griswalds on their European Vacation. Candy, though not remembered as the greatest thespian, plays a wearied air traffic controller, who mistakes a fly on his screen, for a plane. Yeah, he really needs a vacation. So, he and the troops, (his family) pack their suitcases, and head south to Florida. Candy, manages to get sun burnt, bad, sprain his leg, while yachting with his son, locked out of the right bungalow, he rented, his first, much more Shangri-la, robbed of his lobsters he waited in a two hour line for... there's more, meets a hot neighbor, self conscious about her enlarged boobies, but worst of all, gets on the wrong side of a vain gloried, suave, local yachtsman/businessman, Crenna, who has been trying to hustle some people out of their dwellings. He becomes a worse problem for Candy later on. As well as spraying a sea of beach goers, with water from his leaking Esky, Candy also, accidentally, leaves his backdoor open, when he goes off with the hottie next door for lemonade. There he's asked to give his evaluation on his new goodies, when he's visually confronted by em'. This is the funniest part of this weak and sagging comedy. Candy then returns to a party of people, who have made his home, theirs. Rip Torn as an old and real buccaneer pirate, hook for a hand and all, is completely wasted here, delivering such a fine performance, way above his peers, with the exception of Crenna, who isn't bad either. Torn's restaurant that's a ship, is revamped, and put back in the water, when he joins forces with Candy, to race against their nemesis. I hated this story angle, as I found it boring, but also a kind of chicken out. But they needed a plot to what went before. I just hated it the way it went. I found it wasteful time. For some Candy fans, this will fail to satisfy. This one, like Candy's Esky is a drippy, lazy comedy, that falls pretty weak, and when stacked up Carl Reiner's next flick, Summer School, two years later, that fared much better, this director truly redeemed himself. Yes Carl, all is forgiven. "},{"Title":"Horrendous Second Half!","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The three stars are only because John Candy turned in a very game effort and was actually quite funny, only to be undone by one of the most preposterous plots ever. Indeed this movie was rather sloppily constructed and edited from start to finish, and it appears the producers were absolutely all-out to come up with a whopping 86 minutes of material. The talents of Richard Crenna and Rip Torn are completely wasted, and I'm still trying to figure out what the John Larroquette character was all about. This is just incredibly inept stuff from a man, Carl Reiner, whom I've generally admired through the years. It's one thing to direct a flop, but it's another to lend your support to something as astonishingly stupid as the second-half boat race in this film. I mean,your basic Tom & Jerry cartoon makes more sense...at least the cat is chasing the mouse, and that's kind of a story. I actually watched the second half of this movie again, since perhaps I was being too harsh. Hardly. If anything, I'm being too easy when I say that the entire boat race sequence might be the dumbest thing ever released on an unsuspecting American public. In fact, that scene is so bad it's surprising the country has lasted another 25 years. It's a breathtakingly awful sequence that makes me feel as if my IQ has been stripped 50 points overnight. Warning If you must watch this movie turn it off the second the boats line up for the regatta. "},{"Title":"Not exactly Eye Candy","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In my quest to become more well versed in the movies of my era, I am taping and watching as many films as possible off of cable television.  Being one who has experienced the family vacation, I was fairly sure this was to be a good film for me.  Unfortunately, this one didn't even keep me awake long enough.  It was terribly predictable and low on humor.  I commend John Candy for doing his best to make something of this film.  Anyone who wishes to see the quintessential movie about the tragedies of the family vacation should keep an eye out for National Lampoon's Family Vacation.  Summer Rental seems to be somewhat of a spin-off of this, with a little less driving.  At best, this could be a more family-appropriate film.  However, even the edited TV version leaves those with young ones sitting close to put the hand over the eyes every now and then. "},{"Title":"Why the boat race at the end?","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie about a family that goes on a vacation and rents a beach house.  When they first arrive they are at a beautiful house that has its own beach.  Unfortunately, it turns out to be the wrong house and the house they do have is not nearly as nice.  This one is very good for laughs at the beginning, but it really tails off near the end.  It ends up being the old; let's race boats plot.  Why it feels it needs this plot point is beyond me. I enjoyed it, just seeing the family on their trip and all the things that happened to them, but in the end it switches to having to win the race. All in all though it is pretty funny to watch. "}{"Title":"PIRATES ON PARADE","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Be honest, do you think a movie with John Candy can be a masterpiece? Indeed, you don't... But and that's a shame, Candy has talent which is proven during the first part of the movie but due to an absurd plot everything is in vain. The story if there ever must be one is simple. John Candy who works in an airport is so overstressed that his boss sends him on holiday. Together with his wife played by Karin Austin and kids go to California and of course everything turns out wrong...and then after 40 minutes you should switch of your telly cos that's the best part and quite hilarious in pure Richard Pryorstyle but then darkness fall when Candy decides to take part on some sailingcontest as he found some old pirates who are giving him their pirateship (normally a fishrestaurant) to use. And honestly said this is the part in where reality is lost and that all jokes seem to be made for kids of 4 years...unless you can laugh when Candy uses his pants to sail faster. I'm sure some can and for those kind of people movies like that are made for... How do they call such movies  stinkers?  "}]