[{"Title":"This film is an animation classic","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not only is An American Tail easily one of the best animated features ever made, but it proves to be leaps beyond the efforts of recent Disney movies by refusing to be constricted to an all-too-familiar formula. This movie does not stay within the cozy, comfortable guidelines that Disney adheres to in order to make money. Instead, it tells a truly unique tale, one not borrowed from any other source, and one overflowing with artistic wonder and originality.The characters you will see here are not stock, not pulled from the typical Disney hat. The story is not a chuckle-a-minute, lowbrow attempt to take the easy way out in pandering to children. The main character, Fievel, suffers real hardships and tragedy, and stares into the despair of his own soul before the movie is finished. This, of course, makes the ending that much more satisfying, an infinitely more significant and authentic moment than any cardboard cut-out Disney plot.If you want to see what animation was meant to be as an art form, if you want to feel the power and emotion that can truly be reaped from this under-appreciated and over-commercialized medium, look no further than An American Tail. "},{"Title":"A Tail (ahem!) of joy...","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ex-Disney animator Don Bluth brings us a tail (sorry, TALE!  Well, that's the  proper word in the context!) of the Russian Mousekewitz mouse family, who, like  all of the other mice in late 1800's Russia, want to escape from the cats.  They  dream of a land known as America, where there are no cats.  Travelling toGermany, they board a ship bound for America.However, during a violent storm, little Fievel Mousekewitz (voiced by Phillip  Glasser) becomes separated from his parents and sisters.  Fortunately for Fievel  he was saved from drowning by being ensconced within a bottle, which quite by  chance floats to New York, USA.  Unfortunately not only is America very big, but  it -- well, let's just say that for all mice concerned it's not all it was cracked up to  be.With the help of friends such as Tony Toponi (voiced by Pat Musick) and Tiger  (Dom DeLuise), Fievel goes on a mammoth quest to become reunited with hisfamily.Although it is a little on the sentimental side, it does have a certain charm, which  is further helped by James Horner's musical score, as well as the wonderfulsong 'Somewhere Out There' which has since become my favourite duet of alltime (I've even sung the end-credits version, as sung by Linda Ronstadt andJames Ingram, on Karaoke!).  Some adults may not like the sentimentality, but  stick with it, and you'll be rewarded with a gem, particularly if watching with  either the young or the young-at-heart. "},{"Title":"Still a classic masterpiece","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing American Tail when I was very little, and I loved it. I always felt sad for Fievel when he was away from his parents, and at the time, I never knew that they were always very near him. I thought that they were always far away from him like he thought. Not too long ago, I bought this movie and watched it again...for the first time in years. I'm 17 and I still love the movie. It's the ultimate animated movie when it comes to being gentle, heart warming, and full of good heart. And the film is such a wonder to behold, even after all these years. Despite another sequel and one (or was that 2?) (one was made in 1999 and it's coming soon to video?) direct to video movies. Out of the three I've seen, this one is still the best, and it's among my favorite animated movies of all time  "},{"Title":"Stop calling this a Disney movie!","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree that the standards set by Walt and his animators are the only ones that matter when it comes to judging animated films, and I had trouble accepting this to, but there are OTHER ANIMATION COMPANIES!! No one would dare describe Shrek (which sucked) as a Disney movie, so let's leave Don Bluth alone, okay?Having said that, this movie is absolutely wonderful. A heartwarming story, beautiful songs (including the now standard Somewhere Out There) great performances and the animation is stellar. Much darker and grittier than any story Disney would even dream of making, it revolves around an immigrant mouse named Fievel, whose family comes to America to escape oppression (In America, says Poppa, There are no cats.). Fievel learns the hard way that America has its problems, too.In my opinion, this movie is worth seeing solely for Dom DeLuise's characterization of the soft-hearted alley cat Tiger. All in all, this is probably the best Don Bluth has ever made.  "},{"Title":"A celebration of the American Dream","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a non-American who has heard so often of The American Dream, I saw this movie as a celebration of that dream.  The flight of the poor and oppressed (and Jewish?) from Europe to the proposed Land of Freedom and Wealth (There are no cats in America and the streets are paved with cheese?) to find more poverty and oppression (workhouses, cats and workhouse tout Warren T. Rat), but with the opportunity to do something about it that they did not have in the old country.The song Somewhere Out There is quite perfectly matched with Fyvel and his family searching for each other, and the version heard in the movie is rather more expressive than the released single. It is not necessarily fun for the whole family.  Children will find it fun.  Adults will find it interesting, not so much in fun as in pride and awareness, at least if they are Americans . "},{"Title":"Don Bluth's best in my opinion, despite one major flaw.","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An American Tail was Don Bluth's second animated feature since leaving Disney, and, in my opinion, it is his best. It's got the most heart out of all of his movies. It's got the Oscar-nominated song Somewhere Out There and the main character of Fievel. This character just warms my heart and I can easily feel for him. Don Bluth has made only three very good animated features this movie, The Secret of NIMH, and The Land Before Time. But An American Tail tops them both. No matter how predictable or sentimental the story is, I always get caught up in it. The sequel was good, but it was more like a fast-paced western comedy with some one-liners and such sight gags. The original is the better film in my opinion. Only complaint one too many chase scenes with Fievel and other mice running from cats.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie for all ages that will warm your heart!","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In my opinion, this is an excellent movie for all ages that will warm your heart! When Fievel (voice of Phillip Glasser) got lost, I wanted to cry. Although some of the characters were diabolical, I liked everybody. Well, it's hard to say which character was my favorite. The music was good, especially Somewhere Out There, A Duo, and No Cats In America. In addition to the music being good everyone was cast perfectly, and the direction was flawless. In conclusion, I highly recommend this very touching movie for all ages that will warm your heart to anyone who hasn't seen it. You're in for a real treat and a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with someone close to you, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Warm family cartoon is definitely a winner","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was introduced to An American Tail after perpetually reading the 'book' of the second film, Feivel Goes West. I can't say which one I enjoyed more although at the time, I think I was seven, but this one I understood a lot better.The sweet-hearted tale of a family of Russian mouse emigrants who travel to America, the 'land of opportunity' but on their way lose their son, really manages to perk up your day. It has all the classic elements of a family flick great characters, wonderful score and songs, and of course a happy ending (You can't say you didn't expect that).In some ways it's meant to be almost a satire, a parallel story of many Russian immigrant families who flee to America from the Cossacks there is actually a scene in the beginning involving the ransacking of a Russian village by Cossacks, aided of course, as most history books conveniently omit, by their vicious slavering cats who destroy the mouse population. This satire is slightly lost once they reach America, but the simple plot of the mouse boy trying to find his family again works very well. It's quite frustrating at times as we see how close they all come to running into each other; a split second here and a well-timed door slamming there, and it could have been all over in thirty minutes of screen time. But where would be the movie in that? Lastly, the voice cast does a great job. While I personally think the sequel had a better cast, An American Tail boasts some fine names as well - Dom DeLuise and Nehemiah Persoff who also did the sequel, Christopher Plummer, and Madeline Kahn all combine for a great effect. It's not necessary to see this to also see the sequel but it definitely deserves to be watched. Touching, light-hearted and with one of the most beautiful theme songs you will ever hear, it's a winner. ***1/2 / ***** "},{"Title":"Fievel the Turntablism Progenetor.","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  **SPOILERS**I saw AAT when i was young and recently watched it again. It was a favorite then and I still got a kick out of it and will probably watch it again. The animation and backgrounds work quite well, dim grimy dull, which make the few moments when things shine (the fireworks, the bottle floating, the waterfall and lighting when Fievel and the family are reunited) all the more powerful, overall the color is great. Its good to see that IMDb is truly an International Database, and i love that i can read reviews by people who've identified that they are from such places as Pakistan, Jamaica, Argentina, and beyond. As an American Jew myself, the connections to this film are quite obvious and my more recent viewing really gave me a sense of the contribution Steven Spielberg has made in my life, and many other lives about Jews / Americans. I enjoy the opportunity to view other's readings of the film, to see how the messages in the film are viewed by people outside America.The film has some obvious political undertones that a child will not necessarily pick up. This is a pretty cool thing / kinda sesame street like / a subtle education. While Fievel's family is Jewish, not all the mice in the film are, as we meet other immigrant mice who are carrying crosses, etc. What the mice have in common is immigrant status as well as being under the oppression of the Cats (don't say it too loud). Who are the cats? Are the cats just the bullies in any given situation? While the Russian cats that drove Fievel's family from their home in Russia mirrored the Pogroms / Nazis / Jewish oppressors, Who were the oppressors on the American soil? (is it a direct reflection to a group of oppressors in American in the late 19th century?)In light of current political situations this movie could have many implications / readings. Does America still seem to have that silver lining? Are people round the world still singing their own equivalents to The Are No Cats In America? Contrast Fievel with Mickey Mouse himself, a wonderful comparison. Fievel is almost a real person whereas Mickey is more cartoony. Fievel is a child mouse. As children ourselves we can put ourselves in his shoes more easily, (which is why this is a children's movie) his fascination with the fish, and always asking questions, his curiosity, which gets him in trouble, and his ability to dream and somehow stumble through it all still surviving (if not drunk and woosie, green-ish) from it all. (a little detail i enjoy is how, invariably he always winds up in some sort of bubble (the soap bubble, the bottle, the bed in watertower, etc.. where ever he goes he is protected in a bubble home, he is magically kept in this safety bubble, the bubble of being the main character in a major motion picture, of being the focus for millions of children.) ... another trait of Fievel's is his amazing ability to run up a stream of falling debris to which he uses quite often to escape sticky situations. The collective effort of the mice to build the Mouse of Minsk is wonderful and the final product is huge and beautifully grotesque and awesome. I love how it rolls out, bursting through the door of the boarded up museum of the weird. There is something in this, how the solution to the cat problem lies in the pieces of this abandoned museum. How all sorts of knicknacks, falderall, and whatnotknots could be gumbo-ed together to create this Mouse of Minsk monster (an analogy / metaphor to the very real-life America itself.)There are also some extremely funny moments in this film, like when Tony Toponi, (Fievels friend and escapee from the sewing sweatshop) first sees and falls head over heels in love with Bridget (our Irish rabble rouser). She is all soapbox-ish and politics and talking about getting rid of the cats, and Tony freezes stiff and falls off the roof... (this falling off the roof i have watched, re-wound and watch again about 10,000 times) i don't know why but it just cracks me up the way his body remains stiff and sort of just slides / pops off the roof, and then how he is trying to repeat cats when Bridget sees him and he is the only mouse who has not yet run away, she is happy that they at least have each other, and then these hippy flowers come out of nowhere and it's like a sixties love-in all of a sudden.Also the underground imagery in the sewer is quite accurate and really beautiful. (accurate in the sense of feeling one gets when crawling through a storm drain, which is the equivalent to the film, since it was managing water) (A sewer manages human waste and waste water, while the storm drain system manages excess Weather water...).... just beautiful (yeah in that grimy sooty way)Another fun moment is when Fievel thinks he hears his father playing his violin, but it is only a gramophone, in which he climbs into, and then when looking into the void gets sad again because he doesn't see his father, then the lady changes the recording which is now this SUDDEN LOUD American boisterous BIG BAND song POMPING great American pride which causes Fievel to fall down into the void of the Phonography and is spat out onto the music which speeds up and slows down (which is of course how Hip-Hop (turntablism) was invented)-(which is also a metaphor for the very real America, the melting pot or rather the mixing, scratching, rapping pot.) ... a great little scene, which exemplifies how the mice have to deal with the human environment as well. The mice are real to the humans in the movie, (they see them as real live mice, something to throw a shoe at) somehow us in the audience are different, we are able to see the world at their level, to be able to hear their story. Overall a fun classic movie which has some important messages about collective power, what freedom is and means from an American perspective. An Adventuresome musical with wonderful songs (and sad songs.) A little piece of my childhood as a young American... America, what a place! 8/10  "},{"Title":"Don Bluth's Furry Tale","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Don Bluth is another animator I love along side Max Fleischer and Hayao Miyazaki, and this film An American Tail is one of my favorites from him; It is a childhood favorite.A reason I like mice (not rats) is that well...they are the goodbeasts from my books like the Redwall series by Brian Jacques (my favorite author) and also Mrs Frisby and The Rats of NIMH by Robert C. O'Brien, which was maded into another film by Don; well those rats are good so I could accept that. I love the romantic scene with Tony and Bridget (when they first meet that is), and besides I love Bridget,Tony,Tanya and Fievel himself. "}{"Title":"has a charm that is totally undeniable and appealing for (most) children","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a kid I watched this film many times, as it had four key things that it had (and still has) going for it 1) a story that does not skim on really putting peril for the characters (the separation sequence on the ship is absorbing, but also devastating if you're heavily invested in Fievel and his father); 2) good songs that aren't too preachy, and with enough emotional tug to be Disney-like, but unusual or unexpected in some of the styles of; 3) how the characters are animated- I love the variety given to the different mice and cats and how the humans are wisely left in the shadows or with just a hand or a foot; and 4) the comedy in the film balances without a fault with the comedy. In terms of subject matter, there is a lot of historical background information that kids today may have no care for, but it doesn't matter; Fievel and his family could be any immigrant mouse family, and really the core of the story (the importance of family and love) is what carries it through. And because of this balance between comedy and drama- there are allusions to the Pogroms in Russia, the struggles of the immigrant working life in 19th century America, and racism, but voices like Madeline Kahn and Dom DeLouise are featured in key roles- it may throw some in the audience off, or be too much on a first viewing. It may not even be a 'great' film. Yet as expertly Don Bluth directed hand-drawn animation, with a big heart and a bright, and dark, story of mice versus cats, it has a wonderment about it that should be appealing almost twenty years down the line. It's certainly better than the sequel, which is all slapstick as opposed to being comic-tragic, which also has an appeal for some older kids and adults. "},{"Title":"One of the first of many that kicked Disney's ass","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don't take me wrong although An American Tail is a wonderful film, the old Disney classics are not the ones I'm talking about in the summary. I'm talking about the over-commercialized crap we get these days. Don Bluth's second animated feature is again about mice, like Secret of NIMH. I think NIMH was better, though not by much. The songs are pretty good, although not like some Disney songs. The animation, however, is simply gorgeous. I can't believe people dismiss it as poorly animated just because the colors aren't bright! The colors are dark and moody, as they should be, An American Tail--nor any of Bluth's films--were ever supposed to look like Rayman. If you want to see Bluth with bright colors, glance at some cheery scenes from A Troll in Central Park. I find the way Fievel and his family miss each other by inches frustrating, though. In fact, I was surprised Fievel and Tanya couldn't hear each other as they sang Somewhere Out There. A simply beautiful film, a must for anyone who looks for variation in the field of animation, but infuriating for anyone who thinks the scope of animation should be restricted to Disney.  "},{"Title":"After Anastasia, American Tail is the best Don Bluth movie...","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not only that, but I think it's the best pre-Little Mermaid animation of the 80s, Land Before Time being an extremely close contender, as I haven't yet seen the Secret of Nimh. It tells the story of a little mouse named Fieval, who gets lost at sea, and his struggles to find his family. There is a vast difference to this and All Dogs Go To Heaven, and it is that American Tail is genuinely poignant, whereas All Dogs tends to be a little too morose, but don't get me wrong, All Dogs is a very good movie, but I do prefer American Tail. Another difference is that although Warren T Rat is a convincing villain, I still think Carface is a little more convincing. The animation is stunning, as are the songs, my favourite being Somewhere Out There, which makes me cry every time I hear it. The incidental music and the script were also lovely.I have only two minor criticisms of this movie, which is that the story takes a while to get going, and I personally don't think Phillip Glasser can sing(which I can forgive, as he was only 6 years old). The voice talents, as is usually the case in Don Bluth movies, are exceptional. Phillip Glasser is very sweet and even touching at times, and Dom DeLuise likewise. Christopher Plummer is very good as Henri, and Madeline Kahn delights with her character's speech impediment. I cried at the end, and thank you Don Bluth for a heartfelt film. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Wonderful Family Adventure!","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My boys and I had a great time watching this film together. We all found the duet between sibling mice enchanting. I had only vague memories of this film from my childhood, but I remembered that duet; a very beautiful moment.My oldest just told me to write this; It's the best movie ever!! And the other says; It was a good movie.We get a movie about once a week and I've just got to say that this was the best time watching a film we've had in a very long time. The characters are varied and all of them are absorbing. Of course, there are elements that are predictable, but it's a kids film. So, all is forgiven.There are some parts, though, that may frighten very young or very sensitive children, but most will not be afraid and will just be able to enjoy it. I hope you do, too! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the best Disney productions, though it leaves a lasting impact.","Date":"15 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I remember watching An American Tail as a kid. I can't say that I have fond memories of it, but director Don Bluth's animation and storytelling do leave an impression. The Secret Of NIMH (1982) remains Bluth's best film in my opinion. It was also his first film after he and his team of animators left The Walt Disney Company to work on more ambitious animation. But An American Tail comes close in terms of quality. It also follows The Secret Of NIMH in formula, even making the main characters mice again. What one should know about Bluth is that he's a Mormon, and the influences of his faith are obvious in his animation work. Bluth's grandfather was Helaman Pratt, an early leader of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. An American Tail is very much a film for children, though the quality of the animation can attract adults too. Bluth and his team are known for sometimes using unusual animation methods. Their unique style in this film is made more striking by the near absence of bright colors, which often gives the film the look of an old photograph. Characterization is another of Bluth's strengths as a director. His characters are distinct and memorable. The downside to this in An American Tail is that they're often clichés. There's a poor Jewish family of mice, the Mousekewitzs, with thoughts of America as some land of milk and honey. There's a young Italian mouse (Tony Toponi) that falls in love with a young redhead Irish mouse (Bridget). There's a wealthy old German mouse (Gussie Mausheimer). The screenplay was written by Judy Freudberg and Tony Geiss so this isn't entirely Bluth's doing. But what's interesting, and at the same time disturbing, for me about An American Tail is the anti-Russian propaganda, something that runs strong in Mormonism. Bluth showed his anti-Russian tendencies again with Anastasia (1997). The thing about Mormonism is that it started out as a British intelligence project in the 19th century. The faith's founder, Joseph Smith, was a British agent. For the last 200 years Russia has been London's enemy #1, and the British created many difficulties for Russia. In Smith's White Horse Prophecy Russia is mentioned as the ultimate enemy of the Mormons. According to him, the final struggle against Russia will come after the Mormons conquer the United States and absorb the British Empire. This is a piece of Mormon history that few non-Mormons know about. Therefore, it should be known that Mormons are some of the most reactionary, conservative, anti-Russian and pro-British people in America. Mitt Romney, by the way, is a Mormon. I recently found out about this thanks to Webster Tarpley's book Just Too Weird Bishop Romney And The Mormon Takeover Of America Polygamy, Theocracy, And Subversion. So the anti-Russian propaganda in the film is certainly no accident. In addition, one should know that Bluth collaborated with Steven Spielberg on An American Tail, so it's also no accident that the Mousekewitzs are a Jewish family. This isn't the only dark side of the film however. The American immigrant experience is tackled too, showing the very real difficulties and racism that immigrants had to deal with upon arrival. Still, this isn't something that children will understand unless their parents tell them. The lively animation and James Horner's fine score manage to make the experience uplifting and touching, but there's no hiding the film's intentional dark side. An American Tail certainly isn't a Disney product. It's a film that I can easily recommend because of its animation and music. The screenplay, on the other hand, doesn't impress. "},{"Title":"A heartwarming tale of Fievel's journey to America","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There's something unique to Don Bluth when it comes to animated movie. Despite the wave of sub-par products produced by him in the early-mid 1990s, his works during the 80s showcase his unique capabilities to produce solid animated films that focused on dark elements and have been able to capture to hearts of children who watched the film. An American Tail can be described as a light-heart view of America back in the late 19th century and the result is a satisfying journey that kids will remember years from now.When I was a young child, I remember watching the sequel a few times and really enjoying it. I hadn't even heard of this movie until Summer, 2005 when my grandparents from Odessa got a tape. Having seen it then left a good impression on me and really made the film valuable. It was not until almost six years later when I could finally get my hands on it and it's certainly is something I feel was worth every penny.The story is about Fievel Mousekewitz, an seven-year old Jewish-Russian mice who immigrate to America with his parents and two siblings to America. While on a ship, Fievel gets loss in a storm, causing a separation between his family and must find a way to return to his family.The scores is fantastic to say the least as they do very well to match up with the scenes. It does a commendable job of drawing you in to the scenes and help focus the story; not to mention is very pleasant to listen to. Mood during the story is also helped very well with the music as depressing moments are more efficient with relatively sorrowful music and more upbeat musics accompany the more light tone scenes. I especially loved the first OST, which gave the movie somewhat of a mystical aspect. The songs are more of a mixed bag. Somewhere Out There is, to say the least, a brilliant piece of music and has a very strong meaning; that somewhere out there, someone is there for you, but the rest of the offering aren't really that great. No Cats in America, A Duo, and Never Say Never, while not bad, are pretty forgettable and feel pretty forced in just for the sake of more music and could have been forgo.Don Bluth style of animation is unique, but unique isn't always great and Don Bluth's style really isn't that good. The film looks as if it came from a 70s animation movie (quality-wise) and doesn't look all that appealing. Perhaps people weren't too bothered by the animation back in the 80s, but now that twenty-five years has passed, it has aged poorly and while can be overlooked by casual viewing, can be noticed quickly by more critical analysis.I honestly think that the baby shouldn't have appeared in the movie at all. It is barely shown (I can only recall two scenes where it is even visible) and has no relevance to the story. The villain of the story also strikes me as generic and doesn't really do much outside of a typical villain. Fortunately, most of the rest of the characters are great. The family really has a strong bond between each other and shows more love than most families do nowadays with the determinations they go to find Fievel after finding out that Fievel was alive. The tie-in they make to Tanya and Fievel does a great job of showing sibling love between each other and their determination to reunite, not to mention that the affection the parents gave to their children is believable and establishes connection between them very well; especially between Papa and Fievel. Fievel, however, is the best character in the movie. Bluth did a commendable job on making Fievel believable by showing the innocence of a young child, yet balancing it out well with Fievel's determination to find solution and to help others. The scene during the storm and near the end of the movie can make a person sob because of the struggles Fievel goes towards reuniting with his family. It's no wonder why Fievel is my current avatar on the site.What makes the film ultimately a successful film is that it has a strong, consistent story. It does a very good job at having the audience care about the characters in the story and what happens to them. Fortunately, the story doesn't sway to sub-plots after sub-plots and focuses on the main plot of the story. Sub-plots that were made; however, actually related to the story and added more depth to it. The story has a very deep meaning to it as it emphasize the value of family and never giving up to reach your goals. What is also a plus is that it is engaging and had good pacing that kept the film from dragging out too long while not feeling rushed. Finally, the film treats kids as if they are older then they are and doesn't dumb down it's message just to be appropriate.Overall, the film succeeds at what it does and has raw emotion to it that makes it a strong experience. The scores is wonderful with an mystic feeling to it, Somewhere Out There is a beautiful song that capture the hearts of many, the characters are mostly likable and can relate to people in real life in some ways (especially Fievel), and it has a strong, consistent story. Despite a few exception to the rather strong story, the other songs that are forgettable, and the ugly animation, it has a lot of heart to it and this sadly forgotten film deserves more recognition than it has receive in the present day.Final Score 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"An adventurous and heartwarming masterpiece","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" After the darker and epic masterpiece The Secret of NIMH, he teams up with Steven Spielberg (who directed the heartwarming E.T. and the shark monster Jaws and would later direct the adaptation of Michael Crichton's Jurassic Park) along with David Kirschner to direct the idea he came up with known as An American Tail.It takes place in Russian in the year 1885 where a family of mice gets chased out of their homes by the cats. On the way to America, a land where they think has no cats, a young mouse named Fievel Mousekewitz gets separated from his parents on the way. When he arrives alone in the New World, however, he keeps up hope, searching for his family, making new friends, and running and dodging the cats he thought he'd be rid off.Since this is Bluth/Spielberg's first team up to make an animated film, it's an amazing effort from the greatest directors in the history of cinema. The story was so touching while having funny moments, scary moments, and very sad moments. The animation is breathtakingly beautiful and so are the colorful backgrounds. The characters are likable and so is the excellent voice acting. The James Horner music score/songs were so catchy you would leave the theater humming Somewhere Out There for about four minutes.An American Tail is another masterpiece not only from Don Bluth, but from Steven Spielberg as well and would recommended to fans of traditional animation and Bluth fans.5/5 "},{"Title":"Another animated classic by Don Bluth","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was a child, my sister and I would love watching all sorts of animated films. One of these films was An American Tail. My interest in the film increased after watching All Dogs go to Heaven. I only remembered bits and pieces of it, so I finally got the opportunity to watch the film, and it was definitely worth seeing.Frustrated by all the cats in Russia, the Mousekewitz family to America, where there are supposedly no cats. During the voyage, Fieval Mousekewitz (Phillip Glasser) wanders off and is separated from the rest of the family. Fortunately, he lands in New York, where he is determined to find his parents. Fieval journeys through New York, meeting many friends, who include a French pigeon named Henri (Christopher Plummer), a young mouse named Tony Toponi (Pat Musick), and a large alcoholic mouse named Honest John (Neil Ross). He also discovers that there are cats in America, one of them being a scam artist named Warren T. Rat (John Finnegan).There are several satirical moments in the film, such as the depiction of cats in Italy as mobsters, the depiction of cats in Russia as Cossacks, etc. But the film, although enjoyable, has some minor flaws. The first and the most obvious flaw is that the film may get too depressing for children, and the other flaw is that the film is that the voices may get a bit annoying, but it never gets even remotely unbearable.Overall, An American Tail was an excellent animated film, and I highly recommend "},{"Title":"Bluth's Big chance","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Mousekewitzes, a family of Russian mice (whose junior members' broad American accents curiously bear no resemblance to their parent's guttural Russian tones) are forced to flee their homeland after being torched from their modest home by marauding felines. Having already sung the praises of America (there are no cats in America), it is only natural that Papa Mousekewitz leads his clan to the land of the free, and it is not long before they are ensconced in the hold of an ocean liner. During a storm, Fievel, the youngest of the children, is washed overboard and is believed to have perished by his parents, although sister Tanya never gives up hope of finding him alive. Of course, Fievel survives against the odds and, with the help of an assortment of creatures, embarks on a voyage to relocate his family.Back in '86, when the now rejuvenated Disney corporation was languishing in the doldrums and churning out sub-standard fare like The Great Mouse Detective, Don Bluth briefly looked as if he might be the man to speed off with the baton the Mouse Factory had so badly fumbled. Sadly for him, it wasn't to be, and on the evidence of this movie it isn't hard to see why. While An American Tail is acceptable enough entertainment for children, and is superior to Disney's output of the time, it still falls short of the standards to which Disney had &#x96; and occasionally still do &#x96; reach. Fievel is an adorable enough little character, and his predicament leaves you little choice but to root for him, but at the end of the day, he's just another cute cartoon mouse with little to distinguish him from all the other cartoon mice.The film's storyline is simple enough, and the historical perspective of the emigrant rush to the States in the 1880s is a unique and interesting one in which to place it. Bluth's writers attach symbolic significance to many aspects of the story &#x96; particularly the role of the cats &#x96; which will fly right over the top of the kid's heads but which should be easy enough for most adults to pick up on. And while this subtext is welcome in what is overtly a sentimental kiddie flick, it is still a poor substitute for the knowing adult jokes we have come to enjoy (and expect) from cartoon films today. The fact is, there isn't much of a storyline here, even for a film with a kiddie-friendly running time of 80 minutes, especially as Bluth shoves in a half-dozen or so tunes that are as out of place as they are unmemorable. Only 'Somewhere Out There' stands out, but that's too slushy for most adults.While the animation is, again, of a commensurate standard to Disney's at the time, it looks a little 80s-dated today too recent to hark back to the Disney glory days, yet too old for the major animators standards of today. While the grimy background is in keeping with the period in which the movie is set, its subdued tones means it fails to catch the eye. So we focus more on the characters, and realise we're watching Disney clones &#x96; which might have been considered unavoidable to a degree back in the eighties, but doesn't really stand up today.An American Tail.is a respectable, workmanlike effort that won't leave anyone angry at having invested eighty minutes of their time in it. But it lacks the vibrancy and texture required to capture both the audience's attention and imagination. Youngsters will be uncomplaining, but few over seven will commandeer the DVD player to watch it over and over again &#x96; which, after all, is the only true benchmark of a cartoon's worth.. "},{"Title":"allusions and allegories","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think that I first saw An American Tail when I was about three. All that I interpreted was a bunch of scary-looking men on horses. Now that I'm old enough to understand the historical context, every part of the movie makes sense. The scary men on horses were cossacks carrying out pogroms against the Jews in tsarist Russia (in the movie, they bring cats to terrorize the mice). Thus, a family of Russian-Jewish mice immigrates to the United States in the belief that there are no cats in America. Meanwhile, a Sicilian mouse recounts the misdeeds of a feline mafioso, while an Irish mouse remembers the sad things that happened on the Emerald Isle.Sure enough, there are cats in America. But much of what happens in the course of Fievel's search for his family in New York seems to be a representation of the overall immigrant experience at the time. The immigrants are forced to work in sweatshops under the most dangerous conditions, and gangsters are the best hope for protection. Bridget's calls for the mice to unite against the cats sounds like an allegory for labor organizing.All in all, I recommend this movie. It was probably Don Bluth's most creative movie ever, and certainly a credit to Steven Spielberg. I suspect that it was one of the first cartoon movies to cast movie stars (Dom DeLuise, Madeline Kahn, Christopher Plummer) as opposed to professional voice artists like Mel Blanc. Definitely worth seeing.Also starring the voices of Phillip Glasser, Amy Green, Nehemiah Persoff*, Erica Yohn, John P. Finnegan, Pat Musick, Cathianne Blore, Neil Ross, Will Ryan and Hal Smith (Otis on The Andy Griffith Show).*Nehemiah Persoff also starred in Some Like It Hot, and appeared on a Gilligan's Island episode as a deposed Latin American dictator. "}{"Title":"An Alternative History Lesson","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" As well as being an entertaining, fun and moving story, An American Tail is also a representation of the 1880s when many Russians would immigrate to America, believing it to be a land of wealth and opportunity. As this film shows, the reality was often very different. The story follows Fievel Mousekewitz who becomes separated from his family on the ship bringing them over to America, and his struggle to find his family once he gets there. This aspect of the story should keep children entertained (I personally loved it as a kid) but there are also many parts that should keep the adults interested, for the film does address many of the key issues facing the family's who had immigrated at the time. A fun film, where you may actually learn something. Give it a try, no matter what your age. "},{"Title":"6.5? There's a Typo.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow.6.5.I Really thought that this movie would be rated higher than 6.5. This movie is good because of the good plot,characters and music by the one and only James horner(Titanic). It Starts out with a winter setting in Moscow,were we meet the main characters Fievel and Tanya. Soon cats come and try to destroy the village.So the family moves to America by boat. a Storm comes to on the sea and fievel gets separated from his family. Soon he reaches America by bottle and meets some friends that we will see in the other movies likeHenri,Tony Toponi,Bridget and the ever funny Tiger. He finds the main Bad Guy Warren T. Rat. A cat dressed up as a mouse. He is the leader of the cats in New York. Feivel has to find a way to stop him and the cats. How? Watch the film and find out. "},{"Title":"An Animated Masterpiece...","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are rarely any animated movies out there, or I've seen, that actually has something for everyone. An American Tale manages to combine many elements that make a great movie and does so successfully.A family called the Mousekewitzs apparently is struggling in their lives with terrifying cats. So they immigrate to America like many Russians did back in the late 1800's. But, unfortunately, Fievel (A touching character) gets lost and separated from the Mousekewitz during a storm. So Feivel tries his best to find his family.As said before, An American Tale has many elements that will appeal to anyone. There's sweet touching moments, such as the song Somewhere Out There that's sung by Fievel and his sister Tanya, dark and depressing moments, such as when Fievel gets separated from the storm, and some humorous stuff as well (The Honest John scenes and some lines said by Tiger (voiced by the awesome Dom Deluise)). So this film has become a strong favorite of mine when it comes to animated movies.Don Bluth was a genius when he made animated movies in the 80's, but when he got into the 90's, he started losing his charm. I really hope he makes more movies like this. Because films like these are very uncommon. The whole family will love this, I assure you. "},{"Title":"6.5? Are you kidding?","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am surprised to see the relatively low rating (6.5) this movie received from this site. C'mon, guys! This is probably my favorite of any children's movie ever made! The animation is absolutely beautiful, the voice-acting is top-notch (albiet somewhat garbled and difficult to understand in places, something that seems to me to fit well with the multi-ethnic nature of the cast) and, above all, the characters and plot are full of wonderfully mature allegory beyond all expectations one might have for a children's movie. I completely wore out two copies of this movie as a kid, and it proves to be just as enjoyable as I get older. I give it a ten only because I can't give it a fifteen. "},{"Title":"One of the few anmiated movies that makes me cry every time","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was the first movie i ever saw in the theater, i was like two and a half or three, and i fell in love with it. (I got a Fievel Stuffed animal the following Christmas, and i still have it, and it's my favorite stuffed animal ever) The scene where Fievel and his sister sing Somewhere Out There is just sooo sweet!!!!! It makes me cry every time i see it.Go out and rent it. It'll make you cry and it's worth the money!!!! "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think that this is a very good movie and I recommend it for everyone who likes comedy-drama. This film impressed me since the first time I saw it when I was just seven, it made me cry. It has very good voice talents too, but the best voice talent for me is Phillip Glasser (he played Fievel Mousekewhitz) because he made the speaking voice and the singing voice (somewhere out there) when he was six years old, and I think that it is difficult to be a voice actor but is even more difficult to be a child voice actor, so my congratulations to Phillip Glasser for his job in this movie. I would like that the directors make a real version of this movie, I mean, do it again but with real and human actors, I think that is possible, the mice could be one country and the cats could be another country, something like a war.... I do not know, but I think that it is a good idea. This movie have very good drama e.g. The way how fievel got separated from his family, when papa and mama thought that fievel had died but only tanya had the hope and feeling that he was alive.... so sad, fievel looking for his family saying (I'll never find them again never..).... even sadder, many times fievel and his family were very near but they did not know it... oh that was very dramatic , the mice looking for freedom fighting with the cats. All that factors make the movie dramatic, sad, deep and one of the best movies I had ever seen. "},{"Title":"one of the most underated animated movies","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen plenty of animated movies in my lifetime, but in all honesty, I think this is one of the most underrated animated movies ever made. Most people I have seen review this movie have two words in mind dark and dreary, but it's really not that bad of a movie. Like some other people, I believe that this movie deserved the Grammy it was nominated for. (to tell the truth, the Top Gun song Take my breath away was really kind of overrated back in 86-87.) Give this movie a chance and watch it, you won't be sorry you did. "},{"Title":"The story was about as loose as the animation.","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director Don Bluth is known for being an ex-Disney animator, and still making it big after his career with them. But no matter how good his career was, it still wasn't as good as with Disney, in animation and in writing. An American Tail is a clever idea for a movie, and could have been good, had it some sort of center or plot, other than just Feivel the mouse is lost in 19th century New York. The Mouskewitz family decides to migrate from Russia to America after a particularly bad attack from cats. On the boat ride there, Feivel falls overboard and ends up being picked up by a pigeon, in New York. Feivel travels the town, meets some interesting characters, and tries to find his parents, always assuming violin playing must be his father. Feivel ends up at an anti-cat rally (or a wowwey as they call it here), which leads to one of the stupidest climaxes I've ever seen in an animated film.One thing that keeps this movie afloat, is some of the characters. Feivel is adorable, and I can see why people would be attracted to watch a movie with such a cute little protagonist. Tiger, voiced by Dom Deluise, is a pretty interesting character, as a vegetarian cat who'd rather befriend mice, than eat them. But the odd thing in the relationship between Feivel and Tiger is, why this grown cat is now great friends with this tiny little kid mouse, and how fast they become best friends. It was just a relationship that should've spanned more time to make more sense.The animation is not great. It's really loose, and characters shapes change depending on the scene. Sometimes characters are enormously fat, next scene they could be just slightly fat, next scene they could have a huge head. The animation over emphasizes what the point of focus on the character is in a certain scene. For instance, One scene, a cat is supposed to look ferocious, it has a huge mouth with sharp teeth, next scene it's supposed to look nice, so it's stomach is out, because we all know fat cats are innocent.It may sound as though I hated this movie, but I actually, sort of like it. It's cute, but flawed in many ways, and by the end grows boring. I actually much prefer the Don Bluth-less sequel, Feivel Goes West, for animation, music and writing in general.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 75 mins. G "},{"Title":"YES YES YES YES YES","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is perhaps the greatest animation event to ever bestow its head upon our weak mortal minds. What it says of American Society fills the gap between post-modernism and standard traditional story telling. Indeed, the mouse represents the ascent of the common man, the cats are the tyranny of injustices in American society. Tiger though, represents how that sometimes in such dire consequences, an injustice can some how turn in favor of the people, inciting, might one say, revolution? Indeed, An American Tail is a call to arms that we all must heed one day or another, whether we like it or not. Not since Ingmar Bergman's The Seventh Seal has this world seen such an avid display of avant garde film making. Bravo Fieval, bravo. "},{"Title":"What a great movie","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An American Tail This was a great animated movie. This was made in 1986. Don Bluth also created The Land Before Time which is another fantastic classic animated movie. I give an american tail a great score 10 out of 10, because the movie rocks. "}{"Title":"Wonderful family film","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember I first saw this movie in kindergarten.  I absolutely loved it and have for another ten years.  Now, however, I guess I'm not too interested in it. While this is a children's movie, it has a lot of things that only adults would understand such as immigration.  I think Don Bluth depicts the immigration flood of the turn of the century quite well.  We also are introduced to mice of different nationalities.  Fievel and his family are Russian, there's an Irish mouse who speaks out against the cats (one of those rallies of the 19th century).  I remember when I was little, I cried when I heard the song Somewhere Out There.  "},{"Title":"An American Rodent Tale.","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" An American Tail (1986) Dir Don Bluth / Voices Phillip Glasser, Dom DeLuise, John Finnegan, Pat Musick, Cathianne Blore Edgy animation that makes great references to oppression. In this case a family of mice arrive in America in hopes of avoiding the cats that have always hunted them. The mice apparently are a symbol for Jews while the cats symbolize Nazi power. Phillip Glasser voices young Fievel who becomes separated from his family aboard a ship. He washes ashore in a bottle and discovers that he is indeed in America. He must learn to fend for himself while hoping to reunite with his family. Along the way he encounters a variety of characters, some interesting, others not so much. Dom DeLuise provides the most amusement voicing a friendly fluffy cat named Tiger who refuses to eat Fievel. John Finnegan voices the villain Warren T. Rat who has a secret of his own. Other characters are a mix bag of types that provide little differentiation. An Italian mouse named Tony with a daring spirit is a yawner, and the female he encounters, named Bridget is about as bland as cardboard. While the story is detailed with an exciting climax where the mice unleash their ultimate weapon against the cats, it becomes bogged down periodically with corny elements. Directed by Don Bluth who previously made The Secret of Nimh, this is a worthy animation about family survival during a devastating period. Score 8 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"In America, there are no cats.","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the better animated films to come out in the 1980s. Directed by Don Bluth and produced by Steven Spielberg, it's the story of a young mouse named Fievel who is separated from his family during their voyage from Russia to America, and his quest to be reunited with them. It's a nice movie, a little familiar in places, that uses animals to tell a very human story against the backdrop of late 19th century New York. The animation is excellent, rich in detail with some well-done action sequences. The voice work is top notch and the music is enjoyable, particularly the touching song Somewhere Out There, which became a big hit at the time. The movie's only real flaws are its predictability and a dark palette that can leave you with a gloomy feeling while watching. I was a kid when it was first released and I remember leaving the theater underwhelmed. It plays much better to an older audience, I think. "},{"Title":"A charming film","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This a very good animated movie.The animation is fantastic and it is full of colorful characters. The film is lively and full of adventure and excitement. The majority of the characters are memorable with distinct personalities. And to bring these characters to life some very good actors have been selected like Hal Smith(the original voice of owl in Winnie-the-Pooh). New York City is beautifully brought to life. The animation is really top class.This film is most reminiscent of Pinocchio in structure. What with our innocent protagonist wandering around in a strange new world meeting various characters some good,some bad and like that movie An American Tail is an episodic story. But it is well told with class and finesse.Of course it has bad things about it. And there are some plot conveniences.the character of Tony is relentlessly annoying and you just want him to shut up.Also in the beginning the main character does an incredibly stupid thing involving a hat. but i guess he gets to paid for it big time after.But overall a great film well worth showing your kids or just watch yourself. Also, I'm not a hundred percent sure but I think the Swedish dubbing is very good so if you are a Swedish parent definitely show this film to your children without missing much. However, I have not seen the dubbing myself but I'm pretty sure it's good. So check that out Swedish parents. "},{"Title":"An average tail.","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a somewhat adorable little animated movie about a Russian mouse named Fievel who immigrates to the United States with his family to be away from cats. He gets separated from his family during the process and tries to survive in his new country and to reunite with his loved ones, all the while discovering cats exist in the United States as well.This film has its good moments, from Fievel dealing with getting lost to him and his new friends conjuring plans to defeat the band of cats. However, large parts of the film didn't generate much suspense or intrigue to keep the story 100 percent engaging, as I thought many of the scenes were rushed through and the characters were too childish or cute. The songs, especially There Are No Cats in America and Somewhere Out There were too whimsical and pretty annoying - somewhat painful to listen to.I've seen much animated films than this one; however, this one may be a winner for little children.Grade C "},{"Title":"needs more comedy","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's 1885 Shostka, Russia. The Mousekewitzes are a Jewish mouse family suffering from attacks by Cossacks and cats. The father assures everyone that there are no cats in America. In Hamburg, Germany, the family boards a ship bound for America. Fievel falls overboard and is lost at sea. He survives in a bottle and arrives at the Statue of Liberty. He goes off to find his family who arrived in NYC assuming he's dead.Fievel needs a comedic sidekick. Tiger (Dom DeLuise) the cat comes closest to what the movie needs. Essentially he's mostly by himself and that wears on the movie. It needs more fun and more joy. It has a great song in 'Somewhere Out There' but the movie has the characters sing it out of tune. It's cute to start it off that way but I think it would be much better to build to a great Linda Ronstadt and James Ingram duet in that scene. The animation is nice but they have it grimy and smoggy for industrial NYC. It's a nice animated movie tapping into the American immigrant lore. "},{"Title":"The world's first animated full-length feature film with 3d imagery","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a significant way of life and in my opinion, it is the most child-friendliest film ever made! Don Bluth is honestly good with co'operating with his very own Victorian America Masterpiece. The 1991 film was more talented and funny ^^ but the good news is...THIS film is persistently better! Steven Spielberg has GOT to be the greatest storyteller discovered! And Don Bluth's pure imagination is honestly the greatest in the world! Many young children might expect his film to be a little colourful, and Bluth's good with colours. But what i love about this film MOST of all, I Keep on thinking it's the world's first Animated Film with 3d Graphics, Unless they just used some old-fashioned model of some sort =P Please love this film, trust me, It's Just Bluth's fantasy above all... "},{"Title":"Intense and original, but too erratic to be truly great","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an erratic animated feature with some bravura moments. A first glimpse of The Statue of Liberty, viewed through a green bottle. An operatic trawl through the underbelly of New York. A climactic reunion amid the fountains of an orphans' commune. Elsewhere, the animation is as changeable as the storyline and having a kid with a strong American accent voice your Russian immigrant hero is rarely going to work, no matter how appealingly drawn he is - in both senses of the phrase. Yes, it's formidably scary, admirably heavy and has a handful of nice James Horner songs, but a tighter script, slicker chase sequences and a more coherent worldview could have made this something genuinely special. "},{"Title":"Amazingly and achingly beautiful movie","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Had never seen it before, am not so much a fan of animated movies. The classic song was all over, tried finding on you tube, found the movie version instead. Was instantly captivated. The animation was gorgeous, very old school Disney style and it was a truly heart tugging scene rather than the beautiful duet which was a million seller. So had to get the movie. Was not disappointed in the least. The animation was pure classical Disney style. Don Bluth's work I had seen before with Dragon's Lair which was reminiscent to me, especially some action scenes. The storyline was simple yet rendered well, heart tugging without becoming formulaic, and characters that hit your heart. Another reviewer had said something which I do agree with, this film stands above others by having elements which other animated movies shy away from, a true darkness and sadness, pathos and despair, the mirror to the soul. Fievel's journey is much more real due to those elements. You realize the despair and triumphs, innocence and growing up taking place before your eyes. Am now realizing that some highly touted modern animated films can't hold a candle due to those precise qualities. A truly timeless classic. Kudos to all involved. "},{"Title":"Birlliant","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of my favorite cartoon films of all time. The tale of a family of Russian mice who sail to America to be free of cats. Along the way young Fievel loses his family and with the help of a pigeon dressed very smartly and a few other mice he finds them. Unfortunately for the family they soon discover there are cats in America and they all join forces with other mice to rid these cats from New York. They do this successfully and the family live on o tell the tale.Excellent animation from the time it was made and excellent voices.I love it!!My rating - 10/10 "}{"Title":"Good Family Entertainment","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Quite an enjoyable animated feature from Executive Producer Steven Spielberg's company Amblin Entertainment. From director Don Bluth, the story tells the tail (sorry) of a mouse family who leave Russia and head for America in the hope of finding salvation from the horrible cats.Light-hearted and funny, An American Tail makes for good family entertainment as we follow the adventures of young Fievel (voiced by Phillip Glasser) as he discovers the 'new world'. Other voices included Dom De Luise, Madeline Kahn and Christopher Plummer. An entertaining seventy-seven minutes.Thursday, January 9, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"Don Bluth is yet again truly impressive with this little mouse of a guy!  -)","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Genre Animated, New York, Talking mice, Industrial Revolution. Actors Some actors that star in this film are Christopher Plummer (Henri the pigeon), Phillip Glasser (Fievel) and Dom de Luise (Tiger)!Main characters Fievel Mouskewitz, Tanya Mouskewitz, papa, mamma and the baby Mouskewitz, Tony and Tiger. What happens A family of five mice, mamma, papa, Fievel, Tanya and the baby (who doesn't appear to have a name), find their home burnt from fire by invaders. They know they are not safe in their home in Russia and in Germany, take a boat trip to America. On the way, something rather unfortunate happens to little Fievel&#133;My thoughts Don Bluth has triumphed many a time for the public, but I think this is my favourite film animated by him, apart from All Dogs Go To Heaven which appeared later. He made non-Disney animation proud of itself, as beforehand I think Disney was better and more popular than any other cartoon film company until The Secret Of Nimh came along, also directed by Don Bluth (actually I think he did two short films which weren't Disney before that including one I like called Banjo The Woodpile Cat but they weren't true motion picture films). I love his animation and style and I love most of the films he has helped with very much! -)About the film, I love the way it warms your heart with the storyline, the cute and sometimes crafty characters and the lovely animation. It is also emotional. It makes you feel happy, but not depressed and it makes you happy, but not delirious. I like that. It it balances happiness, sadness, anger and fear without creating too much of any one of them. I wonder what inspired Steven Spielberg to make this film, it isn't based on a book, yet it's SO good! Recommended to People who like mice, cute animated films, films with a balanced amount of emotions and films where everything isn't completely obvious! Enjoy! -) "},{"Title":"Cute, sad, and wonderful.","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ahh, Don Bluth, you're a legend (and no, I most certainly am not being sarcastic) a real legend and this movie only proves that. After NIMH became a flop in the box office, he teamed up with Spielburg, and they made this work of art. It's basically a movie where a little Russian mouse named Fievel is separated from his family as they're immigrating to the US. Poor thing, you can't help but want to comfort him and wipe his tears and such like that. Back to the plot, he's trying to find them, and along the way, he meets a street-wise mouse named Tony, encounters cats, and he makes friends with a cat (voice by the ever-so-funny Dom DeLouise). Overall, this is a grand film, has a few depressing scenes, catchy songs, and some of the cutest cartoon characters you'll ever see. Two thumbs up from me. "},{"Title":"Good songs . . . ell, one of them.","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only reason that this movie is worth watching is the Award-winning song, Somwhere Out There, which is one of the best songs that are in a movie.**Spoilers ahead** The Mouskewitz are a Russian mouse family, and they live in a town that is knee-deep in cats. They talk about America, and that there are no cats there. Then, while immigrating there after losing their home in a fire, Fievel is separated from his family, and must relocate them while trying to survive in a new country. On the way, he meets Tiger, a huge cat that tries to help him find his family.My score /10. "},{"Title":"can anyone watch this without crying?","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" i've seen this movie so many time and it still makes me cry every time i see it. one of the greatest family movies ever! i mean the whole idea of a family (even of mice) moving to the US in order to become better off but to end up losing their son in the process only to find him in the end may be a bit cliché but i don't care! if you haven't seen this movie then you've been under a rock for the past 19 years! go see it! and if you're thinking oh man its gonna be a tear fest its not it really has some fun parts all throughout & Tiger the cat is always there for some comic relief along with a great cast of characters. the songs are amazing just listening to somewhere out there makes me think of the scene where Fieval and Tanya are singing to each other and i cry... "},{"Title":"ignore this comment","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" My friend Megan says this movie rocks. Her opinion is quite cool. So see this movie. I myself have not seen all of it. I have seen parts and I know it is about this little mouse named Fievel. It sounds pretty interesting, especially after watching crappy cartoons such as Home on the Range. The fact that it is musical makes it twice as cool. I can remember that I loved it as a child and I used to know the songs. That is a good sign. It challenges a lot of assumptions we make about the roles of different characters (such as Tiger, the cat). The application of cultural diversity and a heartwarming message make this a wonderful family movie. I apologize for any inconvenience that my comment is not more helpful to you. "},{"Title":"Somewhere Out There","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" SpoilerI haven't seen this movie in a VERY LONG time! But one thing sticks out why I like it-- Somewhere Out There sung by Feival and Tanya-- in my opinion I think it sounds better than the same song sung by James Ingram and Linda Ronsdant-- it seems more sentimental-- the music sounds better -- it is not John Williams- but it sure does sound like him! One site said that Feival and Tanya are woefully out of tune on this song, but I wholly disagree! Very moving piece... as for the movie itself, it was not a Disney movie, but it was still very fun for kids maybe- about a mouse named Feival who gets separated from his family and need to find his way back - Dom DeLouise provides a voice as a very funny cat ( i think) and helps Feival find his folks... "},{"Title":"Great Classic!","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS!When this Movie first came out, I went to see it and I still to this day think it is the bomb. This Film is a hell of a lot better then almost a third of the Disney movies out there. The story was great The animation was good too. This movie had a lot of funny scenes as well as serious ones, I think that is what made the film so good. My favorite Character was Tiger the wonderful and charming alley cat. When you first see him you think he is going to be mean like all of the other alley cats who are out to kill the mice. But, Tiger was fun-loving when he Fievel became friends while Fievel was locked in a cage by the other cats. Tiger sets him free and then gets fired by Warren T. Rat, The greedy cat who is in charge of all the other cats and cares about how much money he can make. It was interesting though throughout the series when Fievel is separated from his family because his sister Tilly/Tonya knew in her heart that Fievel was still alive Somewhere Out There. and tries to tell her mama and papa while His mama and papa were sure he was dead. There were so many times in the series where Fievel and his family passed each other and didn't see one another like when Fievel and Tony were walking on top of the bridge and his family was right below the bridge, It was funny though because just be fore that Tanya/Tillie had just asked her papa to play his violin to see if Fievel would hear his song. There were a couple of times when there was a violin playing and when Fievel heard it he thought that it WAS his papa. The ending when Fievel and his family were reunited was touching when they are all hugging in the water and the fireworks are going off. All and all this cartoon film was the bomb and I am very happy that someone else besides Disney gets credit for such an awesome film. Fievel Goes West was also a pretty good film as well. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I grew up on this movie and even today (at age 18) I still love it. It is beautifully animated and the songs are wonderful. People compare it to Disney movies and I have to say, while a huge Disney fan, I enjoy this movie more than a lot of Disney movies. It is not like Disney movies. Most Disney movies are bright and cheery except for the end fight sequence, which then turns quite dark. An American Tale, however is quite dark all through it with the end having the bright and cheery section. I wish I had been old enough to see the movie in the theater.The movie is about Fivel Mouskewitz, a young Russian mouse. When he and his family decide to move to America, where there are no cats he is separated from them. From then on, his only goal is to find them. Fivel is such a lovable little character.The movie also has a very historical story behind it. The mice are like the Jews who are pushed from Russia by the cats (Nazis) and they come to America, looking for a good home with accepting people but their dreams become a reality when they get here and realized it isn't like they had dreamed.Bluth is Brilliant and I recommend this movie to everyone 10/10  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie as a kid.","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was one of my favorite movies as a kid. It is about immigration and a family of mice who have unrealistic dreams about America. When they get to America, their experiences aren't what they had dreamed about.During their immigration they lose their son, Fievel, who throughout the film tries to find his way back to his family.Underlying themes include accepting cultural differences, coping with reality and the unfairness of the world, and the value of family and friends.I always loved this movie, the characters, and the songs as a kid, but I did not fully understand the underlying themes intill I watched it again in high school for a history class.There was a sequel made to this movie called An American Tail Fievel Goes West, which I didn't find as deep and/or historically important?? as the first. I did own the second movie as a kid and enjoyed watching it (but not as much as the first).Recommended movie for ages 6-adult or those studying historical perspectives. "}{"Title":"This film kicks ass!!!!!!!!!","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  American Tail is a beautifully animated classic that in some respects is better than some disney movies.i first encountered fievel and his pals when my mum bought the film for me on video and i fell in love with it.this film and the lion king are responsible for my love of animation and the art form that it is.as a trainee animator i feel that without this film, children the world over would be missing out and like myself, wouldnt have had a favourite film as a child.well done to Speilburg and don bluth for creating a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"A familiar journey lies ahead...","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How could we ever forget how this movie touched our hearts. A young mouse is seperated from his family and must overcome him emotions and find them in a new land. A very heart warming story, 5 stars. With the beautiful score by James Horner, this movie is a keeper. "},{"Title":"One of the best childrens films of the 80's","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie when I was about 2 or 3 I was a big fan of it I still watched even up til I was about 10 years old My Family still has the tape even though I don't watch it anymore I would still save it for when I have children of my own or nieces and nephews, or if my cousin's have any. The great mouse detective came out the same year and it was Disney and most of the time Disney movies just make the other Animated film be not known.    Not this time Even my 1st grade teacher was a big fan of this. However this one was way better than the second one because I find the original American Tail to be more historically Acurate because they leave Russia in December of 1885 (because it's Chanukah) so when they get to Ellis Island the Statue of Liberty is under construction and in the end the Statue is finished and it isn't cold anymore so it must be 1886 at that part of the movie.  In the second for some reason they're leaving for the West in like the 1890's The westward expansio was over by the 1890's They proobly should have stayed in New York if you ask me.  Back to American Tail.  I like how they show the Immigration, The Cossack attacks, The statue of liberty, The Work houses for children, and the way how they showed some of the Cats attacking in America I though was good on how they showed that many of the human Immigrants were treated unfairly in those days "},{"Title":"Personal favourite","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this animation is one of my fondest ever... i recall watching it when it first came out in the movies..and when i was about 5 or 6 years old... after that i remember my parents buying my the VHS if it..and it was damaged after a while because i had watched it too often. it made me cry when Fievel was spilt from his family and was all alone by himself when yet they were so close by, just around the corner. i cried when i was 5 and i cried again when i borrowed it on video just recently...and I'm 19 now. the songs featured in this cartoon is one of the best too...one of the best cartoons ever created. everyone should have at least seen it once. "},{"Title":"I LOVE IT","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i just absolutely LOVE this movie! the first time i saw it i was like 13 years old (lol) and i started crying during the song somehwere out there cuz it reminded me of the person i'd left behind in my life.today's nov 17, 2001, this morning i just heard this song and started cryin again.it's an absolute classic, i spent awhile trying to find out the movie's title (i'd forgotten *.*). lol i cant believe this movie was made in 86, the year i was born!~well just to let yall noe x) "},{"Title":"Nice family film","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like all of Don Bluth's films, this movie contains some wonderful animation. The songs are hummable and the score by James Horner is second-to-none.That said, the story of Fievel lost in America is just a bit too sentimental. Not that there's anything wrong with sentimental, I often enjoy a good cry as much as the next guy, but watching the film as an adult reminds me just how heavily the sentimentality WAS heaped on.As a kid, this film was a favorite of mine. And today it still means something to me as a fond childhood memory. But compared to Nimh, Bluth's first film, this one just doesn't quite match up. A 4 out of 5 on my Bluth scale and a 3 out of 5 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"A Classic In Time","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An American Tail is one of my favorite films, especially from my childhood. It is hard to imagine that people do not care for the film and music.  I think they are both excellent.  Somewhere Out There is one of my favorite songs along with, There are No Cats in America  I hope those are the right titles even...  I recommend this movie to anyone.  I still watch it today, and I'm 18 years old! "},{"Title":"An Epic Animated Masterpiece","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Indeed, An American Tail is a heart-warming and charming movie that includes all the elements that an animated movie should have.  I first saw this movie when I was a child and even today, it's still as beautiful as it was back then.  You'll laugh, cry, and feel for the adorable Fievel in this movie. If there's a movie you'd ever like to show a child, this is one of the best selections. "},{"Title":"Still Enjoy It","Date":"25 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw An American Tail back in 1990 when I was 9 years old and fell in love with the movie.  Now 8 years later and 17 years old, I watched it again and still enjoy it!  After watching it this second time I find out that this movie is just not about entertainment but also about other things that make this movie unique from other children's animated classics.  "},{"Title":"An American Tail","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Before The Land Before Time, Don Bluth made this lovable rodent filled cartoon. Basically it is 1885, and the Mousekewitz family of Russia Papa (Nehemiah Persoff), Mama (Erica Yohn), daughter (Amy Green) and of course, son Fievel (Phillip Glasser) are forced to emigrate to America when their house is burnt down. Unfortunately on the journey Fievel falls off the side, and is now determined to find his family in New York. Along the way of course he faces all the commotion of the city from humans, mice and other creatures alike, but he still has friends to help him. These friends include pigeon Henri (The Sound of Music's Christopher Plummer), Tony Toponi (Pat Musick) and his new found love interest Bridget (Cathianne Blore), and cat Tiger (Dom DeLuise). The big building story that Fievel and the family alike (apart of course) sees the mice, lead by Gussie Mausheimer (Madeline Kahn) and Honest John (Neil Ross) revolting against the cats of the city, lead by Warren T. Rat (John Finnegan) by building a giant machine, the Giant Mouse of Minsk (based on a story Papa told Fievel). Obviously the mice defeat the mice, and Fievel eventually finds his Papa and family, and the Statue of Liberty completes construction. It was nominated the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Song for Somewhere Out There. Very good! "}{"Title":"For Adults...","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An American Tale (or is it Tail?) is the story of a mouse, Fievel, who travels to America with his family (who are leaving their home to escape the oppression of the cats), losing his family on the way and searching for them during the film, all along the way acquiring friends and enemies.This tale is really a spoof on Italians and Irish and Russians and Jewish (and all emigrants) emigrating into America during the early 1900's. Part of what is so great about this movie is because it is not extremely goofy or cartoony--it's realistic and has a grimy feel to it, just like The Godfather Part II when Don Corleone is shown as a young, innocent child coming to America for the first time. It portrays the early 20th century extremely well thanks to Don Bluth animation.Just like All Dogs Go to Heaven, this film has dark, moody backgrounds, both grimy and unmoving. As the camera moves, the backgrounds don't. It gives the feeling of a very dark era in our history, and Fievel, a little mouse, is going through it all.It's hard to explain the feeling you get watching the film, but you don't really feel like you're watching a cartoon, much less a childrens' film. It's really fun to watch, and I think adults will get just as much a kick out of it as children, if not more.Cartoons have acquired cheap looks over the years--just look at the animation in Pinnochio compared to Disney's animation today--but Don Bluth has/had managed to keep the classic feel of the cartoons of the older days, and that is, perhaps, one of the best traits of this tale.And by the way, the title is An American Tail.3.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"The best animated movie of my childhood","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Of course, now you can tell that computers create best animated movies than this one but this has remained in my heart and every time I see it I cry and cry and cry.  This is a movie about a mouse whose family is going to America (emigrating) and he suddenly lost them and has to find his family there.  The songs are beautiful.  I bought the old disc from a store in 1986 when I was 6 and I love it when I listen to a cassette I have.  The director tries to create a world for all the family similar to his other film I saw (All dogs go to heaven) because both are dramas but when Fievel finds friends it turns into a family comedy.  James Horner, the composer, is great, and I would like to mention the lyrics that he wrote for the song somewhere out there by Fievel in a very touching scene of the film. To end with this one my heart belongs to Fievel, to Don Bluth, to James Horner, to all the friends of Fievel in the movie and to the whole tape in general.  That's why my rating is 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of Don Bluth's best","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie touched me like many others. If it didnt touch your heart youve got no heart. Even though I think Secret of Nimh cant be beat this one comes in second of Don Bluth's work. Secret of Nimh just had more mystery and meaning in it. In my opinion i think Secret of Nimh even beats all of the Dizney movie. Im probably going to be sorry i said that. An American Tail has alot of meaning too and it is adventure and drama rolled in one. Could also be a true story in a different point of view. This one is for all ages a well. "},{"Title":"Fievel the Russian immigrant mouse Ultimate screen hero!","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This (along with 'Annie') was my absolute favorite movie when I was little. Fievel was my hero. Why? Because he was a mouse, he wore a great hat, and he sang a pretty song at the moon. I *LOVED* this film. I must've watched it every week from the age of about 5 right up til the day I discovered Tarantino...I MUST rate it with top marks (because I'm a sentimentalist at heart.) Ten-out-of-Ten! Go Fievel! "},{"Title":"What a great movie","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An American Tail This was a great animated movie. This was made in 1986. Don Bluth also created The Land Before Time which is another fantastic classic animated movie. I give an american tail a great score 10 out of 10, because the movie rocks. "},{"Title":"Bluth has only succeeded at animation once; Spielberg, never.","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If Jeffrey Katzenberg is wise he will have taken out a court order forbidding Steven Spielberg to have anything to do with the production of animation at Dreamworks.  Treacle for people under ten is his legacy.  -I know this film sounded like the last trumpet to people at Disney in 1986; it thrashed The Great Mouse Detective at the box office and everyone oohed and aahed over it; but it's very hard to see why today.  It was hard to see why even then.  People gave the standard Well, it's great for kids line - hardly a ringing endorsement.The story concerns a family of mice from Eastern Europe moving to America. One insufferably cute child, Fievel, gets lost on arrival and we follow the efforts of him and his family to become re-united.  They pass within inches of each other so many times - I presume this is Bluth's attempt at poignancy - that we finally think, Well, they're bound to bump into each other sooner or later, and cease to care.  Sure enough, they do bump into each other sooner or later.  (After Spielberg and Bluth have compiled enough footage.)Animation is serviceable - considerably better than that in The Great Mouse Detective, although Disney's movie wins in almost every other respect. And I don't care how many people are willing to pay good money to listen to My Heart Will Go On, James Horner can't write songs today, and he couldn't then - nor could anyone fit his songs into the story.  Great for kids? Well, if you mean that children will like it, then that may be so.  But we all know what great for kids is code for. "},{"Title":"Kids Would Be Better Off Living With Serial Rapists Than Watching This Film","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here is a film so bad that it would make Jesus say Man, I should've stayed dead. Yes, I know, it was made for kids, but even children's movies generally have scripts. Not this one! This one takes a serious subject matter (the terrible experiences of American immigrants in the late 19th century)...and turns that into an 80 minute Tom and Jerry cartoon.Okay, we start off with a family of Russian-Jewish mice being persecuted by Cossack cats, so they emigrate to the USA. The youngest mouse gets separated and then must look for his family. It wasn't until after this scene ended that I realized that I was suppose to be getting exposition or come to care about these characters. It was at least another 20 minutes in before I realized that this young mouse was supposed to be the story's protagonist. Fievel acts and sounds like a real 4-year-old. Go up to a 4-year-old that you know and start following him around with a camera. As you'll see within seconds, 4-year-olds are not very compelling characters. At least Ariel and Belle had character arcs.The filmmakers are not interested in developing characters, or building emotional bonds, or exploring any of the history lessons they superficially throw at us. They just keep each scene moving aimlessly to the next. Fievel gets sold into a sweatshop. Okay, here's a chance for the story to explore sweatshops, their historical contexts, Fievel's character and his reaction to abuse...nope, they have him escape in the very next scene, without so much as a single scene explaining what they did at the sweatshop or the reason for its existence. Fievel escapes by coming up with a plan that none of the older or wiser laborers could ever have come up with he climbs out the window! Holy Crap'n'Balls! Despite the movie being sympathetic to the plight of immigrants, it actually is filled with caricatures and stereotypes. During the No Cats In America song, an Italian mouse, with Italian stereotypes sings about the mafia and his brother Tony. Later me meet a major character who's Italian American. Guess what his name is? TONY! Later he falls in love with an Irish mouse, who in case you couldn't tell was Irish by her accent, is also dressed in green! The lack of plot continues. The terror of the cats are supposed to be metaphors for the terrible experiences that the immigrants face. Of course this metaphor only goes so far if logic is applied to it (what does the presence of cats have to with the presence of sweatshops, poverty, and terrible living conditions that the mice live under?). There's a character named Warren T. Rat (ho ho, wow, what witty writing! I wonder if Voltaire worked on this script!) who apparently runs a feline protection racket for the mice. I say apparently because we never see him do this and it's only mentioned in passing. Maybe a scene of him actually doing business would've established this a bit more.And still it went on! It wouldn't end! Fievel gets captured and imprisoned so he can sing a song with a superfluous character and then escapes again! Good job, the filmmakers must've told each other, We wasted a good 10 minutes of screen time, how can we keep wasting them? C'mon, we gotta make this sucker last 80 minutes, or else I won't be able to afford a hooker for my step-son's prom. Eventually the smelly mice get rid of all the cats by building a giant Mouse of Minsk based on the Russian folk stories Fievel would hear. Too bad he couldn't have been more inspiring by doing something that kids could actually relate to or do themselves. Then a fire starts and Fievel gets separated from his homeboys. He wakes up in a slum with a bunch of bullies. How the hell did he end up there? I don't know about you, but when I go to sleep, I tend to stay in the same place; I don't wake up in a random place with strangers. The bullies convince Fievel that his family doesn't want to find him, which has actually been the truth for most of the movie.Finally we come to the end, and it seems like the movie has finally gotten something right! Fievel is reunited with his family and there is a moment of genuine drama and emotion. After all, this was the scene that the entire rest of the movie was written for. But does it end there? No; how dare I be so naive? We must get a tacked-on scene of a French bird showing Fievel his statue. For a film that blew all of its chances to touch on history, how nice to end on the educational fact that the Statue of Liberty was actually built by a pigeon! I feel so much wiser now! But hold on, the entire point of the movie was that the various immigrants were oppressed in the US, and that the American dream was built on lies. I happen to agree with that message, but then why the hell do you end the movie with shots of the Statue of Liberty? Yeah, let's give our kids a bunch of junk about cats and mice, dress it up with historical context to make it seem deep, and then slap on a sickeningly patriotic ending. An American Tail? That's just a nice way of saying An American Butt. Kiss mine! So, kids, did this movie teach you anything? Did you learn a single thing about the plight of Russian immigrants? Did any of you get the Tammany Hall reference or the fact that Honest John was a caricature of Boss Tweed? Hell, most adults probably didn't get that.Here's what I learned from this movie the next time you see a mouse, frickin' stomp on it!!!! "},{"Title":"Introducing a little mouse called Fievel","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Family Mousekewitz is a Russian-Jewish family who goes to America in search of a better life.But their son Fievel is separated from his family.Will he ever be reunited with his family? An American Tail (1986) is directed by Don Bluth.It's produced by Steven Spielberg's Amblin Entertainment.There are some great voice artists lending their voices to the characters.Phillip Glasser is the voice of Fievel.The veteran actor Nehemiah Persoff, who is 92 years old today, is the voice of Papa.Erica Yohn is Mama.Amy Green is Tanya.Recent Academy Award winner Christopher Plummer does the voice of Henri.John Finnegan is Warren T. Rat.Pat Musick is Tony Toponi.Madeline Kahn is heard as Gussie Mausheimer.Dom DeLuise can be heard as Tiger.This is something the whole family can enjoy.The adventure works, and dramatically it's a pretty great experience.Not to forget the music.Take There Are No Cats in America for instance.Very catchy.The film was a success and had a few sequels plus a TV series. "},{"Title":"A very strange movie...","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An American Tail or Maus Lite!In retrospect, this is probably the most subversively weird animated film of all time.  Recall the opening sequence, where we meet Fievel and his family. They appear to have wandered off the set of one of Chuck Jones' early Sniffles the Mouse cartoons.  And suddenly they are attacked by anti-Sematic beasties (I realize they're supposed to be cats but they don't resemble any feline so much as they do rabid wolverines).Pretty dark.  I would have found the movie a lot more enjoyable if (as in Twilight of the Cockroaches) they kept that tone throughout. "},{"Title":"The most downbeat movie of our childhoods","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Don Bluth's second animated film, and the first animated film produced by Steven Spielberg, tells the story of the pilgrims and their journey to America. With rodents. I'm talking about what may be the most downbeat movie of our childhoods, An American Tail.The movie takes place in 1885 Russia, where the Mousekewitzes&#x97; a Russian-Jewish family of mice &#x97;are having their Hanukkah celebration. Fievel, the young son in the family, is given a hat that has been in the family for three generations. But they are suddenly attacked by an army of cruel cats belonging to the Cossacks (a reference to actual anti-Jewish pogroms occurring in the Russian empire at the time), who destroy their village. They are forced to move to America, where Papa Mousekewitz is convinced there are no cats. On board the ship set sail to America, he tells everyone to set their minds at ease because, as they sing There are no cats in America and the streets are paved with cheese. This song is very catchy and is realistic when you think of how there are poor people in other continents who literally believe that money grows on trees.Correction There were no cats in America, but everything changed when the fire nation attacked.So during the trip, a huge storm strikes, causing Fievel to be washed overboard. The others arrive mournfully in America, believing that Fievel has drowned. However, he has floated to the shores of New York in a bottle. A friendly French pigeon working on the construction of the Statue of Liberty, named Henri (voiced by Christopher Plummer), finds him and gives him a wash. Fievel is pessimistic that he will ever find his family. Henri encourages him to always look on the bright side with a song that Fievel soon sings along to, titled Never Say Never. I'm going to take the words out of your mouth Justin Bieber stole Fievel's little song! That little biter! So Henri has one of his friends fly Fievel down to the city, where he goes his way to find his family. The city is full of immigrant humans and mice being hustled by con artists. One of the slickest of the scoundrels preying on the unsuspected newcomers is Warren T. Rat and his cockroach accountant Digit. Upset that he has made fifty cents less than the day before, Warren T. Rat spies Fievel, introduces himself and claims he can take the boy to his parents. Fievel follows the rat anticipating the reintroduction to his family right away, but the rats sells him to a sweatshop. But with the help of a street-smart Italian mouse named Tony, they both manage to escape. They pass a rally where an Irish mouse named Bridget is trying to convince the other mice to organize an order to defeat the cats. Fievel tells the crowd they have nothing to fear because of what his Papa kept saying. But at that moment, a gang of cats called the Mott Street Maulers attack the marketplace.After they escape, Bridget takes him and Tony to see Honest John (the mouse, not the fox), who is a drunk yet reliable politician who knows all the voting mice in New York City. But as the Mousekewitzes have not yet registered to vote, he can't help Fievel find them.On his journey, Fievel keeps thinking that he hears his father playing violin, but it comes from an Edison cylinder recording. He hears someone calling out his name, but it turns out to be another mother calling her son Fievel. Most of his search just leads to him falling into one depression after another. This is the main issue with the movie. As a film for kids, it should be more upbeat with some sense of discovery. Fievel doesn't learn a lot about America, except for the hard truth that there are, in fact, millions of cats there.One of the only cheerful scenes in the movie is where Fievel meets a goofy, soft-hearted cat named Tiger who likes mice befriends him (he's voiced by Dom Deluise, who voiced Jeremy in The Secret of NIMH. This won't be the last you hear of him in the Don Bluth brand). Fievel and Tiger find out that they have a lot in common and become A Duo.He is also given hope when Bridget tells him that she is certain his family is somewhere out there just waiting to be found. And meanwhile, Fievel's older sister Tanya has a feeling that he's still alive, thought her parents insist that the feeling will eventually go away. That night, Fievel and Tony stay at the water tower where Bridget lives. In a tear-jerking scene, Fievel and Tanya, though unaware of it, sing the song Somewhere Out There together.Somewhere Out There is one of my favorite songs written for a movie. It's a song that could be sung in multiple cases. For instance, the situation the song is in in the movie, but it's often thought of as a song that gives you hope that your soul mate is out there watching the same stars with you, and somehow you will cross each other's paths.I guess I sort of liked the movie; it has great musical numbers, an affable take on Jewish history, and the dark, fluid animation that made Don Bluth famous. But I wish it had focused far less on despair and more on making the most of the time you're alone, but with so much around you.6/10 for An American Tail. "}{"Title":"Wonderful classic","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oh, I remember watching this movie! I remember when Fievel and his family were going to the United States from Russia, but turns out that they lost each other. Eventually they reunited. I also remember the song Somewhere out there...... "},{"Title":"Misses on plot, quite dark children's fare","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An American Tail is an interesting study. For a children's movie, it's remarkably dark and depressing, and it avoids what could make it a gripping movie - the fact that Fievel and his family were driven from Russia because they were Jewish.The opening moments are particularly disturbing, as Cossacks arrive on scene to burn the quiet village. No reasons are given, no thoughts are offered, and there are some seriously twisted images of both humans and mice fleeing their respective attackers.Reality is better portrayed when the family crash-lands in pieces on the streets of late 19th-century NYC, though much of the dark imagery remains. Mingled with some saccharine moments, those shadowy scenes seem both out of place and more compelling at the same time.Of course, reality is slightly twisted, as the Statue of Liberty alternately faces the Narrows, Battery Park and Brooklyn, and New Jersey looks like some sort of magical, foggy stretch of land broken by inlets (I live in Jersey, and it's usually not magical or foggy, and the shoreline up by NYC looks nothing like what the animators show). I also enjoyed the fact that the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge (completed in the mid-1960s) looms quite mightily at the base of the Hudson.The plot's the toughest bit to deal with, though - relying on a series of coincidences, enough forced irony to choke a goat and leaps of incredulity that only a 5-year-old could truly believe.The greatest problem is reconciling the movie's often-dark images with the overall sentimentality of it all. Perhaps a 5-year-old is better equipped to deal with it; both my girlfriend and I made a few cynical remarks on a recent viewing, and that inherent why the hell did that happen? might cloud an adult's viewing. Perhaps had things been better explained (I seem to remember a lot more plot development when I watched this movie in... oh, 1988, when I was 9), the issue of Jews being driven from Russia or any other possible, intelligent courses of action been taken, this would stand as a success.Unfortunately, it's at best a muddled mess. "},{"Title":"An American Tail","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Occassionally appealing Disney film that shines because of the voice talents of Kahn and DeLuise, some pleasant music from James Horner, but the story is dull at times and loses you halfway through.  The animation and effects are quite exciting and director Bluth should be commended for the work, but the story is weak.  "},{"Title":"Extraordinarily Bad Cartoon Movie!","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out in its theatrical release. It was the most excruciating experience I have yet to suffer before or since in a movie house. The animation was third-rate, the *songs clunky and mawkish at best; and the story line needed much, much, much more work! ( I can't emphasize that last point too greatly.) I also experienced a profound sense of been-there-done- that as each predictable yet curiously undeveloped plot point  thudded, stillborn, across the screen . Trust me, Disney covered this sort of thing earlier and better in his heyday. *Great song by Linda Ronstadt and James Ingram almost saves this sorry meese-mess (for the late arriving matinee crowd) for a few precious moments of oddly touching bathos... but again... no cigar! "},{"Title":"Spielberg Strikes Bluth","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've spent some time studying three American animators--Disney, Don Bluth, and Ralph Bakshi.Disney and Bluth try to find the life in art.  Hence their characters are always vaguely human yet outrageously exaggerated and environments are always meant for passing glances.  Nothing is supposed to be reflected on because then the viewer will realize the show is all simple and empty.Bakshi extracts art from life--even in 'Wizards'.  Thus, his themes are better and only his lack of total detail prevents him from being remembered fondly.  I will take one of his over 5 Bluths any day.Here's an interesting piece of patriotism.  As with Bluth's other work, the animation is crude, the colors are simple, and the character designs all fall upon the usual Disney stereotypes.  His artistry since 'NIMH' hasn't been worthwhile.Since Spielberg is pulling the strings, you can see his influence of pop Americana everywhere.  Even the songs are clunky patriotism tunes.  Horner can't save this production.  Fortunately, 'Aliens' came out the same year to redeem him.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"One of the weakest animated films ever","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some former Walt Disney Pictures employees relocate to Universal for this 1986 animated effort. They should've stayed where they were before. This rather pitiful effort has characters who are not all that likable, weak songs and some of the most shallow animation techniques ever. It all adds up to one really big disappointment of a family oriented film. Rent it only if every other animated film (not counting the even more horrible Beauty And The Beast) is already checked out.   "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have only seen this film once, when I was five years old. I remember  almost falling asleep during the film because it was incredibly boring. An  American Tail may be 77 minutes long, but it feels twice as long. Parents,  only rent this for your child if they have been having trouble going to  sleep. "},{"Title":"Today on Disasterpiece Theater","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay. I'll admit it. I grew up with this movie and am a little biased towards it. However, this movie doesn't age as well as most of Disney's classics, and today it just comes off as an uninspired, sickly sweet cartoon. Good enough to be a babysitter, but hardly great. Yet another Bluth fizzler. "},{"Title":"not my favourite","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Review of An American Tale (Gone Western) I didn't like the first and original film based on the same characters. This one certainly did less for me. I remember being bored out of my mind while watching this (as a child). Maybe adults will find it cute, but I didn't like it at all, and I was in my early teens when I saw it.Review of An American Tale I could never get into this film as a child, and I had trouble relating to the characters. It was a sad story, but the sadness just seemed to make me cringe-especially when the mice started to sing about it. I just couldn't get into this film.These were not my favourite Disney films. I'd recommend Bambi, Lady and The Tramp, and some of the others. "}]