[{"Title":"Do you believe in magic?","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"191 out of 211 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Despite his recent slide into mediocrity, John Carpenter is responsible for what could be termed some of the biggest cult movies of the 1980's. Following his resounding success with Halloween he went on to direct a number of quirky yet excellent movies that began to tail of toward the end of the 80's with the release of such dross as Prince of Darkness. Carpenters movies are probably some of the most under appreciated pictures of recent cinema history on a commercial level, and none more so than perhaps one of his finest, the delightfully absurd action movie Big Trouble in Little China. The plot is as daft as they come. Loud mouthed truck driver Jack Burton (played by Carpenter's long time collaborator Kurt Russell) arrives in San Francisco's Chinatown where he agrees to help out old friend Wang (played by Denis Dun) by driving him to the airport to pick up his green eyed fiancé. Things quickly go south however when a band of street punks kidnap the girl and the motley duo set off in pursuit. The pair soon find themselves caught in the middle of gang war that takes on a decidedly mythical bent and are forced to flee while Jack's truck is stolen. All this occurs within the first fifteen to twenty minutes. If there's one thing you can say about Big Trouble, it's that it's action packed. The plot (such as it is) moves at an incredible pace and the film rarely slows to take breath as it rolls from one action set piece to the next. In such movies, normally the dialogue, and subsequently the acting suffer from a lack of any real attention. Not so here. Carpenter balances everything so perfectly that it's a wonder his career took such a slide. Although the actual story may be incredibly absurd and at times suffers from some rather obvious gaps of logic, the dialogue never fails to sparkle. Russell gives his very best wise ass shtick as Burton, the confused have a go hero who's so out of his depth he should really be fish bait, while Dun excels with a character who is consistently more heroic and capable than the lead. Another wonderful turn comes from an appearance by a young Kim Cattrall (of Sex and the City fame) as Gracie Law, a downmarket lawyer with an ability to talk at incredible speed. Some of the scenes between these three are pure comic genius, as Dun and Cattrall rattle out plot information at a rapid staccato pace while an increasingly bewildered Russell tries desperately to keep up. Despite such positive remarks, Big Trouble was perhaps one of Carpenter's biggest commercial flops. While many of the movie's fans find this difficult to understand I do not. The reason for its failure is really incredibly simple. In terms of its style and the underlying comedy behind the piece, Carpenter's loving part tribute, part send up of all things Kung Fu was way ahead of the curve in every important respect. Take the relationship between our 'hero' Jack and his 'sidekick' Wang. The true dynamic of this relationship is a wonderfully post modern slant on the cliché buddy dynamic that existed in the 80's and it was done long before post modernist humour became truly fashionable in films (the most obvious example of post modern piece of cinema being Scream). Despite receiving star billing, Russell's Jack is actually a sidekick to Wang. While Wang has the knowledge, the skill and the courage to make him a true classic hero figure, Jack lags behind, being brash, ignorant and of little actual use in a fight. Similarly the action, although remarkably quaint by today's standards in both its look and execution, is a surprisingly accurate foreshadow of the current Hollywood move toward the more graceful, balletic chaos exhibited by movies like The Matrix and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Ultimately Big Trouble in Little China is a movie that survived thanks to the home video market and for that we can only be grateful. While its looks may have aged, its sense of humour and style is as fresh today as the day it first rolled out in cinemas. In short, it's pure escapist magic.  "},{"Title":"A B-Movie on purpose, and it's a beautiful thing","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"176 out of 196 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie occupied most my junior high years. Action, suspense, cheesy diaologue, and martial arts galore. What more could you ask for from a b-movie that is clearly a b-movie? Carpenter and the cast and crew must have had a blast on this film because I can't think of a single movie that combines some of my favorite things about movies Action, comedy, violence, martial arts, and a small tour bus driver named Egg who also knows a little magic. Magic indeed. This is movie magic. Agree or disagree, you can't deny that Carpenter succeeded on all levels when he made this movie. Saturday matineeish? Yes. B-movie cheese? Yes. Pure movie-going fun? Absolutely. Watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Carpenter catches the spirit of the B grade serial flic 100 times better than Spielberg","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"123 out of 144 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What can one say. The movie plays like one of those great old comic books you read as a kid. The dialogue is so cartoonish that you expect to see balloons appear above the characters heads. The acting is excellent, with everyone taking a tongue in cheek approach and obviously having a good time making the film. Some of the best fight scenes in recent memory, with everyone kung-fu fighting at the drop of a hat. Kurt Russel is a hoot as the more than slightly dumb macho hero. Cartoon violence minus the gore, humourous special effects, evil magicians, green eyed damsels in distress, even a monster or two. A great film for a night of light movies!  See it if you get a chance! "},{"Title":"John Caprenter's opus magnum","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"92 out of 124 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  John Carpenter really steps away from his usual fare in this easy going `fortune-cookie theater' parody that was originally the manuscript for the second Buckaroo Banzai movie.  It features a cast of pithy characters, bizarre and memorable dialogue, entertaining special effects and fight scenes that are well choreographed by western standards.For those of you who already love John Carpenter, prepare for one of his finest moments.  In 1987 Carpenter's sentimental sci-fi-side made `Starman' an instant classic and in 1984 his tense, brooding gothism made `Prince of Darkness' truly frightening.  Sandwiched  in-between these movie greats is the 1986 production of `Big Trouble on Little China', where eastern martial arts mysticism meets John Wayne bravado with zany and often absurdly hilarious results.  How can you not love a movie unwilling to take itself too seriously while at the same time still managing to keep a straight face?Carpenter's skills as a director, producer and songwriter come together in this film to produce what many consider to be his finest work.  Big Trouble' s theme and content naturally compliments Carpenter's style of cynical humor, flashy cinematic expression and loose, caricature-esque  development of memorable story line figures.  If this isn't his opus magnum then it is at least one of his greatest moments as a director. "},{"Title":"A Tongue-In-Cheek '80s 'Classic'","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"63 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the wildest stories ever a cartoon come to life and a mixture of an old-time serial with modern special-effects with bold colors all the way through.This movie is pure tongue-in-cheek. One just has to take nothing seriously in here and just go along on the wild ride. From the nonsense mystical Chinese sorcery that is taken so reverently, to the American hero Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) who displays the fearless macho man, to combatants flying through the air (this was 15 years before Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon was filmed), to one exotic character and situation after another - it's all absurd fun.Russell plays his role to the hilt, playing his favorite kind of role when he was younger brash, bold and an ignoramus who fears absolutely nothing. His lines are deliberately corny and one can bet he had a lot of fun making this movie. He even gets in a few good comedic lines. His partner, Dennis Dunn, is a likable guy with a devilish grin on his face and Kim Cattrell plays the more modern damsel-in-distress role to the hilt, too.They could have lightened this up a bit on the action - it gets to be too much at times - but the movie is just slightly over an hour-and-half. It still wore me out the first few times I saw it.All in all ludicrous fun, a kind of Indiana Jones in Chinatown adventure flick. "},{"Title":"Its all in the reflexes","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"83 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Now let me just speak my peace before some of you either laugh at me or totally agree with me but i feel Big Trouble in Little China is one of the greatest movies of all time!! Actually it is my favorite movie of all time!! Yes i know such movies as Saving Private Ryan, Shawshank Redemption, or even Willy Wonka might be looked upon as better movies but i say Who Cares!!! Big trouble in Little China is a fun movie that you can sit back on a lonely night and just enjoy. The plot is pretty basic and that is why it is easy to follow. Yet the acting of Kurt Russell alone makes the movie. Im not saying this just because i am a BIG KR fan but he just does a wonderful job in this movie as a Truck drive who has no clue on whats going on but just goes with the flow! The witty lines of Kurt Russell in this movie are some of the funniest lines i have ever heard come from an actors mouth.. I mean the whole part of Lo-pan and Jack in the wheelchair is one of the funniest peices of material i have ever seen on the big screen... Well gtg and just remember if some wild 8ft tall monster grabs the back of your favorite head and slams it aganist the bar room wall and ask if you paid your dues!!??! well just tell him what ole jack always says..  Yes sir the check is in the mail "},{"Title":"Best adventure/fantasy flick made ever","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"74 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  John Carpenter's career peaked with Big Trouble in Little China -- and what a peak it is.  No other director/writer has attempted to create what Carpenter did in the 80's.  Why this took so long to come to DVD is beyond me.  This movie makes the best mix of cavalier anti-heroes, humorous villains, dark magic overtones, and good old fashioned fight scenes (done up as a mix of kung fu with old west shoot-em-up).Those who don't like this movie don't get it's inherent self-deprecatory theme.  This movie is all about fun.  If you don't get it, see a doctor about your broken funny bone! "},{"Title":"This John Carpenter movie has it all!","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"60 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you`ve ever heard of the director John Carpenter, you`ll be familiar with his works (of art), like Hallowe`en, Escape From New York, Assault On Precient 13, The Thing, They Live, and this movie, a mid 80`s classic starring none other than Carpenter`s favourite front man, Kurt Russell. Set in Chinatown, Los Angeles, its a modern day fable of good versus evil, Chinese black magic, the hero storms the castle type affair. Russell plays Jack Burton, a wise cracking long distance truck triver and all American hero, passing through Chinatown on some business. After a card game with old friend Wang Chi (Dennis Dun), Wang (now penniless thanks to Burton`s good fortune) pursuades Jack to drive him to the airport, to pick up his childhood sweetheart, a girl Wang has not seen since they were children. Its here the story begins, as Mao Yin, Wang`s girlfriend, is captured by a mysterious gang. The two form a pact to rescue the girl from the clutches of the evil Lo Pan, former crimelord of Chinatown, a myth who has apparently lived to the age of almost 200, with a little help from some black magic.Thats it, I`m saying no more, cos I don`t want to spoil it. You`ve probably seen the movie anyway.Its hard to pick a favourite John Carpenter film, very hard, but this one has it all. Its a great action movie, a great comedy, an original story, great lines, and even a love story, a perfect blend of what big screen entertainment should be. Its strange though, that the ending was left so open, begging for a sequel that was never made. "},{"Title":"Why this movie is the greatest movie of all time","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"89 out of 134 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Big Trouble in Little China is one of the few films that generally impressed me and didn't give off a fake feeling like a lot of movies that are coming out today. I grew up watching this movie almost every day, and I continue to do so now. The characters in this movie are played very well, especially Kurt Russell's part as Jack Burton. The movie blends action, comedy, and even some science fiction/horror, all the while staying solid instead of seeming like a bunch of unrelated parts thrown together. If you are a fan of John Carpenter, Kurt Russell, action movies, the 80's, or a fan of great films, definitely check this one out. In fewer words, run out and BUY Big Trouble in Little China right now!  "},{"Title":"This movie moves me","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"67 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Give this movie a ten, it has more excitement and pure fun than almost any other, John Carpenter has constructed a masterpiece. This movie is awesome, It's got Kurt Russell at his best. Every line that he says just rocks.  This picture is the most unique film that had come around in years when it was released. Nothing comes close to its ingenuity or classic mixture of Chinese mythology.  If you don't watch it I will personally search out and destroy you.  Like some dude up there said, just chill with your popcorn snacks and drinks, and saddle up, because it's going to be one hell of a ride! "}{"Title":"Ol' Jack always says... what the hell?","Date":"13 September 2010","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Out of 20th Century Fox, Big Trouble in Little China is directed by John Carpenter and stars Kurt Russell, Kim Catrall, Dennis Dun, James Hong & Victor Wong. The adaptation is by W.D. Richter with the screenplay from Gary Goldman & David Z. Weinstein. Dean Cundey photographs and Alan Howarth doubles up with Carpenter for the musical score.Truck driver Jack Burton (Russell) agrees to take his friend Wang Chi (Dun) to pick up his fiancée at the airport. Little does he know that he is about to get involved in a supernatural battle between good and evil beneath San Francisco's Chinatown district.A box office failure on its release, and known to be the moment when John Carpenter gave up on Hollywood, Big Trouble in Little China has gathered cult momentum over the years and shows up rather well these days. Blending Chinese mysticism with chop-schlocky adventure, Carpenter's movie is at once daft but also a ball of energetic fun; propelled by a handsome, but inept, action hero. Carpenter had always wanted to tackle a martial arts movie, and here he gets to do it whilst laying on the comedy and playing with effects as his movie mostly comes alive in a magical underworld of monsters, magicians and sexy green eyed women.It's evident now that the film was ahead of its time, not from a technical viewpoint, but from the point it tried to Americanise chopsocky. This is some time before Chinese style wire-work and mythology became common to Hollywood, one has to believe that Tarantino was nodding approvingly around about then. It's also worth noting that although this American movie has an American beefcake as its main protagonist, it's the Asian Americans who actually are the heroes of the piece, with Dun's sidekick the stand out hero as Russell's Burton bumbles his way from one sequence to the next. It was a bold move by Carpenter to structure the narrative that way, one that annoyed the executives at Fox and kept the paying public bemused. It's easy to see why the film failed, contrast it with the similarly themed Eddie Murphy movie, The Golden Child, from the same year, which was a box office success. There the public got what they wanted (or what they were used too), the standard American hero fluff where Murphy saves the day and gets the girl. Carpenter dared to be different and had fun along the way, as did his cast. It may have taken a decade of VHS and DVD releases to prove he was right, but right he was, Big Trouble in Little China is a damn fine movie. Russell plays it meat head style, with swagger in tow and tongue stuck in cheek. Nicely toned physique for the girls to enjoy, and making vest wearing cool two years before Willis did in Die Hard. Cattrall is wonderfully alluring, red lips and green eyes shimmering bright in a world of color; and boys, look out for her wet scene, it's wolf whistle time! Dun is likable and athletic, while Hong as Lo Pan gives the action/adventure genre a truly memorable villain. The film is briskly paced and not found wanting in the set piece department either. Not all the effects are high grade, but in a film with such zestful comic book traditions at heart, it hardly matters a jot. With a great DVD package doing it justice, Carpenter's movie is now, at long last, getting the appreciative audience it deserves. Amen to that. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Greatest Action and Popcorn Movies of the 80's","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The truck driver Jack Burton (Kurt Russel) arrives in Chinatown, San Francisco, and goes to the airport with his Chinese friend Wang Chi (Dennis Dun) to welcome his green-eyed fiancée Miao Yin (Suzee Pai) that is arriving from China. However she is kidnapped on the arrival by a Chinese street gang and Jack and Wang chase the group. Soon they learn that the powerful evil sorcerer called David Lo Pan (James Hong), who has been cursed more than two thousand years ago to exist without physical body, needs to marry a woman with green eyes to retrieve his physical body and Miao is the chosen one. Jack and Wang team-up with the lawyer Gracie Law (Kim Cattrall), the bus driver and sorcerer apprentice Egg Shen (Victor Wong) and their friends and embark in a great adventure in the underground of Chinatown, where they face a world of magicians and magic, monsters and martial arts fighters.Big Trouble in Little China is one of the best action movies of the 80's. The director John Carpenter deserves an Oscar for his filmography. It is amazing how many great movies John Carpenter has offered for us, lovers of action / sci-fi / horror movies. Big Trouble in Little China combines action, comedy and magic and in Brazil has been presented many times in the afternoon / popcorn session of TV. Kurt Russel is great in this type of movie, and Kim Cattral (the ex-Lieutenant Klingon of Star Trek and the nymphomaniac Samantha in Sex and the City ) is gorgeous as Gracie Law. Big Trouble in Little China is a great entertainment for the whole family. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Os Aventureiros do Bairro Proibido (The Adventurers of the Forbidden Zone)Note On 14 November 2014, I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"Intentionally campy","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Adjust your brains before watching Big Trouble In Little China; see it's one of those films, that, even tough nicely directed, are openly very silly in every aspect. Now after you've adjusted your brains in the correct receiving mode you might even enjoy this testosterone adventure of a trucker, who is trying to save his truck among other things.Jack Burton (Kurt Russel) is a truck driver, whose truck get stolen by group of eeevil thugs, who serve LoPan (James Hong), who also kidnaps the wife (Suzee Pai) to be of Jack's friend Wang Chi (Dennis Dun). The purpose would be to get the truck and the girl back. Oh, and to but more twist in it a lawyer Gracie (Kim Cattrall) gets kidnapped too. There is something intentionally bad about the creatures used in the film. It all seems to be so intentionally planned as a B movie, that you can only give kudos to director John Carpaneter for making the film this way. He could have tried to turn this porridge into something serious, but luckily he didn't and the campy values of the film give it a nice layer of comedy.Sure, it's not the greatest film ever conceived, but if you take it as it is, you won't be disappointed with it. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic!","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a rough and tumble tale set in the dark underworld of SanFrancisco's Chinatown. John Carpenter's cult classic is jam packed with everything and is even more popular today than when it was released in 1986. This movie is not the greatest plot wise, but it definitely has it's charms. It has a little something for everyone; comedy, drama, martial arts, sorcery, and a lot of weapons including an assortment of guns, swords, knives & lots of super flying kicks! Can the forces of good in the forms of Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) and his love interest Gracie Law (Kim Kattrall)along with Egg Shen and the rest of the gang of Chang Sings prevail over the evil sorcerer David Lo Pan (James Hong) and his minions? Watch this tale of good vs. evil and see, you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"17 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Simply a great cult classic. I saw it when it first came out in 85-86 and thought it was hysterical. I recently watched it again and I still got a lot of laughs. Overall, I really appreciate John Carpenter and Kurt Russell's work in this movie. It was definitely ahead of its time. It has humor, great kung fu (homage to the genre before it was cool), Chinese mysticism, great special effects, and most importantly it never took itself seriously. -)I have to agree with the commentary on the DVD, you either love this movie, or you have never seen it.Rent this movie if you are looking for good light fun. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Let me just say this about BTLC, I have never changed the chanel if I find it on TV. Its like a blessing. Continuously impressive since it came out when I was five years old, I have enjoyed it on new levels over the years. Its blend of Chinese black magic with American style and humour that only Kurt Russel and Dennis Dun could pull off makes it an unforgettable adventure comedy.The big problem with Big Trouble in Little China is that no one went to see it in theaters. Poor box office reciepts makes for a small fan base and its sad how few people have seen this film. Though not soaring art with grand ideals, Illalways remember BTLC as one of the best films of my lifetime. "},{"Title":"Fantastic adventures , thrills , frantic action along  with enjoyable sly humor","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An adventurer trucker takes on 2000-year-old magician who must marry a green-eyed young girl who formerly was kidnapped in front of his eyes . The trucker (Kurt Russell) along with a varied group (Kim Cattrall , Dennis Dun , Victor Wong , Kate Burton) set out in pursuit sinister Le Pan (James Hong) who wants to restore his youth . Later , it happens mayhem and wreak havoc beneath the streets of San Francisco's Chinatown and encountering every Chinese cliché known . They contend three nifty warlords who are equipped with their own static electricity and large hats.This exciting picture contains noisy action , thrills, a load of Kung-Fuey and lots of humor with tongue in cheek attitude . The movie is full of Chinese tortures , water tortures , dark underground streams, black magic creatures and surprising catacombs . Kurt Russell as the T-shirt trucker is good and likable , he unwittingly becomes involved into a mystical world underneath . The pig trucker is a swagger , a John Wayne-lookalike, who when he fires his gun into the ceiling the plaster to fall on his head. Nice electronic musical rightly fitting the action by the same director John Carpenter . Colorful and evocative cinematography by Dean Cundey . Overwhelming especial effects showcase by the expert Richard Edlund , with no computer generator . Director John Carpenter is in familiar ground with this well-done tale on the style of comic books , Saturday morning cartoon , Indiana Jones wake and old serials . The film was realized during his best period in the 70s and 8os when he directed classics as ¨Halloween¨, ¨The fog ¨, ¨Christine¨, ¨They live¨, ¨1997 escape from N.Y .¨and ¨The thing¨ . The movie will appeal to adventure fans but packs a roller-coaster thriller and wholesome amusement . Rating  Above average. The film will appeal to Kurt Russell fans and John Carpenter enthusiasts. "},{"Title":"Classic B Movie Bliss","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was another staple of HBO back in the 80's when there was only one HBO channel. Despite the fact that it didn't do well at the box office, this is probably one of the best comedy films ever made. Surely, the movie struggles a bit between being a comedy versus an action movie, but it does deliver both amicably. Overall, I would say the film is equal parts fantasy adventure, martial arts, action, and just a smidgen of romance, all held together by the comedy.Kurt Russel's character is ultimately cheesy, but in a beautifully entertaining way, so too is the main villain. Everything in this movie is way over the top, characters, dialog, even the special effects. A similar movie would be The Golden Child, though also a comedy-adventure-martial arts-fantasy film; The Golden Child takes itself far more seriously, only getting it's humor from Eddie Murphy's sarcasm.Big Trouble In Little China's greatest strength is in it's pure entertainment value. Come into it ready to suspend all beliefs in reality for 90 minutes and get caught up in an epic adventure. "},{"Title":"Great Carpenter Film That's Very Enjoyable, With A Really Cool Cast, Great Fight Scenes, And Excellent Performances!","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a great Carpenter film, that's very enjoyable, with a really cool cast, great fight scenes, and excellent performances!. All the characters are great, and the story is pretty nifty as well, plus Kurt Russell is simply amazing in this!. The finale is especially good, and James Hong is fantastic as the main villain, as he was wonderfully OTT!, plus Russell had great chemistry with both Kim Cattrall and Dennis Dun!. All the characters are very likable, and Kurt had some fantastic one liners, plus one of my favorite moments in this film is when Russell is fighting James Hong near the end with a knife ( I won't spoil it for you, and he says it's all in the reflexes). It starts off a little slowly, however it soon picks up, and while Kurt's character may seem bit rough and gruff, I couldn't help but love it!, plus it's very well made and written as well. This is one Carpenter's most underrated films, and I believe it deserves it's 6.8 rating, plus The ending was great!. This is a great Carpenter film, that's very enjoyable, with a really cool cast, great fight scenes and excellent performances, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. John Carpenter does a fine job as always, with really good camera work, cool angles and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is just great. Kurt Russell is amazing as always, and is amazing here, he is hilarious, likable, had a great charm and lots of charisma, had some great on liners, had great chemistry with Cattrall and Dun, and kicked that ass with that awesome looking white tank top!, he seemed to be having a lot of fun (Russell Rules!!!). Kim Cattrall is gorgeous, and did excellent with what she had to do, she didn't take things too seriously and seemed to be having a lot of fun, I really liked her. Dennis Dun is great as Russell's side kicks, he can kick that ass and did his job well I liked him. James Hong is wonderful as the main villain, he added class, was wonderfully OTT, had some cool costumes and make up on, and was just fascinating to watch!. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!.***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"'Citizen Kane' tried hard, but this is a different league of greatness","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Plot Summary Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) has to tag along as his friend Wang (Dennis Dun) tries to rescue his fiancée (Suzee Pai) from 2000 year old sorcerer Lo Pan. But Jack just wants his truck back.A box office disaster, 'Big Trouble in Little China' has rightfully gained a cult following as Eastern cinema grew more popular in the West during the nineties. This is the fourth occasion that saw John Carpenter collaborate with Kurt Russell, and it is very much a different style to their earlier work, and everything else Carpenter has done for that matter. Carpenter was ahead of his time here- giving Western audiences a type of film that they weren't interested in until the following decade. Big Trouble could easily have been the standard of subsequent trashy US martial arts films, but it is turned into an all out comedy with the roles of hero and sidekick (Wang and Burton) reversed so Burton is the lead, and therefore you see the entire film through his eyes, hence you don't know what is going on during a lot of the early scenes.It looks and feels like a lot went into the production design and style of the film. Carpenter consistently respects his Eastern influences, keeps the film B grade spirit, while fusing it with his own style and satirising it with a unique campness. Be it the musical score's fusion of Eastern music with Carpenter's trademark synth, the arcade game style magic battle between Lo Pan and Egg Shen, or the villain being defeated not in a grand duel but with a simple bowie knife to the forehead, this film is perfection in the kung fu comedy genre.For Western standards, the martial arts on display here is pretty good. But for any Hong Kong action fans, it will seem pretty weak. But for those that 'get' the film, it is obvious the real entertainment doesn't come from the action but from the writing and the overall sense of fun- unlike a lot of kung fu films, there is never a dull moment between the action. The most memorable aspect are the exchanges between Russell and Dun, or Russell and anyone else in the film for that matter. Everything he says is instantly quotable and everything he does is usually hilarious. This is largely due to Russell's willingness to do anything- be it wear lipstick, act like an idiot or be knocked unconscious before the main battle actual starts.Russell stands out and the film wouldn't be half as good without him. But this isn't to discredit the rest of the cast who consistently Howard Hawks it as Carpenter said. Dennis Dun, in what is really the hero role, says his fortune cookie wisdom with his tongue firmly in cheek and delivers his lines with as much enthusiasm as Russell; Victor Wong and James Hong are both suitably OTT playing the wise old magician and evil villain respectively, and both look like they are enjoying themselves. Chinese superstar Carter Wong also puts in 110%. Kim Cattrall has a surprisingly large amount of dialogue but delivers it all with enthusiasm, even if a lot of her screen time is spent in the shadow of Russell's one liners. Donald Li and Kate Burton have smaller roles but are good fun for the time they have.All things said, this film isn't for all audiences and took its time finding the right one like earlier Russell/Carpenter films did, and Escape from L.A has yet to do. But if you are one of the people who like comedy with your kung fu (read fans of the brilliant Stephen Chow) you should watch this and agree it achieves perfection in what it sets out to do. Sure, it isn't a work of art but Big Trouble in Little China is a fun film without a single dull second, that never gets worse with repeated viewings and will always forever entertain me more than any other film. Except The Thing, but that's a different story.12/10 "}{"Title":"Favorite Carpenter/Russell Film!","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kurt Russell, Kim Cattrall, Dennis Dun, Victor Wong and James Hong star in John Carpenter's 1986 action/adventure. This film takes place in San Francisco, Chinatown where trucker, Jack Burton (Russell) and his friend, Wang Chi (Dun) pick up Wang's fiancée, Mao-Yin (Suzee Pai) from the airport until she's kidnapped. Jack and Wang learn she's taken by evil sorcerer, David Lo-Pan (Hong) because her green eyes will help break him free of his curse and rule the world. Jack and Wang meet lawyer, Gracie Law (Cattrall) who also gets captured by Lo-Pan because of her green eyes. With the help of sorcerer, Egg Shen (Wong), Jack and Wang attempt to fight against Lo-Pan and rescue both women. This is my favorite Carpenter/Russell film, Russell is terrific as Jack, Hong is great as Lo-Pan, there's cool effects and Carpenter & Alan Howarth's score is excellent as usual. This was originally conceived as a western and Russell does a great John Wayne impression. I highly recommend this 80's cult classic. "},{"Title":"East meets West in an excellent film!","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" History says that Big Trouble in Little China started as a period Western about a cowboy facing the mysteries of ancient Chinese mythology. Gary Goldman and David Weinstein's screenplay was supposed to be an East meets West story where cowboy guns faced martial arts, but the producers thought it would be an unfilmable epic, and decided to set the story in modern times. With writer W.D. Richter (director of TThe Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai) making the adaptation and director John Carpenter leading the project Big Trouble in Little China was born as we know it a modern day Western about a trucker facing the mysteries of ancient Chinese mythology.Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) is a trucker who enjoys the simple things of life, so he never expected that the day he took his friend Wang Chi (Dennis Dun) to pick up his fiancée Miao Yin (Suzee Pai) at the airport, he would find himself without his beloved truck, and in the middle of a battle between good and evil where ancient Chinese magic and martial collide will decide the future of Earth. So now Jack and Wang will have to go on a rescue mission, to try to save Miao Yin from the hands of immortal sorcerer Lo Pan (James Hong) and his Chinatown street gangs before Lo Pan achieves his evil purposes.As written above, Big Trouble in Little China was conceived as an action packed Western with touches of comedy, and it shows, as thankfully W.D. Richter kept that angle while adding his own very personal touches to the script. Hence, Jack Burton is a character with many parallels to John Wayne's characters in Westerns; however, one thing that makes this movie different to those films, is that here Jack Burton is not the hero of the story. While he is in fact our main character (and our eyes) in the film, he is Wang's sidekick in his mission to save Miao Yin. It's a very unusual and original take on the action genre, and the relationship of friendship and respect that exists between Jack and Wang is one of the things that make this movie great.Director John Carpenter had received great critical acclaim with his 1984 film Starman, and despite that the film was a moderate commercial success, Carpenter finally proved he was more than a horror filmmaker. In Big Trouble in Little China once again he reunited with long-time collaborators including Kurt Russell, and gave life to the magical Chinatown balancing the action with the comedy in a perfect yet natural way that makes the film flow smoothly. The non-stop action the film has shows a lot of the influence of both Westerns and Martial Arts movies (the films that inspired the script) without taking away Carpenter's trademarks such as the atmospheric score and the inventive fluid camera-work.The performances of the cast really are a stand out characteristic that has helped the film to earn cult status. Kurt Russell shows his best John Wayne impersonation and makes one of the most charismatic anti-heroes in film history. Dennis Dun is excellent as Wang, and shows a lot of chemistry with Russell, as well as the necessary screen presence to be the hero the film needs. James Hong delivers an unforgettable scene-stealing performance as the sorcerer Lo Pan, probably one of the funniest and best remembered villains ever. A young Kim Cattrall appears as Burton's romantic interest, Gracie Law, showing a terrific talent for comedy. Victor Wong and Suzee Pai complete an excellent cast that deserves a lot of credit for the film's success.Big Trouble in Little China was a box office failure when it was released, and it was Carpenter's biggest flop in his career and the film that prompted him to return to low-budget b-movies (he would do Prince of Darkness the following year). However, this has more to do with the expectations of the audiences of the time than with the film's quality. Big Trouble in Little China had a humor ahead of its time, and its originality (both in the way the story is told and the pop culture references) has proved to be very influential for today's film industry. The way it criticizes action films with a very tongue in cheek humor is quite remarkable today, but probably went over the head of the audiences in its initial release.While it meant a failure for Carpenter on its day, Big Trouble in Little China is definitely one of his best films, and one of the best action/comedy movies ever made. Sure, many films mix action and comedy but very few films actually succeed in doing it intelligently and without remorse. Big Trouble in Little China is a must-see film for every action, western and martial arts fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"ME AND MY BROTHER LOVE THIS MOVIE!","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If martial arts, trucks, and hot women are your thing, then Big Trouble in Little China is for you! It's got a loaded cast, great sci-fi action, martial art action, and just tons of excitement going on in the movie.Kurt Russell as Jack Burton is a one name you'll never forget, loves the long haul, and making the bets. Kim Cattrall as Gracie Law, still a sultry siren after Porky's. Being the second woman with green eyes. Speaking of green eyes, the woman playing Wang Chi's(Dennis Dun) fiancée was stunning. Though it's a rarity for Asian women to have green eyes, but anything can happen.The fight scene is the one thing I can't out of my mind. Especially the three storms. My brother and I would fight them with intensity. My brother would fight the Wind fighter with ease, I would take on the Lightning fighter, and we would both battle the Thunder fighter last. He was the toughest.Everything in the movie was great all the way to the end. It was never a dull moment throughout the movie. I LOVED IT! Rating 4.5 out of 5 stars. 9.5 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"A movie where the hero isn't the best fighter.","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very good and funny action movie.  My main complaints around this one revolve around the beginning and the end.  I do not think the opening scene was necessary and it took away any surprise you might have received.  Wong basically shows you that the movie is more than just another kung fu movie as he demonstrates magic.  I think it would have been more effective to wait till the three storm guys showed up.  I did not care for the ending.  Kurt has a great last line, but then they have one more scene in his truck that is more like the ending of one of those bad horror movies.  Other than that though this one is a really fast paced action movie.  I love Kurt as the average guy sucked in a world of really high flying karate and magic.  This movie has a lot of comedy as well.  Kurt loses his truck, his friend loses his fiancé so they have to work together to get both back, plus the friend owes Kurt a substantial sum of money.  They have to go through the lair of this really strange old man whose body guards include these guys known as the three storms.  They are Rain, Lightening, and Thunder.  Their opening scene is quite impressive as they appear to be pretty much invincible.  All in all this movie is one heck of a wild ride. "},{"Title":"The Scarecrow reviews Big Trouble in Little China","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some films move so fast plot holes and incoherency can be less focused on. Carpenter's film is so energetic and fun, it is such an example. It is loaded with Chinese Black Magic mumbo jumbo and supernatural shenanigans, but if one can accept it on it's own terms might just find themselves loving it. It pretty much doesn't catch a breath as we watch Kurt Russell's trucker Jack Burton get immediately mixed into an old gang war led by the mysterious Lo Pan(James Hong)who desires the green eyed love of Wang(Dennis Dun)to become mortally young and all powerful. His supernatural cohorts have specific powers and are named the three storms as they are able to crush anyone who gets in their way. One has the ability to increase his body mass, another is able to build electricity from his hands, and another is able to move really fast. Each cause Wang and Jack problems when the poor trucker loses his truck during this blood feud that ignites in Chinatown. Kim Cattrall plays newspaper reporter Gracie Law, looking for a story along with her partner Margo(Kate Burton). Soon even Wang's pal Eddie(Donald Li)gets involved. But, during their trials at trying to free Wang's green-eyed love, they will have to enlist in Egg Chen's service..a wise old sorcerer played by the always reliable Victor Wong. The film is loaded with martial arts action and wild special(and make-up)effects and old Chinese lore. If one can indeed shut their brain off and not take this film at all seriously, this film is no doubt a blast. Kurt Russell and his cast bring such an enthusiasm to the proceedings and that electronic score from Carpenter is great. "},{"Title":"A Must-See Film!","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of my all-time favourite films! there is a wonderful blend of action, comedy, fantasy, adventure, and superb script writing that makes this film just too good to miss. The directing is spot-on, the acting is just as it should be in this particular type of film and tops it off perfectly. It wasn't exactly hard to act (as acting is in it's VERY base form) as the script is so well written and after all someone who is at the very least a good actor can only be as good as what is written in the script. If the script is rubbish then so will the actor be. There are some though who will never be a good actor no matter how well written the script is! If you don't already have this film in your collection then go out and add it now! "},{"Title":"No pathetic excuses....!!!","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Probably one of the most quotable films of all time, this John Carpenter action, comedy, kung-fu, monster, magician, fantasy mash-up remains probably his finest work, and one of the best films to come out of the 80s. The gag in this movie, is that the hero Jack Burton, an out-of-his-depth truck driver, is nothing of the sort. He's a bumbling, useless but wise-cracking idiot, and played to perfection by Kurt Russell. The plot is pretty standard fare. Truck driver Jack arrives in San Francisco's Chinatown, and becomes embroiled in a plot in which Lo-Pan, a 2,000 year old cursed Chinese sorceror needs to marry a girl with green eyes to become human again. Lo-Pan abducts the suitably-eyed fiancée of Jack's best friend Wang, and the duo set off with friends in tow, to defeat the dastardly sorceror and rescue Wang's girl (and Jack's truck) The script moves at 100mph, bolstered by some of the best (and funniest) dialogue of all time. The supporting cast, including a young Kim Cattrall, help to flesh out the story. One of those films that can be watched over and over again, the bizarre sight of a man who can self-inflate himself when under attack is worth a watch by itself. Have you paid your dues Jack? Yes sir, the check is in the mail! "},{"Title":"We really shook the pillars of Heaven!","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble has become with out a doubt my favorite movie of all time. I have seen it three times this year, twice in the theater. The action, the laughs, the crazy Martial Arts. Everything combines to create a sense of a real world where these heroes live breathe and kick ass! Kurt Russell Plays Jack Burton, an everyman hero who moves the plot along sometimes by banging it with his head. Say what you want but you will never find a braver hero than Jack Burton. Sure he does some goofy things but in the end, when it counts--it's all in the reflexes. If you don't like this film, there is something wrong with your head. seriously, it is the Citizen Caine of Action Comedies. It gets weird and silly but the players are skilled and John Carpenter is great as the director. I can go all day but you will just have to see for your self. "},{"Title":"What a great thrill ride","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was John Carpenters best work. Using more open spaces rather than the confining on stage studio look. Jack Burton (Kurt Russel) is just your average Joe who trucks in for the local china town restaurant's. A gambler off duty and a good friend to one local who doesn't like the fact he always wins. Yet in the midst of this friendly chaos, lies a demon who needs a girl to make himself whole again. And Jack's friends girl friend is that girl. This takes Jack in all sorts of directions from a street rumble which shows a rather unique martial arts display to a sorcerer who has hired guns called the three storms. Now knee deep in dark magic, and other types of folk lore, Jack must help rescue this girl from an ultimate sacrifice. But in the back ground lies Egg Shen (Victor Wong) who is a long time rival of this demon, and his help causes a turn around to the groups luck. Using all sorts of magic and sorcery. This film held every aspect of action, magic, tales of the old, and a reluctant truck driver who just says, What the hell, to make this movie very watchable. The only thing wrong with it is Gracie Law (Kim Cattral). Her persona does not fit this role, too mushy in some ways, and not all bad girl type. I would say a woman who could have filled her shoes would be Debra Winger. She has a way with her attitude and no nonsense hand of getting things done. A great movie from a great director, John Carpenter. It would be really nice to have a second instalment to make this show even more of a classic. "},{"Title":"One of John Carpenter's few comedies.","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Imagine a movie that makes a hero out of a man so dense that he can't keep up in most conversations and is useless in a fight. That is Kurt Russell's Jack Burton, played with a slight John Wayne impersonation and a massive superiority complex. Most of the heavy lifting is done by sidekick Dennis Dunn as the high flying Wang Chi and Victor Wong as the mysterious Egg Shen. James Wong is fantastic as both the ten foot tall roadblock and the little basket case on wheels, Lo Pan, who kidnaps Wang's girl and Jack's partner in sexual tension. What passes for a plot, which is just an excuse for fights and silliness, has the two of them storming Lo Pan's castle for their damsels, several times, until they it right. The only sad thing is that this marked the beginning of the end of Carpenter's hot streak. People, including those in the studio, didn't get this movie and he had more then enough of their talk. If some don't love it, they just have poor reflexes.P.S. The commentary by Russell and Carpenter is classic. Two old friends shooting the breeze, reminiscing about a movie they loved making. As a matter of fact, the commentaries from The Thing and Escape From New York are a blast too. "}{"Title":"A Cult 80s Classic","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I know that this was more of a guys flick but Big Trouble in Little China is one of the most underrated films to come out of America, not least in Hollywood. It was virtually ignored by cinema audiences in favour of the more established and well-known 80s hits such as Cocktail, Top Gun, Back to the Future etc. Kurt Russell plays a truck driver named Jack Burton and he and his Chinese American friend, Wang are on their way to pick up Wang's girlfriend from the airport-only to discover that she has been kidnapped by an evil sorcerer named Lo-Pan. Lo-Pan has chosen her of all the women available because she is a woman, who has green eyes and he himself has green eyes and so for him to become immortal and to take on a life of his own, Lo-Pan has to marry her. Russell plays it as it is as the would-be alpha male hero, whose efforts are overshadowed by the heroism of Wang. Big Trouble in Little China succeeds in doing two things firstly, it was one of the very first films that attempted to highlight and address the existence of Chinese diaspora and the Chinese American community in Western society and secondly, John Carpenter manages to assemble and infuse elements of different types of movie genres all into one film likewise there is horror, martial arts, comedy, action-adventure and romance. But it's the overall simplicity of Big Trouble in Little China which makes it such a cult classic in its own right. As you would come to expect with an action comedy, there are some funny one-liners and the narrative is as formulaic and predictable as it can get but this shouldn't take away (chinese, take away, get it?!) from the fact that it doesn't go overboard with the special effects and even some of the cheesy dialogue that accompanies it. The stunts are rather good to watch and the kung fu sequences are well orchestrated. Having said that the FX to this day in age does seem to look a little dated. Yet for an action-packed type of film, this one is actually a lot of fun to sit through.It does have a very B-movie feel to it,- given Carpenter's previous, yet timeless film efforts in 'The Thing', 'Escape From New York'- and the directorial style, look and feel of Big Trouble in Little China is one that conveys an almost authentic oriental and Far Eastern exoticism, which was rarely seen in most Western based, kung-fu (comedy) 80s flicks. The only other film that I could think of which nearly came close in doing just that was Eddie Murphy's 'The Golden Child', but that was a completely different type of movie to Big Trouble in Little China, even though the comedy element of that film was somewhat of a similar vein.This is a very daft movie, but at the same time it is also quite pleasing to the eye and doesn't take itself too seriously. If anything and as I said earlier, it did introduce western audiences to a certain type of niche and camp brand of high-kicking martial arts action that wasn't present in the Hong Kong based kung fu flicks of Jackie Chan and Jet Li.Whilst Russell is on top form as Jack, Kim Catrell is virtually good as the damsel in distress, Gracie and Denis Dun is just as impressive as the all-fighting- yet light hearted, Wang. Victor Wong, Kate Burton and Donald Li also fair well in their respective roles as Egg Shen, Margo and Eddie Lee. James Hong makes a good baddie as Lo-Pan. In spite of the fact that the film has aged 21 years- my God I cannot believe it has been that long (!),- Big Trouble in Little China still retains a certain panache, cult-ness and instinctiveness that not many so-called cult Hollywood movies intend to possess. This is a real gem in the crown and it is one of the outright classics in the film world, because it is so loathed by many snobby film enthusiasts and critics. Not forgetting as well it flopped big time in the cinemas- and yet it is also loved by those because I and those people see it for what it really is... and that is as one of the best action comedy cult movies of all-time. And in a decade where movies were nothing more but mediums intended to excite, entertain and enthuse audiences, as opposed to churning out dodgy remakes and sequels in today's era, Big Trouble in Little China was an underrated-yet entertaining action fest, jam-packed with great fight scenes and end-to-end comic humour. Overall, it is a hugely entertaining and fun-filled effort that is thoroughly worth checking out "},{"Title":"Is it getting hot in here, or is it just me?","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In terms of pure entertainment, Big Trouble in Little China may be one of director John Carpenters' all-time best films. It's a lively, hilarious, rollicking fantasy-action film combining martial arts, Chinese mysticism, and humour into one irresistible B movie with extra cheese. The dialogue is often quite funny, especially as spoken by Carpenters' frequent leading man Kurt Russell, who delivers one of his most enjoyable performances of all time. If the film isn't making you laugh out loud, it should at the very least be putting a couple of smiles on your face.Kurt stars as swaggering truck driver Jack Burton, who gets caught up in strange events as he witnesses the abduction of his good friends' bride-to-be. The force of evil behind it all is over 2,000 year old spirit David Lo Pan (James Hong), who's been living under a curse. Fortunately, Jack's got some formidable allies on his side, including his buddy Wang Chi (Dennis Dun) and amiable old sorcerer Egg Shen (Victor Wong). For his purposes Lo Pan must wed Wangs' lady Miao Yin (Suzee Pai), who's got a feature quite unique for a Chinese girl.Carpenter is in fine form, crafting a fast moving bit of escapist fare that is wise never to take itself too seriously. One of the brightest touches is playing Jack Burton not as a hero (although he *thinks* he's the hero), but the bumbling comedy relief, with the supposed sidekick, Wang, in full heroic mode. Carpenter works with his production designer & cinematographer team from The Thing, John Lloyd and Dean Cundey, and the two of them do some excellent work. (Unfortunately, this turned out to be the final collaboration between Carpenter and Cundey.) Carpenters' own electronic score is fun, and he also composes the catchy title song with his band The Coupe de Villes (also including his friends Tommy Lee Wallace and Nick Castle). The visual effects by Richard Edlund are quite good.Kurt clearly is having a high old time as Jack Burton, delivering his various one liners and other bits of dialogue with relish. Kim Cattrall looks gorgeous (as does Ms. Pai) and is able to divulge a lot of exposition in a breathless way. Dun is very likable as Wang, as is Wong as Egg. Hong is a delightfully flamboyant villain. Kate Burton, Donald Li, and Chao Li Chi are good in support, and familiar faces such as Jerry Hardin, George Cheung, and Al Leong have some great small roles.Lovers of B movies should get a kick out of this. If one has any doubts as to whether to give it a chance, just do what ol' Jack Burton does, and say What the hell. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"The closest that Hollywood has ever come to a Hong Kong action flick","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Microsoft Cinemania '97 doesn't really make much out of this movie. My reply to that is that Microsoft doesn't know what that are talking about. In my opinion Big Trouble in Little China goes down as one of the all time classic movies.So what is it that makes this movie so great? Well, it is nothing more than a pulp action film with the redneck Jack Burton (Kurt Russel) stumbling in on a plot were Asian girls are kidnapped and thrown into brothels. What sets it apart from other movies, in my opinion, is that its use of magic, action, and that fact that Jack Burton is an outsider who really only wants his truck back (and the money that he is owed). This movie pits the average tough guy hero up against supernatural forces, and really this hero just bumbles his way through the entire movie; there is nothing about Jack Burton that makes him anything special. He is a simple truck driver who thinks he is tough but deep down he is not.Big Trouble in Little China has special effects and lots of action, but it is also laced with humour in the character of Jack Burton. He is the centre of the movie, but really the problems could have been solved with out him. Yet when one looks at the character of Jack Burton, one notices that he has something that the others do not have, and that is guts. The guy is willing to stick his neck out to take on forces that are much more powerful than he. His stubborn streak is a part of this for he refuses to believe that there is any of this supernatural stuff going on around him. Even though he cannot fight in anyway in this movie, it is his guts and his determination that provide the leadership needed.I personally don't care what anybody says. Big Trouble in Little China is a classic movie and a classic movie it will always be to me and it is probably the closet that Hollywood will ever get to making an authentic Hong Kong style action movie. "},{"Title":"Amusing...","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John Carpenter's 'Big Trouble In Little China' is one of the most amusing movies I have seen to date. This 1980's cult classic, is weird, lively, entertaining & amusing.Kurt Russell stars as Truck Driver, Jack Burton, who helps his friend Wang Chi, played by Dennis Dun, rescue his green-eyed fiancée from bandits in San Francisco's Chinatown. What follows later on, is a series of unexpected moments, that are executed with humor! 'Big Trouble In Little China' is not at all meant for the pseudo critics. It's for those, who enjoy cinema, even when it insults your intelligence. It's for those, who don't mind watching a villain who's 2000 years old, to begin with! This cult classic packs in several interesting moments, especially in the first hour, which is quite funny. The Second Hour goes wilder, and the culmination is well-shot. Carpenter's direction is good. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design are note-worthy. Special Effects & Make-Up are good.Performance-Wise Russell is absolutely superb as the main hero, who hardly does anything heroic. He gets his comic timing right and entertains from start to end. Dennis Dun is lovable. Kim Catrall & James Hong are first-rate. Others lend able support.On the whole, If your willing to forgive it's escapism, then I would say do check it out. It's one cinematic experience! "},{"Title":"Awesome! I want whatever drugs Carpenter was on in the 80s!","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In reality Escape from New York should be the supercool action flick and Big Trouble in Little China should be the throwaway film long since forgotten.But this ain't reality - Escape from New York is a relic of a bygone time and BTiLC remains a terrific low budget classic.Both films star Kurt Russell. In BTiLC Russell plays Jack Burton, a big mouthed opinionated truck driver with misguided confidence to spare who talks loudly at all times, seemingly mimicking John Wayne's cadence and speech patterns.Now in real life a guy like Jack Burton would be an absolute tosser worthy of only your disdain and pity - in films he is a cool guy! Jack gets into the messiest of situations when he follows up a gambling debt and becomes embroiled in female trafficking, smuggling and dark Chinese magic.What starts as a mere Chinese gang war becomes something far bigger, including huge battles, explosions, shape changers, monsters, sorcerers and big hats galore.It turns out that a centuries old Chinese sorcerer named Lo Pan needs a woman with green eyes to ensure his continued immortality - so his gang steals one from the airport, lo and behold though when another falls into his clutches in the form of a young lawyer played by Kim Cattrall - who seeing this film was made in the early 80s must have been about 50 at the time.Jack wants Kim, his gambling buddy Wang wants his own green eyed missus back , Lo Pan wants one or both chicks (one for the ritual / one for the after-party!) and it seems every Asian-American bit part actor ever just wanted to get paid.The action runs non-stop from start to finish and while it is never especially violent it is always entertaining. Russell himself thinks he is so cool that we are momentarily fooled into believing him (all the way up to Death Proof for me).Some of the effects are decidedly 80s and obviously low budget and the inclusion of monsters was perhaps a little too cartoony on top of all else, but when a film has enough funny lines and chuckle-worthy moments you can happily cut it some slack.Big Trouble in Little China is perhaps overlooked when discussing the films of the 80s, perhaps dismissed as disposable lightweight fluff. I urge you to have another look and decide for yourself if something this fun - and funny should be written off so easily.Final Rating 8 / 10. - Before John Carpenter lost his way he and Kurt Russell shared a dream run for a while, Big Trouble in Little China might not be a classic in the truest sense but it sure is a good time. "},{"Title":"Roaring Eighties","Date":"5 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In an age where escapism often means ominous 3+ hours flicks about grim anti-heroes, a movie like Big Trouble in Little China feels like a weird artifact from an ancient civilization a fantasy/action/adventure so giddy, so deliberately cheesy, it's endearing.The sense of fun Carpenter, his pal/favourite leading man Kurt Russell - whose crass Jack Burton, amusingly, is actually the sidekick of real protagonist Wang, even if he fails to realize it - and everyone else on set was having is palpable even today.A light meal, but a tasty one.6,5/10 "},{"Title":"Big Trouble in Little China is a smash success from 1986! What does that mean?","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China is a one of a kind original cool flick with great fantasy action. It sort of reminds me of a more action packed The Golden Child or a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles not steered towards kids. It falls in such an unappreciated and all too unused genre, fantasy action/adventure, ultimately my favorite genre I think. I really prefer this movie even as I consider it to be a smidgen second rate, as that's no secret. It's very entertaining in many areas. Big Trouble in Little China touches a broad fan base, as it dually delivers a strong belief in the folklore while simultaneously shunning it as hocus-pocus nonsense, as too with its vastly varying cast of characters. Kurt Russell is All-American hotness as Jack Burton. I'm definitely not in any way questioning my sexuality right now as I see Kurt in that tanktop he's wearing the whole movie through, I'm not, don't take the wrong impression. I'll just go ahead and point out hottie Kim Cattrall to avoid any further potential awkwardness on your part. Gah, Kim Cattrall as Gracie Law, what a hottie! Oh! I love her in this movie and I'm so glad she landed the part. Big Trouble in Little China feels like a quiet cultural phenomenon that's enjoyably rewatchable time and again. I love everything about this movie. What's not to love? Kurt Russell's sweltering man pecs in that tanktop? "},{"Title":"Fun Kung Fu Cheesecake...","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China is yet another good John Carpenter film from the 80's, starring his frequent collaborator Kurt Russel. It's a 90 minutes of pure martial arts fantasy nonsense that's so fun and silly that you can't help but to enjoy the madness. It has a charismatic leads, beautiful damsels and clever script that is supported by Carpenter's top notch direction. This how you do a homage to martial arts B-Movies not that garbage RZA did. There are few mishaps in the film, don't get me wrong, it's still light years ahead of The Man with the Iron Fists. The first problem was Kim Cattrall and her acting. I have never been a fan of her and she always seems to exemplify everything that I don't like many American actresses. She just feels out of place in any movie she appears except for those horrendous Sex and City wrecks. Another problem was the fact that I wanted tiny bit more characteristics for the Miao Yin character. Give her few lines of dialog and some character moments to slightly elevate her nothing role in the grand scheme of things. But aside from these few mishaps, Big Trouble in Little China is a rock solid entertainment that knows it's audience and will bring pure joy to those that love a good old cheesy martial arts movie.I highly recommend seeing this film if you happen to enjoy the work of John Carpenter and Kurt Russel, because they are at their top form here. Very solid entertainment that doesn't pretend to be anything else. "},{"Title":"Movie has everything","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie has martial arts, science fiction, action and comedy all mixed together in it. Kurt Russell and Kim Cattrall play the leads. Russell's portrayal of his character is basically that of an impression of John Wayne which is very entertaining.Russell plays Jack Burton who with his friend go pick his friends fiancé at the San Francisco airport but she ends up being kidnapped by a Chinese street gang. On the search for her they stumble upon 2 ancient Chinese societies who're feuding. To sum up the plot in a nutshell a bunch of wild and supernatural things take place.Definitely a very unique and interesting movie that isn't your standard cookie cutter type of movie. "},{"Title":"Big Fun","Date":"19 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Directed by John Carpenter (Halloween, The Thing) and starring frequent collaborator, Kurt Russell, Big Trouble in Little China tells the tale of Jack Burton, a trucker who leads a normal and somewhat uneventful life. His only thrills in life are talking to his CB radio and petty gambling. All that changes, however, when his best friend's fiancé is kidnapped and he is thrust into the Chinatown underworld as an unlikely hero on a mission, perhaps for the sake of friendship or to ensure a pay-day. The film doesn't really make that part very clear. What is clear by the end of the film, however, is what a wild and strange ride you've just been through! As can be expected, all the John Carpenter trademarks are present in Big Trouble in Little China, even if the film itself is a departure from the director's previous work. From the signature score composed by Carpenter himself (along with Alan Howarth) to the stunning visuals (giant balls of green flame, anyone?) and the smooth pacing, all the right ingredients are there to make this a John Carpenter classic. Add in a knock-out performance by Kurt Russell as the hapless, reluctant hero, Jack Burton, and you've got one of the finest cult classics the 80's has to offer.Russell plays the blue-collar anti-hero almost too well, sporting a mullet and appropriate wardrobe to boot. While Burton may be a far-cry from the over-confident Snake Plissken (see Escape from New York), he is as interesting of a character, and is a stark and rather refreshing contrast to the often over-blown action heroes of the time. Perhaps that's why the film failed to make an impact when it first saw a release over 23 years ago. As it stands today, though, it's a film made by a confident director at the top of his game, with some wild ideas (which would ultimately bring his career crashing down a good decade or so later) and a brilliant leading man in Russell. The action, the fight sequences, the special effects and even the plot are just too much fun for one trip. The movie might not take itself too seriously, but make no mistake John Carpenter means business with his film and Russell helps bring it to fruition in one of his finest two-hours. Truly, Big Trouble in Little China is pure fun, and is the kind of film you'll come back to again and again, a true classic in a league of its own. "}{"Title":"Kung-fu, black magic, monsters, and Kurt Russel. And also a severely underrated movie.","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What can I say its corny, its exaggerated, its cool, and its like watching a comic book story.Kurt Russel is Jack Burton, a trucker who by a chance of bad luck gets involved in a kidnapping in Chinatown. And before he knows it he's involved in an ancient battle between spirits, monsters, kung-fu soldiers, and a two-thousand year old man who needs a girl with green eyes in order go get back his youth.I can tell you this movie was intended to have a B-movie feel to it. The bad guy are a stereotypical evil wizard, there is a sorcerer with magical gems, two damsels in distress, everyone( well almost) seems to know kung-fu, and Kurt Russel role, well he's macho, clumsy, but always manage to get trough the task at hand in the end. Heck, there's even a monster showing up now and then.I must give this movie a 10/10. Its silly and exaggerated, but remember it's supposed to be that way, and I enjoyed it all the way through. Its 80's action at its best. "},{"Title":"It's all in the reflexes","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You can't actually go wrong when you've got John working with Kurt, Victor and myths. The plot is great, develops swiftly, and the pacing is fast and non-stop without this ever being overwhelming. It doesn't overstay its welcome, either. Russell delivers one-liners, and a spot-on performance, heck, everyone who needs to, acts well in this. They also found the coolest, meanest looking Asians who could fight and put 'em in this. The martial arts are seriously kick-ass. The supernatural aspects are a perfect mix of silly and incredible, with fantastic and interesting material, done in a tone that is relatively respectful but also poking fun, so regardless of how you feel about spiritual type stuff, if you like adventure flicks(and, honestly, in almost all cases, I don't, and I enjoyed myself immensely), you will probably love this. This has highly imaginative, and quite weird, creatures and occurrences. The humor is excellent, much of it coming from the well-written dialog, the music is well-composed and fitting, and this is a smoothly blended mix of fun-filled action, horror and mystical events in a film that you can barely take your eyes off, all of this adding up to a real tour de force by Carpenter. Whoever says movies can't be creative and hold surprises... you're watching the wrong ones. There is language in this, reasonably infrequent and mostly mild, no sex and the violence is PG, whilst rather exciting and engaging. I recommend this to any fan of the director, actors and/or anyone else who helped make this happen. 7/10 "},{"Title":"You know what ol' Jack Burton always says at a time like this?","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My Take A fun and funny mess of wildly, outlandish proportions.What do you get when you put sorcery, martial arts, evil wizards, old Chinese folk legends, butt-ugly monsters, over-the-top martial artists with really big hats, a stolen 18-wheeler truck and a wisecracking anti-hero named Jack Burton in a blender, with John Carpenter as your chef? A fun and funny concept, and that's exactly what BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA is and nothing more, but what else does it need to be? BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA may have abandoned any form of common sense or plot, but what the heck! Fun is the word here, and fun it is. Who could such a totally plot-less and silly experience be engaging for 99 minutes? It's wild, wacky entertainment, that's why. There's not a single moment in the film that utters sense, but as long as you know how to wave the magic wand to make such silliness work like magic, you don't need anything else.The plot is, well there really isn't any. Just wisecracking hero Jack Burton (Kurt Russell at his wackiest) leading his posse of wizards and martial artists inside slimy dungeons hidden inside old factory buildings and sewers to find an evil wizard (James Hong) who needs two green-eyed maidens to maintain his youth. Of course this calls for ugly monsters, wacky bits of humor, moments of camp, the most over-the-top martial arts battles this side of a Power Rangers episode and Russell uttering such memorable lines such as Ol' Jack always says... what the hell? or I was born ready.. Okay, could you want anything else? If your looking for sense, it's right along that corridor. BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA may not be for everyone, but once you know the concept, it's simply hard to dislike.Rating **** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Big Trouble in Little China - A Perfection in Camp","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China fits the definition of a cult film. Not popular on its initial release &#150; being blocked by other summer films of 1986 such as ALIENS &#150; it has since developed a following which it most certainly deserves. John Carpenter purposely made this a B-movie and I commend him for that, because it certainly is a blast and the chemistry between characters with Kurt Russell at the center is mostly entertaining.The plot revolves around an ancient feud between two separate Chinese groups that has come all the way from its homeland to San Francisco which witless, wisecracking trucker Jack Burton (the always amusing Kurt Russell) suddenly finds himself right in the middle of. With his friend Wang Chi &#150; a skilled Chinese martial artist who owns a restraint in Little China &#150; he is pulled into a fight between good and evil and to save his truck! An ancient sorcerer &#150; Lo Pan &#150; needs to marry a girl with green eyes and then sacrifice her to lift a curse and retain his young form, or else be a frail old man for centuries to come; only being able to take his true form for brief periods of time. When Wang Chi's fiancée is abducted by Lo Pan's Three Storms &#150; warriors possessing the powers of a storm &#150; it is up to Jack and Wang to save her and end the centuries old conflict.As I previously mentioned this film was intentionally made a B-movie and the cast obviously had a lot of fun making it, with lots of tongue in cheek dialogue and intentional mistakes. It all adds to the campy fun that is Big Trouble in little China Town. The best part about it comes from the chemistry between Jack Burton and Wang Chi. You'd think Russell's character would be on top of things being the muscled American toting the gun, but Chi is the real hero with all his martial arts and fighting skills, but Burton never seems to get that constantly puffing his chest believing he is in fact the hero and Chi is the sidekick. This is the main humor that comes from this film, and I found that aspect incredibly creative considering it was a very unique idea that many people didn't get at the time but I believe the idea has begun to catch on and people can now appreciate that humor aspect of Big Trouble in Little China.The film is great entertainment and will have you smiling at its foolishness throughout and it comes highly recommended by me if you're someone who can just sit back and enjoy this masterpiece in camp. It can be found in five dollar bargain bins across the United States so just pick it up if you get the chance. Get the popcorn out, turn off the lights and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Big Movie Big Fun nothing Little about it... Carpenter Rocks!","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm biased I admit it. John Carpenter is among my favorite directors. But, this is not typical Carpenter in the way most people know him (Halloween, etc.)BTiLC is maybe my favorite Carpenter movie because he combined his frantic paced madness with slapstick comedy here (instead of in your face horror) for full effect and succeeds masterfully.More kung fu than you can shake a stick at. Even if youve never heard of Carpenter - if you like high flying (pre matrix CGI) kicking and karate chops, you HAVE to see this one just for the fight scenes, again wonderful.The cast is amazing, each character played way over the top, leaving stereotypes spinning in the dust.Costumes and sets are great and the storyline, though done a million times has a fresh take here because of Carpenters twisted sense of humor and excellent direction taking the film trhough genre mixes so often youre not sure if youre watching a scifi, fantasy, kung fu, comedy or action thriller...the truth is, youre watching all of the above done so campy-ily well that youre not sure what hit you. And thats a very good thing.A must see for any Carpenter, Kurt Russell or Kim Cattrall fans as well as fans of HighFlying martial arts, or video game type action. Lastly if you like campy, fun action/comedy with a light heart, see BTinLC! "},{"Title":"They didn't lie... I was in for some serious fun!","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love everything about this movie! I love BTiLC more than the Rocky Horror Picture Show and Rocky Horror got me laid... A lot. From beginning to end, Big Trouble is filled with non-stop quotable lines, great effects, beautiful martial arts, fine acting, gorgeous sets and costumes, it really lacks for nothing you could want in a Hong Kong style movie... Yet Carpenter gave it to us before Hong Kong style became popular here.I have enjoyed every John Carpenter/ Kurt Russell collaboration and find them all to be worth multiple viewings, but Big Trouble stands head and shoulders above the rest.  "},{"Title":"Truly, a Man's Man","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Seriously, I rank Kurt Russell's portrayal as Jack Burton right up there with the greatest tough guys ever.  He tops John McClane, John Spartan, and Curly.  I haven't gone one second of my life without wishing I was Jack Burton.  And the voices are getting louder....... "},{"Title":"Henry Swanson's my name, and excitement's my game!","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't really describe my passion for this movie. Most people would agree with me when I say it's the best movie ever made. For those that do not agree, I can see why. It is quite over the top and a little cliched. I just have so much fun every time I watch it and can watch it over and over again.It has a mix of everything. Comedy, action, adventure, romance (albeit very cheesy) and a whole lot more. It has your typical 80's feel to it, with all the one-liners that are used (most of which I will never forget).Anyway, I can't really say anymore than that about it. If you like fun movies, this is definitely right for you. By the way, if you're a fan of the movie, get the special edition DVD if you haven't already (which I'm sure you have).10/10 "},{"Title":"Classic is not strong enough, how about Holy","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I EMPHATICALLY recommend Big Trouble in Little China, but I must say that if you didn't grow up with this movie, I can see being very entertained but not in awe of it. I and many others like me repeatedly viewed this film throughout childhood and still love it just as much now as then. Nowadays, a new viewer who is past puberty will regard it with a more skeptical eye, comparing it to things it shouldn't be compared to. Some newcomers might get it right away, but I don't think they get the same thrill out of it as they might have as a child in the eighties. That's why this film needs to be shared with children (especially boys), who hopefully won't be too jaded by flashy nineties schlock to be impressed, which I think is exactly the problem for adults who are new to the movie. Perhaps it can't be taught, the reverence I mean, but the movie isn't any less fun and awesome for new viewers, just less magical. I would rate it with stars or something but that's like trying to grade your own religion. I love you, Mr. Burton.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest B comedies in the history of man.","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In my opinion, this film is absolutely awesome.  From  Chinese black magic to Thunder Gods, Big Trouble in Little China was amazingly funny amidst the mid-80's effects and Mr. Carpenter's musical touch.  Kurt Russel's Jack Burton was a great character, adding the all American attitude with clumsiness, amazing reflexes, and a diesel truck.  But I was most impressed with James Hong's comedic performance as Mr. Lo Pan. Thus, I feel that this film really deserves at least a 7 or 8. "}{"Title":"Love Kurt!","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie occupied most my junior high years. Action, suspense, cheesy diaologue, and martial arts galore. What more could you ask for from a b-movie that is clearly a b-movie? Carpenter and the cast and crew must have had a blast on this film because I can't think of a single movie that combines some of my favorite things about movies Action, comedy, violence, martial arts, and a small tour bus driver named Egg who also knows a little magic. Magic indeed. This is movie magic. Agree or disagree, you can't deny that Carpenter succeeded on all levels when he made this movie. Saturday matineeish? Yes. B-movie cheese? Yes. Pure movie-going fun? Absolutely. Watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Classic, unpretentious, light hearted fun.","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't care what the naysayers think. I love this movie. I loved it when I was 6 years old and I love it now.Prepare to to be transported back in time to when not every film took itself so damned seriously. There's good guys, bad guys, minimal plot, cheesy dialogue and tons of good ol' kick, punch, gouge, slash and stab action! The acting in this show is what the modern movie crowd would call camp But, I just like to call it acting By that I mean the fun kind. No politically correct cultural pandering, and none of this twisted, misunderstood anti-hero nonsense. It's all wonderfully stereotypical chop socky goodness. Victor Wong and James Hong are both, IMHO, action movie legends and make this film a winner between just the two of them. Their respective characters, although mostly static, are instantly endearing and hilarious to watch. They pull it off with comedic talent alone. Kurt Russel, Dennis Dun and Kim Cattrall work well together and all give entertaining, memorable performances within their respective archetypes (Reluctant hero, sidekick, damsel in distress) The story itself? Well, just watch the movie. You'll pick it all up as it goes. It starts quickly and gets to the good parts without wasting your time with meaningless dialogue, side plots or back story. No hidden agendas, no bait-and-switch, no underlying social metaphors. It's just a story. A story where everybody gets beat up....a lot The special effects were....just that...effects. Nothing more. Crude by today's standards (obviously) but unlike 99.98% of contemporary action flicks, they weren't expected to support the entire show! They were special effects As in...not the entire budget! Wow! Even if you don't get a kick out of it, you can keep watching because there's an actual movie happening amidst it all! What a concept, huh?! The fights are all live action, with live extras who come in screaming, shooting and flailing like they really mean it. The hits come often and they don't stop until the the show ends.You will also notice a surprising lack of gore, profanity and overt sexuality/nudity. A few cuts and scrapes, a couple rubber corpses here and there. A few cheap scares. Kurt Russell says shit a couple times. But, that's it. By today's standards, this show is almost family friendly and has the added bonus of not totally sucking.This movie is a rare gem compared to the endless list of ill conceived, overwrought, CG driven garbage that clutters up our screens. Check it out, and try not to take it so damned seriously. "},{"Title":"Easily One of the Greatest Movies Ever","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the PERFECT action/adventure/comedy/fantasy movie, with great ambiance, gorgeous visuals, action scenes way ahead of their time with fantastic choreography & wire-work, superb dialogue with perfect comedic timing, serviceable-yet-tongue-in-cheek fantasy special effects, and an exciting fast pace that pulls you through the entire movie before you realize it is over. While the film's world is wonderfully fleshed out and rich feeling, the whole tone of it all is not meant to be taken seriously - this is a fun movie, and as long as you don't expect Oscar-caliber material, you will enjoy it immensely.No detailed plot description, no serious critique, and no spoilers. Just this This movie has such a HUGE amount of charm, awesomely witty banter and tongue-in-cheek sense of humor, great actors (Kurt Russell as hilariously-cocky & self-assured Jack Burton, Kim Cattrall as charming & determined Gracie Law, Dennis Dun as Jack's sidekick Wang, Victor Wong as hilariously-quirky Egg Chen, & James Hong as sinister Lo Pan), all of whom totally own their roles and mesh so well together to really pull the viewer into their universe. This movie has some of the best one-liners ever put on film, mostly from the most charmingly arrogant loner-type in film since Han Solo, courtesy of Russel's Jack Burton. There is literally nothing else like it, except maybe The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the 8th Dimension for a similar style, but Big Trouble In Little China is by far the more well-rounded, consistently funnier, and more likable film. In my opinion, this is tied with Halloween as John Carpenter's best film. If you like John Carpenter, Kurt Russell, rich fantasy themes, the charm of 80's movies in general, or buddy action/comedy movies, then you REALLY owe it to yourself to check this one out! A truly underrated gem of a classic. "},{"Title":"It's all in the reflexes!","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There's a scene in Big Trouble in Little China where one of the characters likens their situation to Alice in Wonderland. And you can imagine that's exactly how John Carpenter pitched the idea to the studios back in 1986. The surface world of Chinatown is used as the drop-off point for an even wackier world beneath the surface. Just like Alice down the rabbit-hole.But Big Trouble in Little China was a film that still must have been difficult to sell. One of the film's taglines highlights this by showing what a wide variety of clashing styles it has, a Mystical, Action, Adventure, Comedy, Kung Fu, Monster, Ghost Story! Not surprisingly, the film baffled audiences and critics of the time who just couldn't handle the sensory overload of John Carpenter's vision, and it died a quiet death at the box-office.But much like Donnie Darko, it didn't take long for the film to become a cult classic. Its not one of the great John Carpenter films. Not like The Thing or Halloween. But its a little difficult not to get swept away by the energy of Carpenter's direction, or the enthusiasm of Kurt Russell.If Russell was channelling Clint Eastwood in Escape From New York, this time its John Wayne. Russell has an absolute ball as Jack Burton, a grizzled, devil-may-care truck driver who gets caught in the middle of an evil warlord's plans for immortality beneath the streets of San Francisco's Chinatown. Jack is more likely to trip over his own bootlaces than face down a kung fu ninja. But he's the only hope a beautiful bride has before she gets sacrificed to Lo Pan (James Hong), a 2000 year old sorcerer.Big Trouble in Little China is definitely one of John Carpenter's slighter films. It falls quite a bit short of classic status. But then again, Carpenter hasn't made a bona fide classic since The Thing, his finest film. Still, even lesser fare from John Carpenter is much better than what passes nowadays for Hollywood entertainment. The film has enough of an offbeat sense of humour to paper over any of the cracks in the screenplay. Carpenter is so good at what he does that you may even ignore the film's utter lack of a plot.Besides there is something appealing to the film's idea. Anyone who's ever been to a Chinatown will know that visiting one is like entering a world unto itself. So its not really that much of a stretch to imagine another world sharing that one as well. But a world of magic and make-believe. In spite of the bizarre ideas that pop up throughout the film, BTILC works because its impossible for John Carpenter to make a bad film.In everything he makes (even lesser films) Carpenter shows his complete mastery of the film-making process. The action scenes are just as breathless and kinetic as anything in Escape From New York. His direction moves full steam ahead from one lively setpiece to the next. And best of all, Carpenter composes another of his trademark theme tunes, in this case an energetic rock score that backs up the action brilliantly.In later films, John Carpenter has seemed a little intimidated when working with bigger budgets. Which may explain they're decline in quality. Don't forget, he started out in low-budget film-making, where he always impressed with his ability to turn out magnificent films from the flimsiest budgets. BTILC has quite a modest budget, and is one of the rare occasions where he seems quite comfortable with it. The special effects he directs are stunning for the time. Especially an amazingly lifelike blob of eyes. And the fight scenes are dazzling and choreographed on an epic scale. Perhaps his enjoyment for the film overrode his fears.The film has a constant sense of humour too. Just about everything is played for laughs. And the film gets a lot of its mileage from the sheer knockabout energy Carpenter plays to the hilt. He was wise to bring in his old friend Kurt Russell. The two have worked together many times. Nobody can get a great performance out of Kurt Russell the way John Carpenter can. And this is one of his very best. Its a witty reversal of what we normally expect from the lantern jawed All-American hero, where instead of rushing into battle dispatching bad guys with barely a misstep, Russell knocks himself out with his own bullets. He's an incompetent (anti)hero, too full of his own bravado to realise how useless he is.Russell swaggers his way through the film to great effect. Never has he had such fun in a role. Not even as Snake Plissken. His deadpan John Wayne impression is so funny that his every line of dialogue is guaranteed to have you in tears. Also, despite all the chaos going on around him with damsels in distress and evil magicians, you're left with the sneaking suspicion that he's more interested in being reunited with his beloved truck than he is in saving the day. Up against him, a young Kim Cattrall seems rather blank. She looks a bit mystified by all this, like she doesn't understand the film she's in. As if she was on her way to the set of Sex and the City, and stumbled onto the set of BTILC by mistake.Big Trouble in Little China is hardly a John Carpenter classic. But it is a lot of fun. The enjoyment Carpenter and Russell are having is very infectious. And even if it tanked with audiences in its day, the video/DVD markets have assured the film a place in the cult catalogue. As it should. This is a film that gets by on sheer fun alone. It will leave your sides aching for hours afterwards. "},{"Title":"One of Carpenter's most entertaining and funniest films.","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) is a truck driver, who goes to San Francisco make his delivery and seeing his best friend (Dennis Dun). When his friend ask him to go with him to pick up his beautiful fiancée (Suzee Pai) in the Airport but when a gang of thugs kidnapped his fiancée. Now everything in the world of Jack Burton falls apart, when he meets a ghost named David Lo Pan (James Hong) and his three demons named Thunder (Carter Wong), Rain (Peter Kwang) & Lighting (James Pax).Lo Pan needs a woman with green eyes, so he could live again in the real world, merry her and sacrificed her. When an attractive woman (Kim Cattrall) gets caught in the middle and ended getting kidnapped by Lo Pan. But this woman also has green eyes and caught Lo Pan's eye. Jack gets help from his loyal friend and a tour bus driver (Victor Wong) with his gang of fighters to rescue the two woman before Lo Pan could gain power to become human again.Directed by John Carpenter (In the Mouth of Madness, Prince of Darkness, The Thing-1982) made an enjoyable high tech action fantasy that was one the biggest box office disappointment in the summer of 1986. This movie has an great sense of humour and Russell gives an excellent, funny performance as the Show-Off Jack Burton.The now Out of Print DVD from 2001, which is a two disc set. Disc One has an sharp anamorphic widescreen (2.351) transfer and an strong DTS 5.1 Surround Sound (Also in Dolby Digital 4.1 Surround Sound and Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound). Disc One also an enjoyable commentary track by directorCarpenter and actorRussell. Disc Two extras are a campy music video by The Coupe De Villes (Which is film directorsCarpenter, Nick Castle and Tommy Lee Wallace), Deleted/Extended Scenes, Trailers and more.The single disc DVD edition doesn't have the DTS track. It has the same anamorphic widescreen transfer (also in Pan & Scan). DVD audio is in Dolby Digital 4.1 Surround Sound (also in Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound). DVD also has the same commentary track by Carpenter & Russell and the original theatrical trailer. Since this film bombed at the box office, the movie went to be successful on video and it has an cult following. Do not miss this one of the highly entertaining films from Carpenter. Originally written by Gary Goldman (Total Recall) and David Z. Weinstein. Adapation by W.D. Ritcher (Invasion of the Body Snachers-1978, Needful Things, Stealth). Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Cultadventure, Not for everyone","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a movie of great value and meaning for teenagers and young adults who grew up in it's time. The main problem for me when I watched this the first time is that the storytelling is so liberal when it comes to boundaries of the genre that you don't really know what type of movie you're watching. At first you have the impression of adventure action, then comedy action, then hardcore action..furthermore it goes on to horror sci-fi and then back to comedy action again in a haze of genre confusion and settles down at something like adventure-horror-action-comedy.That said, of course that type of storytelling is original in a sense, and all those unusual elements to it made it stand out as a cult film, and obviously a few people liked that, but to me it was always a downside. I was not satisfied with the story being so loosely hinged and unsecured that you have no idea what scheme to use when watching the movie. It was like the mixing of genres destroyed each others credibility.I think the movie would be a lot better if they either cut out the comedy and based it as a horror action(i.e The Thing) movie or cut out the horror and base it as action adventure(i.e Escape from New York). In addition the movie is a victim of evolution as the visual effects have been outdated years ago, which really isn't a bad FX gig, it's just that Big Trouble was made to rely heavily on special effects, and that at the time of release, the special effects were so new in style and cool that they never took the time to detail it on screen so that it would seem realistic in the future. A more conservative approach would definitely have payed off in my opinion.Not timeless, still the movie holds some value with a few funny scenes as well as good martial arts scenes. "},{"Title":"Hugely entertaining fantasy adventure.","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China is set in San Francisco where truck driver Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) meets up with an old friend Wang Chi (Dennis Dun), together they go to the airport to pick up Wang's bride to be Miao Yin (Suzee Pai) but she is kidnapped by local Chinese thugs. Chasing them into Chinatown Jack & Wang discover strange supernatural forces are at work as the 4000 year old evil sorcerer Lo Pan (James Hong) needs to marry & sacrifice a green eyed girl in order to appease the Gods & become flesh & blood again. With the whole world at stake Jack & Wang team up with good sorcerer Egg Shen (Victor Wong) & his men to save Miao Yin & put an end to Lo Pan's evil once & for all...Directed by John Carpenter who also helped compose the music score this fantasy adventure film wasn't well received at the time of it's initial release but I think it's a terrifically entertaining mix of ideas, themes & genres. The script by Gary Goldman & David Z. Weinstein is notable for how many different genres it takes inspiration from & have fun with, from western to horror to sci-fi to fantasy to action adventure to martial arts to comedy to monster film & Big Trouble in Little China ends up being a rather unique flick although I hasten to add that it's a hugely entertaining one if you just sit back & enjoy the ride for what it is. I must admit I love it's mix of crazy ideas & themes, there are outrageous martial arts fights, monsters, secret worlds full of magic, ancient sorcerers, exploding people, eye creatures, daring escapes & a bizarre ritual in which Lo Pan has his brides to be hold onto a sword which then levitates to the ceiling where they have to touch a light shade for no apparent reason! The film moves along at a good pace & at only 90 odd minutes in length the time flies by, it doesn't take itself seriously for a second, there are some very funny one-liners & the Jack Burton character is just great & makes for a very likable hero. He gets thrown into this situation & just sort of stumbles his way through it not really knowing what is going on, he never really does anything heroic & generally ends up looking a bit daft as his oriental mate comes to his rescue on more than one occasion.Big Trouble in Little China was the fourth time director Carpenter had teamed up with star Kurt Russell after Elvis (1979), Escape from New York (1981) & The Thing (1982) & he turns in a very imaginative film, some of the fights are a little silly but the film is as a whole so that doesn't really matter that much. Overall the film isn't that violent, there are quite a few death's but nothing graphic is shown. The film is certainly very colourful although I must admit I though some of the bright neon lighting (especially around the six armed statue in the background) at the end looked a little too much like bright garish lighting from a cheap pop video for my liking. The special effects are generally good although do look a little dated these days, I have the 2 Disc special edition DVD of Big Trouble in Little China & the box states that it contains 46 minutes of deleted scenes which I never bothered to watch but since the finished film only lasts 90 odd minutes that's a lot of material that was cut as well as the ending which was also cut.With a supposed budget of about $25,000,000 Big Trouble in Little China absolutely bombed at the box-office big time, it made considerably less than $3,000,000 during it's opening weekend. Ouch. Having said that it's still a great film, just an obviously misunderstood one. The performances are fun with the charismatic Kurt Russell shining while Kim Cattrall is nice enough as the love interest.Big Trouble in Little China is a great film that I have always liked, it's strange mixture of fantasy, western, horror, martial arts & action adventure make it one of a kind & surprisingly it works a treat. Highly recommended for anyone looking for some light hearted fantasy entertainment. "},{"Title":"i don't get it...","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just don't get it. I enjoy campy movies a lot of the time but this one... I just don't get it. Maybe if I saw it back in the 80's it would have been different but I saw this for the first time last night--my friend loves it--and I can't see how anyone (the Times reporter quoted on the box seemed to think this was the greatest action movie ever)can think it's more than... more than... I don't even know. The comedy, what little I noticed, was delivered and directed poorly--the time was off so often. The plot development and character development was pathetic. I've never heard so many characters suddenly stop and spend a minute to rant to the ignorant hero about what was going on. (On second, I have to go downstairs and fight the evil demon who was just released from hell by my next door neighbor who says evil chants every night from a black book he found while walking along a dark alley many years ago that was being guarded by 2 ninjas who were trained by an ancient master who happens to be coming after my head.) Now, sometimes that can be funny or at least amusing. And, obviously a lot of people must think that, in this case, it is... but it seemed so accidental. So much like they didn't notice they were making a bad movie. So.... I just don't get what everyone sees in this!!!!! "},{"Title":"The Kurt Carpenter Combo","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The DVD commentary reveals many interesting things about this film, and shows how tight Kurt and Carpenter were and still are. That relationship is preserved in this film and can be seen in every scene. It shows that a fun film can be made with a simple a mutual trust between actor and director. The comedic direction this film was given was not appreciated or really understood at the time of release, but is now rarely seen in any movie. It's old school classic action fun guns, swords, trucks, samurais, monsters, girls, kung fu oriental magic, etc. But the comedy comes from a level of self awareness that lets you enjoy the fun for what it is. Most of the movie is moving very quickly with no time wasted trying to make us empathise with characters and all that jazz. You just have to trust John Carpenter will entertain. "},{"Title":"It's all in the reflexes.","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John Carpenter's tongue-in-cheek classic about swaggering truck driver Jack Burton, brilliantly played by Kurt Russell. You may not have heard of Jack Burton but we are in his debt. He, along with friend Wang and a few other brave souls, faced off against the evil sorcerer Lo Pan in order to rescue two beautiful women with green eyes. What a wonderful movie this is. It's just sheer fun from start to finish. It may be my Carpenter fanboyism showing but this movie just gets better and better with age. There are so many quotable funny lines and the cast is amazing. In addition to Kurt Russell who, as I said before is just brilliant in this, we have Dennis Dun kicking ass as Wang. As is often talked about in discussions of this movie, Carpenter subverts expectations by having Dun as the martial artist hero and Russell as the comedic sidekick. Kim Cattrall is very funny as Gracie Law and, of course, gorgeous (despite those unconvincing contact lenses). But the scene stealers of the movie are Victor Wong as Egg Shen and James Hong as Lo Pan. Both men are hilarious in all their scenes. Such a great movie. About as fun as a movie can get, really. It's impossible to watch this and not smile unless there's something switched off inside of you. "}{"Title":"Have you Paid your dues Jack?....Yes sir the check is in the mail!","Date":"1 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have to be bias because I'm a huge John Carpenter fan and absolutely love his story telling. Of his many remarkable stories (Halloween, Escape From New York). Big Trouble in Little China is one of my all time favorite movies. It has comedy, kung fu, fantasy elements with creatures, monsters and magic, and amongst all FUN. It has one liners that stick with you forever, characters that are memorable, and story telling so creative, only the legendary John Carpenter himself could bring it to life. Kurt Russell is in his element brining a Snake Plissken from Escape mixed with a softer Dean Proffitt from Overboard type character. Its not a movie to be picked apart, its meant for you to enjoy. The story is not complex, it is a true guys flick in every sense of the word, and I highly recommend it as a movie on your bucket list to watch. "},{"Title":"Fun Fantastical Film","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Starring Kurt Russell Kim Cattrall and Victor Wong. Action, Suspense, humour and horror all combine to create one really cool movie. I saw this movie a long time ago when I was young and was riveted by it. The non-stop action sequences, the character of Jack Burton an immature action man running around China Town acting like a fool but fighting the good fight. Set in China Town, San Francisco we are taken to a world of Myth and Legend to face the Demonic Spirit of Emperor Lo Pan at his lair in which his gruesome creature and a cohort of minions and sorcerers reside. Jack and his friendly Chinese town people must save their loved ones from his supernatural powers.讓人賞心悅目 "},{"Title":"A magical movie between the forces of good and evil","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China is a cult classic!!! a film which was made in the 80s. This film has everything - fantasy, adventure, action and even comedy, it worked really well together. Yeah! there are those that can't stand this film because let's face it, films like Big Trouble in Little China is not for everyone! but fortunately, the majority like this film at least in terms of entertainment value. So if you haven't seen it yet, then this is a film I STRONGLY advise you to see. The main star of this film is Kurt Russell! who played the character Jack Burton. Jack Burton (Kurt) is a guy that owns a truck and one day, decides to take his friend to the airport to pick-up his girlfriend. But problems arise!! as a group of gang kidnap his friend's girlfriend and Kurt along with his friend are on a mission to track and get her back. Unknowingly, Jack is in a magical battle between the forces of good and evil in Little Chinatown, something he is finding very hard to believe. Jack must not only help finding and getting back the kidnapped woman, but take on the bad guys especially the evil sorcerer! known as Lo Pan!Kurt Russell is the one that made this film an instant success and Big Trouble in Little China is probably one of his best films. Surprisingly! the film didn't do well at box office, but it still became a popular film even till today. Personally, its one of my favourites and you could watch this film again and again, but still not get bored due to the shear entertainment it brings.This movie deservedly gets a 9 for its all-round package. A sequel would've been nice but a cult classic nonetheless. Wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Quite entertaining if you take it for what it really is...a comedy.","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think this movie was marketed as an adventure movie when it came out. I can imagine that some people were disappointed if they were indeed expecting a real adventure movie. I remember being one of those people when I first saw this movie.However, if you approach it seeing what it is, that is a comedy or at least an action-comedy, then it is actually a quite enjoyable movie. The entire movie is utterly ridiculous. The screaming, posturing martial art champion parodies especially so.Everything in this movie makes you laugh as long as you do not try to take the movie seriously. The action scenes are often absolutely hilarious. They are also quite well done and choreographed actually. The special effects are of course utterly outdated but they are good enough for this movie.There is a story as well but it doesn't really matter much. It is just there to tie the funny scenes together, especially the action scenes. Acting? Well, let's just say that it matches the comic nature of the movie.I actually just picked this movie as a trial experience in using Netflix (which finally came to France last Monday) on my PS3 for the first time and I did not want to start something were I would be (censored) if it turned out that it stopped working halfway through. I have to say that I had much more fun watching this movie this time than the first time I was watching it&#x85;and Netflix worked perfectly on my PS3. "},{"Title":"Which Lo Pan? Little ol' basket case on wheels, or the ten-foot-tall roadblock?!","Date":"29 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you're looking for a great film to watch from the 1980s that has action, adventure and eerie horror all in a mix, then you're in luck - Big Trouble in little China is the perfect blend of film genres and has amazing things happening from every corner.....every corner indeed. So the 80s of course was great for films, but films like this, they're the underrated genius-like masterpieces that need to gain more fans and need to be recognised more as both a film and an 80s thing. So rarely you get films like this, proper unique films, with little budgets, yet with wonderful actors/actresses and great scenes of action, dialogue, mysterious wonders and wanders, crazy yet amazing scenery and so much more. Kurt Russell is a brilliant actor and I love every role he lands, whether it's Jack Burton in this, MacReady in The Thing or Cash in Tango and Cash, I always think his roles are landed perfectly, and he's a wonderful actor. His careers not over yet. Big trouble in little China is my favourite film with Kurt Russell though, and the film in general is one of my favourite films and has been a favourite of mines, in particular, for over 6 years. There are loads of weird things in the film, and the characters in it are freaky...freaky indeed. You could never make a remake of this film; and you couldn't make a reboot either. A sequel might work, just might, but I doubt it, and it wouldn't ruin it, kinda. To sum up, if you're into action, adventure, horror and unique and wonderfully weird scenery, this film's ultimately for you. If you're not into all that, then F***, you're NEEDING to get INTO IT! Straight away, right away, hurry! Overall, I would give this film a strong 9.5 out of 10. I love everything about it. Genuinely an amazing film full of unexpected great things. "},{"Title":"Take a ride on the Pork Chop Express","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I must warn you that this review may contain spoilers. Jack Burton (played by Kurt Russell) is probably one of America's greatest fictional heroes. I mean, he's right up there with John McClane from Die Hard. Now that I got that out of the way, Big Trouble in Little China is one of the greatest & cheesiest movies of the 1980's due to its absolutely hair brained storyline of mystical beings from thousands of years ago, Chinese black magic and six demon bags. The story starts out like any other 80's adventure, with a girl being kidnapped and our main heroes chasing after bad guys (ahem...more like the bad guys chasing after them) and getting entangled within a story like you've never seen. This movie is awesome for what it was and when it came out but the quotes in Big Trouble in Little China are so ridiculous that once you've done a run through you'll be quoting just what good ol' Jack Burton always says, What the hell.Check it out and I promise you won't be disappointed. After all, Well, ya see, I'm not saying that I've been everywhere and I've done everything, but I do know it's a pretty amazing planet we live on here, and a man would have to be some kind of FOOL to think we're alone in THIS universe.I also write my own reviews on sundaydumbday.comThanks! "},{"Title":"They are in for some BIG Trouble...","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Question what do you get if you cross over John Carpenter & Kurt Russell with a Western? Answer you get one HELL OF A FUN TIME! And that's what this movie is, nonetheless. Everything about this film is hysterical. It looks GREAT even to this date. (There are some flicks from this date that look like crap.) To me - this is one of my favorite QUOTABLE films. I love when Jack captures a knife and chucks it right back at Lo Pan and states, it's all in the reflexes. I love the lightning villain; he was insane! Because of my above writings, I have to give this movie a 9/10. Ahh what the hell - you know what Ol' Jack Burton would say? I'll give it a 10/10. "},{"Title":"A fantastic roller-coaster ride","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Blending Asian fantasy with comic action, John Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China is a unique tongue-in-cheek blast. Despite being a critical and commercial failure, it has developed a deserved cult following.Kurt Russell is hilarious as the out-of-his-depth trucker, convinced at all times that he's the hero, when he is in fact more of an incompetent comedy sidekick. Dennis Dun gets to do most of the fighting, Victor Wong is amusing as the eccentric mage, Kim Cattrall still looked hot, while James Hong provides suitable menace as the villain. Hong also at times provides amusement when he shows childish glee when things go his way, and gets into a strop when they don't. His three supernatural henchmen provide extra menace, each with their own powers, and weaponry.The whole thing flies by at a fast and furious pace, the effects are still quite impressive. John Carpenter's score may be of it's age, but it's still one of his best, a neat, funky synth-score that helps drive the action in it's own way.A must-have in any cult 80s film collection. "},{"Title":"Jack & Wang","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Did you ever wonder where the guys who made Mortal Kombat got all their ideas? Well, maybe not ALL their ideas, but come on! Look at that guy with the huge hat and tell me the lightning going off around him doesn't remind you of Raiden. No, there is no character even slightly resembling Scorpion or Goro. But there might as well be. Big Trouble is a delectable freak show of a movie where you never know what's going to appear next. Kurt Russell plays a truck driver straight out of a comic book named Jack Burton. Yes, here comes another born-ready alpha hero named Jack. Jack is a simple man. The kind of man for whom corn nuts, pork rhinds and beer are as essential love, liberty and happiness. He never says that but I sincerely hope that's true of Jack. He meets a Chinese Indiana Jones impersonator named Wang while gambling in Chinatown. Wang is ready to chop off Jack's wang until he decides to ask Jack for a ride to the airport to pick up his sweetheart instead. At the airport, things get seriously tense when three Chinese gangbangers show up wearing the coolest eyewear you've ever seen and kidnap Wang's love. Wang is upset because he lost a whole girl! Jack and Wang set off after them on account that they've got this sorta clubhouse thing where they all hang out. Our hero and sidekick end up in an alley where every actor you've ever known as that Asian guy from (insert movie title) appears for a good old-fashioned slice & dice rumble. And if you think that's kick ass, look out! Here come Tres Chinos Supremos, aka The Three Storms. The rest of the film is a Chinese circus adventure of floating monster heads, exploding fu fanatics and green-eyed girls! This is one of Carpenter's best. "},{"Title":"It's all in the reflexes","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kurt Russell's truck monologue in the beginning of the film will convince you that the ride is well worth. There's nothing like that little speech, except maybe for Peter O'Toole's Shakespearean monologues. Yes, folks, it's Jack Burton sharing his philosophy with the world, from the Pork Chop Express.For those who have a strong sense of humor and appreciation for the glorious 80's Camp, Big Trouble in Little China is a classic masterpiece. Think no more about plot, acting skills and things like that. This is pure Hollywood fun of the best kind, and it's a sublime mess. Don't over-analyze it, just go with Jack Burton on this It's all in the reflexes. "}{"Title":"Another John Carpenter Classic And One Of His Best Films.","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble In Little China is another John Carpenter classic that brilliantly mixes Action,Comedy,Martial Arts,Kung Fu,Adventure,Sci-Fi,Fantasy,and Mystery making this a fun,unforgettable movie that you can watch again and again.Big Trouble In Little China tells the story of a wisecracking truck driver named Jack Burton(Kurt Russell) who comes to San Franciso,Chinatown visiting his friend Wang Chi(Dennis Dun).While visiting,Jack and Wang go to the airport to pick up Wang Chi's girlfriend Miao Yin(Suzee Pai),but things go bad when Miao Yin is kidnapped by thugs. This kidnapping sends Jack Burton into a bizarre world that he has never seen or experienced.Big Trouble In Little China is a great film that works on many levels and is a classic now,but was basically ignored and overlooked when it came out in 1986. At the time Asian Martial Arts and Kung Fu movies were not popular when BTILC was released,Bruce Lee was dead,Jackie Chan and Jet Li were not known by American audiences during that time,John Woo's Asian Action films were also not known by American moviegoers until a few years later and the only popular films at the time that had Kung Fu and Martial Arts in the them were Chuck Norris films and The Karate Kid movies and unfortunately audiences skipped out on this great film. But thanks to the critical and Box Office success of films such as The Matrix,Kill Bill and the Academy Award winning film Crouching Tiger,Hidden Dragon,people have rediscovered BTILC and has become a Cult Classic and John Carpenter Classic and the reasons the film works is because of Carpenter's take on the Kung Fu and Martial Arts genres,the Jack Burton character and the amazing special effects. Carpenter loves Martial Arts and Kung Fu films and his take on the two genres is just great,while also mixing together mixing excellent Action and hilarious Comedy with Martial Arts and Kung Fu and doing it with a masterful stroke. Combing different genres in one film isn't easy but John Carpenter succeeds in creating one of the best genre mash-up films of all-time greatly combines all of those fantastic genres within 99 minutes meaning that even though the film mixes different genres and the plot of the movie can be a little complex at times,BTILC never becomes uneven or disjointed. Carpenter creates a world where Martial Arts and Fantasy are powerful and bigger than life,using powers and magic with great flight. The film also has great visual style,whether it's the gray clouds and the constant raining,production design or the ingenious special effects. The main characters in the film are truly hilarious and well-drawn,with most of the film's characters talking at a fast pace like a 1930s or 40s screwball Comedy with great memorable dialog. The film isn't a spoof,parody or send-up,but the characters are still funny and when the actors and characters play it straight it's even funnier. You can tell the actors were having fun making this film. Jack Burton is a funny and classic character because Burton sees himself as a man of Action,but each time makes himself look like a fool and it's great for laughs while trying to figure out what's going on. What also makes this film great is the reversal of the Action hero and the sidekick,where Jack's the sidekick and his friend Wang-Chi is the the real hero and man of Action with fighting and with Burton really being the sidekick and saying funny one-liners,this kinda thing wasn't done in 80s Action films and you can say that Jack Burton was a parody of the 80s Action hero which was unheard of at the time and one of the main things I love about the movie is the way it hilariously takes lots of familiar Action movie clichés and makes fun of them throughout the film. The Action and High flying scenes are great and filled with a lot of energy and pace and holds up well with no wires or cgi in the scenes making the Action look natural. This movie was a decade ahead of it's time and way before the Action and High flying style of The Matrix,Crouching Tiger,Hidden Dragon and Kill Bill. The special effects are great and in my opinion aged well and hold up well. The ending of the film is a classic Carpenter ending that is Action-packed and thrilling but is also shocking,surprising and very unexpected. I don't know if Carpenter was leaving the ending open for a sequel,but if he was I would've love to have seen more Adventures from the character Jack Burton.Kurt Russell is excellent and hilarious as Jack Burton,with Russell bringing great laughs and an amazing John Wayne impression. One of Russell's best and most iconic rolls. Kim Cattrall is brilliant as Gracie Law,Jack's love interest with Cattrall having great chemistry with Russell. Dennis Dun is wonderful as Wang Chi,Jack's friend and sidekick who's the real man of action. James Hong is delightful and over the top as the villain Lo-Pan,a sorcerer who wants to rule the universe. Victor Wong is terrific as Egg Shen,a sorcerer who's been after Lo-pan for years and helps out Jack and Wang Chi. Kate Burton(Margo)and Donald Li(Eddie Lee) give good performances in the film. Carter Wong(Thunder),Peter Kwong(Rain)and James Pax(Lightning)also do good in their roles as Lo-Pan's henchmen.John Carpenter's direction is amazing,with Carpenter giving the film a unique look and style to the film. Carpenter also does well with the Action,Comedy and fantasy scene and keeps the film moving at a fast pace. Great Direction,John.The score from John Carpenter and Alan Howarth is great and adds to the light and fun feel of the film and I also love the film's theme song. This is one of Carpenter's best scores.In final word,If you love Action,Comedy,Fantasy,Martial Arts and Kung Fu films,I highly suggest you see Big Trouble In Little China,an Action-packed and hilarious classic that is John Carpenter and Kurt Russell at their best. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Worth Your Time-Pay Attention","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In a attempt to help a friend,a truck driver ends up getting his Freightliner stolen. So he must go into the Chinatown underbelly to help save many girls and get his truck back.I must admit. The first time I saw this movie ,I thought it was so-so. But John Carpenter and Kurt Russel said in the commentary that this is suppose to be a comedy. With that in mind,I was giggling my behind off the next time I saw it. The John Carpenter soundtrack was pretty good also. To film buffs, the commentary is interesting to hear the thoughts of insider pros. This is a cool storyline for a truck driver. Bravo Gary Goldman,David Weinstein,W.D. Richter,John Carpenter, and Kurt Russell.Kurt Russell drove the Freightliner big truck(For real). Kurt Russell is a permanent A list actor.Kim Cattralls' performance is outstanding.Kim Cattrall,Kate Burton,Suzie Pai,Min Loung,June Lu and the White Tiger gals,as well as the Wing Kong female guards are hot.---One Truck Drivwers Opimion---erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"Get comfortable and have some fun","Date":"24 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is gonna be a short review. I have seen this many many times, and have it on DVD. If you ever wanted to know what tongue-in-cheek means, this movie gives you one fantastic example. Everyone earns their pay, and looks like they had fun doing it. Our family has watched it on and off over the years a LOT of times, and enjoyed it each of them. I am a fan of Kurt Russell, and have enjoyed his work many times. I think the special effects were done very well. It is always amazing to me how they got that big truck into that small alley, maybe they built the alley around the truck - I don't think so - but? So, get some corn, a drink, sit back, and enjoy a very fun movie. "},{"Title":"Magic Was Used To Create This Film","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John Carpenter Hits Me With A Good Movie. Ladies & Gentleman BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA. Before Anyone Gets Concerned At The Plot Its A Comedy So Its Supposed To Be Far Fetched. While kung fu warriors and otherworldly spirits battle over the fate of two women, Russell's swaggering idiot manages to knock himself out or underestimate the forces he's dealing with. Jack Burton, a tough-talking, wisecracking truck driver whose hum-drum life on the road takes a sudden supernatural tailspin when his best friend's fiancée is kidnapped. Speeding to the rescue, Jack finds himself deep beneath San Francisco's Chinatown, in a murky, creature-filled world ruled by Lo Pan, a 2000-year-old magician who mercilessly presides over an empire of spirits. Dodging demons and facing baffling terrors, Jack battles his way through Lo Pan's dark domain in a full-throttle, action-riddled ride to rescue the girl. See I Told You It Was Far Fetched. Kurt Russel Is Really Good In This But I Preferred Him As SNAKE PLISSKEN In ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK. The Visuals Are A Good As It Gets For The 80's. As A Comedy Its Funny In Some Places. John Carpenter Your A Genius. "},{"Title":"The definitive PopCorn movie","Date":"18 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I still remember the first time I saw Big Trouble in Little China from John Carpenter. It was Christmas time, I was about 10 years old and that movie became immediately one of my favorite. Indeed, this is the perfect movie for kids and teenagers. It seems that Carpenter wanted to put in the same movie all kind of stuff he liked when he was younger. Just imagine a mixture of The Karate Kids, The Goonies, The 36th chamber of Shaolin, Star Wars, Conan the Barbarian and Dirty Harry. Seems weird? Yeah but so FUN! What about the content?- The script don't watch that movie to find a complex story like Citizen Kane or Mulholland Drive, or deep reflexions about life or death (Allen, Bergman, Godard, Bunuel, where are you?)- the only goal of that movie is people to have FUN. This story was written as a video game where heroes had a quest and should complete several levels in order to succeed. Concerning the characters, you got everything a good video game needs a beautiful Chineese girl kidnapped by bad guys, two opposite wizards, some magic potions, monsters (even a Bigfoot like in Harry and the Hendersons), a kind of modern samurai, some kung-fu fighters and that Old Jack Burton, a truck driver, dreaming of becoming the next Inspector Harry but closer to Jacques Clouseau. Finally, the best aspect of that script is that you got cult quotes in every corner of every scene, from All is in the reflexes to We really shook the pillars of heaven, didn't we, Wang?. Just watch it, you can't stop laughing when hearing Jack Burton speaks. - The direction Carpenter's decision to make that movie as kitsch as possible makes it go through age without taking dust. Even the old synthetized music and special effects from the 80's (which seems ridiculous nowadays for most movies), are in total adequation with the whole aspect of that film. - The actors they are all perfects with a special mention to Kurt Russell in its best performance to date he IS Jack Burton. James Hong and Victor Wong are perfects as chineese wizards while Dennis Dun is an incredible Kung-fu fighter. And what about Kim Cattrall? Well, she brings with her the sexy touch needed for that kind of movie.Conclusion you like that movie when you're a kid and still love watching it as an adult with your own kids! It's 100% pure FUN, 100% pure LAUGH and the DEFINITIVE POP CORN MOVIE! Just watch it and you will understand why directors like Tarantino or Rodriguez love it and love Kurt Russell!***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"He's a very reasonable guy, who is experiencing some very unreasonable things.","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In my opinion John Carpenter's best work.You have Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) who is a Trucker making a delivery to San Fransisco Chinatown, he meets up with his friend Wang, who they then gamble and drink...after loosing a bet of $1,148 x2, Jack takes Wang to the Airport to pick up Wang's fiancé, and then...it all begins.The movie has everything, the Hero, antihero, the wise old man, the damsels in distress, brutal martial arts fights, The evil sorcerer, the loyal bodyguards, gunfights, vicious monsters, the most quotable lines in a movie I can think of, and Chinese black magic.The one thing I love about the movie is, that Jack is not even the hero, well in the sense of the word, he is the focus of the movie, but he's more of the sidekick who does heroic stuff. I would recommend this movie to anyone I see or meet, it's not an overly serious movie like Carpenter's other works for example, Escape From NY, The Thing, Halloween, or Assault on Precinct 13. This is a fun movie with serious action, the dialog is well executed, the action is fulfilling, even the special effects for an 80's movie are pretty damn good. "},{"Title":"A Mystical Action Adventure Comedy Kung-Fu Monster Ghost Story","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jack Burton is a trucker in San Fransisco whose friend Wang Chi's girlfriend Miao Yin is kidnapped by a streetgang called the Lords of Death. It transpires she has been chosen as the bride for David Lo Pan, an evil sorcerer who must marry a woman with green eyes to rid himself of an ancient curse. Jack and Wang, with the help of some friends, delve into the underworld of Chinatown to try and rescue her and defeat this evil menace.John Carpenter's name is hardly synonymous with comedy, but this charming, amusing, silly, action-packed, deliriously goofy movie belies that fact. It's great strength is in never taking itself too seriously but always striving to entertain, through great performances, a wild story, terrific martial arts sequences, gorgeous fantasy sets and costumes, and great characters. Jack Burton is beautifully out of whack; he's completely out of his depth, stumbling around, trying to maintain his facade of bravado, but he's totally lovable because of these faults, so he really is the hero in the end, even if his friends do all the hard work. Russell gives a fearless, hilarious performance in the lead, but the whole cast leap into the lunacy feet first and the result is magical. Wong and Hong in particular have a whale of time as the kindly old sorcerer Egg Shen and his fearsome nemesis Lo Pan respectively. W.D. Richter's script absolutely rockets along, giving the movie a giddying, agreeably disorienting pace, but in Carpenter's skilled hands it flows along evenly, with the fights and the gags timed to perfection. It's full of terrific moments and lines (A man'd have to be some kind of fool to think we're all alone in this universe !) and I love the way it literally dips gently from present-day San Fransisco to the magical underworld of Lo Pan's domain. It also contains one of Carpenter's richest scores, a wailing, mystical-acoustical electronic tempest which buoys up all the mythic elements and races around the action; the whole wedding / final fight / escaping sequence is just awash in fantastic music, and Carpenter even sings (he's the bass voice) on the end credits ! Sadly, this movie was not a hit on its release - it was much too satirical and wild for mainstream audiences - and was one factor which prompted Carpenter to return to low-budget independent work. However, like so many of his films, it was a big success on video and has become a cult classic. I love its sense of daring by having a goofball of a hero and mixing every genre it can think of into the same movie. It looks fabulous, and it's just so much fun to watch. If you ever need cheering up, and you have an open mind, this picture will do the trick every time. Featuring terrific visual effects by Richard Edlund, and fabulous choreography by Jim Lau and James Lew (who both play Chang Sings). Trivia - after meeting on this film, stuntman/actor Jeff Imada (who plays Needles, the hood with the knives at the airport) has been the stunt co-ordinator on every subsequent picture Carpenter has made. If movies are fundamentally meant to entertain - and make no mistake, they are - this is what so many should aspire to. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Mortal Kombat meets The Goonies....","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In this 80's classic it tells the tale of Jack Burton (Kurt Russell), as a trucker who revisits Chinatown, San Fransisco to catch back up with old times but when his friend's love interest gets kidnapped by a group of gangs, it bring out a whole bigger story.As Jack tries to understand what's going on, Gracie Law (Kim Cattrall) a lawyer in Chinatown reveals the story of one David Lo Pan (James Hong), a Chinese emperor that have been dead for thousands of years has resurrected for the cause of finding his true love that bears a rare gift, green eyes. With Jack Burton not fully grasping the situation, him and a group of people go out on a quest to search for David Lo Pan under the streets of Chinatown and take down the underground kingdom, where magic and all things are possible.This action/adventure/fantasy really keeps your heart racing and to watch this movie you must free your mind of what seems impossible and that is what makes it entertaining.Do you believe in magic? "},{"Title":"Big Trouble in Little China","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China (also known as John Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China) is a 1986 comedy/action film, directed by John Carpenter and starring Kurt Russell and Kim Cattrall, set in San Francisco's Chinatown.A roguish long-haul truck driver named Jack Burton (Russell) has his rig, The Pork Chop Express, stolen in the course of the kidnapping of his friend Wang Chi's (Dennis Dun) fiancée &#150; the lovely and green-eyed Miao Yin (Suzee Pai) &#150; by the ancient and evil Chinese sorcerer, David Lo Pan (James Hong).Centuries ago, Lo Pan, a great warrior, was defeated in battle by the First Sovereign Emperor, Qin Shi Huang. The Emperor placed upon Lo Pan the curse of No Flesh. Although Lo Pan can be temporarily granted a decrepit body by supplication to the gods, in order to permanently break the curse and regain his human form he must marry a woman with green eyes, who must also be a daughter of a holy man (a fact not explicitly explored in the movie). Simply marrying her will please the God of the East; but to satisfy the Emperor, he must sacrifice her. Lo Pan is served by a ruthless street gang, the Wing Kong, and the Three Storms &#150; three mystical henchmen named Thunder, Lightning and Rain.Jack and Wang &#150; aided by lawyer Gracie Law (Cattrall), a tour bus-driving sorcerer named Egg Shen (Victor Wong), Wang's friend Eddie Lee (Donald Li), and a rival street gang to the Wing Kong known as the Chang Sing &#150; fight many battles as they venture into the mysterious depths of Lo Pan's lair to save the girl and get Jack's truck back. "},{"Title":"A great movie so seldom spoken about","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched Big Trouble in Little China too many times to count. BTILC is one of the best filmatic mixes of action and comedy. This was definitely the funniest role I've ever seen Kurt Russell play, even better than his role in Overboard. I think the movie was a great mix of just about everything. There was comedy, adventure, kung-fu, love, mysticism, and a great story to boot. Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) was just a plain ole, run of the mill trucker who gets thrust right in the middle of a rescue mission. The mission rescue two green eyed women from a 1000 year old Chinese mystic who is about to sacrifice them to prolong his life. Not only do Jack and his pal Wang Chi (Dennis Dun) have to deal with a Chinese gang, they also have to deal with henchmen with supernatural abilities. And how could you not like the three mystical henchmen? If anyone has ever seen or played Mortal Kombat, you know where the idea of Rayden came from. "}{"Title":"Bizarre low-budget affair","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Before it was cool to have guys in trenchcoats shooting dual guns at each other or flying around as they do kung fu, John Carpenter crafted this bizarre low-budget affair that still remains one of the most true combonations of US and HK cinema -- if only because Carpenter seems to use Wong Jing's kitchen sink approach to film-making, with both an appreciation of the past, but a total disregard for the rules.The fairly silly story is about a truck driver named Jack (Kurt Russell) who gets sucked into the strange underworld of Chinatown while trying to help his buddy rescue his girlfriend from an evil sorceror. But don't worry too much about the plot. The film has its' tongue planted firmly in cheek at all times, spurred on by Russell's wonderfully dry, yet hammy, delivery of the dialogue. Actionwise, Big Trouble also does a good job. Granted, it's no Crouching Tiger or anything like that, but Carpenter did the best (I think) with what he had to work with, and like most low-budget directors, he substitutes creativity for pyrotechnics, such as a group of three elemental warriors, one of whom (played by Cater Wong) would become the basis for Raiden in the Mortal Kombat games and movies.Big Trouble in Little China is one of those great midnight movies that you catch on TV at 3 am, and stay up all night watching. It's not really good, but it's not really bad, either -- it's one of those rare movies that are so over the top that you can't help being sucked in, unless you're some kind of film snob. I won't try to defend the plot or the script or the acting -- this is just a fun no-brainer popcorn movie, plain and simple, and a damn good one at that. Sure, there's a lot of cheese in here, but you occasionally have to have a cheeseburger to appreciate filet mignon. "},{"Title":"One of the 80's best popcorn summer flicks","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being born in June of 1983, i was simply to young to go see, let alone understand most of the great 80's films in the theaters. I had to deal with VHS tapes and HBO to see such great films, and even at that young age, they were nothing more then amazing visuals. Big trouble in little china, was one of those amazing visuals whose story never dawned on me until i caught an playing on TV less then a year ago.As for the story, well, its a comic book story with bad guys and magic powers, etc. I think its better for you to view the story for yourself, because i don't want to spoil the film, and frankly i cant tell the story without giving it justice.The action is tops (for 1986) and the special effects seem dated, but thats just a minor gripes, because there are really some good pre digital effects here, but being the special effect savy type of guy, i can tell how they achieved the shots!Kurt Russell also gives some great one liners, and the guy who plays David Lo Pan, is just one of the most underrated but excellent villains to grace the screen. Serousley, this guy belongs right side Darth Vader and Dracula! Hell, i bet lo pan could take on them both and show them a thing or two.Overall, as long as you don't expect Shakespeare or heavy deep acting, your bound to enjoy this crazy film. Its just so much fun!  "},{"Title":"Great Movie, seen it several times.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm a big fan of John Carpenter, I am from his native state of Kentucky. I also grew up watching his films throughout the 80s, I hope to start a DVD collection with his movies ALL in special edition packaging.Anyway this movie inspired many video game characters most notably Lightening which became Raiden in Mortal Kombat.I haven't seen this one in a while but really hope for that Special Edition DVD. I do remember a lot about it, like wasn't Rawhead Rex in it at the end? This was a fun inventive movie I hope John Carpenter doesn't stop directing like he said he would or take to long of a break. All great directors will stop, like everyone has to stop, but they have a chance to live forever in the minds of generations to come.Carpenter is proof with this and his other movies that not all great talent is awarded with Oscars&#153; but with the love of a movie fan. I wrote this at 430 in the morning. Eddie Huff "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An 80 classic! If you like fantasy/adventure movies then you MUST see big trouble in little china.  I can't explain in words how good this movie is.  And it has aged well during this time.   Everything is perfectly pictured , Kurt russel kicks asses but he's just a truck driver and that's so funny watching him fight against supernatural creatures from little china.  A movie like this will never exist so i you haven't seen it you better check it out. One of Carpenter's best.   10/10  I just love it. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the Best Movie Ever, besides Anaconda IIElectric Boogaloo.Kurt Russell is fantastic. So is that lady from Manequin.Talk about action. Bang!!Boom!!Kapow!!Zaperooni!!Need I say more?These Chinese people can really fight! And they're kind of scary too. I wouldn't want to be in Big Trouble in Little Chinatown! NoSirEeeee! Maybe Little Trouble, but definitely not Big Trouble. That is, unless I had these true heroes by my side. Then I wouldn't be afraid at all. Except of the main bad guy. He's really bad! Spooky Bad!Boom Zap!Rent this movie!PaDow! "},{"Title":"There Is No Film Like This","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This has to still be the best fantasy action comedy ever, I can never see any film over powering this. I grew on Big Trouble in little China and to do this day it still pulls all the punches which Carpenter does not do anymore but at least we have this film to keep in our memories of his greatness including The Thing and Escape from New York.I showed it to my girlfriend not long ago because she is a big fan of fantasy films and I was sure that she would like it, but after it finished she said it was OK, not the classic you were rambling on about, you can imagine my disbelief when she said that, I can tell you now she didn't get any that night, that's for sure. I just can't see how anybody can find a fault with his. Kurt Russell to this day is the most funniest actor I have seen in this type of film, pretending to be the hard man which he is but always seems to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Forget Schwarzegger, forget Stallone and Van Damme, Kurt Russell was the action hero of the 80's, in my book he was. "},{"Title":"Outstanding! A Classic!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  An Amazing film albeit very silly! You gotta love it! I still remember this movie like it was yesterday and it was, what?, too many years ago that I first saw it. Glorious! How can you not love this movie and all it's silly lines. my yin and yang must be going north and south and the six demon bag "},{"Title":"A great movie!!!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think that no one film is better than big trouble in little china...As Carpenter says, this is his best movie, because I think that it contains action, martial arts, fantasy and really funny scenes, and in this film there is a great actor called Kurt Russell, that is Jack Burton, my favorite Hero!!I think that Carpenter, making this movie, has really created a genial masterpiece!!   "},{"Title":"Simple, yet entertaining","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Big Trouble in Little China is a great comedic action flick for the average joe-shmo.  Kurt Russell as the cocky Jack Burton and Dennis Dun as his faithful kick-azz sidekick Wang deliver great performances in this simply awesome movie! 7.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Camp and Cult Classic","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the most underappreciated cult classics I have ever run across.  There are sooo many one liners in this one that make it so much fun.  The story really moves along and I can say with some certainty that there isn't a dull moment.  I think this movie was brilliantly cast and Kurt Russel gives his most hilarious performance, you can tell everyone had a LOT of fun making it.  Lo Pan is one of my favorite all time movie villains and think he is really well played.  He is definetly tough, but there are at least 2-3 lines that he gave that made me laugh out loud.  Perhaps the funniest moment in the film can only be found on the special edition DVD, because it was DELETED!  Well the scene is still in, but the best parts (A Kurt Russell speech) were edited out.  Look under Deleted Scenes and then Gracie's Office (I believe), Kurt just goes off and brings up Charlie Chan and Fu Manchu, you also get to find out the contents of that drink.  Anyways I don't think this movie is really edgy and racey enough to garner a huge cult following, but it should.  There are so many moments to list, that I won't list them, but those of you who have seen should know what I'm talking about...well that's if you liked the movie of course.  I think the DVD is worth the price for all of the extras, though I wish the commentary focused more on the movie (which it does at times, though at one point Carpenter and Russell start yapping about their kids playing hockey).  Still that's a minor quibble and not enough to detract from me giving this move a 10.  I think it gets better with every viewing.  Also does anyone know what a 6 Demon Bag is, it sounds cool.Zoopansick "}{"Title":"An All Time Classic.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this film in 1986 - I loved it then - I still love it now. The comic twist (the guy who thinks he's the hero actually being the sidekick) still works for me.One of John Carpenter's & Kurt Russells greatest movies.I Give it 100/10. "},{"Title":"small classic in chinatown","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is rollercoaster of fun,never taking itself seriously,but simply moving from action sequence to comedy sequence and back again.Kurt Russell playing an indiana jones character with attitude,and Kim Cattrall plays the role of wisecracking damsel in distress perfectly. Even the end credits music was great,yet believe it or not this film flopped at the box office.I can only assume the movie going public of that year went to watch trash like The Color of money instead. "},{"Title":"Dont miss this fantastic film you will not be disappointed!","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this film when i was just 9 years old Big Trouble In Little China is one of my favourite films with kurt Russell.I bought the Dvd just because of the special features to this fantastic film. The commentary with kurt Russell and his longtime friend director John Carpenter was great Fun. John and kurt talk about the experience of making the film and the fun they had.Whenever john and kurt get together they have alot of laughs and they have quite a fond affection for this film.Jack Burton played wonderfully by kurt russell and is one of my fave actors playing a larger than life guy who sometimes sees himself as the hero but he's actually quite useless.Wang is truly the hero in the film he is absolutely amazing in the fighting sequences.Kurt and Dennis Dunn worked so well together and it was so hilarious whenever they got on each others nerves.Kurt Russell provides us with plenty of comic relief and classic one-liners and i still think it's the funniest lines I've heard in any movie I've ever seen before.When i see this  film now i love watching it again and again.Big trouble in little china has lots of thrills a good cast who look like their having fun it's a very crazy film.seeing Kurt as Jack Burton is a blast he is the reason i love the film so much.This is Overall an enjoyable film.classic line from Jack BurtonOk you people!sit tight hold the fort and keep the home fires burning.And if we're not back by dawn...Call the president,   "},{"Title":"One of the better 80's flicks","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Very unique movie that should have been a hit! Anyone who doesn't like this movie has a serious problem. It delivers great action and some very funny moments! I crack up every time the character Lo Pan appears on screen! Kurt Russell is also great as well, but this is no Escape From New York! This is Carpenters last great film before he went into a slump. "},{"Title":"A real good time!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What can I say?  It's action-packed, it's original, it's exciting, it's filled with good humor and the characters are likable.  You've got the ingredients of a good, solid action movie.  John Carpenter is a fine director, so he always finds a way to make the action scenes interesting. I enjoyed the soundtrack as well, which has that nice eighties vibe to it. Don't expect a strong plot structure, but I wasn't expecting one in the first place, so it made no difference to me.  What I did expect was to have a good time, and that's exactly what happened.  Watching this film, I realized that Kurt Russell really should be in more movies.  Of course, you got the million-or-so nay-sayers who regard him as a bad actor and regard many of his films as crap, but screw them!  No one said he's a brilliant actor.  No one said he should be doing Shakespeare in the Park.  What he does primarily are action movies, and he's a fine action star.  I think he's a good actor as well, but the point is he has charm and charisma, and can deliver witty one-liners with perfect timing.  He delivers tons of great one-liners throughout the film, and I felt like he owned those lines.  Of course, Russell seemed to be having tons of fun, which also helps as he showed much spirit in his performance.  I'm sure I'll read a plethora of reviews from people saying how silly this movie is, but what can you do? When it comes to slick, witty action movies like this people regard it as lame, but when it comes to dumb, witless movies like Charlie's Angels, people bark at me for not loosening up.  I guess it's all in the eye of the beholder.My score  7 (out of 10)     "},{"Title":"Comic book come to life....","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's the only way to watch the film, almost like you were flicking through some trash comic.  The script is hammed and Russell (in a role akin to Snake in Escape From New York also directed by Mr.Carpenter) happily plays along with what is really a mock homeage to the Hong Kong movies of ghosts and demons featuring wire acrobatics of a strictly substandard quality - this isn't 'Crouching Tiger' by any stretch of the imagination and overall falls short on trying to be tongue in cheek schlock horror/or a comedy.Burton does come up with some great lines and is as atypical a hero as you could want.  He just wants his truck back! "},{"Title":"Nothing or double","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie on opening night. I really did not know what to expect. Except for the intro at the lawyer's office, it starts off quite normally. Then little hints of oddness begin to show. The scene at the airport starts things rolling, and it keeps on going in such an original way. Check out the shot of driving kidnappers leaving the airport -- it is classic.I could hardly believe what I was seeing when I watched that movie. I had never seen fighting action like that before. It seemed amazingly fast and dramatic. The dialogue was fantastically off kilter. The special effects were perfect even when excellent and cheezy. (Neon lights in an ancient temple?) I left the theater totally high on the wonder of that film. I have seen countless times since.When I began watching HK movies, I began to see the influence. I think I was very lucky to have seen BTiLC before any good HK movie. The impact was much greater.I think all the actors do an excellent job for their roles. I really enjoy friendships that seem sincere in movies. This one definitely has one. And the last scene with all the actors leaves a melancholy feeling. I suppose Carpenter was hoping to make another movie. Who knows what it would have been like. I am simply greatful this one was made.Sigh. I wish I could forget that I have seen certain movies so that I could see them again.To sum it up. A fantastic movie. One of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Good fun","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have to admit that I'm no big fan of John Carpenter. His movies always have the B-movie taste to them that somehow most of the time rubs me the wrong way, like he's not even trying. But sometimes, once in a great while, he manages to make that B-movie thing work. The result is highly entertaining, not least because you can tell he's having a lot of fun.I would probably rate this movie and Escape from New York as Carpenters best work. Not only are they solid fun, they are also well made for their time and budget constraints. Big Trouble in Little China has some pretty good special effects all things considered. And having watched the movie something like fifteen times when i was younger, it stands the test of time surprisingly well when i watch it today. Other than the effects the main attractions are Kurt Russels overblown hero, the quite massive amount of surprisingly good martial arts action and all the freaky characters. Mainly though what saves the experience is the constant tongue-in-cheek feeling.I'm sure that younger people may not find this movie that exciting. But for me having watched it for the first time when i was maybe 11-12 years old, this is pure nostalgia. And like i said above, it's nostalgia that unlike so many other things hasn't lost all of it's shine. Saying i wished they would make movies like this nowadays makes me feel too old though so i won't say it. But movies that don't take themselves too seriously have always attracted me, and this is a bullseye in that department. Recommended! "},{"Title":"Unbelievable!","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is a non stop action adventure. One of Kurt Russels best movies. Unbelievable Effects for a late 80's Movie. I Suggjest this movie to fans of martial arts adventures, people who like gun scenes,gang fights, fans of John Carpenter, Kurt Russel fans, and people that like magic and monsters. This is my all around favorite movie. It is a great movie for the whole family. The movie has a bit of everything in it- Action, Adventure, Fantasy, and thrills. The movie is great I think that if you haven't seen it yet you should go rent it and you will love the movie. Its just a remarkable piece by John Carpenter. See it! "},{"Title":"Just great comedy/fantasy","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Big budget comedy/fantasy from John Carpenter.  The plot is kind of hard to summarize--Kurt Russell (doing a very funny imitation of John Wayne) gets involved with Chinese ghosts, sorcery, white slavery, warring gangs...you name it.  The plot moves VERY quickly...it does make sense, but you have to pay full attention to every single line of dialogue and fill in some of the blanks yourself.  The screenwriter, W.D. Richter, also did the screenplay for Buckaroo Banzai--if you can follow that film, you'll follow this. The acting, with the exception of Russell, isn't that good, but who really cares?  There's virtual non-stop action (love the sequence where two men are flying through the air while having a sword fight), great special effects and some hysterical one-liners from Russell.  Basically, this is a real fun action movie.  Universal didn't know how to sell this film so it was a critical and financial bomb but it's acquired a following on video.  Try seeing the letter-boxed DVD.  Well worth seeing.One warning--Despite the PG-13 rating there's a lot of casual violence and quite a bit of swearing.  This perhaps is not a film for little kids.  "}{"Title":"The Ultimate Fun-Flick","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film represents the film that was always there for you when you were tired of watching the blockbuster smashes. It was like that annoying friend that you could never get rid of yet you enjoyed hanging out with. The film does have its flaws but with the spectacular story and actors it creates a magical ride that you will never forget. Whenever this film is on television you can't help but make a big plate of chow-mein and just relax on a couch and let yourself become part of the film. It has a strong cult following and also serves as another unappreciated John Carpenter films. Not all films have to be deep and make you think and if that is the way you rate this film then you will be sorely disappointed. Carpenter creates a movie that meshes different genres together to create a film that's fun to watch and entertaining. That is why we watch movies isn't it? "},{"Title":"Funhouse","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some films can only work when they capture you when you are receptive to the magic. I revisited Police Academy for the first time since childhood the other day, another early role for Katrall. It would be completely lame but for the simple fact it stirred in me the child for whom the young cadets used to be the same uncomplicated kids going to school, enjoying that uncomplicated life. I cannot imagine that film having any appeal without the amusing sense of having grown from that day when you were immersed in it.So some films, however charming, are a lost cause if they haven't planted in you a seed that when you return recalls a whole life in which the magic was truly vibrant. I'm happy to say this isn't one of those films. It truly works. It is magical, weird, fun. New portals open all the time to fantastical realms with no stop to the flow. It explains nothing of its monsters and magic, just conceives of a show with these things. We have some explanation of course, but a recurring motif is that Russell gets no answer on how any of the magic exists.In the grand final battle, we have rival magicians who each projects his cinematic powers of illusion to create a film-within of swordsmen duelling. The Chinese duke it out 10 feet in the air with wires. The American is meanwhile struggling to get free from under a dead body. Lovely, and as effective as Princess Bride and Conan.A last note. The Chinese have a lot of the same folklore stuff as we do, ghosts and demons, but a widespread belief on the notion of a chi energy truly powers a lot of their inner life, from traditional medicine and acupuncture to martial arts. It isn't mentioned here, but the Chinese viewer won't fail to recognize it as such in almost everything, from levitation to the inflatable kung fu master, embellishments of chi-cultivated martial art prowess. Anyone who has practiced in a Chinese dojo is likely to have heard stories. Yet, chi free from these stories and simply tied to breath and flow is an interesting phenomenon, though as with most of these internal arts it is difficult to find the right epistemological ground. "},{"Title":"A film of genuine greatness wrapped in mediocrity","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like the army of darkness set in china town ! If only it were Bruce Campbell in the lead. This is a total p*ss take, that at times seems just cheesy, lame and mediocre. Yet totally compelling and on occasion brilliantly funny.The battle during the wedding sums this up perfectly where we see the hero display the best contribution to a battle... ever ! Throughout all the mad other worldly crap this film is kept firmly in the realms of reality by Kurt Russell's quips. As he guides the audience through it all.This is probably not a 'must buy', more a must borrow and watch kind of affair. Just pray that some TV exec in a suit decides to play this one on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Jake Burton the anti-Indiana Jones","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Meet Jake Burton truck driver, man of action, numbskull a long-haul trucker trapped in an irrational off-road adventure when his precious big rig disappears in San Francisco's Chinatown, forcing him to challenge an evil spirit needing only the blood of a willing green-eyed virgin to be liberated from the shackles of earthly existence. Jake, needless to say, regards it all with skepticism, and moviegoers are advised to do likewise. The film obviously is a true guilty pleasure, presenting a wild, woolly, and often deliberately stupid send-up of Saturday afternoon matinée heroics (by way of the over-the-top antics of Hong Kong action cinema), mixing martial arts, monsters, and mayhem into what one character breathlessly calls a radical Alice in Wonderland. Kurt Russell cheerfully mocks his own box office machismo as the dimwitted Jake Burton (a man whose lack of imagination renders him immune to danger), and the entire package was adapted by (among others) the talented W. D. Richter, although from what is anyone's guess. Please don't take any of it seriously. "},{"Title":"Silly but quite good fun to watch","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jack Burton is a trucker who agrees to pick his friend's fiancée.  However Chi's fiancée has green eyes making her a target for immortal sorcerer Lo Pan.  Jack loses both his truck and the girl to Lo Pan's warriors and must do battle with the spirits to get them back.John Carpenter seems to be cursed to do bad movies recently.  However this was made back when his name before the title meant something and this manages to be good simply because it's quite fun to watch with your tongue in your cheek.  The plot is silly, the action daft and the characters exaggerated, but yet this is all done with some charm and actually makes this a better film.The weaknesses are that it's silly of course and some may find it to be just brainless fodder &#150; which it probably is in fairness.  A bigger failing is that the martial arts action just isn't very good.  Compare it to movies made in HK about the same time and you'll see what I mean.  Why Carpenter didn't make it better is beyond me.  However if you buy into the sense of fun then these are minor.Russell is good with his Clint Eastwood impression actually being good for a laugh and Cattrall seems to be enjoying herself too.  Many of the Oriental characters are caricatures but lets not forget this is juts an action comedy and not an art movie!Overall it's silly with average action scenes.  However for some reason it manages to be better than it's parts and is actually quite good fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Big Trouble in Little China","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Directed by John Carpenter (Halloween, Escape from New York, The Thing, Starman), I had heard the title a few times and I knew the leading actor in it, I didn't know what to expect, but I hoped for something fun. Basically truck driver Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) and his friend, restaurant owner Wang Chi (Dennis Dun), go to pick up Wand's fiancée Miao Yin (Suzee Pai), who is arriving from China, at the airport. Chinese street gang the Lords of Death try to kidnap another Chinese girl, intending to sell her as a sex slave, she is being met by her friend Gracie Law (Kim Cattrall), but Jack intervenes and the gang kidnap Miao instead. Jack and Wang track the gang down to Chinatown, a funeral procession is taking place, a fight breaks out between ancient societies the Chang Sing and the Wing Kong, The Three Storms (Thunder, Rain, and Lightning) appear and slaughter the Chang Sing, Jack trying to escape runs over powerful and legendary sorcerer, and the leader of the Wing Kong, David Lo Pan (James Hong), but he survives and is annoyed. Wang takes Jack to his restaurant, where they meet Gracie, Wang's friend Eddie Lee (Donald Li), and magician Egg Shen (Victor Wong), a sceptical Jack is told about the ancient knowledge and sorcery the Chinese brought to America, and they devise a plan to infiltrate a brothel they believe Miao Yin is being held, but the Storms make off with her. Trying to rescue her, Jack and Wang are subdued and taken to Lo Pan, in the form of a crippled old man, Wang tells Jack that Lo Pan needs a special green-eyed girl, like Miao Yin, to marry, and to sacrifice, to break the ancient No Flesh curse, put upon him centuries ago, when he used to be a great warrior and a powerful wizard, by the first sovereign emperor Qin Shi Huang. Jack and Wang's friends attempt to rescue them, they are also captured, and Lo Pan notices that Gracie has green eyes, he decides he will sacrifice Gracie, and he will marry the unwilling Miao Yin. Jack and Wang get advantage of Thunder and manage to escape and free many other women being held hostage from their cells, they go to see Egg Shen, and get help from the Chang Sing to enter an underground cavern to return to Lo Pan's headquarters, each of the group are given a potent potion by Egg, during the wedding ceremony a fight ensues, Jack misses it because he accidentally knocks himself out. Rain is killed by Wang in a sword duel, Jack and Gracie try to catch Lo Pan, he is killed by Jack with a skillful knife throw, Thunder becomes enraged, inflates to an enormous size and kills himself exploding. Lightning corners Jack, Wang, Gracie and Miao Yin in the corridor, which he makes it collapse, Egg drops a stone Buddha statue on Lightning to kill him, and rescues the four with a rope, the group find Jack's big-rig truck and escape back to Wang's restaurant. The group celebrate Lo Pan being defeated, Wang and Miao Yin are ready to get married, Gracie's journalist friend Margo Litzenberger (Kate Burton) has paired up with Eddie, and Egg decides to go on an overdue vacation to China, Jack does not start a new life with Gracie as everyone expected, he hits the open road, unaware a stowaway is underneath, one of the remaining monsters. Also starring Chao Li Chi as Uncle Chu. Russell is likable enough as the tough trucker who initially inept and doesn't want to get involved but gives in and becomes the hero, but I have seen these sorts of films before, the fusing of martial arts and a western adventure story doesn't quite gel, most of the fight scenes are dull, and the special effects are reasonable, but there are ridiculous parts, the man growing and exploding is particularly odd, this may be a cult classic to many fans, I just think it's an alright fantasy action comedy. Okay! "},{"Title":"Big Entertainment","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I recently had the pleasure of seeing this film in the theater for the first time. Previously, I had only seen it on video. Not only did it have more impact in a theater setting, even the so-so creature effects held up better on the big screen.This is a movie that does a lot of amazing things, including transporting the audience to a truly fantastic world, presenting imaginative and well-rounded characters, and expertly balancing action with story.One thing that has always amazed me about Big Trouble in Little China is the extensive use of simultaneous dialog. In a number of cases there are three or even four characters all conversing at the same time, lending to the frenetic feel of the film. Also appreciated was the use of pulp-novel devices, including characters introducing themselves (complete with over-the-top exposition that would never happen in real life). That and it takes a number of clichés and turns them on their heads. Truly refreshing to see a screenplay handled in this way.And then there are the actors. What a treat to see Kurt Russell, Dennis Dun, James Hong, Victor Wong, and Kim Cattrall all showing what they can do on the big screen. They're magnificent and their characters are great fun. It's also cool to hear that James Hong really enjoyed playing the part of Lo Pan.So if you'd like a great popcorn movie that actually delivers on its title, this is one to see for sure. Lots of great gags, plenty of action, and tons of quick dialog to keep you both laughing and on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Last week on Indiana Jack and the Temple of Acid&#x85;","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Man, this trip felt like some TV series seven episodes in and I missed the first six.Big Trouble in Little China would've been fantastic to see as a kid. I probably would've loved it and watched it on repeat. As it is, this is my first viewing and I still really cared for it. Not to see it half a dozen times, but maybe again sometime down the road.Not really sure which genre this was supposed to land on&#x85;horror, comedy, action, adventure, suspense, mystery, fantasy&#x85;hell all of the above. But, above those it was someone watching Indiana Jones on acid and while super high, writing the script. No real complaints, it kinda stood on its own and had a bunch of cute Asian dudes.Gambler, Trucker and Antihero Jack must get his truck back, save the girl(s) and a check for $1148 (x2 or 3.) Unlike Dr. Jones, he's accompanied by many characters against a lonely old ghost/spirit/immortal and his evil army bent on&#x85;marriage. Actually, there's a lot going on here, with a ton of humor that did make me laugh out loud and many interesting ideas and characters. So many, again, this reminded me of some comedy/adventure serial that probably wouldn't have lasted more than one season and yet would be worth every episode.Not deep, lotta fun, totally 80s and certainly recommended.***Final thoughts I do enjoy Director Carpenter's work, and I understand the era most of his films came out of, or at least, the most famous ones&#x85;but damn, that score. Sounded like it belonged more in part III of his original masterpiece, Halloween. "},{"Title":"Noisy, brash, effects-filled '80s extravaganza","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This outing from famed horror director John Carpenter starts out promisingly enough, with a kidnapping at an airport and a nice tough-guy turn from Kurt Russell (who else, when Carpenter's involved?), complete with swagger. However, twenty minutes into the film, it becomes very silly indeed, and obviously aimed at children. The film that came to mind while I watched this was STREET FIGHTER, if that gives you any idea of the style of action taking place here.The special effects (of which there are hundreds) are admittedly very good for the time in which this was made. The baddies here are the least threatening in Carpenter's filmography, Chinese blokes who gurn occasionally in their bid to terrify. The action is kept light, although due to a couple of nasty bits this film was unfortunately rated 15 in this country - a shame, as the film would appeal most to young teenagers.Aside from Kurt Russell and Dennis Dun, who have a nice sparring chemistry in their buddy-buddy relationship, the cast is bog standard. Along with the bad acting of the Chinese heavies, we have Kim Cattrall as a forgettable reporter, Victor Wong doing his patented 'wise old man' schtick and all manner of other nobodies and expendables who kind of hover around in the background. There are plenty of one-liners for Russell to spit out, but anyone expecting even a semi-serious film will be disappointed. Take this one as an out-and-out comedy and you might just enjoy it. "},{"Title":"A classic action film in a John Carpenter style!","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China (1986) is one of the best movies ever! A true classic action film from the 80'! After 20.years watching again this movie it is still a classic sci-fi action film. Kurt Russell rocks also there is theme music from Escape From New York (1981) my favorite classic film that Kurt Russell and John Carpenter worked on it together.Clever one liners that will keep you rolling. This movie has it all, high kicks, low kicks, laughs, ghouls, demons, girls, and much more. Oh and did I mention Chinese black Magic? This movie will definitely engulf your living room in green flame and keep you asking for more. Big Trouble in Little China is amazing. Action, adventure and comedy are all here, and the result is one of the best cult classic films of all time. I must have seen this movie 50+ times, and it never gets old. Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) is the character that everyone would like to be just for a day (maybe more). Driving around in The Pork Chop Express, beating up the bad guys, scoring with the ladies.....it's all in the reflexes for OI' Jack Burton! This is one of the most entertaining movies of the 80's, possibly ever!I grew up watching this film, seen now after 20.years of watching this film later, It is still my favorite awesome action film! Mainly because of Kurt Russell the man can kick ass! He has humor, charm and can do a good things. He was so funny and hilarious in this film. Gosh the film is wonderful and I just love it so much. Is actually my fourth best John Carpenter/Kurt Russell film and I just love those four movies so much! I Love Big Trouble in Little China to death and It was hard to get this film on Blu-ray. It is one of John Carpenter's awesome adventures. Kurt Russell plays the egotistical Jack Burton extremely well, delivering the cheesy macho lines in the way they were intended. Beautifully filmed (the fight scene in the alley), this has been one of my favorites from Carpenter for a long time with Escape from New York, Escape from L.A. , The Thing, Prince of Darkness, The Fog and Vampires. Special effects are great, wonderful and outstanding! It is favorite Kurt Russell's performance, underrated gem of a movie, and one of the most quotable too. I love how this all started because Wang lost a drinking game to Jack. To this day I haven't seen anything like it.That's movie magic right there. Jack Burton should be in the top 10 movie characters ever!. San Francisco, CA-Jack Burton is possibly the greatest hero to ever walk the Earth at least in his own mind!!! The chemistry between Jack and Wang is so believable you want to see more adventure between the duo. This movie has a lot of fun, it is enjoyable flick it has imagination, great acting from all the actors, they all lightning us up with great performances. The action and adventures are super amazing, it is like you want to be in this movie! It has super fun characters in here and a cool awesome monster!Big Trouble in Little China is 80's classic! I love everything that it is in this film. I love the score, especially in the underworld. The battle in the alley when the 3 storms turn up is awesome. Don't see many films that transcend this many genres as well. I heard they are also planning to remake this film Big Trouble in Little China (2016) with Dwayne The Rock Johnson in it! Why? Only to get more money? Why remaking or rebooting this film?, when we already have a classic action film here! This film does not need any reboot or remake, leave it alone the way it is! Gosh The basic plot about this film is about Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) a simple man who doesn't believe in ghosts or magic until he's swept into a mind-boggling adventure deep within Chinatown's mysterious underworld. Burton's pal, Wang Chi (Dennis Dun), is trying to rescue his kidnapped fiancée. Egg Shen (Victor Wong), an enigmatic tour-bus driver seems to know a lot about ancient Chinese magic for a simple tour-bus driver. They do battle with an outlandish array of human and inhuman adversaries under the command of Lo Pan (James Hong), a 2000-year-old evil magician who has the power to transform himself from a wheelchair-bound old man into a seven-foot-tall mystical menace. It does involves black magic and mystical forces of darkness.Big Trouble in Little China is a 1986 American action comedy film directed by John Carpenter. It stars Kurt Russell, Kim Cattrall, Dennis Dun and James Hong.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation, TAFT Entertainment Pictures Starring Kurt Russell, Kim Cattrall, Dennis Dun, James Hong, Victor Wong Director John Carpenter Producer Larry J. Franco Screenplay Gary Goldman, David Z. Weinstein Adaptation W. D. Richter Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 39 Mins. Budget $54.000.000 Box Office $81,645,152 "}{"Title":"A very funny adventure film!","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I honestly think this movie is the best I've seen, Kurt Russell's character Jack was absolutely funny, witty and sleazy even playing as the hero. Kim Cattrall was so young looking compared to her well known role in Sex and the city! I honestly didn't think she was gonna be ever in an action film like this but boy I thought wrong!The storyline was very boring at the beginning but then when the martial artist's of bad guys came on the scene, I was really hooked and looking forward to what happens next. You know the big boss in this kinda remind's me of Dracula in a Chinese version. Although the real Dracula wouldn't look for green eyes in a wife but pretty much blood basically!I don't know why they are making a remake of this because really, Hollywood would get a bad review of copying this but with the rock. Seriously they should leave this alone! "},{"Title":"Do not remake Big Trouble in Little China","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Please do not remake this movie. Please keep some dignity and let this one just be as it is. This movie is a cult classic and should be left alone. A remake would destroy all that it stands for. Don't fix something that isn't broke!. Lets stop stop the remake train.Sign my petition to not remake this movie.Too many great movies are been remade and 90% of them are not living up to their originals.Lets make it not happen!https//www.change.org/p/sean-chambers-do-not-remake-big-trouble-in- little-china? recruiter=367870528&utm_source=share_petition&utm_medium=copylinkThanks -) "},{"Title":"Quickie Review Big Trouble in Little China","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Despite his reputation as 'The Master of Horror' it looks as though most the movies in the better-half of this list are Carpenter's more fun movies. Big Trouble is the chief representation and the foremost frontrunner of those tongue-in-cheek 80's movies where you watch and think just what the hell is going on? There's no point in explaining the plot since, although it starts with a daft loud-mouthed trucker trying to get back his vehicle, ends up with century-old mythical Chinese battles, underground monsters and a massive martial arts brawl. Seriously, it's like they made up the plot as they went along, and it's clearly intentional. John Carpenter perfectly captures the spirit of B grade serial flick better than Tarantino ever could. Big Trouble has so much to offer &#x96; Action, martial arts, suspense, humour, horror, and all with a tone that tells you the movie well aware how ridiculous the whole thing is. John Wayne bravado meets Eastern martial arts mysticism with hilarious results, in what is one of the finest examples of the 'adventure' genre, if you can even call Big Trouble that. Delightfully absurd and engaging, this movie is best watched without knowing any details of the plot.Best Scene Just before the kung-fu chaos, all the main characters emit martial arts screams in turn. Russell's Jack Burton has a go too but gets a bit carried away and fires a couple of gunshots at the ceiling&#x85;which comes crashing down on his head and renders him unconscious for the big fight. Great fun "},{"Title":"A Mildly Successful Adventure Comedy","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There's no such thing as a present-day John Wayne, but Big Trouble in Little China, a mildly successful adventure comedy, provides good argument for why Kurt Russell could be considered a present-day John Wayne, if you imagine Russell in the 1980s and if the present day is, cough cough, 1986. He's got the look, the money, the power; his manner of speak, drawling, unwaveringly masculine, suggests more heroic brawn than quick-witted brains. But we like him anyway he's an all-American hero who takes himself much too seriously. There probably isn't a better type of movie hero, unless we're talking about an unheard of one like Lisbeth Salander. Then we're talking.For now, though, I'll settle (sporadically, that is) for the bonkers fun of Big Trouble in Little China, which is partially a comedy, an action movie, a kung-fu flick, a distant cousin of Indiana Jones, a labyrinthine fantasy. It's uneven to say the least (we can agree that the action is terrific, yes, but what about the film's all-too-obvious inability to develop its characters?), but there is plenty of enjoyment to be had, so long as you leave your logic and bitterness at the door and turn the word improbable into likely. Because Big Trouble in Little China is like Danger Diabolik &#x97; you either figure it to be Mystery Science Theater 3000 worthy or an irresistible exercise in pulp insanity. Personally, I'd go with the former.Much of the ruckus in San Francisco's Chinatown has to do with Jack Burton (Kurt Russell), a quasi-macho truck driver who finds himself in a pit of trouble after his best friend's (Dennis Dun) green-eyed fiancée (Suzee Pai) is kidnapped by a Chinese gang. The gang, however, isn't your run-of-the-mill pack of bandits looking for trouble because it's fun &#x97; they, in actuality, are the henchman of Lo Pan (James Hong), an ancient sorcerer seeking marriage to a green-eyed Chinese girl in order to bring his aging body back to youthful flesh and blood.Fortunately, the film doesn't sabotage itself with unneeded side plots or drivel pieces of dialogue needed to explain outrageous events. It's a chase movie with Hong Kong action movie instincts, going out to save a kidnapped girl and concluding by saving the said girl. The supernatural elements of Big Trouble in Little China are entertaining in a low-budget, 1940s B-movie kind of way, and the fight sequences are impressively choreographed. John Carpenter, having a ball, keeps things visually scrumptious, the tone matching in its manic gusto. Russell is perfect for this kind of material, charmingly bumbling, crafty when it comes to quick escapes and logistical battle tactics. Funny is the way Dennis Dunn's kung- fu master character is the real hero of the movie, though Russell, being 1986's present-day John Wayne, is too big-headed to notice. Kim Cattrall makes for a spunky love interest.But I suppose Big Trouble in Little China's biggest problem is how weightless it is, how nothing feels as though things are really at stake. Because the screenplay develops its characters by introducing them and not much else, we hardly get to know them, deciding who we like simply based on the power of their one-liners. The plot is rather been-there- done-that, despite the masterful telling of it all, and the supporting performances from Lo Pan and company are never quite campy enough to shape them into the Bond-esque villains they set out to be. But no matter. Big Trouble in Little China is meant to be lightweight action fantasy, and, for the most part, it succeeds. Just don't expect anything other than Russell's classic heroism to stick around in your head. "},{"Title":"Classic John Carpenter '80s camp.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Classic John Carpenter '80s camp. If you like that sort of thing you should like this--if you don't, you'll probably just think that this flick is dumb. Admittedly, the story is dumb in a Ghostbusters kind of way, although the production values are way lower than those of that film. As a matter of fact, the special effects sank to the level of painfully cheesy a number of times.Still a lot of fun, if you like this kind of movie. This would make a great double feature with Escape from New York or Escape from L.A., although both of those movies are superior in pretty much every way. "},{"Title":"It's All In The Reflexes","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I saw the movie, I couldn't believe it bombed at the box office. All I have to say is I saw the movie twice and I was entertained throughout. If this is how John Carpenter directs movies, I must say I am a fan. Let's see Jack Burton, a loudmouth truck driver with good reflexes with his friend Wang gets involved in a kidnapping gone wrong and then they are joined by nosy lawyer Gracie Law, bus driving wizard Egg Shen to stop Lo Pan, an evil spirit who inhabits the body of an old man due to a curse and rescue Miao Yin, Wang's fiancée from Lo Pan who wants to marry her and regain his youth. That's not all; we also have a freak monster, Lords of Death who are masters of elements such as Earth, Rain and Thunder and a floating head full of eyes and a Chinese gang war. If it doesn't make sense, don't worry its not supposed to. Just sit back, and watch with your eyes not with your analyzing brain and enjoy the roller coaster ride. Many would question Kurt Russell's character, and how Lo Pan dies so easily and what happens to Jack in the end with the monster inside his truck... don't worry these are not supposed to be answered. Just see the film for what it is an awesome action comedy with a story that would never make sense; instead of what you wish it to be. "},{"Title":"fun kung-fu action adventure","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Egg Shen recalls the extraordinary events in San Francisco's Chinatown. Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) is a brash tough-talking truck driver. After a Nothing-or-Double bet, he drives Wang Chi to the airport to pick up his green-eyed fiancée Miao Yin from China. Wing Kong street gang from Chinatown kidnaps Miao Yin. Lawyer Gracie Law (Kim Cattrall) catches Burton's attention at the airport. She's there to pick up Tara but she knows something about the gangs. The guys go back to Chinatown and run into an all-out fight between the good guys Chang Sing and their enemies Wing Kong. Then the three storms Thunder, Rain, Lightning, and Lo Pan (James Hong) arrive to massacre everybody. Reporter Margo (Kate Burton) is looking for the story. David Lo Pan is looking for a girl with green eyes to marry.This is a fun stupid kung-fu adventure from John Carpenter. Russell and Cattrall are camping it up as much as possible. Russell especially is hilarious as the arrogant know-it-all white guy. He's a bunch of laughs with his brash talk. Cattrall is dead-pan fun as she machine-guns her lines. The movie is just a load of funny wild adventure thrills. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter's Big Trouble In Little China rocks!","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John Carpenter and Kurt Russell shake the pillars of heaven in their fourth collaboration in this unusual, but effective campy action classic. Big Trouble In Little China is hard to describe, but is lighthearted and action packed. Taking elements from the western, Chinese martial arts movies as well as fantasy, this film really was quite original for the time. A few years later much of the Asian cast worked on Eddie Murphy's The Golden Child. Both films have fantasy elements and both films are essentially action/comedies. While Eddie is efficient at butt kicking, The Golden Child is driven more by comedy than action. Big Trouble In Little China is hilarious as well, but has much more to offer as far as action. In today's market, this would go over huge with the comic book/sci fi movie types and in my opinion this film is much better than most of those movies. Kurt Russell is great as our very likable white trash idiot hero Jack Burton. Dennis Dun is Jack's buddy Wang Chi and is slightly more serious and more bad ass than Jack. Kim Catrall is very pretty and very funny as well. James Hong gives a real strong performance as the evil wizard Lo Pan and Victor Wong is excellent as his nemesis Egg Shen. Carter Wong, a Hong Kong kung fu star who worked on films for Shaw Brothers Studios is cast here as one of The Storms. The pace is quick and there is much great action as well as much hilarious, quotable dialogue that make this hold up as the immensely entertaining cult classic that holds up and many find enjoyable to this day. Excellent signature score by John Carpenter as well. "},{"Title":"Surefire popcorn entertainment all the way","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As much as this movie gets right, the real magic of BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA lies in the star's performance. Jack Burton's a total blowhard and Kurt Russell knows hot to say those lines for maximum comedic effect. More than that, he takes this brash jackass character and makes him his own. He's always put out, never has a clue what's going on, but is still there at every turn to say something stupid. Watch his facial expressions; half the fun is watching Russell react to all this Chinese hokum. The look on his face during the final fight with Lo Pan (when he misses with the knife) is priceless. It's my favorite Russell performance (on a laundry list of many fine ones). And good luck finding someone else who does a better job rocking the mullet. And the Tec-9, for that matter. Chock full of gunfights, high-flying kicks and fists of fury, BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA is the kind of crowd-pleaser that doesn't come along often; a journey into a murky underworld of Chinese mysticism, monsters and gun-toting gangsters. The pacing is relentless and the script plays like an assembly line of one-liners. It's just an insanely quotable good time.9/10 "},{"Title":"Big Fun in Little China!","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kurt Russell stars as Jack Burton in this fantasy adventure by John Carpenter, where Burton has been dragged into a mystical battle in San Francisco's Chinatown involving an evil warlock named Lo Pan (James Hong), who wants to marry the kidnapped Miao Yin (Suzee Pai), whose green emerald eyes will ensure Lo Pan's mortality.This is a fast-paced movie filled with comedy, drama, martial arts action and magic. It's a classic tour-de-force between good and evil as we see Burton and his love interest Gracie Law (Kim Cattrall) and Pai's fiancé Wang Chi (Dennis Dun) attempt to take on the evil Lo Pan and his band of mystic cohorts.The special effects were pretty good and believable, better than some we see in the movies of the 2010s, and the acting was actually pretty spot-on dynamic and serious, yet comedic at times. It's a very colorful movie with plenty of fun and action that is wacky and goofy at times. It's not a movie you should take too seriously, but it is one that is just pure fun and entertaining and just good for laughs.Grade B "}{"Title":"Chinatown Action!","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" While Big Trouble in Little China is not the greatest thing John Carpenter ever did, there is a lot to like in this movie, and it's one of my personal favorites.It's a great conglomeration of action comedy and kung fu. It's easy for all audiences to watch, and Kurt Russell is perfect as the blowhard trucker, Jack Burton. You actually get a feeling of nostalgia watching this now, yet it's also difficult to believe that it's almost thirty years old.It's a neat story line with plenty of action along with Chinatown gangs and a supernatural element thrown in. Victor Wong as Egg Shen and the Three Storms make this movie worth watching by themselves.John Carpenter apparently wrote the theme song that plays over the end credits. "},{"Title":"One of the most fun movies ever","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I streamed this movie on Netflix because i like John Carpenter and Kurt Russel's other pieces like the Thing and Escape from New York. While those are arguably better movies this one is way more fun than both. It is a non stop thrill ride an action movie. While some people may not like it due to the extreme Chinese stereotypes and very mild language i would recommend this movie for everyone. Unfamiliar with the plot it basically deals with Jack Burton( Kurt Russel) Trying to get his money from gambling in China town and what unfolds is one of the craziest most fun movies ever put on screen7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Almost too much fun to handle","Date":"28 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Big Trouble in Little China' was not a box office success. So says both its star (Kurt Russell) and its director (horror legend John Carpenter). They blame its poor performance in cinemas on the fact that the studio behind it (20th Century Fox) 'didn't know how to market it.' And, to be fair, they may have a point.If you look at the promotional posters advertising the film, they read (something like), 'A mystical, action, adventure, kung-fu, comedy horror film.' That, by its own admission, is 'splitting genres' to the extreme. Therefore, it was kind of hard to know who to market the film at.My opinion guys (mainly!) and generally anyone who likes a good old fashioned adventure movie that doesn't take itself too seriously. It's one of those typical adventure movies that the eighties churned out. I would almost be tempted to say that it was a 'family' movie for all to enjoy. However, there is one use of the 'f-word' so I guess you have to be a bit careful showing it to the little ones! I always put Big Trouble in Little China in roughly the same bracket as Indiana Jones (although the Indy die-hard fans will probably hate me for comparing the two so favourably!).Big Trouble is pretty cheesy. If you like your adventure dark and straight-laced then you may not appreciate the humour and general tongue in cheek moments. Plus it does like to break the odd cinema convention here and there. It's 'hero' (Kurt Russell), despite being obviously the leading man, is often little more than a sidekick when compared to those around him &#x96; who the film-makers take delight in pointing out at every turn! There are too many hilariously-cool moments to list, but my favourite is always going to be monster who's made up solely of eyes (he gets what's coming to him), but a close second would be a man getting so emotional and upset that he explodes.If those sorts of things sound appealing to you, then you will definitely enjoy Big Trouble in Little China and see that it's a forgotten gem of a B-movie that can be watched and re-watched and enjoyed every time. "},{"Title":"High Energy Film that has Attained Cult Status Over the Years","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the Best Maverick, B-Movie Directors Ever, John Carpenter has Gained Legions of Fans and has Attained an Almost Deity Status that, say, Roger Corman Never Could, Mostly because of Home Video and the Internet. He has Directed a lot of Entertaining Movies, mostly Outside the Hollywood System and has Always been Comfortable Making Low to Mid Budget Movies with that Carpenter Vision. He has made Sure Enough Classics, a Few Mediocre (although His Cult would never admit it) Movies, and a Handful of Bad Ones (Blasphemy).This is One that when First Released was Unfairly Maligned, Dismissed, and Outright Blasted by the Critics. It was Ignored at the Box Office and was a Big Flop. But the Director Never thought He was in Big Trouble. He just Continued Making Movies as if Nothing Ever Happened. This Film is Part of the Carpenter Canon and has become a Cult Favorite.It is a High Energy Hoot of a Movie. The Director's Homage to those Mystical Asian Movies Full of Sorcery, Fun and Fantasy, Combined with an Over the Top Take on Marital Arts and Monsters. This was a Colorful, Costumed Creation Done with Wire Works and Real Life Make Up with a Minimal Use of the Primitive CGI Available. It is Entertaining as All Get Out. "},{"Title":"Big Trouble in Little China (1986)","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I tried watching this once many years ago and just didn't get into it. I know this falls under the heading of Unpopular Movie Opinions but I really don't think Kurt Russell was ever that great. And I still haven't forgiven him for THE BEST OF TIMES and CAPTAIN RON. So, Russell running around with a mullet in a tank top and his jeans tucked into his ridiculous boots doesn't do a thing for me. Part of me could embrace the silliness of this movie, the way Carpenter and all the actors seem to. The cheesy special effects and synth-y score, the nutty stunts and goofy plot. But the other part of me couldn't get past the stupidity of it, like the clumsy exposition, shitty one-liners and unappealing leads. Kim Cattrall might be somewhat cute, but in every other respect she's a zero. And of course there's Russell. I just don't dig him. I'm definitely on the fence about this movie. There are ways that it's purposefully bad for fun, and there are ways that it's trying to be fun but are actually bad. I guess I'll give it a slight advantage because if nothing else, I wasn't often bored with it. "},{"Title":"The One Movie Needing a Sequel","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kurt Russell kicking butt and taking names as Jack Burton &#x96; that's Jack Burton &#x96; truck driving butt kicker. I am a big fan of Mr. Russell&#x85;so he has not done any bad movies&#x85;just sometimes he's managed to ponder into unrecognized greatness. This flick I truly enjoyed. The storyline was weak, the special effects were not that special&#x85;and acting&#x85;for this kind of script&#x85;who needs acting. It was perfect! Shooting and fighting and kung fu and swords and other stuff &#x96; these all made for an enjoyable trip through someone's warped mind. It was like a roller coaster through the obvious &#x96; but had enough tongue-and-cheek humor to package the story nicely. Wait&#x85;it had a weak storyline&#x85;what do I care&#x85;as long as it was fun to watch. Almost forgot the supporting cast &#x96; Kim Cattrell and Kate Burton (don't know if either of you have been in anything else) both had really cool, wavy 80's style hair&#x85;but 'The Man's' (I will refer to Mr. Russell as such) mullet&#x85;what can you say. James Hong &#x96; as always &#x96; did a super job&#x85;not as good as 'The Man' though. I also enjoyed Dennis Dun and Victor Wong&#x85;not as much as 'The Man', but they were OK in my book. Anyways&#x85;many people may not agree with me&#x85;which is fine&#x85;but this is a movie I can watch over and over. "},{"Title":"Fabtastic Flick - Absolute best of Kurt Russel.","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Normally I do not like to comment on movies with such a long list of comment, because they generally just get lost in the crowd and never get read. But if you get this far, and have not yet seen this movie, then go our and rent/ buy a copy. You won't regret it.Kurt Russell outdid himself in this movie. I'll never forget the first time I saw this movie. I could not stop laughing. Russell is absolutely brilliant, and delightfully funny. If you understand American humor, and love Kurt Russel as much as I do, Then you will love this movie. It is such a great movie, that I created the new word Fabtastic just for this movie. So, go watch it! "},{"Title":"Is Jack Burton The Worst 'Hero' Of All Time!?","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There is no way this film deserved to be voted worst film of all time in a recent magazine poll (can't remember which magazine)! Some people just don't understand irony and tongue-in- cheek plays on dated pop culture and old fashion genres, which is essentially what this film is all about. John Carpenter returns to his personal film-making style after several efforts borne out of the Hollywood studio system. Here all of his personal, auteur sensibilities come into play with a fusion of Hawksian cross-genres and postmodern pop culture references. These come in the form of old kung-fu films, which Big Trouble subtly references, but throw this in with spiritual Chinese mysticism, chaotic, balletic action, black comedy, romance and just about every other genre in the book and you have a brilliantly fast-paced and original 80's flick. It is chock full of trademark Carpenter touches such as the panaglide camera, wide angle photography, sharp cross-cutting and likable characters out of depth in their surroundings Add this to some fantastic special effects and great music courtesy again of the man himself and you have a fun, always watchable addition to Carpenter's already impressive catalogue of flicks.8/10 "},{"Title":"no trouble finding something to do tonight","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" if you want to have no trouble finding something to do tonight, then maybe you should go rent Big Trouble in Little China. heck, you'd be better off buying the dang thing cause i know you're gonna want to watch it for years to come. between the fastest character developments i've ever witnessed in a film, and kurt russell's on screen chemistry with kim catrall, there are other aspects of the film that are just as good. there are plenty of incredible fight scenes and also a bigfoot-esquire monster that is quite scary; although, it took a mere kick to the glutes from a petite kim cattrall to quiet the beast. actually that was the only part of a film that was a little difficult to swallow. at least Chinese black magic has some mythical foundation, and while superhuman ninjas sliding down from the sky on lightning isn't commonplace, i have never seen any serious scientific studies published that prove that this is impossible. ever. i don't really want to give too much away so i'll stop here. "},{"Title":"Simply a classic!","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Simply a classic that you can watch over and over. One of the best movies I have seen, like most comments say; this movie got it all. The plot might be not too complicated but it is well acted mainly by Kurt Russel. The combination of a simple truck driver caught up in strange dark magical world is great! It is a must watch because it is out since 1986 so if you didn't watch it yet you are 22 years late! In the end you see that the monster was still alive and below his truck, so somehow i was waiting for a sequel but perhaps it is better that they didn't because like they always say about sequels, they turn out to be a disappointment. "}{"Title":"This is Jack Burton and the Pork Chop Express","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble In Little China is another great collaboration with John Carpenter and Kurt Russel. I give this film 10 out of 10 because it's just one of those films that entertains you every time you watch it. It's got very good stunts,action and special effects for the time it was done (back in 1986). The story may be a bit hard to follow at first, but that's the whole idea of the film, it's meant to be like that deliberately. I heard that the Chinese people weren't that happy with the film when it came out because it supposedly made them look bad. John Carpenter's score is great as well (like nearly all of his scores to his films) and his direction has never been better. The film's so 80's and done with a style that can't be neglected. Rating 10/10, watch this film and you won't regret it, it's a great film to watch either on a Friday night or during the weekend. "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, my personal favorite movie of all time!","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This action-adventure cult classic directed by John Carpenter and starring Kurt Russell is my all-time favorite movie. Not the best movie ever made, but my personal all-time choice for the take one film to a desert island scenario, bar none. The plot line defies simple one-liner description, introducing us to the swaggering, wisecracking truck driver Jack Burton (Russell) whose friendship with a young restaurant owner in San Francisco's Chinatown (Wang Chi, unforgettably portrayed by Dennis Dun) leads him into a wonderfully over the top confrontation with an ancient Chinese sorcerer (Lo Pan, played by James Hong). A mix of comedy, fantasy and kung-fu action-adventure, Big Trouble in Little China is a wild ride, full of fun and excitement. Russell is magnificent, creating an unforgettable character in Burton, who is the polar opposite of the actor's other famous action-adventure hero, Snake Plisskin from Carpenter's Escape from New York. Where Plisskin is grim and taciturn, Burton is a character who never stops bragging and chattering for a second. (I always wished the two characters could have met -- they'd have hated each other in sight...) The rest of the cast ably supports Russell, at times even unabashedly stealing scenes from him, which he nimbly steals right back in cascading comedic fashion. The earnest, super- competent young Wang Chi is heroic enough to carry any kung-fu epic, especially when backed by the immortal Victor Wong as tour bus driver/wise Chinese sorcerer Egg Shen. Jack is all brag and bluster, but his courage lives up to his swagger in the long run though he is hilariously out of his element as a back-street tough guy facing real magic, monsters and martial-arts mayhem the likes of which he never before imagined. Along the way Jack meets Gracie Law (Kim Cattrall), a crusading lawyer who finds herself attracted to Jack despite his incessant posturing when she sees the real hero inside him. The movie is nothing but fun from one moment to the next. I never tire of it, even after hundreds of viewings. This is a cult classic to rival such fan favorites as Buckaroo Banzai, Star Wars and Tremors -- a must-rent, must-own, must-watch-again-and-again wonder. Please let the remake artists leave this one alone -- it is perfection as it stands. "},{"Title":"Carpenter's best","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" He is a most talented director and all around creative artist and this is his finest film.The script is great fun and fast-paced. I recently re-watched the VHS version and was still taken away from the cares of the day; few films can do that so easily but BTILC surely does so, at least for this viewer.The theme song is very catchy and should be noted Carpenter wrote the song as well.Why there wasn't a sequel one can only wonder.This is not art but it IS entertainment.'They Live' deserves a watch also, even more today than in 1986. "},{"Title":"The magic of the home video releases","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) is a very rude trucker; when his best friend's fiancée is mysteriously kidnapped by a Chinese gang,he most help his friend to deal with the mysterious David Lo Pan in the underground of San Francisco's Chinatown.From this plot, the great John Carpenter creates one of the most funniest and full of action films of the 80's. Since the very beginning of the film there is action everywhere and really funny dialogs, specially of Jack Burton who seems that never understand what was really happening with the Chinese magicians. Another thing that i love is that all the Chinese knows how to fight (also Burton's best friend) so there are great action scenes. The visual part is good, i love the monsters and with the DVD the quality is much better.The cast is just great, Kurt Russell makes another similar role of Snake from Escape from New YorK, in the way that both aren't the classic heroes and in this film is really funny. With the participation of Kim Cattrall (now very famous for Sex and the city) and Dennis Dun, who plays Wang Chi, Burton's best friend.Big Trouble in Little China was really misunderstood when it was release in 1986, it was a commercial and critical failure that makes Carpenter stop making films for the studios. So thanks god for the home video releases because now this film is a cult one.Conclusion watch this great film, is nothing but a magical mystery tour in San Francisco's Chinatown. For me is not the best of John Carpenter but it is one of the greatest cult films of the 80's. Highly recommendable. 9 out of 10DVD i have a two-discs edition that have really cool material like interviews, original trailers, trailers in Spanish, deleted scenes and more stuff. I love this DVD specially because is the only format that this film was released in Mexico, i think.PS the Mexican title for this film is Rescate En El Barrio Chino, that means Rescue in Chinatown. Not funny like the original but at least is not illogical.SPOILER!!!!!!PS2 I love the end, with the monster in Jack's truck is nothing but great specially for the dialog of Jack in the previous scene. "},{"Title":"What's so bad about bad movies?","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is not a good movie; in fact, it's a very bad movie. But, it's SUPPOSED to be a bad movie. How accurate is the portrayal of Chinese culture? To be honest, it doesn't matter; this movie makes fun of everyone.Single minded Americans, self-righteous reporters, ancient Chinese wise men; everyone is portrayed in the most stereotypical manner possible. The monster looks just like a man in a costume and no one pretends it looks like anything else. There is no depth, no moral, just senseless violence alternating with mindless silliness. Think of this movie as an amusement park ride, climb in and let it take you where it wants to go. Afterward you'll get off exactly where you started, maybe a little out of breath but with a big smile on your face.  "},{"Title":"The pinnacle of film-making","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Few movies will ever compare to the wonder that is Big Trouble in Little China. Kurt Russell and Kim Cattrall lead a wonderful group of character actors in this action movie with a true sense of adventure.The plot revolves around the kidnapping of Miao Yin (Suzee Pai), the fiancée of Wang Chi (Dennis Dun). Jack Burton (Russell), friend of Wang, gets involved to help rescue her. The plot moves along to include a Chinese sorcerer who is 3000 years old, creatures which live under San Francisco, a 6-Demon Bag, and being able to see what other men cannot see. If there is one thing that is obvious about this movie, it's that everyone involved had a blast filming it. You can tell Russell and Cattrall were having fun, as well as the other players in the story. As the story revolves around a trucker with a male ego the size of Saturn, you know it's going to involve much banter and wit which revolves around machismo. And the story delivers.Best of all, this story is perfect for adolescents. There is sporadic use of four-letter words, as well as a veiled visit to a house of ill repute, but these scenes are minor in the movie, which moves from fight scene to fight scene with giddy excitement.Filmed in 1986, this story still packs a punch and is great for any boys-nights of any age at your home. 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"It's all in the reflexes","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  (minor spoilers)It's a fine art to make a movie that's so intentionally bad it's funny.  If it's not done right, you just get a bad movie that everyone hates.  If it IS done right, you get a gem like Big Trouble in Little China, and even then some people won't get the joke.  Make no mistake -- this is a comedy.  It doesn't have wall-to-wall gags like a Blazing Saddles, so many people mistake this for just a stupid wire-fu flick with bad special effects and flat characters.Big Trouble is so over-the-top tongue-in-cheek with its dialog, characters, plotlines and stunts it is hilarious.  Kurt Russell is perfect as the he-man action hero who doesn't realize he's really the comic relief -- knocking himself out just as the big battle begins, and then heading into the final confrontation with lipstick on his mouth.10/10 for Carpenter's ultimate B-movie classic! "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one the best movie ever directed by J Carpenter,old chinese magic, gang wars, kickass action and a beatiful girl. Kurt Russel as Jack Burton is one of the coolest kult action heros I have yet to see in my time as a movie goer "},{"Title":"Modern classic","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great homage to Hong Kong action directors, especially Tsui Hark. Carpenter really knows his stuff. Hysterical dialogue, hilarious acting and some cheesy special effects (and some good ones, too). It's a film you either get or you just don't. "},{"Title":"Kurt Russell and great special effects make this movie awesome","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is another one of those films that I have wanted to see for a long time because I love Kurt Russell, and Im into the chinese culture.  I was not one bit disapointed.  Kurt Russell is perfect for Jack Burton, I heard the robotic Peter Weller was slated to play the role, but im glad they chose Kurt, no offense to Peter.  The special effects were great as well, and so was all of the martial arts.  Overall this is a very fun movie.  **** out of ***** "}{"Title":"I was born ready!","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What at first seems like overblown, heavy-handed kung-fu nonsense at its very worst is in fact a fast-paced, undeniably entertaining piece of old-fashioned adventure with tongue firmly in cheek. Both Kurt Russel and director Carpenter are in peak form and keep the action and subtle laughs coming. Just don't think too much about the innate silliness, in fact don't think at all. "},{"Title":"Six Demon Bag","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are six reason why I think that Big Trouble in Little China is the most under-rated martial arts film(not to mention its done by John Carpenter) in todays history. 1)Kurt Russell and Kim Cattrall. The way that their chemistry works onscreen you would think that they were an item. 2)Awesome soundtrack(done by Carpenter) 3)Wonderful scene environments(the dank alley,Lo pan's lair,bulk of dead trees) 4)Action that was nonstop from start to finish 5)Great dialogue and screenplay. The words are memorable and the action sequences are unforgettable. 6)The Three StormsGreat movie on all fronts. Check it out if you like John Carpenter movies or action films. "},{"Title":"A classic, quirky story","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie many times when I was in junior high, when it first came out.   The story grabs you and takes you away for a couple hours.  I wish hollywood took risks and made more films like this.It also takes you away to Chinatown and the Chinese hells below Chinatown.And it is funny.  Lots of great lines.I think it lacks the kicking ass scenes that movie-goers crave.  The hero never rises above, lucky/goofy.  In fact, his side-kick does the butt-kicking when it comes down to it.  Jack Burton is mostly along for laughs.Definitely worth renting if you don't take it too seriously. "},{"Title":"You'd better run...run into the mystic night.","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not much I can say about this film, other than that I truly love it.  It's an utter blast.  John Carpenter is pretty high up on my list of all-time favorite directors, and this is probably my favorite of his films.  Check it out...I can't guarantee that you'll enjoy it, but I really hope that you do (this seems to be my motto whenever I post here at IMDb; guess I really do have odd tastes). "},{"Title":"Hillarious action/comedy","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is amazing, it has everything great action,heroes and comedy. What more can you ask for? You should see this movie if you are a fan of cheesy movies.Don't take this movie seriously,it's just a silly movie. Definatly my favourite John Carpenter film of all time.If you like this movie I recommend They Live,also made By John Carpenter  "},{"Title":"Must See","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a must see for any Kurt Russell, Kim Cattrall, or David Carpenter fan.DVD watchers make sure to listen to the director commentary.  It is basically Russell and Carpenter sitting around smoking and drinking beers while they watch the movie.  Worthy of a rental just for that track! "},{"Title":"Have you paid your dues, Jack?","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You HAVE to just let this movie take you where it's going.  Don't fight it, don't question it.  Kurt Russell says on the DVD commentary that this movie only works because all the actors are in the same movie; no one is trying to make it what it cannot be.  This may be so, but in my opinion the CHARACTERS are all in different movies, often at different times!  We've got romance, adventure, comedy, horror, mysticism, and martial arts, with a big dial that is supposed to point to the overriding mood, but it keeps getting moved. If you agree with this movie, you'll love it.  Fight it, and you'll be miserable. "},{"Title":"Definately a film like no other","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  John Carpenter upset a lot of people releasing his unsociable alien in The Thing on a public still in the friendly alien E.T. hype. Unprepared cinema-goers and a case of bad timing forced Carpenter into a state of purgatory. Leaving his usual flair for horror behind him, he directed the family friendly sci-fi, Starman (1984) and followed its success with Big Trouble in Little China; definately a movie like no other...Kurt Russell plays the loud mouthed, hopelessly inept, reluctant 'hero', Jack Burton. This comedic character demands the money owed to him by his friend, Wang. Before you can even say the title of this film, Wang's fioncee gets kidnapped, Jack's truck gets stolen and they're both up to their necks in mysticism, wizardry, monsters and Kung Fu experts.As has been the problem with previous Carpenter and Russell vehicles (The Thing & Escape from New York), Big Trouble in Little China was a film way ahead of its time. It failed at the box office in 1986, despite high production values, an original concept, great photography and your usual superb synthersizer score from Carpenter. After this disappointment Carpenter left the studio, returning to independent filmmaking for Prince of Darkness (1987).The DVD (both regions) has a great commentary and really conveys exactly how funny Big Trouble in Little China is meant to be. It's also loaded with extras, one of which is the music video performed by The Coupe de Villes (a band comprising of John Carpenter, Tommy Wallace (director of Halloween III) and Nick Castle (Michael Myers in the original Halloween). If you haven't seen this film and have a taste for something completely different, then it's worth seeking out. "},{"Title":"It deserved a trilogy","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I believe that most people first saw 'Big Trouble in Little China' on video. It is one of those 80's action/thriller movies that gained a cult status along with 'Back to the future', 'Fright Night', 'Predator' and 'Raiders of the Lost Ark'.The production design is absolutely marvelous. Every set is a work of art and it is presented with economy and style. Curt Rusell is magnificent as the laid back truck driver and the rest of the cast is excellent too.The martial arts scenes are probably the best ones ever filmed in Hollywood. John Carpenter's direction is simply excellent and he had to deal with possibly the most demanding project he ever worked with. Humor, action and horror are combined flawlessly from beginning to end.An absolute classic that totally deserved a sequel, even a trilogy.10/10 (they don't make 'em like that any more)  "},{"Title":"Great Action-Comedy","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Viewed as what it is a tongue in cheek action-comedy, this film really is a treat. Kurt Russell is great as the hero of the film, that is he thinks he's a hero, but really he's a bit of an idiot! Thats where the humour comes in, and Kurt is great as this sort of character, similar to the one he played in Tango and Cash. This film was directed by John Carpenter, back when he made decent films i.e before around 1987. This isn't as good as Russell and Carpenters films like Escape from New York or The Thing but then it's a diffrent sort of film. The martial arts in the film is superbly done and that plus the comedy make up for the dodgy storyline. Another plus point is Sex in the City star Kim Catrall, she's a great comedy actres and is very nice to look at. If only John Carpenter could still make films of this quality. I recommend th DVD as it features a light hearted commentary by star and director. ***7/10*** "}{"Title":"Classic Kung-fu movie that never gets old!","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Big Trouble in Little China, in my opinion, is one of the best movies to come out of the 80's, although it appeared with little fanfare.The story goes like this  Jack Burton and his truck (The Pork Chop Express) travel to San Francisco's China Town to deliver a shipment.  While there, he reunites with an old friend, Wang Chi, who, consequently, is getting married in a few days.  Unfortunately, Lo Pan, an ancient Chinese demon/sorcerer/businessman has his sights set on the same women because only a green-eyed girl can restore his mortality.  Eventually, Jack and Wang go on an adventure to rescue a whole bevy of women with green eyes and stop Lo Pan before he can rule the universe.The best elements of Big Trouble in Little China are the characters and the situations that develop between them.  The Three Storms are defintely a great addition to the movie, and the intense fight sequences were ahead of their time.  The big final fight between the good and bad gangs is hilarious, exciting, and special-effects laden including a sort of magical game of Mortal Kombat; a man kicking another man 3 times in row (very quickly); Wang and Rain sword fighting in *mid-air*; and Jack Burton displaying his amazing throwing arm (It's all in the reflexes).Oh, and Kurt Russel's portrayal of Jack Burton is timeless and very funny.  He's not totally brainless as some might lead on; I think he doesn't totally understand (or want to understand) the magical things that are occuring, but he nevertheless continues because his friendship with Wang.... and he wants his truck back.Do you know what Jack Burton says in a time like this?Who?Jack Burton; *me*!<Wang flips in and gives Jack the nod>Ol' Jack always says, 'What the hell..' "},{"Title":"Big Fun With Hong Kong Style Action","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For anyone who's a fan of great old Tsui Hark and Shaw Brothers films, there's a quirky comedy-action-fantasy called BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA.  This movie has the ever-sexy Kim Cattrall and the entertaining Kurt Russell, plus the great James Hong, all in a goulash of storm gods, secret underground cities, and more.  Great line from the film  Whoa... do that again!  It's fun, funny and smart, and you won't be sorry you saw it! "},{"Title":"Just keep them coming!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  YES, YES YES!This is another to add to the 80's Hit list. Comedy, Horror, action, suspense, romance and Kurt Russel. This is far more than anyone could ever hope for.John Carpenter has really outdone himself with this tour-de-force flick. Action packed with some slick ass wise-cracking dialogue, that's said, I instantly rushed out to buy the DVD double pack. For me this was Crouching Tiger meets Ghostbusters. It would've been nice though with a follow up, but then again a bad idea as it would have started to lose it's balance becoming somewhat sloppy (especially since all the major bad guys were killed anyway.Once again a true gem to remembered for good. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Jack Burton is my hero 8/10","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Big Trouble in Little China is cheesy as hell -- but who cares.  Jack Burton is the greatest action hero of all time, and he doesn't care if the situation is cheesy cause he's going to kick butt one way or the other -- and he doesn't even care if he gets the girl, just as long as she can kiss good.  What a guy.Big Trouble in Little China is John Carpenter and Kurt Russell's satire on the action genre.  Not a serious moment flows in this film -- so if you take it seriously, you're not going to get it or enjoy it.  But if you have fun with it, and embrace Jack Burton for the hero you know he is -- and the hero you know you want to be, your going to love it.Flying blobs; hairy monkey monsters; magic potions; and oh yeah -- Jack Burton putting the smack down on any fool who dares to interrupt his famous one-liners. "},{"Title":"My two cents.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movies in the theater back in 86 and I was blown away. Fast foreward to 2001 and the DVD arrives wooo ha! I love this movie It does not slow down hardly at all the effects are by the same effects house that did ghostbusters ( I Think.) and its got action action action. My all time favorite John Carpenter movie it all just came together the script the effects and the cast. Kurt Russel is hilarius as Jack Burton the clueless big mouthed truck driver. There is close to a hundred other comments here on the data base so Im gonna cut this short Get the DVD if you havent seen this gem watch it then watch it again with the  Kurt Russel and John Carpenter commentary on.  "},{"Title":"Anyone who didn't like this took it too seriously!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a good movie on a Saturday afternoon when you're hungry for a little action and comedy. That's all it has ever been and that's all it ever will be. People who don't like this don't seem to realize that. It is an action/adventure/comedy/fantasy/martial arts/ghost story/monster movie, and I love all these genres, so as Kurt Russell says in regards to the Six Demon Bag in the film, What more could a guy ask for?Another complaint most people had with this picture was that Kurt Russell's Jack Burton was not very heroic. This is true, but that is not really a problem, as I truly believe having a modern day John Wayne-style hero in a movie about Chinese mythology would have been disrespectful to the culture which inspired the picture in the first place. In the Western movie the film was originally supposed to be, it would have been all right, but not the way this movie is right now. In actuality, Jack Burton is little more than an innocent bystander who is a lot tougher in his own head than he actually is. He talks tough but he can rarely back it up, which is probably how Arnold and Sly would be if they were faced with such a situation in real life.It is actually his buddy Wang Chi (Dennis Dun, who interestingly had no martial arts training before this, because he does it so well) who is not only the calm voice of reason to his stubbornness, but also the guy who knows exactly what's going on, and is always ready to kick some demon ass, and frequently makes Jack look stupid when he does this. Wang, on the other hand, is exactly the kind of hero you'd expect in such a film. And the fact that he's not the main character is an interesting twist on a stupid movie cliche as old as the 2,000 year old sorcerer in the film!Bottom line Buy the DVD, NOW! "},{"Title":"Lots of fun","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  WARNINGPOTENTIAL SPOILERS!Kurt Russell plays a truck driver,who ends up fighting bad guys Little China.Very under-rated action story with a hilarious performance from Russell,as a John Wayne type character.The action scenes are pretty good.The electronic music courtesy of director John Carpenter.Victor Wong is pretty good as an old chinese master.The part where that guy explodes is hilarious.20th Century Fox has released a 2-disc special edition DVD featuring commentary,deleted scenes,& more.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Funny one liners, martial arts, one of the Sex and the City girls early in her career, the guy who played the old guy from Gremlins, how could you NOT love this movie?","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh yes, Big Trouble in Little China is probably one of the greatest action movies I ever seen.  This cult classic is one of the best movies to come out of the late 80's. John Carpenter blows away that Speilburg  guy easily. He knows how to make an action movie and this is it. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter's best film ever!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My top 5 favorite Carpenter films in order from least to greatest. 5.  John Carpenter's Halloween 4.  John Carpenter's Escape From L.A. 3.  John Carpenter's Ghost Of Mars 2.  John Carpenter's Vampires 1.  JOHN CARPENTER'S BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINAWhy Big Trouble In Little China?  Because it was very well crafted and so very well written.  This is the 3rd film Carpenter and Kurt Russell collaborated with each other (The 1st was Escape From New York and the 2nd was The Thing. The 4th would be the sequel Escape From L.A.).  Big Trouble In Little China has a great mix of action, adventure, comedy. western, kung-fu, and special effects all rolled into one.  This is one of the films you've just got to love.  If you're a big fan of Carpenter, then you definitely must check out Big Trouble In Little China. You'll enjoy this film.Grade A+ ****** (out of ****** stars) 13/13 "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time, & probably one of the best entertaining movie ever. While in Chinatown, a pig trucker Jack Burton(Kurt Russell) accompanies his friend Wang(Dennis Dun) to meet his current wife at an airport. But when she is suddenly kidnapped, Jack is drawn into the underworld of Chinatown, along with all of it's black magic and fantasy. It's great fun. The always great actor Victor Wong, as Egg Shen, is enjoyable here as a wizard accompanying the Jack & Wang in their battle. This is a must see movie! "}{"Title":"Big Fun","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my personal favorites.  It's just pure fun.  Kurt Russell hams it up hilariously in a sort of All-American John Wayne hero style.One of John Carpenter's best, it has everything.  Laughs, action, mystery and even a few genuinely creepy moments.  I must've watched this 30 times when it was on HBO a lot one summer.  For anyone who enjoys the pure escapism of the big 80's Hollywood adventure movie.  The Thing and Escape from NY are great in their own way, but in my opinion this is the best of all the movies where Carpenter and Russell worked together. "},{"Title":"Jack Burton, MEat-head, but the check's still in the mail!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Are you ready, Jack? I was born ready! No. You were born YESTERDAY!! Big Trouble in Little China is a masterpiece. John Carpenter's best film! Why? Because Kurt Russell's Jack Burton is the best hero I loved to hate, despise, dislike, abhor, and disrespect. A loud-mouth loser goofs with his little buddy Wang Chi(The way-cool Dennis Dun)when they see the battle between good guys and the Trio(I call James Pax' Lightning, Carter Huang's Thunder and Peter Kwong's RainNote boy, was I in Heaven when I was able to catch and tape Peter in action in the Sci-Fi Channel's rebroadcast of MANIMAL. Underrated series deserved more respect). Jack and Wang see David Lo Pan, esquire(James Hong, esquire), who magically swipes Jack's Porkchop Express truck as well as Wang's girlfriend Miao Yin(Suzee Pai).Right then, he gets on everybody's nerves while Wang, Egg Shen(Victor Wong, another way cool dude), and the heroic forces of kung fu prepare to confront the bad guys. Jack meets up with- and tries the pacifism of- beautiful Gracie Law(Kim Cattrall). Jack and Wang recon, and thanks to screw-up Burton, Gracie gets kidnapped by a sewer beastI call him George and it's up to Wang's kung fu to save Jack's tuckas. An army of fighting mad warriors(including my favorites James Lew, Rummel Mor and Jeff Imada)invade the villain's lair and, spearheaded by Wang's fierce kiai(spirit shout), win a very difficult battle. One famous scene was when Jack joined in on the battlecry, shot his gun upward, and debris fell on his head. My first reaction wasWhat a yutz.Conclusively, the film was great. If I could've edited anything, I could've dropped all the crude language, had Wang and his gang fight topless ala Bruce Lee, and had Jack get his hiney handed to him a little more before the good guys finally won.See the film, enjoy the film, awe to the martial arts action, and prepare to be rubbed the wrong way by Jack.Jack who?Jack Burton . . . MEATHEAD.  "},{"Title":"Russell and Carpenter strike for laughs.","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rumor has it that John Carpenter yearned for years to do a truly scary movie based on one of his favorte subjects; ancient Chinese magic and myths. After establishing himself as a high level master of fright he searched the proper script to make his dream come true. Unfortunatley, after years of looking through scripts and trying out ideas he couldn't find anything frightening enough to suit him. Then he came upon a quirky notion. If horror didn't work, why not play it up for laughs. A script by a couple little known screenplay writers came along that seemed to fit the bill. It was a little goofy. Rather offbeat. But if handled properly, it was just nuts enough to work. The script revolved around a klutzy, loudmouth, all American, longhaul truckdriver named Jack Burton. Poor Jack came to San Francisco's Chinatown to deliver a load and see old friend, Wang Chi. Instead  Burton finds himself caught up in strange web of Chinese sorcery and martial arts craziness. With the aid of a good natured Chinese mage, Burton and ragtag group of martial arts extras battle their way through, warring tongs, mythological creatures, Chinese gods and the ultimate evil spirit!!!Big trouble works much better than it should. The story is goofy. But the script is tight. Some of comedic acting performances are just plain brillant. Combined with Carpenter's seasoned hand that keeps everything moving along at a fast and funny pace, Big Trouble in Little China is one of best spoofs of all time. Well worth 140 mintues of your time.     "},{"Title":"Ahead of it's time.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When John Carpenter made Big Trouble in LIttle China, he was ahead of his time.  Sure, back when this was made the popularity of Bruce Lee's stuff was still out there, but not to the extent of the popularity of the Jackie Chan, Jet Li movement that's sweeping this country right now.  What was so good about BTILC is that it's not all kung-fu, it has a little mixture of everything.  Action, horror, sci-fi, little romance, and a big dumb trucker guy for the hero, now how much cooler can that get.  Kurt Russle is at his best here, as the feel right, what the hell am I doing here, Jack Burton. The character is thrown out of his normal life and thrust into this world he know nothing about, and just goes  with it and that's what makes it great. If you like Carpenter's work, you'll love this.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film has a lot of very good elements.  It has adventure, romance, humour and dread.  The characters are great.  Jack Burton doesn't seem fazed by anything, his sidekick is always with him and Kim Cattral is to die-for in her role.Carpenter combines all of the film's elements seamlessly and it is one movie I can watch over and again.Some find it silly and childish, but I love it! "},{"Title":"Army of Little China Jack Burton Vs. Ash a Carpenter and Raimi film...","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie, it's got great swordfights, chases, gunfights, and martial arts. The four components of a good action movie. Plus, the comedy makes it even more watchable. The villains are awesome, the one liners are hilarious, and the always cool Kurt Russell as John Wayne as Jack Burton. Okay, so its cheesy, but who cares? Its frikkin awesome!If you enjoyed Big Trouble, go see Army of Darkness, another great movie. "},{"Title":"Wildly entertaining, Kurt Russel at his best.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw Big Trouble in Little China I was too young to appreciate its worth as an outstanding movie. Now, after watching the recently released DVD special edition, I realized what a great movie this is. Monsters, Kung-Fu fights, Chinese black magic and amazing stunts keep the viewer guessing from start to finish. If more movies were made like this one, there would be a lot more to rent on the shelves of video stores. "},{"Title":"Kung Fu when Kung Fu Wasn't Cool.","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If there was ever a movie ahead of (or behind) its time, this is it. While people continue to oooh and aaaah over the flying martial arts in CROUCHING TIGER, HIDDEN DRAGON, this one continues to collect dust on most video store shelves.Largely misunderstood when it was initially released in theaters, this is one of Carpenter's strangest works, combining action, humor, martial arts, and magic into one odd film that is nearly impossible to classify.  But if you passed it up before, or watched it but didn't quite get it, you should give it another look.  The new DVD print makes the movie look and sound better than ever, and the film is beautiful to watch, with many vibrant colors and thoughtful cinematography.  It's quirky, yes, but a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"This one has everything","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the most amazing movies ever. It's got everything Humor, Action, Adventure, Fantasy, Horror, Romance and Magic. Kurt Russel is a great anti-Hero, Jack Burton, a very macho truck-driver who is about to enter the underground of San Francisco's Chinatown. Together with his Chinese side-kick he discovers a world of magic, monsters and martial arts when they try to rescue the side-kick's fiancee out of the hands of Lo Pan, a 2000 year old magician, who needs the girl as an offer to become flesh and blood again. For Jack, who's not half the man he wants to be, this adventure might be more than he can handle!If you already know this movie you should watch it again on DVD. It's really amazing. A great DTS soundtrack and much of extra features makes this a must-have DVD. As a Dutchman I had to wait some time before I could get the Region 1 DVD (in Europe we have Region 2, but it is not available here) but man, do I enjoy this one again and again and again... "},{"Title":"Classic Fun","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After watching a thinking film, it's always to great to put in Big Trouble wide-screen and enjoy the ride. It's a cult classic because of the unique concepts in the picture which the 1986 crowd wasn't ready for.Kurt is awesome in this, his whole attitude is hilarious, and the guy was having a ball! Kim Cattrall is lovely, I wish she'd made it into the big time!The screenplay is pretty good, albeit lacking the meat and slow pacing at times.Carpenter could've done a lot more with the characters and plot, but what we get is pretty cool, what can I say, but enjoy the ride!See it only in wide-screen!!! "}{"Title":"Old Jack always says 'What the hell!'","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  'And go off and rule the universe from beyond the grave.' 'Indeed.' 'Or check into a psycho ward whichever comes first huh!' 'Jack will you...' 'Jack what, I'm supposed to buy this *£#@, two thousand years and he can't find one broad to fit the bill, come on Dave you must be doing something seriously wrong.'Only in a scant few movies would you get backchat and bravado from our hero when faced with an all-powerful sorcerer. This is one of those movies. Big Trouble in Little China does exactly what it says on the box, 'A mystical, action, adventure, comedy, kung-fu, monster, ghost story' which sees Jack Burton and Wang Chi (Kurt Russell and Dennis Dun respectively) trying to rescue a girl from the aforementioned sorcerer, David Lo Pan. John Carpenter puts his Dark Star hat on to give us this wonderfully whacked out movie that features such things as as all-seeing eyeball monster, three people who have control over the elements and the hell of the upside-down sinners, to name but a few. Kurt Russell turns in a great performance as a swaggering trucker for whom nothing seems to go right but who always ends up saving the day. He even manages to look heroic with a big lipstick mark on his lips. The always lovely Kim Cattrall also gives a good performance as a girl who, like Kurt Russell's character, puts up a brave front to hide the fear beneath. Plus she look especially gorgeous in that chinese wedding gown and make-up.A terrific score by Mr.Carpenter himself and top-notch SFX courtesy of ILM alumnus Richard Edlund round off a movie which has to be seen to be believed. And enjoyed.  "},{"Title":"kaleidescope of fun","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   BTiLC is about as much fun at the movies as you can get. Russel stars as a truck driver who goes to visit his old friend in Chinatown. The friend wants Russel to pick up his soon to be wife at the airport. The girl is kidnapped and while Russel and the friend are after them. Strange things start happening such as a funeral in the streets and mystical figures who sport lightning. They meet up with a tour bus driver and find out that an old ancient demon has kidnapped the girl to make her his bride so he can become immortal. They go in to rescue her in a demented funhouse filled with action. Big Trouble works because it combines every style out there. It has martial arts and Eastern mysticism as well as comedy, suspense and wise cracks. This is one of John Carpenter's last great movies. Russel does a good job as does the rest of the cast. Kim Cattrall plays Russel's love interest who gets entangled in the mess too. The movie has become a classic because it's shown on TV on days where nothing is going on and you can relive it and have fun. I love this movie. **** "},{"Title":"Now I need a DVD Player!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I couldn't wait until my son was the right age (14) to watch this with me. One of my all-time favorite action comedy films with all the right elements to make it successful. Great understanding of kung-fu cliches allowed Carpenter to spoof Hong Kong's best while still keeping the charm. The best possible element is Kurt Russell's character, the American tough guy who never figures out what the heck is going on with demons and ghosts and magic from another world. And now the DVD is out, and there are lost scenes! Ack. I'm going to have to break down and buy a DVD player just to watch this. "},{"Title":"Despite all appearances, not a bad film","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  At first glance, this feels like just so much Chuck Norris-style trash. There's no great plot, acting, or effects.But... watch this for about 20 or 30 minutes and you begin to realise where it's coming from.For me the moment I started to enjoy myself was just after lots of inexplicable fights and flying magicians with lampshades on their heads have entered the scene. Kurt Russell sits down in the kitchen of an urban chinese mystic who explains the over-complicated plot to him in full detail, as if for the benefit of the audience. Kurt's got his mouth full of food and still looks totally baffled, managing an oafish 'hughsghuughhhhh???' in total empathy with the people in the cinema stuffing their faces with popcorn and uttering a similar question. For me, in terms of cinematic cheek, that moment was up there with Indiana Jones shooting the swordsman in 'Raiders'.There's no pretence that the storyline matters, it's more of a case of 'that's that out of the way, now lets get out there and shoot the b**trds!'.Great fun, doesn't insult the intelligence. "},{"Title":"Totally funny cult classic. The checks in the mail","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you don't think this is one of the best comedy action films ever you just don't get it. They should pay the actors and makers twice for making this work of art. And if you're a guy and you don't think this movie is funny better check for your manhood because its missing. "},{"Title":"It's all in the reflexes...","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If ever there was a chop'em, sock'em kung-fu, comedy, fantasy, action flick to beat, it would have to be John Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China.  Another one of Carpenter's vastly underappreciated films of the 80's, this movie follows the adventures of Jack Burton (Kurt Russell, in his most over the top and hilarious performance ever) and his pal Wang, as they attempt to save Wang's girlfriend from the evil Chinese sorcerer, Lo Pan, in San Francisco Chinatown.  Easily Carpenter's most amusing film, this movie is just pure fun, never taking itself too seriously, it has no major goal other than to take the audience on a fun little ride.  And it definetly succeeds in that, for when it comes to fun flicks, not many stand above Big Trouble in Little China. "},{"Title":"One of the best buddy movies I have ever seen.","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie, in my opinion, is one of the best buddy movies to date. I can recite nearly every line of the movie by heart, but each time I watch it, I feel like I'm watching it for the first time and enjoying even more in its familiarity. This movie's yin and yang are definitely not going north and south. It is a completely enjoyable movie. I don't want to give away the details, but recommend it whole-heartedly.  "},{"Title":"the best cult film!","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  now, this is one kick ass movie!! i first saw this when i was five and have loved it since! the plot and good and humorous at the same time, the characters rock, the lines are kind of sketchy, but hey, who cares?? and the kung fu, some of the best i've seen!! if you love kung fu, comedy, and cult, go for this awesome movie!! "},{"Title":"In the grand tradition of Hong Kong action","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  BTILC is perhaps the greatest B movie ever made. It combines the absolute classic elements of cheesy flying martial arts action with marginal-quality acting and perhaps the best one-liners ever. Add to that John Carpenter's penchant for creating strange situations and Kurt Russell's perfect portrayal of a semi-hero and you have a true classic American movie. Any movie that can almost single handedly influence a classic video game as much as BTILC influenced Mortal Kombat has to be a hit.Perhaps the biggest factor of this movie are the characters. Jack Burton is the ubiquitous white guy in a Kung Fu movie and Kurt Russell pulls off a fabulous performance with equal portions complaints and heroics, while the real main players in the story line (Egg Shen, Wang Chi, David LoPan, among others) were perfect fits, mixing in a seriousness of the situation with some very unexpected American humor.This is the kind of movie you can throw in any time. Its great to simply watch, but even if you're busy doing something else, the sound and the music tell the story well, while any scene you watch, even on its own, is entertaining. Truly a package deal.If you want a serious martial arts movie, a comedy, or Schwarzenegger action film, this is NOT the movie you want. If you want all of that in equal portions in a single movie, then this is it. "},{"Title":"Chinese-action, fantasy-adventure","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Kurt Russell, as Jack the Californian truck driver, has it cool with the lines in this '80s action, no brainer, through an ancient Chinese legend.  It's a lot of fun, for kids too, especially when you have green eyes. "}{"Title":"We used to have a word for this 'Bitchin'","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This really is a movie for junior-high school boys, isn't it? it has broad stereotypical representations, ridiculously complex backstory, and only the very slightest understandings of interactions between men and women. This is not to say it's a *bad* movie ... it's a GREAT BAD MOVIE!The portrayal of Chinese/Chinese-Americans here is tempered quite a bit by Kurt Russell's overblown John Wayne performance. It seems to tell us, if you think this is what the Chinese are really like, well then, this is how *Americans* look in the same light. It also helps that the American is clueless and ultimately is mostly a tag-along who utters macho comments of dubious wit along the way.Its treatment of love is no less broad, with Jack Burton and Gracie Law's inexplicable attraction, that seems to be built up only so it can't be dropped (in true macho style) at the end. If you're not too PC to see through all this, it is absolutely hilarious. "},{"Title":"big fun in little china","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Though a bit incoherent at times, this is a terrific all-out adventure full of bizarre imagery for fans of the genre.  Russell is perfect as a John Wayne wannabe, a guy who tries to be cool, but always comes up short.  As a truck driver who squawks macho advice into his cb radio, his aid is enlisted when his buddy's fiance is kidnapped.  They (and a handful of others) head into the Chinese underground to rescue her from marrying an ancient Chinese sorcerer named David (that's Chinese?) Lo Pan.  Since the girl has green eyes, Lo Pan can become young again by marrying her.  Russell and co. must endure tons of life threatening situations as they find their way through the hidden world underneath the streets of San Franciso's Chinatown.  Lo Pan's cohorts are after them, and being affiliated with a sorcerer, they have powers all their own.  Characters such as Rain, Thunder and Lightning, who can fly and know martial arts, are constantly battling Russell and his gang.  It's a bit unclear as to why they aren't just killed, but only tied up or blindfolded and locked into a room.  Also, it's never really explained who Lo Pan is or his origin, but the key for me in any movie is pacing, and this thing zips by nicely.  The beginning is great as we're introduced to Russell as the egotistical hero, then plunged right into the action during a scene at an airport.  The rest of the cast is great, Kattrall as the cute female lead, Hong is a hoot as Lo Pan, appearing at several different ages and types of make-up, Wong as the unfazed smart-ass Egg-Shenn, and despite what some others said, I thought Dennis Dun (Wang) was a decent enough actor.  But it's no doubt that Russell is the star, with his sarcastic line readings, such as Dun telling him My destiny rests in your capable hands, to which he responds annoyed, Hey, I'll do my best.  Or when he refers to the powerful, dangerous Lo Pan as simply Dave.  The only thing that brings this down from perfection is the two over-extended fight scenes at the front and end of the film.  They go on WAY too long and are so chaotic that they make your head spin.  I mean, if I had to watch Dun and that one guy leap into the air and slam their swords together as they fly across the room one more time, I wouldda screamed.  Aside from that, this is just pure, mindless fun, with a terrific end credits song written and performed (except for vocals) by director Carpenter, that's become one of my favorite tunes over the years.  He uses his trademark synthesizers, also incorporating some traditional Chinese music sounds along with a great beat.  And despite a set-up for a sequel, there has yet to be a return of Jack Burton and the Pork Chop Express.  Which may be good, as it would be tough to top what they cranked out here, one of the better adventure films over the years. "},{"Title":"I had to see it a second time to like it; now I love it.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie when it came out in the theaters in 1986. It was basically marketed as an action drama. I hated it; it was unrealistic and the characters did unbelievable things. I didn't understand the motivation for Carpenter to make this film.I didn't see it again for about two years. The second time was an epiphany; well this film is a comedy! I didn't get it the first time.  It wasn't just a comedy; it was really, really funny.This movie attracts my attention whenever it pops up on the tube. My old recorded-from-Cinemax copy wore out years ago, and I look forward to seeing it on DVD (hurry up DVD!). Kurt Russell is a hoot; genuine in the role of a knows-less-than-he-thinks truck driver.The story is so original and so non-categorical that you can't explain it. Chop-socky Asian-American comedy-adventure supernatural superhero/supervillain action drama is the closest I can describe it, and I'm still miles away.Personally, I think this film is much better than The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai, which has achieved cult status for no reason I can figure. Well acted, well directed, and very funny.It's all in the reflexes. "},{"Title":"JACK BURTON.  ME!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this movie took about four years to grow on me.  now it is one of my favorites.  it is a movie that defies pigeonholing, classification, or definition.  when people ask about it, i just say  rent it and watch it. i hope the dvd release (when it happens) will be a collector's edition, not a disappointment like the just released escape from new york.  i can't wait. "},{"Title":"This is a fun movie with a lot of action.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you like action/comedy movies, then you should take a look at this.  It has a lot of action and a lot of laughs.  The kids will love it.  As for adults, you will probably hate this movie or love it.  A must see if you have kids. "},{"Title":"This is a fun movie with a lot of action.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you like action/comedy movies, then you should take a look at this.  It has a lot of action and a lot of laughs.  The kids will love it.  As for adults, you will probably hate this movie or love it.  A must see if you have kids. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate B-Movie.","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In these days of outstanding but grim films like 'Fight Club' and 'American History X' it's good to know that one time there were films like this one which made you feel good about life. 'Big Trouble in little China' is a grossly underrated film, once more film critic's around the world show how they've got their heads shoved up their A**'s when it comes to stuff like this, how could a film with so much going for it, (i.e/ Superb Dialogue, outstanding performances (O.K not from Wang), great direction, and some of the funniest scenes I've ever seen in movies.) can be called Boring, and Over-blown is beyond me.Even if you disliked the film itself you'd have to admire the way it fits in so many different genre's of film into one! Highlights include Jack's monologes over his CB radio, the airport scene ('Where that come from?'), The hilarious anti-climatic ending, ('Goodbye mister Burton') and the wheelchair/well scene (trust me it's funny)It's a hellova shame that in these days where you can pick up sh*t like BASEketball and Space Marines on DVD you can't buy a kick-ass film like this, so I urge you to go out today and pick yourself up a VHS copy of a truely great film, Laugh at Kurt Russell's Jack 'John Wayne' Burton, Wonder how the hell Wang was ever allowed to act in a film and ponder why this film isn't in 'the top 250 films ever' on this very site. (For god's sake even the 'Fight Club' rip off 'American Beauty' is!!) Maybe one day we'll be able to hear 'It's all in the reflex's' in a crisp DVD transfer. God I hope so.  "},{"Title":"another Carpenter classic","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  in the 70's and 80's there is no better director then John Carpenter once again he brings us a classic with the great Kurt Russell, Big Trouble In Little China is so much fun to watch, it's a great action/adventure/comedy, and is a spoof on those old kung-fu films. when ever Russell and Carpenter team up it's always a classic film. i give Big Trouble In Little China 8/10 it's a very silly movie but thats whats so great. for double the fun rent this and Escape From New York "},{"Title":"Hong Kong meets Hollywood","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this film. You combine the slight campiness of mid-80's Hollywood with the over-the-top action of Hong Kong and this is what you get. Kurt Russell is hilarious as he spouts off terrific one-liners It's all in the reflexes If we're not back by dawn...call the President. The kung fu scenes are very much like those in the HK movies at the time. Lo Pan is a great villain. This is a classic Kung Fu movie story filmed through western eyes. The only bad side is the fact of Kim Cattrall's going on to make that piece of ubiquitous garbage,sex and the city. "},{"Title":"This movie rules","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is fairly dumb but luckily it is dumb in a fairly self-conscious way.  Some cool fighting sequences and some weird villains (although the monster who look like a weird gorilla man was fairly lame) make this film fun for B-Movie fans the world over.  There is one problem though  Kurt Russel's character didn't do to much ass kicking as a viewer might hope. For Kurt Russel kicking ass check out Escape from New York. "}{"Title":"A perennial favorite","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite goofy movies, but I recognize it's not for everyone. Carpenter does a great job of parodying kung-fu films, while still delivering a swashbuckling story. Casting Kurt Russell was the perfect touch, because I don't believe anyone else could have pulled off the baffled tough guy, faced with Chinese weirdness and mystery. Russell's character *never* really believes any of this fantasy craziness, but slogs ahead anyway.I shared it with my teenage son last year, and we both cracked up. Just don't take it seriously. "},{"Title":"A fun, new type of movie.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A bit of personal history first.  In '85 and '86, the time this movie was being made, I was in Southeast Asia.  When I wasn't doing something else I would watch television.  One of my favorite types of shows were Chinese action/mythology series that were labeled, in English, as pugilist shows.  I suspect there is a common Chinese word that isn't quite translating here, the same word that was the source of the name for The Boxer Rebellion.  Anyway, these shows were wonderfully stylized, with impossible fighting sequences involving characters leaping enormous distances and fighting indefinitely while in midair as if gravity were merely a matter of opinion.  Nowadays, as most any episode of Xena, Warrior Princess shows, this style is now an accepted part of western film-making, but back then I had never seen the like.  But John Carpenter clearly had.  And it seems he decided to blend this Chinese action style with a traditional Hollywood action movie.  The result was Big Trouble in Little China.Of course this mis-marriage would never have worked if it had been done too seriously.  So Carpenter took each style down a step. Kurt Russell's tough guy bravado always just exceeds his actual abilities.  And the potent Chinese supernatural forces don't always prevail over mundane realism.  In the end, by using humor to meet in the middle, the two halves combine to make a very entertaining movie.  And a whole new style.  Big Trouble in Little China may not look so remarkable today now that this style has widely been imitated, but the qualities that make a good fun movie are still there and I always enjoy watching it. "},{"Title":"spoof of Hong Kong action films and a what if JOHN WAYNE had been a complete idiot film....SPOILERS","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film asks the question of what would JOHN WAYNE have been like if he had been a sexist, egotistical, idiot. I saw a interview with Carpenter once and he had said Kurt Russel had played him like a cheesy version of John Wayne. The film revolves around a truck driver who gets sucked into a china town gang war, when his truck gets stolen, and his pal's girlfriend gets taken hostage by a white slavery gang. So it's up to KURT RUSSEL and DENNIS DUN to save the girl from the evil LO PAN (James Hong) and bring justice to the streets of Chinatown. There's one problem....LO PAN is a demon from chinese religion with supernatural powers and he has a massive army of kung fu henchmen. LO PAN needs a woman with green eyes to restore his godhood...or something like that. This film features a clever send up of HONG KONG martial arts movies at a time when HONG KONG cinema hadn't reached it's peak of intrest for US audiences; in that respect this film was ahead of it's time. The martial arts sequences are well coreographed and are some of the best since ENTER THE DRAGON...however, nothing can come close to ENTER THE DRAGON. There was a problem with the studio and Carpenter on this film and he swore he'd stay away from studio pictures for awhile. It's evident he didn't get his full creative vision on this one. This is a great action spoof and features some good special effects. If you don't mind films with a little tounge-in-cheek woven into them, then this will be up your alley. "},{"Title":"Do you believe in sorcery Mr. Chen? Hell yes, with the combination of old style Kung Fu and amazing special effects Carpenter kicks some butt and makes you laugh.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm sorry, but I love this movie, and Carpenter in general. For starters you have that Jun Fan style kick-boxing that the martial arts masters made for Bruce Lee.  In the first fight scenes between the Chang-Sing's and the Wing-Kong's, there's a part where some dude is thrown a two by four and knees a guy's head between the board. The kung-fu is exceptional.  The acting is great, with Kurt Russell (Tombstone) playing the witty, arrogant trucker, Kim Cattral (Star Trek 6) as the cocky human rights lawyer, and Dennis Dun (Prince of Darkness, also directed by Carpenter and also starring Egg) the slick and strong dude determined to get his girl back from the evil 2000 year old Lo-Pan.  Russell is excellent although he's in just about every Carpenter flick imaginable.  Carpenter rocks, that's all I have to say.  Special effects amazing, that's all, rent it if you haven't seen and enjoy. "},{"Title":"An all time classic of mass proportions!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ever since I was a little kid, ok well I was eight at the time, I watched this movie endlessly through out my life. It's just one of those classic films from the ever so lovely 80's that many have grown to love. Examples, the Karate Kid, Lost Boys, Back to the Future, Goonies, Ghostbusters, Teen Wolf, Three Amigos, I could go on forever. It's one of those movies that you find while flipping through the channels on TV and it just takes you back in time when you were young. BTILC is just one of those movies that does that. In this great film, you'll encounter mystical Chinese magic, great martial arts, corny acting, excellent lines by cast, and goofy gunplay. Jack Burton (Russell) makes this film. He has all the best lines and come backs that you'll ever hear around. And Wang (Dun) is the best side kick that there has been in a long time. But I have to say that the powerful Lo Pan (Wong) steals the show. Whether he be in 'Ten Foot Tall Road Block' or 'Little Old Basket Case on Wheels' mode, He makes the perfect villain. Heck this movies got so much crazyness going on in it, even the some of the most popular video games/movies around have copied ideas straight out of the movie! One guess...Mortal Kombat. Yep almost all the characters where ripped off from this cool film. Take Shang Tsung= Lo Pan (both old and younger versions), Johnny Cage= Jack Burton (both show off and try to get the girl), Raiden> Lightning (one of the three storms, an exact rip off), Lu Kang= Wang Chi (determined man searching for revenge), and even the orange beast thing at the end of the film, Street Fighter copied this one for Blanka!(Did they think nobody would know?) Anyways, one heck of a great film. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Too Good for Magic!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This Movie is very colorful in various areas and also very good In it's photography.You can see that Kurt Russell liked making this picture and also enjoyed the moments he had with the other cast.The movie is about ancient myths and legends in Chinatown and how they were overcome by Jack & Wang.Jack a truck driver and Wang a man trying to see his girlfriend from overseas untill she is kidnapped right in front of their eyes.Then the movie just takes off from there.Overall I give This movie 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of best films I've ever watched. It's not good acting, or good martial arts, but its is definitely fun to watch. The quotes of Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) is memorable. Especially, the part where he goes into a brothel, and was asked  'Are you ready' and he replies, 'I was born ready'... such a classic!Highly recommend, great entertainment from start to finish! "},{"Title":"This is one of the best films ever","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best films I have ever seen. It is just so funny to see all these Chinese characters who have a deep understanding of Chinese magic and history and caught up in the middle of it is Jack Burton who has no idea about what is going on around him. I could watch this film over and over again. "},{"Title":"comedy on the pork chop express","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Easily described very funny with enough action to make you want to see it twice, and not just because you miss things in the first time around. The movie is worth watching just for Kurt Russell's one liners which are very funny, as are most Kurt Russell movies even Backdraft has some funny lines.Basically this film is up there as one of his best along with escape from new york and tango and cash, sorry that i did not mention Dennis Dunn because he works well in the film with Russell.very funny 'indeed'It gets a face rating of 8 out of 10 as Jack Burton would say.  "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Big Trouble in Little China has great one liners, great action, great humor and Kurt Russell.  Kurt Russell is basically doing his best John Wayne impression in this film.  He marches through every scene with a aura of bravado that only Wayne seems to possess.  It's great fun to just plop this film into the VCR or LD player and just let it go.  You get caught up in the sheer goofiness of the script and likeability of Kurt Russell.  Plus he's got a great motto Give me your best shot.  I can take it. "}{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have no time for anyone who doesn't like this film. It's an even more rewatchable film than the Life of Brian. Oooh. Tough call. Comparisons aside, every minute, nay, every second of this film WORKS. It also has a couple of the most hilarious lines you'll ever see (/hear). An all-time favourite. "},{"Title":"Fun film, but it cannot be considered better than The Thing!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While the film is a genuine original, and John Carpenter hit the mark with chop-sockey fans, Big Trouble... cannot possibly touch the sheer force as did The Thing, re-made by JC. The director's use of quality actors (including Kurt Russell) proves this to be a superior entry in comparison.  "},{"Title":"A fun, fantasy filled romp through the world of black magic in Chinatown","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a classic B movie, which hooks nearly everyone who sees it. It's campy effects, and hilariously overplayed stereotypical characters make it great to watch on the small screen over and over again. Kurt Russell plays one of his best parts, mixing comedy and action, and obviously enjoying the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Interesting commentary track","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Carpenter/Russell commentary was quite interesting and candid. Russell provides several insights on his attitudes toward his career, movie shootings, and the general state of film making. Carpenter also offers his opinions but seems a bit more reserved. The two of them make the commentary track a very interesting feature of the DVD.BTLC is an unusual film that was not received well in 1986 but become somewhat of a cult classic following its home video release. (Russell credits home video sales with saving his career during a period of slumping box office results.) One source categorizes BTLC as a martial arts comedy. BTLC isn't a favorite of mine because I am not a fan of martial arts films. I disliked the campy special effects that included electrical arcing from finger tips and shaft of bright light emitting from eyes and mouths. Turns out that things such as this are staples of kung fu movies. I didn't know this because I don't watch kung fu movies. Turns out that the parts of the movie that I disliked the most were a sort-of homage to the kung fu genre.The characters are cavalier in a way reminiscent of Indiana Jones movies. The poster art also reflects the style of the Indiana Jones series. There are creatures in the movie whose appearance seemed quite cheesy to me, nowhere near the quality of Carpenter's The Thing (1982). But they weren't intended to be. I think that Carpenter's overall vision was to make a fun movie. It was that; don't expect much more.Kurt Russell is a favorite of mine for his portrayals of Snake Pliskken and J. R. MacReady. Russell's character in BTLC is Jack Burton. He is a polar opposite of those characters in that he is an all-around good guy without a dark side. A braggadocio yes, but without menace. Kim Cattrall is smoldering as Gracie Law. I found myself vapor locking at every close-up of this comely lass. The film is worth watching for her eyes alone. Suzee Pai is no slouch either. James Hong plays villain Lo Pan to add to his impressive lists of roles. The DVD of BTLC contains a Carpenter/Russell commentary track that was quite interesting and candid. If the film disappoints you, listen to the commentary track. It won't disappoint you. Russell provides several insights on his attitudes toward his career, movie shootings, and the general state of film making. Kurt Russell is a Disney (make that Touchstone) version of Bruce Willis a true action hero. Carpenter also offers his opinions but seems a bit more reserved. The two of them make the commentary track a very interesting feature of the DVD. "},{"Title":"Carpenter and Russell give you more action in china as they did in New York","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John Carpenter has always impressed me and when comes to directing a actor like Kurt Russell you are always happy with what they come out with. In this we see Jack Burton(Kurt Russell)taken on the forces of Evil in china town,attempting to find his friends girl friend and a very sexy Kim Cattrel who both have been kidnapped by a deadly sorcerer named David Lo pan who wants to marry the girls and lift his ancient curse forever. But not if good old Jack and his friends from China town have anything to say about it. The action and humour come thick and fast in this classic fantasy adventure with a twist of the western in it. This big fun this Big Trouble in little china. "},{"Title":"A Strange, Yet Wonderful, Adventure Film","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An All-American trucker (Kurt Russell) gets dragged into a centuries-old mystical battle in Chinatown.I really do not know what to make of this film. It has martial arts, gun play, some spiritual and mystical aspects... the plot is constantly fast-paced, with no time for a rest between the bizarre moments and scenarios the leads find themselves in.Some of it seems a bit odd -- the romance between Jack and Gracie comes off as forced and far too quick, but given the fun nature of this movie, that really should not be a big surprise. Jack goes from being an outsider to fighting in the trenches within minutes without much coaxing.The green eyes subplot was also strange. If the idea was a Chinese woman with green eyes, I see how that could be rare and cause the villain to wait thousands of years. Yet, it seems that the Chinese part is optional, as Gracie (very Caucasian) gets caught up in things, too. Green eyes in white women is not hard to find... "},{"Title":"A decent action/adventure/fantasy movie  set in Chinatown","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This has got to be one of the cartoonish movie I have ever seen, from the dialogue to the setting and everything else. The dialogue maybe laughable at times, but it's still intriguing and entertaining sometimes to listen to. The movie has a fast pacing, but it just seemed to be all over the place at times. Even the kung-fu fight sequences is uber cheesy and lame, but still sort of entertaining to watch. Now I can see how this movie became a cult classic, despite everything being ridiculous it's still a enjoyable movie. You can tell the cast had a lot of fun making this movie and it's fun to watch this movie and the cast doing goofy and lame stuff as well. There is a lot of supernatural elements in this movie such as magic, but fit right into the premise of the movie and even how ridiculous everything is in this. It's basically one of the decent B-movies out there. So it may not a amazing movie about a amazingly entertaining adventure to watch, but it's still worth seeing at least once.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Best Kurt Russell movie in this genre","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie when I was still a lad. I saw it at the theater and laughed out loud when I watched it. I like how Jack Burton is laid back all the time. He always gets into these impossible messes and just remains calm. There visuals in this movie are great. like those characters who float down on lightening and have huge hats. That one part where the Chinese guy blows a ball into Jack' tummy was funny. Even that didn't hurt ol' Jack Burton. I liked how that old guy in the wheel chair was bragging about what a good looking guy he was and that he score with women. I laughed so hard that my eyeballs swelled up by 4% and squirted a little bit of tear juice!!! Jake Bass liked this movie also. "},{"Title":"Jack Burton always said&#133;","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Trucker Jack Burton finds himself caught up in the supernatural world of old-age China mythology in San Francisco's Chinatown when his best friend Wang's green-eyed girlfriend is abducted by Lo Pan, a centuries old sorcerer who needs to sacrifice her to regain his psychical form to concur the world.The lively enthusiasm and random craziness that shrouds John Carpenter's fantasy cult sleeper Big Trouble In Little China always gets me in a good mood whenever I decide to kick it out (finally I updated my VHS version, although it took me long enough). Good vs. evil. Chinese mythology. Kung-fu. An American protagonist. There's quite a mixture within this concept. Gary Goldman and David Z. Weinstein's knee-jerk script feeds up many amusing and colourful situations from the pulpy hybrid material. This could be contributed largely to Kurt Russell's glowing, larger-than-life comic turn as a John Wayne-like truckie Jack Burton. Confident, but clumsily confused makes his character unquestionably likable. Everything that came out of his mouth (the wisecracks to the advice) was quotable and charismatically delivered. There's almost a mock seriousness to all of this absurdity. The gorgeously stormy Kim Cattrall takes the honours as Chinatown lawyer Gracie Law. The rest of the performances are over-dramatic (with the likes of James Hong, Dennis Dung and Victor Wong), but fit right in with the fun, boisterous realm created by Carpenter. Imagination fills the brightly lit set-designs (did someone steal Skull Mountain from He-Man) and Richard Edlund's striking visual effects. They might look campy, but they're vividly illustrated and add to the mystical atmosphere. Carpenter's busy direction is built around the dazzling flair, up-beat pace and staged set-pieces of stylish and gung-ho stunts (with martial arts getting a good work out). He also takes time out to orchestrate the thumping synthesiser score. Let's not forget about that theme song he wrote and performed with his band 'The Coupe De Villas'. It's a 80s doozey! My only real gripe was that of the easy demise of the main villains.A terrifically entertaining, charming and adventurous cartoonish romp. You can't do wrong with the pairing of Carpenter and Russell (yes, even Escape From LA (1996)). "},{"Title":"Big Fun","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie has aged incredibly well.A boatload of fun from start to finish. And despite the ham-bone acting, you can't help but get into it. The ham-bone acting may have actually helped.Kurt's the prototype trucker helping a Chinese buddy meet his girlfriend. She gets grabbed by a local gang of creeps. Start the fight music guys.Kurt does what looked like an overdone 'Duke' Wayne impersonation. He seemed to be laughing along with us though. Kim Catrall's role, as cool as it was, was a long way from 'Sex And The City.' And Dennis Dun was absolutely brilliant as the Chinese lead.You have a mix of Martial Arts and Fantasy here. And Johnny C. mixed it to a crispy perfection. The critics were a bit unfair here. It's obvious they took it too seriously. Carpenter himself said he didn't feel the suits really read the script before it got made. Hence their hesitation to back it 100% Most of the cast were real Martial Artists doing there own stunts. Al Leong, a mainstay in flicks like this, needs speaking roles occasionally. And big Carter Wong might be familiar to those who like Chinese Kung-Fu films. I wonder if he can really speak English though.Got the new life in video. Thankful for that. Thanks to Johnny C. for the cool extras on the DVD too.And the Coup De Villes song deserved a release too. "}{"Title":"Remember FUN movies?  This is one of the last greats.","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John Carpenter and Kurt Russell make a great team. And never has dialogue been written so perfectly for Kurt Russell. This is one of a handful of well-constructed fun movies. They can be criticized for being derivative, formulaic, low budget, or nonsensical. It's possible that Big Trouble in Little China could be called all of these things (low budget is unfair, I think, but it still might be evaluated as such by some viewers today), but I think such criticisms would be too quick. See, this movie is fun. We give those sorts of films allowances. And in this one, the main character is a brash, overconfident, iconic hero that speaks almost exclusively in one-liners. The plot? He fights kung fu demons to rescue his buddy's fiancée and a green-eyed damsel that he wants to score with. That's the setting. It's not deep. It's not going to get any prestige points among film buffs. But it is going to be fun. "},{"Title":"No other movie satisfies a rainy-day afternoon like this one.","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" No other movie satisfies a rainy-day afternoon like this one. Big Trouble in Little China is the r0xx0rz. John Carpenter and Kurt Russell together again (I don't know what it is about that combination, but they have some great movies with John Carpenter directing Kurt Russell Escape from New York/L.A., The Thing, etc). Kim Cattrall doesn't get naked and her acting was so horrible the first time I saw it, but every time I watch Big Trouble in Little China again, I think she gets better and better.Once you get over the cheap quality of the movie, it'll be one of the most memorable movie experiences that you have ever had.Basically, it's the best B action movie ever made. "},{"Title":"a good old classic action adventure movie","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i first saw this film in a shop that i was in and it just appealed to me! Kurt Russel who is one of my favourite actors and then the director john carpenter! what could be better....anyway, i bought it on DVD and well its at the top of my pile of DVD's....its about a trucker who gets involved in an ancient Chinese fight of good versus evil when his friends wife to be gets kidnapped because of her rare green eyes which an ancient saucer needs to become whole again. the film which involves an excellent cast and excellent one liners especially the line from jack where he says ''keep the home fire burning and if we ain't back by dawn....call the president'' classic! i well recommend this movie just for the cast which i thought was ace. There are some mistakes that can be seen in the film and the monster looks fake but still only john carpenter can pull it off and the music is excellent especially the big trouble in little china end credits theme....all i can say give it a viewing! "},{"Title":"ahead of its time","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Admirers of this film sometimes voice bewilderment as to why this film wasn't more popular on release, having to develop its audience via the secondary video market (which has actually been the case for a number of John Carpenter films). In reading some of the negative comments concerning the film, I think that I can sum this up, and in a manner that enhances viewing of the film.By 1986, many Americans had become convinced that the Hong Kong action film was a thing of the past, since in many US cities the so-called grindhouse theaters these had played at had closed. Consequently, the whole Hong Kong 'New Wave' phenomenon - Jackie Chan, Sammo Hung, John Woo, Tsui Hark, etc. - with its touches of irony and outright comedy, was known here only to a dedicated few. Carpenter's film is a respectful tribute to this development, and not a satire on the old-school chop socky film with which most Americans were familiar.Because of this, I think American audiences were bewildered; if it was an American kung fu film, where was Jean Claude Van Damme? If it was about Chinese kung fu, why wasn't it outright satire? If it was a serious fantasy, why were there jokes? If it was a comedy, why was the Anglo-American the butt of the jokes, why not the Chinese? We can now reduce these questions to their obvious assumptions The Chinese make silly action movies that are only good for a few laughs, European-Americans make serious action movies with serious heroes. A Hong Kong kung fu movie is a brainless way to pass some time, a Hollywood martial arts film is has an instructive point to make about the conflict between good and evil (ala Rambo).The reason why Big Trouble has developed an audience on the secondary, video, market, is because it is exactly through this market that many Americans at last began investigating films Los Angeles and New York reviewers were raving about, films made in Hong Kong that were far more violent, exciting, and amusing than any action film being made in Hollywood. And it certainly helped that Hollywood action stars like Van Damme and Steven Seagal began not only praising Hong Kong films, but actually bringing over their directors and action Choreographers like Yuen Woo Ping. And by 1996, not only did all Americans at last know who Jackie Chan and John Woo were, but most Hollywood action films were slavishly imitating one or another Hong Kong director's style.Still, from some negative comments in IMDb reviews, one has to admit that some of the old ethnocentrism that blocked appreciation of Carpenter's achievement in Big Trouble still remains. Some young reviewers still don't recognize that the Three Storms happen to be old-school Hong Kong stars brought over especially for this project; that, as in any good Hong Kong 'New Wave' film, Russell's truck-driver can be presented as both clown and hero (see Jet Li's Contract Killer); that the use of wire-works is most effective when combined with bone-crunching realism; that an American martial arts film does not need to have an Anglo- American martial artist star; and that Chinese black magic has the same place in an action film fantasy as any other magic (or any other science, for that matter) - I mean, should we really take Yoda's mumblings about 'the Force' in Srar Wars seriously, and then dismiss Egg Chen because his magic is Chinese? Let's get real! The action film no longer recognizes boundaries, and quality has no nationality. The reason this film is so good is precisely because Carpenter chose not to approach it in a patronizing manner. he is sincerely trying to make a Hong Kong 'New Wave' action picture in the Chinese-American community of San Francisco; that was a real innovation, in 1986; perhaps it still is.Bottomline this is a great fun exciting action-comedy, that holds up well after 20 years. Well-made, fast-paced, and it treats both its subject matter and its audience fairly and with respect. "},{"Title":"Best Supernatural Fantasy adventure Film. Fullstop","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie has almost every genre elements to make it a entertaining movie. Action, Martial arts, comedy, fantasy, sci fi, adventure and even a little scruffy romance. The script is daft, but it is suppose to be a supernatural movie. If this film has a bad plot then why did Matrix and Lord of the Rings become Big Hits. Kurt Russel in a Fabulous enjoyable role as the not so quick truck driver. The rest of the cast are quite unknown but deliver some fun moments in the film. The fictional baddies are ever so entertaining. Each of them have their own weapon and style, whether the main sorcerer, Lightnings (looks like raidon from Mortal Kombat), Beast and eye. 2 hours of non stop fun adventure in this great classic Carpenter movie. "},{"Title":"Just plain fun","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" JOhn CArpenter's track record has been a veritable road map of creative alleys and pathways,from schlock like Assault on Precinct 13 to horror mainstays like Halloween and the Thing,from darkly suspenseful films like THey Live! and Prince of Darkness to the warmly well-acted and muted Starman. THis film stands out almost all on its own.JAck Burton(Kurt Russell,never more in his element than here) is a free-wheeling',happy-as-acclaim,wiseass trucker who is game for any sort of challenge. On route through San Francisco,he is talked into doing a favor for his friend Wang(Dennis Dun),who convinces him to transport a couple of friends,one of them a head-strong lawyer named Gracie(Kim Cattrall,LONG before Sex and the City or even Mannequin) through Chinatown. Things get knocked into chaos when they are attacked in Chinatown and a street war erupts. IN pursuit of their charges,JAck and Wang end up in a powerful battle with a Chinese demi-God(JAmes HOng) who,according to legend,needs to marry and reproduce with a green-eyed Asian lady(that would be model Suzee Pai)in order to live another two thousand years.THe plot is as loose-fitting as the clothing that the lovely damsels in distress are forced to wear,and the action is at such breakneck speed that you feel like you'll get whiplash after the first thirty minutes. A gaggle of special effects adorns this film,which is basically an homage to actioner serials of the distant past(think 1940s and '50s) and kung fu movies of the not-so-distant past(try the early 70s). THis is,in short,a fun movie,and while it's hardly gonna be a film that breaks any popularity records at your average Blockbuster or Hollywood video store,it is WELL worth the look-see. "},{"Title":"Guaranteed to entertain","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I often wonder about the thought-processes of the people in Hollywood who vote in the Academy Awards. For whatever reason, they seem to think that a movie is only great is it has some kind of deep meaning or moral. Well I claim them all to be arrogant buffoons, because the sole purpose of a movie is to entertain. If they believed the same, Big Trouble would have cleaned up at the Oscars. There aren't too many movies that entertain from start to finish but this one does, and does so in numerous ways. Whether it be the fantastic plot, the hilarious script and lovable good-guys, the frightening and powerful bad-guys, you'll be in a state of emotional pleasure the entire time. You'll also find yourself in sensory euphoria. The music fits the movie perfectly, but where the movie really shines is in the visual department. The sets, the wardrobe, and special effects are an awesome treat for your eyes.Don't expect to be in a state of deep thought when this one ends, and don't expect to have learned some lesson. Just expect to be truly happy and in a great mood. "},{"Title":"Truck driver+Asian Gangs+Electric Chineese guys in funny hats=","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" =the most creative/original/strange/fun movie of all time! Every time I watch it I like it more. What made me watch this movie in the first place is that I am a Kurt Russell fan and in this movie he plays a very good role as an up and down on his luck truck driver whogets mixed up in a creepy dead bad guy's evil plan to become mortal again... Sounds like something a nerd would watch but it really isn't. My favorite part is when Jack, Wang and Eddie are trading the guns back and fourth... Great Kurt Russell humor... Yeah... This movie was obviously a low budget movie but low budget movies can be the best movies (ex. Tremors). I would have to say I have never seen a movie that is even relatively close to this. It's as original as you can get! "},{"Title":"It's so campy it's sublime","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kurt Russel plays Jack Burton, a truck driver who finds himself thrown into a situation that includes full scale China Town gang fights, monsters, evil sorcerers and green eyes girls. He just goes with the flow and that's exactly what people watching this movie must do. It isn't a movie that makes a profound statement, it's just one to experience.People that say this movie is horrible, just don't understand it. I can't say it one of the greatest movies ever made but it certainly is one the most fun. It is incredibly campy and that's what makes it so good. The cast is outstanding. It takes real talent to pull off their lines and keep within the movie's style. This one is one of the best and one of the only within it's genre. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie.","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really thought this was a great flick.The fighting scenes are amazing, the first one with the 2 gangs fighting is one of the best fight scenes to this day. The music was really good, (norm for John.) And it was funny! Like when *I guess this is kinda a spoiler* Jack shoots in the air, and it blows ceiling parts off of the ceiling and hits Jack in the head. Or when he has red lipstick on, and he is trying to be all manly, it's just funny stuff.It is just a really good movie, and I think if you haven't seen it yet, you should, and if you didn't like it, I think you should see it again, and again until you do. "}{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a cracking movie. From start to finish it's great to watch something that doesn't take itself too seriously but doesn't degenerate into a farce (Police Academy IV). One of the many elements of BTILC that I enjoy the most is just how 80's the whole thing is from the music to the 'special' effects, to the obligatory white t-shirt sported by the muscle bound,man's man, hero. Another great thing is the fact that there is an actual story - and an enjoyable one too - just the right amount of mythology to make it interesting - an ancient ghost who needs a green eyed girl to marry to lift a curse that will make him flesh again and allow him to rule the world. Yes the acting is hammed up, yes so is the script but all of this just adds to the fun. This is a film to get lost in, a film to crack open a beer and enjoy with your mates. It won't impress 'intellectuals' who aren't happy unless a film is a) black and white or arty b)Profound But it is a good movie Only a complete tool would not enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter & Kurt Russel For Two Hours What Could Be Better?","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Whe i first saw this movie on TV about seven years ago i was unsure of what to make of it, i had seen John Carpenters other works but found this unfamiliar ground for him apart from the film starring Kurt Russel who never ceases to impress in a Carpenter film. Now having watched this more times than i can remember i love the comic genius that pops up in nearly every scene of the film and is a great reason to watch the film.The cast is impressive but top billing was invented for a reason and thats why when Kurt Russel is top billing for a film you know in one way or another the film will be great. In this film the audience identifies with Russles character because like him we are in the mystery and along for the ride. There are some great fights that make the Matrix stick out like a sore thumb.The film plays more on story, character and action more than anything else so don't be surprised that the special effects are not what Steve Spielberg or ILM have put together because this film really doesn't care, it just wants you along for the ride and speaking of which i think i might just watch it again! "},{"Title":"Tons of fun","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Let's face it, this is just what kill bill pretends to be. I mean, a simple adventure movie fueled with martial arts and oriental philosophy (here Chinese rather than Japanese), extremely cool characters like Egg Shen or Thunder and cheesy but enjoyable special effects (like the magic fight between Lo Pen and Egg Shen or the eye-guardian). Plus, there is a lot of irony, mainly in the character of Jack Burton, when he does the tough guy or when he repeatly does stupid things and looks like a jerk. You'll laugh or smile nearly every time he'll appear on the screen. Not for the fine mouthed, but if you are bored, it's difficult to find something more funny, clever, entertaining, naive and exaggerated than Big Trouble. And let the cinephile bore with Wim Wenders and Michelangelo Antonioni... "},{"Title":"Lord what fun!","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This may be John Carpenter's most enjoyable film. He busts out of horror to make an action/comedy that satirizes both American-style two buddies with guns flicks and Chinese kung fu action flicks. Don't let the movie's low marks with the critics fool you the critics back in the 1980s didn't watch kung fu movies, so they didn't get the jokes! A rambling tough-guy truck driver gets lost in the city, and accidentally pulls his truck into the middle of a massive kung fu gang fight in Chinatown. As a result, he befriends a local Chinese guy whose fiancée has been kidnapped by a triad who follow an evil spirit (Loh Pan). Said evil spirit had decided to marry said fiancée himself, as part of a ritual to summon said evil spirit into the physical world. The two men lead a group of civic minded martial artists into the depths of the earth to rescue the fair maiden and put an end to the dastardly deeds of Loh Pan.Okay, enough plot summary. This is one fun movie. Crazy feats of kung fu. Ridiculously campy dialog. Actually funny dialog. So-campy-its-funny dialog. A main character who can't do anything right. Whacky monsters that seem to be modeled after Ming figurines on your Aunt's coffee table. An old herbalist who dispenses super potions and fortune-cookie wisdom. Kung fu gang fights. Kung fu gun fights. Gorilla fu. Kurt Russel fu.All that fu aside, there is a reason this is a cult classic. If you like cult films, you are going to like BTLC. "},{"Title":"The greatest adventure ever told, serial B-movie style...","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China isn't your average adventure movie. Sure, it's got the classic action sequences and all the beat 'em up elements, but it's done with just the right amount of tongue-in-cheek humour and over-the-top comic book antics, that it's weighed out into something real special. Only Carpenter could pull off this B-movie (on purpose), that really sets the stakes for an all-time classic and of course, your enjoyable adventure flick.Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) is a trucker who gets caught up with his friend Wang (Dennis Dun) in a downtown Chinatown conspiracy. An age old Magician called Lo Pan is planning on returning from the spirit world and needs to sacrifice a girl with green eyes to do so. Wang's girlfriend fits that exact description, and she's caught and it's up to him to rescue her. Of course, Wang owes Jack money so Jack decides it's best to stick with Wang until he's paid up, but gets caught up in something out-of-this-world. Teaming up with some strange and memorable characters, Jack and Wang hit the underground warehouse for Lo Pan's operations, and involve themselves in a mission that will save Chinatown for ages to come! It really is spectacular, with everybody performing to their best of ability. It's hard to explain the feeling you get from watching this movie, but it's a good one. Never before has an adventure made me feel so alive. In fact, it makes me want to go on this particular quest myself! I recommend it to the highest heavens you won't be disappointed with John Carpenter's 1986 classic, BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA.Overall The greatest adventure movie of all time cinema at it's best. (5/5) "},{"Title":"Movie Ridicule Perfection","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China is a recent personal favorite. Hero, Jack Burton goes on an oddball trip through Little China to discover secrets in Chinese Mysticism and the universal plot of obliteration schemed by the evil, yet lovable, David Lo Pan. Although many consider this film too obscure to be taken seriously, Carpenter's intention wasn't to make a serious kung-fu action/adventure film. At its best, it's a simple satire on generations of action and karate movies. While taking elements from the 80's, it becomes a time capsule holding all things sacred to film goers looking for a break from the monotony in the industry. I salute Mr. Carpenter for being ahead of his time to critique an unborn generation already in ruin with dead film. "},{"Title":"Chines Ghost Story with very high fun factor","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Title Big Trouble in Little ChinaDirector Jhon CarpenterStars Kurt Russel, Kim Katral, Dennis Dun, Victor WongIts been called by Jhon Carpenter a Chinese ghost story and I agree with him. I can safely say this is one of those movies that I have seen over a kagillion times, and I never get tired of it.Its filled to the brim with Chinese lore, you know Chinese gods like Ching Dai, and Chinese ghosts like Lo-Pan, and monsters like the Chinese wild man a monster thats a cross between chewbacka and a very deranged gorilla. Its all embellished in a Chinese style ghost story thats done to perfection by our old pal Jhon Carpenter.The plot is about Jack, a San Francisco truck driver and Wang Chi the owner of the Chinese restaurant in San Francisco china town. Wang Chis fiancée named Maoyin is kidnapped by a gang of thugs called The Lords of Death. Jack joins Wang Chi in rescuing her, and in doing so go deeper into the world of Chinese ghosts and monsters. You see Lou Pan the bad guy, needs Maoyin to turn back into a human, see hes cursed with being a ghost forever. Chaos is what follows. Or as Wang says we really shook the pillars of heaven didn't we jack?The film is great fun, and most of that fun comes from the great characters in the film, I think its safe to say that all the characters are interesting and likable. Lets see we haveJack Burton- played by Kurt Russell is my favorite of the bunch. Some of his lines have me cracking up most of the time! Hes only in this for the dough. Or is he? Maybe underneath his rough exterior he just cares about his friends.Wang Chi- played by Dennis Dun. Just a dude in love and willing to do anything to get his love back. And don't stand in his way, once hes got a sword in hand your in for some trouble.Egg Chen- and old bus driver/tour guide/wise man who's also dwells a little in black magic and magic potions. Oh and he also carries around something called the 7 demon bag so watch out.Gracie Law- played by Kim Katrall, who plays this nosy lawyer willing to do anything to let the rest of the world know what is going on in the San Francisco underground sewers. And shes in love with Jack.There's a whole Chinese temple underneath the streets of Chinatown in the world of Big Trouble in Little China!It doesn't shy down in the special fx dept. It has visual fx left and right, lets see green balls of flame, a guy who can manipulate lightning, magic power battles, people having sword fights in mid-air, and monsters with 50 eyeballs. You name it, its in there. And done well.It doesn't disappoint in the action department either, we get karate fights all through out the movie, they pale a little in comparison to todays matrix-style fighting, but they are not all that bad. Before martial arts were made cool by films like The Matrix and Hidden Dragon Crouching Tiger...there was Big Trouble in Little China, one of Jhon Carpenters best efforts! "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John Carpenter creates another piece of brilliant cinema with this, a mix of action, horror and comedy. The tension and violence is still here, as with the mysterious characters and sharp story-telling, but this time it's aimed at perhaps a younger audience. Or at least, he is not trying to be shocking or make us terrified. This was Carpenter's golden age, when he ensured he would not be seen as a one-hit indie wonder.Kurt Russell (who else) plays trucker/gambler Jack Burton, a man who just wants to get the job done, get paid and go. His latest job takes him to Chinatown where he meets old friend Wang Chi. They go together to pick up Chi's fiancée from the airport, but she is mysteriously kidnapped by gang members. Local reporter Gracie Law gets involved and they look for the girl. Soon they uncover a deadly and magical plot that sees the ancient Lo Pan intending to become all-powerful once he marries a girl with green eyes- Chi's fiancée. Jack and Chi gather together an army of ninjas and travel into the underground and underworld to rescue the girl and stop Lo Pan. This will not be easy as Lo Pan's powers are growing, and he seems to be immortal. His three henchmen Thunder, Lightning and Rain also seem to be unstoppable. Soon a massive battle breaks out with monsters, magic, martial arts, ninjas, swords etc in a classic struggle between good and evil.Although the film's main draw is the action and sorcery, the script is also exceptional, dripping with cool. Russell gets all the one-liners, delivering them with wit. His character has no idea what is going on, but deals with it, Cattral is very good as Law, Dun tries to be serious to comic effect (in a good way), and Hong is outstanding as the evil Lo Pan, indulging in the comedy of the story and character. Wong also does well. It is meant to look like it wasn't made for millions by Hollywood suits, and succeeds in every way. Carpenter is not only a master of tension, but a master of excitement and comedy too.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Kurt Russell is the king of pseudo tough guys","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John Carpenter has truly created a masterpiece here, with the king of pseudo tough guys in the lead role, performed to perfection by the king of pseudo tough guy actors himself Kurt the king of pseudo tough guys Russell.....The lead heroes name is Jack ,I really think that says it all, martial arts, tough ass hombres, roving maniac gods stealing Asian girls with green eyes to appease big gods of the east, and a truck driver named Jack Burton (what a tough-guy name). Slick one liners steal this one and the action is great, coupled with the smugness eschewed by the obvious pseudo serious imitation of actioneers this is of the all time greats in my books. Really worth a six-pack of cheap (or expensive) beer and the rental cost of a DVD, and I am extremely jealous that my uncles got to see this one on the big screen..... "},{"Title":"A Great Fun Film For Those Sunday Afternoons","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie was always a favorite when I growing up. I always enjoyed the action sequences and the great one liners delivered by Jack Burton (Brilliantly played by Kurt Russell. And what really sets this movie apart from more recent films is it's engaging story and its great characters.The story is simple and as old as any story that involves myth, magic and heroes. Of Good vs Evil. We have our hero (Jack Burton) truck driver by profession, who believes himself to be worldly and wise as though there is nothing he hasn't seen or done. As you see in the opening sequences, he thinks of himself as a philosopher of life and holds all its mysteries in the palm of his hands.After a night of drinking, gambling and good old fashioned male bonding.By morning to the annoyance of his new friends Jack finds himself the richer man. Yet Wang, an old friend of our philosophizing hero, convinces Jack to give him a chance at double or nothing. Of course Jack doubles his money. Sadly Wang can not afford to pay him at the moment but he can after he picks his girl up from the airport. Escorting his good friend Wang (played perfectly by Dennis Dun) to the airport. Where Wang will collect the girl and Burton will collect the cash owed to him. However our two heroes find themselves being swept up in the Chinese underworld after the kidnapping of Miao Yin (Wang's fiancée). Like any good story we need the princess to be kidnapped.Together Burton and Wang must battle against gangs of knife wielding butchers(or Chinese gangs) cray guys in straw hats,demons and a ghostly apparition named David Lo Pan to rescue the girl and restore all that was good. The story is simple but as the story unfolds you find yourself being swept away with the two heroes as the sequences flow rapidly, giving you a sense of breathlessness and given no time to really think about what has happened. You find yourself engrossed in the ride and the characters.The duologue is rather cheesy and corny but that is what makes the film so great. It is meant to be taken lightly and with a sense of humor. You can not, not laugh at Russell, who you can see is way out of his element as he understand nothing going on around him dispelling his seen and done it all brashnessI think that was Carpenter's want, for the viewer to relate to Burton and see the story through him and he achieved it wonderfully well, I feel. Jack (Russell, couldn't resist) is along the ride with you.The action is fast paced, and the fight sequences are well choreographed. The music fits flawless and perfectly with the story and at no time do you feel as though it intrudes upon the movie, which to me is a sign that the score was well handled. And the special effects though not ground breaking certainly fitted with the camp theme of the movie.Just a great non serious film where you can sit down and let go and have fun for a couple of hours. "}{"Title":"the real unforgettable entertainment","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Words really can't describe how great this movie is. I loved it as a child and still love it as an adult. I personally believe BTILCH is gonna stay here for a long time in almost the same case as with The Wizard Of Oz continuing to entertain another generations, real timeless classic that will never lose its charm. John Carpenter is a real genius, not only absorbs into a completely different genre from Starman that did 2 years before but does that like he was an Asian kung-fu master and not a horror master like he's used to be. Only the greats like him can succeed in every genre (and, i dare to say, in every decade). Now you have to excuse me i'm gonna show it to my children. "},{"Title":"Stupid, yet fun and entertaining","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This must have been written by the same guy that did the Jackie Chan films. Anybody who likes all that far out Kung-fu crap will be right at home with this one. Lots of colorful costumes and cool sets, along with some goofy comedy kept me glued to the screen all the way. Russell was perfect as the verbose, confused trucker. Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"This film Reeks of Awesomeness","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This isn't going to be a long and in depth description and analysis of this movie.  I just felt compelled to express how much I love this movie. In my general opinion there aren't many reasons for John Carpenter to be making movies doesn't.  Face it, he's directed a lot of crap, please lets don't mention Vampires and how many people were walking out of the theater when I went to go see it.But if there is one reason to justify his existence, it is this movie. Its great.  I may like some pretty different and intellectual movies(see Northfork, Requiem for a Dream) but when it comes to just a great action movie, this is what I turn to time and time again.  I cant even count how many times I've seen it.It well acted, great score, interesting story, some kick ass action, and some good humor(no not the ice cream).  If your looking for something a little different in your action flick don't look to Jean-Claude Van Damme, don't watch T3, don't even watch The Matrix movies(unless it's the original, that one is still ok).I give this movie a 10/10.  Sit back with a bucket of popcorn, pop in the DVD, relax, pay attention to the story, and enjoy.  Give it a chance and I know you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Have ya paid your dues Jack?","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was 14 when this movie came out. I went to see it at our local movie theater and loved it so much I ended up seeing 5 times before it moved on. Even now, my wife and I break it out and give it another watch. There's really nothing bad that you can say about it. It's funny, action packed and has solid enough performances from all involved. At this point in John Carpenters career, it seemed that he could do no wrong. His movies may not have all been ground breaking cinema, but you could rest assured that you would at least be entertained. After 'Big Trouble' though, the confidence I had in paying to see his movies waned big time.At any rate, this is one of his best pictures, and if you haven't seen it, you're missing out!Long live Lo Pan!8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Best Action Movie of the 80's","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really love this movie. I think it is one of the best action movies ever made. When I watch this movie it just brings back good memories of when I first watched it when I was a kid. I was born in 81 so right now I am 22 years old and I can still watch this movie and say that I love it. If you are a dreamer and love happy action stories then this is the movie for you. Jack Russel did an excellent job with his character and so did the other actors. This and the Goonies is my all time favorite movie which puts me in a nostalgic mood. "},{"Title":"A classic Carpenter thrill ride","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great film that is easy to appreciate and enjoy. It seems that everyone involved with this movie had a lot of fun doing it and Kurt Russell in particular seems to be having a lot of fun. This film was made back when John Carpenter was still making good movies. Sorry John but you've really been slipping the past few years. Ghosts of Mars? I rest my case. Big Trouble in Little China however, sees the master in full form and reminds you of other classic Carpenter flicks like Christine or The Thing. The mystical Chinese characters are great bad guys and Kurt's character Jack Burton is a great protagonist funny, confused, and just a little too macho for his own good. With a Carpenter written score, Big Trouble in Little China has plenty of great atmosphere to keep audiences entertained. Bottom Line This movie isn't meant to win awards or make people think. It's just so you can watch it and have fun. If you haven't seen it yet then rent (or buy) the DVD as there are a lot of extras on it. "},{"Title":"Wonder why this gem was never acknowledged?","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So, you're one of the fortunate few that have stumbled upon this gem of a movie that is amalgam of different genres to come together in a perfect, bite-sized, pocket-sized adventure.  Before Matrix, Brotherhood Of The Wolf, or, dare I say, Charlie's Angels, this kung-fu/fantasy/action/adventure/buddy-movie brilliantly came together on film.So, why did this never get the respect it deserved?  On Siskel And Ebert (I believe) they revealed that this movie was released the SAME WEEKEND as another little movie, maybe you've heard of it... Aliens?  Needless to say, Big Trouble's thunder was taken.Whether its your love of the Three Storms, the yummy Kim Cattral, Kurt Russell in his greatest role, the kung fu, or a main character that is so cool he DOESN'T kiss the girl at the end, this movie is great. Enjoy...The check is in the mail. "},{"Title":"Still rocking","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Back in the days, when I was a small kid I saw cool Kung Fu Action, great special effects and an spooky atmosphere. Today the spooky atmosphere and the great special effects are gone but the martial arts action is still rocking. I really love the asian fantasy background in a modern world.Jack Burton is one of the funniest heroes I saw since Han Solo. The Plot is very funny and there are some of the coolest dialogues in action history(egThats like all stories beginnsmall and modest; I was born ready). One of John Carpenters best movies.  "},{"Title":"Cheesy, but great fun","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a must see.  Hollywood is not known for its brain, but once in a while it deliberately does something so dimwitted, it becomes rather entertaining in its own right ... hmm very strange indeed.  Looking back now, I'm surprised at the amount of kung-fu stereotypes in the movie, yet it's not degrading at all.  Why?  The characters are actually great (who can forget James Hong as centuries-old, wheelchair bound man) but Kurt Russell becomes the butt of the film's jokes.  The story exploits larger-than-life mythologies, such as the threesome dark servants, each wields a frightening-looking weapon.  My favourite of the three has to be the lightning warrior with a huge hood ... it was an awesome spectacle for its day when he unleashed barrages of thunderbolts from his hands.It's all in good fun, and there's nothing offensive here.  Of course the movie is painfully silly, but that's the way it's supposed to be!  I give it 10/10 for pure, unadulterated fun. "},{"Title":"The check is in the mail.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Okay, I'm not used to giving positive reviews, so please bare with me gentle readers. The news that this movie is coming to DVD has filled me with a feeling I only thought could possibly be generated by Salma Hayek, whipped cream, and diplomatic immunity. BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA WIDESCREEN, DELETED SCENES! A MUSIC VIDEO! GOD'S HOOKS MAN! Rapture!This movie is the single greatest cinematic achievement of all time due primarily to two factors. First the script by Gary Goldman, W.D. Richter, and David Z. Weinstein is...indescribable. Excellent Dialogue, well researched (at least so far as my understanding of Chinese mythology goes, and even if it's not well researched, it certainly flows), and action packed. The fact that these men alone were responsible for such cinematic...nuggets like Navy Seals, Slither, and Home for the Holidays, makes the BTILC script all the more miraculous. Perhaps the mystery element is David Z. Weinstein, who so far as IMDb is concerned, has never done anything else cinematic. Who is he? A pen name for John Carpenter? A red herring? Or like, Keyser Soze a behind the scenes player, emerging occasionally to add that spark of GENIUS to otherwise mediocre scripts, only to disappear again, as sphynxlike and enigmatically as he came. We may never know.(cough) Secondly, Kurt Russel's delivery of those awesome lines of dialogue. The bravado, the braggadocio, bombast, and bluster he packs into those lines, and other synonymous b-words. Jack Burton is an unforgettable character, who spends most of the movie tied up, unconscious, or incapacitated, yet still emerges the Hero of the film. Brilliant!Not that the rest of the cast isn't superb either, Dennis Dun, James Hong, Victor Wong. The creme de la creme of Asian character actors. You'd have to rent three normal kung fu movies to get this much raw talent in a single picture!And the theme song, oh the THEME SONG. As sung by John Carpenter and the Coupe de Villes. We gotta run, run into the mystic night...run until they TAKE. US. AWAY! oooh, I can gush no more. Peace. "}{"Title":"I was born ready!.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Humour, action, black magic. This picture has it all! This picture was the first John Carpenter film I actually saw when I was young and to this day it remains one of my favourite action movies. I didn't realise when I was younger some of the humour. The humour is mostly involved with the fact that wise guy trucker Jack Burton (Carpenter favourite Kurt Russell) acts more like a sidekick than a leading man as he's totally clueless most of the time. But that doesn't mean he doesn't handle the situation well. Both he and co-star Dennis Dun are brilliant, with Dun excelling at the martial arts.The late Victor Wong is brilliant as good sorcerer Egg Shen, as is James Hong as ghostly villain Lo Pan. Kim Cattrsll is also great as Gracie Law, the love interest. The fight scenes are all staged well (action flick veteran Al Leong appears as one of the bad guys) and the music by Mr. Carpenter compliments the action brilliantly. The jokes come fast and furious as well. When Burton's not spouting macho B.S., he's firing his gun into the ceiling (Causing plaster to fall on him, of course). Highly recommended to Carpenter fans and action fans everywhere. "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Nearly 15 years before the Matrix, there was Big Trouble! Yeah I know it sounds like a goofy match, but really, this movie was one of the premiere american movies to have loads of Kung Fu with a full cast of actual martial art professionals. Unlike all the Ninja movies that where coming out at the same time where the only person, generally, who new Martial Arts was the main hero and the villain.  This was a movie that really showed HK influence during a time when every American thought America was the first country to do anything when it comes to cinema, and that's also why it probably did so bad in theaters. You gotta give respect where respect is due and watch this movie sometime! "},{"Title":"Random Battle Humor Dragon Sword Fire Funny!!!","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh my god, this Internet movie database is resurfacing old &cheesy but classic movie memories!! I just finished adding a comment for the great B movie Hands of Steel, also made in 1986 (so I guess that was a good year for this type of movie), but no, Big Trouble... is a CLASSIC in the most pure sense of the word.The movie is successful because it milks stereotypes. Yes, it's using the perfect stereotype for every character. The typical New Yorker Trucker gwailo (Kurt Russel, of course), the typical ancient samurai warriors and evil lords, the typical chinese sidekicks. In fact, I bet this movie was what inspired (or allowed to be ripped off) the whole Mortal Kombat thing!Then it gets hilarious with all the stereotypical hyper paced almost random fight scenes in the Eastern style, but this movie has Kurt Russel's character's viewpoints adding comic relief throughout the movie making it uniquely American! Yes, the clashing of the stereotypes!This is a movie you HAVE to watch for it's action, and at the same time, its comedy. It's great fun! The only other movie I can really say that about is Fist of The North Star... the ANIMATED one, people! Yes, a true classic. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ****I'll keep this review short by just saying a few things about this film. The three monologues by Jack Burton (the first one in the truck, the second one in Wang's house, the third, and last, in the truck) are all tongue-in-cheek, deap-pan, drop-dead funny. With the cheesy music, the funky visuals, the funny dialogue, and over-the-top fight scenes, this film measures up to be a true camp classic. Maybe even the best camp classic. "},{"Title":"Extremely funny","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a great cheesy 80's movie.  Everyone involoved was obviously having fun with the entire movie.  It has martial arts, monsters, explosions, sword fighting, and cool effects with a tongue-in-cheek humor.  Kurt Russell is great as the hero.  By hero I mean he's just a guy that accidently stumbles into the underworld of Chinatown, and has no idea what's going on and is very annoyed about it.  This movie successfully avoids all of the action/comedy cliches, as well as the Chinese martial artists cliches. Things to look for (spoiler warning) The  eyeball monster, the mid-air sword fight, the exploding guy, the cool fight scenes. "},{"Title":"Awesome from beginning to end","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Big Trouble has to be John Carpenter's best movie ever! It combines tongue in cheek humor with gritty action and a surreal classic John Carpenter world that makes a killer action movie. Too bad it didn't do well in theaters but it's rebirth on home video is a welcomed site. Great movie and I can't wait for the DVD release.  "},{"Title":"Fantastically fun part-spoof, part-tribute","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is not a great movie.  It's campy and overacted (deliberately).  But it's *so* much fun that it's impossible not to like it.  John Carpenter's film spends half its time cutting up on the conventions of the martial arts film genre, and the other half using them brilliantly itself.  It's certainly not for everyone, but it's zany, fun, and extremely successful at what it's trying to do.  Even though it's no award-winner, I give it an 8 for sheer enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Good Combination","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this picture.  This movie is one of the finest examples of John Carpenter and Kurt Russel working together.  Every Carpenter/Russell movie is great fun.  In this movie, yes movie, Kurt plays a straight shooting, level headed hero.  It is interesting to see how he reacts to the strange magical world that the Chinese create and inhabit.  The movie is great if for no other reason than his monologue at the beginning and end of the movie. Well you know what Jack Burton would say at a time like this...Have I paid my dues, I sure have.  The check is in the mail. "},{"Title":"An offensively bad ride through the toy store.","Date":"18 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the happy, garish '80s you could get away with a lot in the movies. Big Trouble in Little China does indeed all it can to do just that. The result is a tiresome, juvenile joyride through the toy store&#x85; minus the joy.Kurt Russell plays smug truck driver Jack Burton, who makes a stop in San Francisco's Chinatown to visit his friend Wang. Accompanied by Jack, Wang goes to meet his childhood sweetheart at the airport, only to see her get abducted by Chinese gangsters. The hunt for her leads to a gang war, which in turn leads to a showdown in the underworld of Chinese black magic, mythical reincarnation curses and various Kung Fu fights. Oh, did I forget to mention drooling fur monsters in corridors, hovering spy brains with faces and characters named Lo Pan and Egg Shen?Filmmaker John Carpenter (a hero from my youth!) was at his best doing low-budget horror or thrillers. That made him both interesting, creative, and sometimes a master of creating tension and atmosphere - especially with its own scripts. He is not the writer here, and doing action comedy on a large, noisy scale with various supernatural ingredients thrown into the wok, is just not his thing. With a big monetary budget bag in his hand, he becomes a boisterous nine-year-old running through the toy store, buying one colorful balloon and Chinese firecracker after another &#x96; only to pop and shoot them off inside the store, while cheering. Continuously. It's sad to see an old hero making a fool of himself like that.I try to set my mind into harmless, playful entertainment-mode. But this is so cheaply written, deftless, desperate and dumb that I only get dejected and tired. There is no balance, finesse or wow-factor in the action-, chase- or fight scenes. They just keep crashing into one another like an endless set-up of bowling pins. Sometimes the fur-monkey-monster pops up. There is a lot of running, stumbling and yelling in corridors plus a bit of diving in indoor pools. One of the bad guys has the inexplicable ability to inflate himself until he explodes (!). And perhaps most sadly it's simply not funny, only embarrassingly low-brow. If one wanted to find a mitigating circumstance, one could pull up the Tongue-in-Cheek-excuse or The Huge Campy- card. But for that to work, it takes smartness in the comic material. Here, I laugh once. And that's in a sigh saying What IS this mess?! Alternately, it's like watching an extended Scooby Doo cartoon on speed (I'm tempted to write Chinese opium but that's more of a downer) with about the same amount of character development. In any case, this is offensively bad. Or maybe it IS made for nine-year-olds watching Scooby Doo? Nope, as it probably has one too many a knife in the head/broken elbow for that target group.Kurt Russell might be doing a pastiche of his previous tough guys Snake Plissken (Escape from New York) or MacReady (The Thing), but why not have a clear nod to those cult characters, like a black eye patch falling off, or something? His Jack Burton is just a charmless, impotent John Wayne-impersonator in cowboy boots who is not even given good lines. He drives a truck called The Pork Chop Express ... while chewing embarrassing clichés over his two-way radio. Kim Cattrall as the woman in distress/ love-interest is squeezed into the story so fast that there isn't a chance to buy the potentially mandatory romance even for a moment. Russell's unexpected final rejection is a bit liberating, though.Is there anything good to be found? Well, we have very stylish set designs and pretty okay special effects. But what good is that, when we have a terrible script, cacophony-action and characters that I don't give two cents about? There is a nostalgic expression in the world of film They don't make 'em like They Used to. Sometimes that fact is very reassuring.2 out of 10 from ozjeppe. "},{"Title":"A Carpenter Classic","Date":"1 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the late 70's and the 80's you had directors...and then you had John Carpenter.Big Trouble in Little China is right up there with his other classics such as Escape from New York, The Fog, Assault on Precinct 13, and The Boy Who Could Fly. Films like this are movie magic. They remind you why you used to enjoy going to the cinema so much. Nowadays films concern themselves with CGI and 3D whereas Carpenter was a director who believed in giving the audience a story first. Effects are merely props. The key to a great movie is the characters and the choice of cast playing them. Could anyone ever imagine Snake Pliskin being played by any actor other than Kurt Russell or anyone other then the late great Ernest Borgnine driving a yellow NY taxi? If you grew up in the 80's then a description of this film is pointless. Chances are you've already seen it over and over again. If you're a 90's kid and you're wondering what all the fuss is about then put down your xbox controller for a couple hours, put some popcorn in the microwave, shove the DVD in the player, dim the lights and then sit back and bask in the chop-socky-comic-book-glory of this movie! "}{"Title":"80's personification in one adventure film","Date":"28 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" An everyday Truck driver Jack Burton gets caught up in a centuries-old mystical battle in Chinatown and must rescue his pal's fiancée.Made the same year as a flurry of fantasy adventure films, including the The Golden Child, Flight of the Navigator, Howard the Duck and Labyrinth to name a few, Gary Goldman's & David Z. Weinstein's Big Trouble in Little China screenplay is rich and director John Carpenter unknowingly creates a rounded personification of an 80's adventure film. The leads are perfectly cast, a young Kim Cattrall's delivers a defining comedy performance and Kurt Russell is perfect as the All-American beer drinking reluctant hero. A make-up enhanced James Hong is outstanding as mystical evil Lo Pan, the rest of the supporting cast is full of familiar faces.Although the special effects are of their time, some of the makeup effects hold up well. Veteran cinematographer Dean Cundey's show all gritty, sweat of this pure piece of entertainment fun. There's fantastically dressed sets, great costumes and neon lighting. Director Carpenter delivers outlandish set pieces, some great action scenes, magic and sword fights. Packed with comedy moments, one-liners and dark, creepy supernatural Chinese spirits. Big Trouble in Little China packs a lot punch for a film that didn't do big box office bucks but found an audience on VHS. It's a fantasy adventure that's production values add to Big Trouble's charm. "},{"Title":"When East and West collide...","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like many people I have loved this movie since I was only a youngster, purely because the first time I watched it there didn't seem to be any limitations placed upon what might be allowed to happen. It exploits fully the fantastical possibilities that film-making opens up. Right from the word go the story barrels along, keeping pace with Jack's truck, and never eases up even for a moment.Now I'm older of course and have purchased the DVD so I can revel in its delights whenever I want, I'm able to better appreciate Carpenter's intentions with the project. It's basically an experiment to see what would happen if you dropped a John Wayne archetype into a more traditional kung-fu movie. Personally I gain the most enjoyment from Burton's bluff machismo... and the fact that it doesn't seem incongruous that he should call a spirit who is hundreds of years old Dave... (also my name)Virtually everything that takes place has an ever present tongue-in-cheek slant applied to it, and that, I think, is what makes it so easy to sit back and enjoy proceedings. You know that it's only goal is to entertain you, and trust me, it does a great job in that regard. It may not be particularly serious and it may not add up to much in the end, but I firmly believe that it is masterful, in its own crazily lovable way. "},{"Title":"It's all in the reflexes.","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You can measure a man by his actions, but in Jack Burton's case, you'd be better off measuring him by his words. That's because, while the pilot of the Pork Chop Express (a big-rig) has his heart in the right place, when it comes to backing up all his bravado he's about as effective as a lightning rod made out of rubber.John Carpenter has made a lot of movies, a lot of great movies, but none are finer than Big Trouble in Little China. This film features Carpenter at his very best, effortlessly weaving timeless characters with a rich plot, incredible visual effects, and dialog that's so snappy you can't help but giggle with delight.I could write for days about all the great things that happen in this movie, and all the warm-fuzzies its given me over the years, but all that still wouldn't do this film justice. It is, simply put, the greatest movie ever made, period. There is not a single flaw in it, and for anyone to say otherwise only proves that that person's inner-child was beaten to death with a hammer at birth.Sure, it's cheesy, but who says every movie has to be some poignant Oscar nominee to be a masterpiece? This is cinema that entertains like a roller-coaster, without the dizziness or nausea.If you're a fan of John Carpenter, a fan of Kurt Russell, or maybe just a fan of movies that just plain kick butt, there is no good reason why you should not take the time to check out this movie. To not would be a crime against yourself, and that would just be wrong. "},{"Title":"Great Adventure Movie","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kurt Russell takes on the roll of a very macho, yet slightly bumbling action hero in John Carpenters 'Big Trouble in Little China' and he plays it brilliantly. In fact all of the cast play their roles as tongue in cheek, which is exactly what is required to make the film deliver.Crammed with action, comedy, kung fu fighting, magic, monsters and loads more; it is hard to beat the adventure and entertainment in this movie, and surprisingly it also has a good story too.If you've never seen 'Big Trouble in Little China' then you have missed a real treat - Watch it and just enjoy the ride, i reckon you'll be glad you did.8/10 "},{"Title":"a little goofy, as off-the-wall as can be, but also- for the right viewer- just the ticket","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China is a movie that is perfect for me IF I'm in the right kind of mood. Sometimes I turn the channels and see this on and can't bear to watch it if I'm on one of those overly 'bad' days. But if things aren't too bad, and nothing else is going on too troubling in the world, this film does the trick entertainment-wise. In some ways it might be director John Carpenter's most shamelessly entertaining genre flick, with it's hero (Kurt Russell) a truck driving near sailor-mouthed (at least has the attitude to a T) guy getting involved with a strange martial arts fantasy plot. Going into the film you should know a little background, like how the original title was going to be the sequel to the first Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai picture. It's almost too off-the wall at times, with some wild supporting characters thrown into the mix. To talk about the plot of the film might be moot; it's suffice to say the film works because a) Russell is at his best in one of his few Carpenter collaborations, with enough male swagger for any beer-drinking guy; b) the special effects and fight scenes, even by today's standards, are not that bad and even have an effect where a little-kid voice inside keeps saying so awesome; and c) as escapist entertainment, you could do a helluva lot worse. "},{"Title":"Fast talking and fast moving fun in Little China","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Kurt Russell is looking for trouble. Big Trouble. He goes to Little China to find it. While collecting a gambling debt, he runs into the Lords of Death and the Three Storms. Sounds like fun. It is! Soon Russell and sidekick will do battle against an army of goons while trying to free a Chinese girl with green eyes. She's being held captive in a nefarious plot to rule the Earth and steal Russell's truck. Russell won't stand for it.Kurt Russell is great in this movie. He's hilarious. He's the star of the movie but he's not really the action hero. Most of the action is left up to his sidekick, (Dennis Dun), who does most of the fighting. Russell is there for the comic relief. Normally I would want my action hero to be thrashing more bad guys but in this case I'll make an exception. His scene infiltrating the brothel is classic. I still laugh each time I see Russell try to punch out one of the Storms and then get slammed across the room.The action scenes are great in this flick. Everything moves at turbo speed. Once Russell hits Little China, the movie charges into a back alley kung fu showdown and never stops. Everybody talks non-stop when the action needs to take a breather. Russell wants his truck back and will tear his way through whatever bad guy Little China wants to throw at him.Big Trouble in Little China is a great movie. See it. "},{"Title":"I missed out on the band wagon on this one, I have never seen a cheesier movie","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cult movies are funny things.  People seem to love them for weird reasons. I say this because Big Trouble is a cult movie (possibly the biggest cult movie of all time, or at least one of them) and because I didn't like it. In fact, I thought it was stupid beyond words.  It's kind of fun in a harmless way, but I can't understand why so many people love this.I have never been a fan of John Carpenter.  I hear the guy is the nicest director on Earth with no ego what so ever.  Well, that may be so, but I'm sick of seeing John Carpenter's... on the title to all his movies.  I have yet to see The Thing, a movie which has gotten much praise, and I guess I'm an idiot for not yet renting it, but I just don't trust the guy who made Vampires and Big Trouble in Little China.Big Trouble is a mindless fun movie.  I'm sure when it came out, it was the coolest thing on celluloid.  I'm sure, because of the special effects and kung fu action, teenagers thought it was the best thing ever made.  I rented this a few months ago due to Nick Nunziata's (runner of CHUD.com) complete obsession with.  Since then it has come on HBO a million times, and I feel robbed of my money.  Anyway, the movie has a lot of problems.  One of them is the fact all the actors suck like Orecks.  Sorry, but have you actually paid attention to this movie?  Kurt Russell is awful.  That girl who plays the love intrest (the one from Sex in the City) is twice as bad.  Some of the asian guys, like the Yoda-like sage or the evil old guy, are actually good, but every one else is just embarrassing.Okay, now these special effects aren't really bad.  In fact, they're quite good... for the time.  But when you make a movie based on effects and action, it tends to not age well.  Well, this movie has actually aged well, but the effects don't compare to today's stuff.  The kung fu in this movie hasn't aged well at all, sorry.  Now if you look at Enter the Dragon, you'll see kung fu and stunts don't always age.  Enter the Dragon is still the best martial arts movie ever.  But Big Trouble just doesn't compair to, well, anything I've ever seen.  Normally, I wouldn't care about that, but when you build a movie around visuals, that's what happens!  Thirty years from now, Final Fantasy The Spirits Within won't be remembered or cared about because when you fill a movie with special effects, and nothing else, it doesn't last as long as a movie with a good story, good acting, and a good script, which, I'm sorry to say, Big Trouble has none of.Overall, I don't hate this movie.  I'm not shocked at the fact so many people love it.  I know why people love it.  But, I still just don't like it.  It is a mindless fun movie filled with cheese.  But it has too much cheese for my taste.  Shoot me, I missed out on this party.5/10 "},{"Title":"This movie has it all","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has it all, special effects, action, humor, and most of all machismo.  Its, just true escapism, not a serious movie.  Whoever, did the comment about Kurt Russel being John Wayne is right, and Russel does it well.  Lot's of Karate, and stupid humor, I love this, and let's not forget about the monster.  Rent it, be it, live it.  What a great concept, and a great movie. "},{"Title":"Irresistibly silly B-movie Magic","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China is a bit of an outsider in John Carpenter's overall versatile repertoire, but it may simultaneously also be his most accessible and amusingly grotesque achievement. Basically and with a slight bit of imagination, this could simply be described as a cash-in on the Indiana Jones success formula. You know adventurous movies where the actual plot and coherence of the script are secondary to the continuous action scenes and ingenious stunts. But, since John Carpenter is a skillful and multi-talented movie narrator, his contribution is so much more than a cheap and exploitative imitation, notably a widely imaginative spectacle with witty humor, eccentric situations and a thoroughly irresistible B-movie atmosphere. Even though I just finished the film, I can't give you a proper summary of the plot (I wonder if anyone can) but it all doesn't matter that much, since the emphasis here lies on geeky Kung-Fu battles, ancient Chinese myths and black magic and &#150; most importantly &#150; the stereotypical all-American hero character and his glorious non-stop self-mockery. Kurt Russell, in his third successful collaboration with Carpenter after The Thing and Escape from NY is simply sublime as the sleeveless shirt wearing trucker Jack Burton who suddenly becomes involved in a network of abduction, gang wars, Oriental black magic and monstrous entities; all happening underneath the streets of San Francisco's Chinatown. One moment Jack's gambling with his Chinese pal Wang, the next he's up to his neck in big trouble, as it turns out the notorious Chinese sorcerer Lo Pan kidnapped Wang's fiancée in order to uplift a 900 year old curse. Jack and Wang team up with the few remaining reliable people in Chinatown, among them a sexy female attorney and a geeky tourist bus driver, and set out to clear the sewers from all supernatural demons. Big Trouble in Little China offers non-stop undemanding pulp entertainment and popcorn humor, and that's really all you can expect from a commercial 80's film hit. There's a nice and wide selection of comedy here, from deliberately over-the-top macho one-liners (This is gonna take crackerjack timing!) to downright slapstick situations (Jack firing his gun into the ceiling only for the plaster to fall on his head and causing him to miss the fight). The entire cast give away wonderful tongue-in-cheek performances, Kurt Russell on top, and John Carpenter's direction is as adequate here as it is in grim action flicks (Assault on Precinct 13, Escape from New York) and disturbing horror movies (Halloween, The Thing). The typically 80's synthesizer soundtrack is awesome and the special effects team clearly had a blasting good time as well, coming up with all sorts of flamboyant hocus-pocus gimmicks. By no means is this a film that will ever top my personal list of all-time favorites, but I certainly wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to anyone who enjoys an good over-sized portion of 80's B-movie nostalgia. "},{"Title":"Plain fun","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This demonstrates the talent of John Carpenter a movie that would have been ridiculous in other director's hands, here appears as one of the greatest and funniest cinematic jokes of all times. Everyone involved is aware of that and the feeling that they amused themselves a lot during the making of is trespassed to the viewers. I think it's not the director's finest at all (have you seen The night of Halloween?) and in some moments it even has the structure of a kung-fu computer game, but it's only intentional and self-conscious plain fun and that redeems it. Don't take it seriously and enjoy the marvelous fighting scenes! "}{"Title":"One of best fighting movies of all time!!!!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the great movies of the 80s in My collection that I think about all the time.Big Trouble in Little China is a true classic and there is very few films like it. The movie is perfect in My opinion. I have always loved it. In fact, I loved it the very first time I saw it many, many years ago. John Carpenter is a genius and when he came up with this one he came up with one of the best stories and made it into movie that is so great words really can't describe how fantastic it is! What made it so wonderful is a number things! A few of the things are God, the one of a kind nature of the excellent decade of the 80s, and a great film maker! There are so many things I adore in the movie. The acting by the cast and how they make the characters they play seem so real! Kurt Russell is just fantastic in this film. Dennis Dunn also has a great performance. Kim Cattrall is also very good. Victor Wong and James Hong are just fabulous here. Carter Wong, Peter Kwong, and James Pax have very memorable roles as well. Another thing that makes this film so good is the arguably better than today special effects and Carpenter's music! The effects were so brilliant, flawless, and very realistic! In My opinion it will always look great and never seem dated out! The score is extraordinary! The score sounds epic and the music is used perfectly in the scenes! Its one of the greatest musical scores ever in My opinion! The costumes the characters wear are so cool looking and it made them have more personality! The action is superb and is really in the tradition of a Bruce Lee movie with added material if you will! I am amazed by how incredible it is. I feel this is John Carpenter's greatest film and is one of the greatest films of all time! It has so much that you could have in a movie. I strongly recommend this film for everyone! "},{"Title":"This film sucks!","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China definitely has it's moments, most of which come courtesy of Kurt Russell and his entertainingly goofy performance. However, the film is neither funny enough to score as a comedy, nor exciting enough to make any impact as a good action movie. Sure, John Carpenter may have meant the silly monsters and incomprehensible plot to be part of the joke. But as any good comedian would tell you, if you have to explain the joke, then it's time to get off the stage. And in this film, not only does Carpenter explain the joke, but wrote endless pages and pages and PAGES of dialogue full of mystical hooey. Every time someone opens their mouth to explain something, the film makes less sense than before. This joke gets old fast. As for the action, it's well-staged, but you never feel that any of the characters are ever in danger. It's certainly nothing to write home about, especially compared to superior films like the Indian Jones films, or the many Hong Kong films that Carpenter rips off here. The film has a cult following of people who seem convinced that this was all part and parcel of Carpenter's plan, but personally I think he just made a bad action comedy, and is now trying to rationalize it by saying it was SUPPOSED to be bad all along. Still, at least it wasn't boring, so all is not lost.Mark "},{"Title":"More fun now to watch than when it was first released!","Date":"24 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I cannot remember this movie being this hilarious as when I first watched it in the late 1980's (yes, I am giving away my age...). It seems wittier, potentially 'cultier' (if not already), and funnier than I remember it to be back in the day. Granted, I am a Kurt Russell fan, but I wouldn't let that dissuade me from watching a more contemporary film than one that has as much quality as this one. Despite the fact that I watch a lot of movies I don't often write reviews, but I am picky about what I do watch and I was somewhat reluctant to watch 'Big Trouble in Little China' once again because it could easily have been outdated, but Holy Moly, I was not disappointed!! If you read some of the quotes from the movie which are no doubt listed here on IMDb, and if you can't appreciate their quality and frequency, it could be likely that you have neither a pulse or a funny bone. This film is like a woman (such as myself...) or a fine wine, of which both share two things in common - they each have the ability to age beautifully and with grace, or not. 'Big Trouble in Little China' has both. So pour yourself a glass of wine (fine or not), or a root beer (whatever...), then kick back. relax, and enjoy the ride; you will not be disappointed. It's a really funny movie, the actors are aware of that, and they have a lot of fun with it. "},{"Title":"Carpenter's family treat","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A Hollywood pastiche of Hong Kong kung-fu sensation in the 1980s, which seems to be out of topicality now, directed by John Carpenter (seriously, who could predict my first entry of Carpenter's canon comes overdue thus far). But as a Chinese, soused in the over-familiar genre throughout my childhood, this Chinatown kung-fu ragbag is no place near a deferential triumph (a B movie cult status maybe) even under the pristine BluRay calibre, a fair blurb is that it is pretty fun to watch for a first-timer only. Carpenter's regular Kurt Russell is the sinewy truck-driver, a gormless Good Samaritan, being embroiled into an eye-opening underworld teeming with Chinese necromancy, hideous critters and supernormal kung-fu masters (btw, no Chinese knows anything about Lo Pan and Ding Dai, completely a concoction without any reference or so ever), and what he gets? A machine gun whose only use is to eliminate two-bits minions and a crush on the blonde lawyer (Cattrall in her prime year). The western-oriental clash doesn't work out successfully (white man has the blonde and his Chinese sidekick has his own oriental beauty, that kind of drivel etc.) one could replace its Chinese elements with any gangster clan with a grisly ghost's resurrection into flesh (why trouble being a mortal if you are an immortal?) through marrying girls with green eyes (or contact lens). The modus operandi of manufacturing an ancient Chinese looking is a big plus, all tawdry but resplendent, and destines to be destroyed by our hero and his troupe, also the makeup technique is cutting-edge (James Hong's double identities both require a makeover shift).While the storyline is evasive about any query details, we never get a hold of what is the undead's probable explanation of his existence except that he is an oriental mythology, so don't ask, just watch the little mysterious thing called magic. The cast is basically a throwaway to make the story workable, James Hong's Lo Pan and his three guardians are deadpan comical and undeservedly expendable, by a preening introduction near the beginning, their payoff is too hasty to respect or digest for the sake of the potboiler heroism, such a top-heavy fecklessness. BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA certainly disqualifies itself as a Carpenter's must-see, and its family-friendly appeal also curtains Carpenter's novelty and creativity (save the surviving beast in the coda), the adventure is far from satisfactory and the mocking action sequences justly jibe with its own time, the horrible 1980s. "},{"Title":"Another Carpenter flick that's grown on me","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I used to think there were two types of John Carpenter movies Ones that I love (most of his movies) and ones that I hate (Escape from LA, Village of the Damned) The latter category is dwindling as I re-watch some of his films that I wrote off the first time around. BTILC is one that is starting to grow on me. Yeah, it's a broad, simplistic, chaotic mess - but it is definitely entertaining. Russell plays a great buffoon, the action and effects are pretty solid, and the idea as a whole predates Hollywoods eventual embrace of Kung Fu films by fifteen years or so. I only hope that all of JC's movies end up respected in certain circles. The guy is one of the most consistent performers in all of Hollywood. His movies hit a chord at the start and maintain it through to the end. Few directors have such an instantly noticeable style. Now get back to work Johnny. "},{"Title":"A weird B-movie, but I think that was the point","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I say, John Carpenter made one of the weirdest movies since The Brain That Wouldn't Die. Floating heads, guys coming down on lightning bolts, 2000 year old men- There isn't one thing normal in John Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China.The story is about two friends a trucker named Jack Burton and a teenage Chinese boy named Wang Chi. After three members of a Chinese street gang kidnap two girls, Jack and Wang chase after them. It becomes the weirdest adventure you will ever watch! Big Trouble in Little China is a cult. This means that it appeals to a certain amount of people, who love it, like my mom. (who is watching it as I write this review) Apparently, many people enjoy John's unusual style.I don't think I was included in that group of people, but for those who are They will find a funny and silly movie. For those who weren't included They will find a confusing B-movie.I think fans of kung-fu movies will enjoy this. (like my mom) Apparently, it is supposed to go through all the clichés of kung-fu movies and do them right. (Not a bad idea.) However, I think you will need an extensive knowledge of these types of films. (Once again, like my mom, who grew up with kung-fu movies.) I sure hope they make a film like this for the horror genre. (Because most of them seem kind of the same.)I'm not sure where else to go in my review. I might have not been going anywhere, and I may have just stated random facts. Well&#133;&#133; Anyways, I will close by saying that this cult movies humor, strangeness and B-movie style will appeal to a certain crowd of people. So, if you like funny, weird parodies, check this one out.Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter, Kurt Russell and  Kim Cattrall","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China is a parody of kung fu movies so don't expect to take this movie seriously. Still, it's a lot of fun and worth seeing.Kurt Russell stars as Jack Burton, a likable blue-collar trucker who gets involved in a supernatural battle with an immortal sorcerer named Lo Pan. Russell bands together with a rag tag group in Chinatown to get inside Lo Pan's lair and rescue a green-eyed virgin who has been abducted by Lo Pan's Wing Kong Hatchet Men. What ensues are chases, escapes and kung fu fights, all of which are tongue-in-cheek. The fight sequences are very funny with Wing Kong Hatchet Men somersaulting through the air.Russell, who has been in many John Carpenter films, is always good and he brings just the right light-hearted feel to this role. He has some great sarcastic lines in this film.Kim Cattrall is very appealing as Gracie Law (this movie is before her role on the TV show Sex In The City.) You'll recognize veteran actors Victor Wong (as Egg Shen) and James Hong (as Lo Pan).John Carpenter films always have some elements of comedy in them but Big Trouble in Little China is really the only true comedy Carpenter has made (possibly Memoirs of an Invisible Man could be considered a comedy.) One of the better Carpenter films. Recommended. "},{"Title":"A True Classic. Excellent even if shallow. One of my FAVS!","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are very few movies that I can watch over and over again and never lose interest. This is indeed one of them. Its hard to describe exactly what is so addictive about Big Trouble In Little China. Its cheezy, its over the top, and quite ridiculous at times. However its all put together so well. Its just one hell of a fun ride, from the opening credits to the end. There is high flying (even wire fighting) kung fu. There are likable characters (Kurt Russells JACK BURTON is like an over the top John Wayne with an Adonis complex). There is loads of humor, Chinese sorcery, Demons, swordplay, gun play, and an infinite amount of great, quotable lines (Its all in the reflexes). The soundtrack is top notch as well. Kind of a mix of Chinese electronic mixed with that John Carpenter action flick flare. It is also one of those rare 80's movies where the villains are fairly cool (rather than bumbling boobs). Just check out the three storms ) Anyway this isn't exactly a deep movie, but its well worth a watch or twenty. In fact this probably ranks as one of my top 3 favs of all time. "},{"Title":"It's kinda the Mummy w/ Kurt and Chinatown...","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...More or less. Very tongue in cheek, lotsa action, BAD f/x in places(okay for the time mind...but still...), typical hyped up so-so Kim Catrell role(Mannequin, Police Academy, etc), Kurt playing a variation of the Bruce Campbell 'Ash' guy in those Zombie flix. Really there's not much to say here-if you are gonna watch it-you know what yer getting; and it does deliver exactly what it sez it will. I enjoyed it on a 'o heck why not' level, ala Congo or Anaconda.**1/2 outta ****  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly OK fantasy comedy","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Kurt Russell may seem miscast here but he manages to make his role as a truck driver who goes underneath San Francisco's Chinatown district and battles evil spirits with magical powers a little better than one might expect. Not as good as a similiarly themed film from the same year called The Golden Child but an amusing and fairly enjoyable fantasy nonetheless.  "}{"Title":"GHOSTBUSTERS meets A CHINESE GHOST STORY...","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With Bruce Lee in the forefront, kung fu movies hit U.S. screens in the early '70's and moviegoing was never the same. (Three decades later, we have Jackie Chan and Jet Li and CROUCHING TIGER,HIDDEN DRAGON, to name but a few.) One of my favorites was a supernatural tale, THE CHINESE PROFESSIONALS (aka, THE ONE-ARMED BOXER, starring Wang Yu). Hunted for it on video for years (and still haven't found it). The craze eventually died down, and, for a time, there were no more kung fu movies to be found on the Big Screen. When BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA came along- out of the blue, with very little fanfare- I was shocked to discover that my all-time favorite American filmmaker, Joltin' John Carpenter, had done a kung fu movie. He has since mentioned the baby cart films as an influence during the making of BIG TROUBLE. Whatever the impetus, Carpenter's version of a Chinese ghost story, with its in-your-face fight scenes and lots of genuinely funny moments, is an all-around entertainment that deserved a much bigger audience during its initial release than it found. It's good to know I'm not the only fan.  "},{"Title":"Classic Popcorn flick, The Matrix meets Indiana Jones meets Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Big Trouble In Little China is one of the first popcorn flicks I remeber seeing in the theater. It had action, kung-fu and horror. John Carpenter made one of his best flicks to date. If the film was releaded today it would be a huge hit. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Don't try to pigeonhole it - you'll just get a headache","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Big Trouble is quite simple a comedy-action movie. It has no other purpose. Carpenter isn't trying to make any big statements, or send a message, or even really engage the audience to do anything other then ooh at the action sequences and laugh at the funny stuff. There's no moral. He's having fun Kurt Russell is having fun. Everyone is having fun. All Carpenter wants you to do is sit down and have as much fun as he had making this. Grab some popcorn, grab a few friends, sit down and watch this late-night, and have a ball. "},{"Title":"Stereotyped, but still good.","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This whole film is stereotyped in every way, from the names of the two main characters (The American Jack Burton and the Chinese Wang Chi) to the eccentric behaviour of the wizard. Before you start yelling rip off at the character of Lightning, remember that this film is far older than Mortal Kombat. The storyline is again, a rehashed one but it offers some interesting and original differences that make this movie one to see. Kurt Russels arrogant character matches him almost perfectly. The fight scenes are well done as is the rest of the movie. Not the greatest film ever but pretty good and still worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Funny Spoof","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a spoof.  Those that understand how rediculous some (most) action films are will enjoy watching Carpenter make fun of them with this movie.  That's the point of this movie to mock the action genre. They do a good job, it's very funny. I'm just waiting for the DVD so I can watch it over and over again without the silly VCR version munging the synth music and giving me a crappy experience.  Why they don't release this on DVD is beyond me, it's a cult classic, one of my favorites.  "},{"Title":"Carpenter's good old cheesy classic","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Russell is back for a 4th time, teaming up with Carpenter again. Russell is a truck driver who gets more than he bargens for when he & his friends get mixed up with a ghost-LO PANG. This is a classic, 1 hilarious adventure. Its filled with funny 1-liners, great special effects, & cheesy action. A must have-its worth it. "},{"Title":"Great campy fun movie with loads of action and special effects!!","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is about a trucker(kurt russell) and his frinds as though travel though Chinatown in the city of S.F.. A beautiful girl is kidnapped by a Chinise gang. They have kidnapped her for a powerful god who needs to marry a special girl to become immortal. Of course Kurt Russell and his pals try several times to save her. The god manages to kidnap another girl with a special quality. Eventually Kurt Russell along with a special groups of nijnas who use black magic go to defeat the evil overlord. The girls are saved , and the overlord defeated. Big Trouble in Little China has a lot of fast action and pleanty of special effects.There is just the right amount of special effects and action to keep the viewer interested  . Overall ,it is great movie from both the director and Kurt Russell!!!!One  of my favorites from Fox,the director and Kurt Russell!!! "},{"Title":"My favorite Comicbook.","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I never fail to watch this movie any-time it's on cable, it's like reading your favorite Comicbook over and over and you still find something new every-time. I could never understand why this movie was not a box-office winner,it's got everything that an action movie requires. John Carpenter proves once again that he is a director ahead of his time, who knew that the guy who did halloween had a flair for a Superhero movie? Fans of the Matrix (myself included) have been calling The Matrix the best Comicbook movie not based on a Comicbook, well Big Trouble is the king of the Comicbook movies. Hey, maybe they should get John to do the next Batman movie. Just a thought. "},{"Title":"Big fun....","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You don't watch a movie like this looking for philosophical profundities or high-minded debate.  This is just good old-fashioned rock-'em sock-'em action with enough wry humor to fill a dozen of the kung-fu movies that are being satirized here.Big Trouble in Little China shows the humorous side of John Carpenter's work that hasn't been in evidence in his other movies (well, besides Memoirs of an Invisible Man).  The script (co-written by W.D. Richter, a wit if ever there was one) combines kung-fu philosophy, the spirits of rain, thunder and lightning, bust-em-up fights, dire Chinese wall inscriptions that turn out to read Do Not Enter, special FX by the truckloads and Russell as truck driver Jack Burton, the last of the rugged individualists (even though John Wayne may disagree).Russell is in better display here than in Escape from New York his swaggering super-macho attitude and growling come-and-get-me delivery make his every line the envy of every action hero (or, at least, the butt of their jokes).Cattrall is well-cast as the nosy reporter Gracie Law and Victor Wong makes the eccentric magician Egg Shen a true individual.  And Jams Hong, one of Hollywood's best-kept secrets, brings life to the malevolent spirit Lo Pan as something to hate, fear and, even at times, pity.There are very few slow spots in this one and plenty of time for one-liners, sight gags and erstwhile comments on how little good machismo will do you in a battle with Chinese spirits.There's lots of showmanship from every angle here and it's a relief to see Carpenter not trying to shock you out of your senses for a change.  Though, he does get you to jump at least once during the movie.  Maybe twice.Eight stars and an authentic Chang Sing salute for Big Trouble in Little China, a tribute to women with green eyes, other-worldly monsters and John Wayne impressionists everywhere. "},{"Title":"cool little flick","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  but just dont expect a first rate suspense thriller like russel played in ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK.  this one is more directed for fun and laughs. along with some goofy chinese monsters and magic.  if u like carpenter then this is a dont miss.     "}{"Title":"Fun yet campy romp through Chinatown","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My Age 13Wang Chi, played by Dennis Dun, is waiting for his fiancee, Margo, played by Kate Burton, when she is kidnapped because she has green eyes.  She is kidnapped for Lo Pan, an immortal, played by James Hong, who needs to marry a woman with green eyes to become mortal again.  Helping Wang to get her back are Jack Burton, played by Kurt Russell, Gracie Law, played by Kim Cattrall, and Egg Shen, played by Victor Wong.  They stumble onto a world of sorcery and black magic with lots of mysterious beings.Big Trouble in Little China is a fun-filled movie with plenty of action from start to finish.  Kurt Russell was the perfect choice for the main role in this film.  The acting isn't great, neither are the special effects, but this movie is pure fun.  There are some great fighting scenes in this film, as well as some funny, cheesy lines.  It is a little stupid, but the fun action makes this a recommendable movie for me.Australian Classification M 15+Rating 70 out of 100 "},{"Title":"It's times like these I always remember what Jack Burton used to say...","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of those fun movies that I can watch any time it comes on. Kurt Russell was the perfect choice for the role of hero - it just doesn't get any better. The plot was good, the twists and turns and heck, the special effects were OK, too.Besides, who could forget the movie that inspired Raiden, God of Thunder? "},{"Title":"My first Carpenter/Russell film.","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Despite a family friend having mentioned for a number of years that his all time fav movie is the Kurt Russell-starring,John Carpenter directed film The Thing,I have somehow never got round to take a look at any of the titles that they made during their partnership.Taking a look at a poll being held on the IMDb Classic Film board for the best films of 1986,I noticed that a fellow IMDb'er listed a film of Capenter and Russell's as one of the main movies that they would like to take a look at,from that year,which led to me deciding,that I would pay a visit to Chinatown,so that I could at last have my long over due introduction to this wonderful team.The plotDropping off his latest delivery in Chinatown,truck driver Jack Burton decides to pay a visit to an old friend called Wang Chi.Remembering the gambling matches that they used to have,Chi and Burton soon get back into the swing of things.Suspecting that Jack may had lost his touch,Wang offers Burton an all or nothing bet for over a $1000 that he can cut a glass bottle in two with a sword.Accepting the offer,Jack forces Chi to change the bottle that he is planning to use,which leads to Jack winning the bet,thanks to him having foiled Wang's game.Realising that he has bet more money than he actually has,Chi suddenly remembers that he has to pick up his soon to be wife from the airport.Hoping that his friend will give up on wanting the money,Burton shows Wang that he is determined to keep an eye on Chi until Jack at last has his winnings in hand,which leads to Jack personally taking Wang to the airport.Arriving at the airport hoping to see his soon to be wife ( Miao Yin) for the first time in years,Chi and Burton are instead met by a gang called The Lords of Death,who grab Miao and kidnap her.Chasing after The Lord's of Death in Jack's truck,Chi and Burton stay close to the gang,until they discover that they have unwittingly placed themselves in the centre of a gang war that the Death's are a part of.Pushing down the pedal so that they can get out of this tough situation,Jack jumps out of the truck,after he has run over a man called Lo Pan,who refused to move out of the way.Expecting to see a horribly mangled body,Burton is instead met by the chilling image of Lo Pan being completely uninjured,which leads to Pan revealing that he may not be all that he initially appears,when a green light suddenly comes bursting out of his eyes towards Burton.View on the filmBefore getting to the film,I first have to give a special mention to the tremendous 2 disc DVD that Fox have done for the movie,with the second disc featuring almost 50 minutes of extended/deleted scenes,that whilst not having a huge impact on the plot,do help to make each of the characters feel a bit extra rounded.For one of the first Hollywood movies to have a strong,mythical martial arts element,the screenplay by Gary Goldman,David Z.Weinstein and W.D. Richter cleverly shows a surprisingly subtle change of narrative focus from the first 30 minutes,with the wise-cracking,one liner dropping Jack Burton initially appearing to be the gun-ho hero who has all of the answer's,only for it to be in fact revealed that Burton is taking second place, due to the mysticism route,and the location of Miao Yin being one that only Wang Chi can find.Whilst the writers do show a respectable attitude to the mythasisum in the movie,they smartly use Burton's truck as a way to run over any pompernuss that might appear,thanks to the screenplay dripping with whip-cracking dialogue and a rescuing the princess(es) scenario that allow wonderful characters from a snarling,flifty monster,to a 2000 year old half ghost/half man each being allowed to make their own big splash.Making a near unrecognisable cameo at on the opening credits by singing the bluesy title track,and being continuously backed by atmospheric synthesiser-based score,director John Carpenter showers the movie in dazzling colours,with smoke,volcanic ash and laser eyes allowing Carpenter to turn this corner of Chinatown into a tremendous light show.Along with his stylish colours,Carpenter also gives the movie a wonderfully animated feeling,that along with giving the film a pounding Action-packed mood, also allows Carpenter to slyly dip back into some Horror waters.Teaming up with Carpenter for the 4th time,Kurt Russell gives a brilliantly sharp and witty performance,with Russell delivering each of the one liners with a real with a real relish,and also showing a surprising amount of uncertainty,as Burton starts to become desperate to pull himself out of the situation that he has unwittingly put himself in,in anyway possible.Placed at the centre of the film,Dennis Dun shows that he is impressively more than able to hold his own,thanks to Dun showing Chi to be someone,who whilst having a big heart for his wife,also knows when to push his romantic feelings aside,and use his intelligence's and martial arts skills to hit each of The Lord's of The Black Death gang at their weakest spot,which leads to this being a little China that viewers will want to visit again and again. "},{"Title":"Big Fun in Your Living Room","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Very few times in the course of cinema history has a film been crafted so flawlessly to achieve one simple purpose -- to have a great time.  This is no Saving Private Ryan or Casablanca.  Instead, it sets out to be one long laugh-riot, slam-bang, don't-delve, don't-blink, don't breathe, good-vs.-evil boom fest, and blows imitators away.Come to think of it, there really aren't even that many imitators. Even Carpenter hasn't put something this much fun together before or since (although I *am* looking forward to Vampires).  Looking for something similar?  Try the Sam Raimi/Bruce Campbell combo of Evil Dead 2/Army of Darkness, which is close but slightly more forced on the humor side.  Or perhaps Star Wars, which is slightly more serious.  Maybe Buckaroo Banzai, which is a bit sloppier (When IS he going to tackle the World Crime League, anyway?).In any case, the best way to watch this movie (not film, not motion picture -- movie!) is to gather as many friends as you can, whatever snacks and beverages you crave, kick back, and remember as many quotes as possible.  PS -- try to find a really big screen, too; this one is shot bee-yoo-tifully. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter's pre-Jacky Chan-era Hong Kong import is still as flashy and stylish as a neon Buddha.","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In 1982, Hong Kong director Tsui Hark made the Landmark film, _ZUWarriors of the Magic Mountain_, an instant classic that defined and still defines the wuxia genre of martial arts films, and will no doubt do so for some time to come.  It was this film that inspired American bad-boy director John Carpenter to show America just how cool a movie fried up Szechuan style really is.Kurt Russel's John Wayne-squared performance as the prototypical gwailo, lost in a culture beyond his understanding but too cool to care, is a perfect foil.  Through Jack's eyes we are introduced to the fascinating and deadly world of flashy wuxia gongfu, magic, demons, and the smattering of superstition and China's popular religions of Buddhism, Taoism, and Confucianism that is the hallmark of the modern Martial Arts genre of films. Still, his character plays a part, adding the dynamic element of luck and chance needed to bring the events of the film to their explosive, 80-frames-a-second conclusion.While the cultural implications of the movie can be explored more deeply, the film is perhaps best seen as one who doesn't understand Chinese culture fully but can go with the flow like the best of them.  Unfairly passed over, this film was ahead of its time.  Only now does America seem ready for the boat from Hong Kong to pull into the harbor.  People call this movie cheesy and over the top without understanding that Carpenter did this because he wanted to show what a Hong Kong movie was like, while making it uniquely American, and to show how a culture can flourish and run deep without being noticed by the world around it.Watch it once because you like Kurt Russel and think gongfu and Chinese magic and mythology are cool.  Watch it again to begin to understand what it means to truly be a gwailo. "},{"Title":"John Carpenter may have reached his apex with this movie.","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Okay. The title should identify that this is not a serious movie. And believe you me, it isn't (I mean that positively). Kurt Russell plays Jack Burton, a truck driver who sounds like he spends all day watching reruns of sitcoms and Sylvester Stallone movies. Then, when Gracie Law (Kim Cattrall) is captured, Jack and several other people have to go underground in San Francisco's Chinatown to try and rescue her. Down there, they find evil sorcerer Lo Pan and his empire. From there, the movie is basically a litany of various forms of ass-kicking. My favorite scene was the fight scene where everyone is just flying at each other.Big Trouble in Little China is completely silly - and rather ridiculous - from beginning to end, but the good kind of silly and ridiculous. If nothing else, the whole thing is worth seeing just to hear Kurt Russell's hilariously sarcastic comments. "},{"Title":"It's not big and it's not clever","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble&#133; is an awful film; repeat after me - an AWFUL film.OK, so it knows it's dreadful; so it's a parody of other, possibly more awful films; so it was made in the 1980s; so it's a John Carpenter flick. That doesn't excuse it. It's still diabolical (in pretty much every sense of the word).Of course everyone DOES know it's crap. The actors ham it up (particularly Kim Cattrall and a sublime-yet-not-quite-sublime-enough-to-rescue-the-film Kurt Russell). The score is as you would expect with a John Carpenter film &#150; i.e. it's by John Carpenter. So anyone who's seen Assault on Precinct 13 knows what level of naff synth to expect.The plot manages the extraordinary feat of being more bonkers than the Hong Kong genre it parodies. Talking of the Chinese, BTiLC's characterisation of Chinese people is a bit suspect too. The white actors are allowed to ham it up, but the Chinese ones have to play it straight. This makes it look like the joke is on them, which isn't true, but you could be forgiven for thinking it was. In its own unique way it's more 1980s than Top Gun. Ah, it really is awful.The only real question for me is why I own a copy, even though I saw it before I bought it. I don't know, I just don't know. Like smoking and Star Wars, I suppose you just get suckered into these things when you're young. If I was mad enough to make a case for this Scooby Doo meets Fu Manchu of a film, I might try to point to its infectious exuberance. That and, possibly, the wonderfully executed cowardly and incompetent heroics of Jack Burton (aka Kurt Russell). It's a sad fact that Kurt Russell has probably never been better. He is an absolute joy to watch in BTiLC, something that can't be said for the rest of the film.I absolutely refuse to give this film more than 4/10 though. I like it, I am ashamed, and that is enough. May I be forgiven. "},{"Title":"Little underwhelming","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie recently because 1) I've been meaning to check out some other John Carpenter movies since I saw The Thing, and 2) a video-making-guy I like (Spoony) said it was his favourite movie of all time. And... well, to be frank, I can't quite understand why. I mean, it's *alright*, but I wouldn't exactly call it great. First off, good stuff effects have aged pretty well for a movie from 1986, the action is pretty good, it's well-directed, it has one of the best intros I've ever seen and Kurt Russell is *amazing* in this movie, I'd almost recommend it for his performance alone. But there is one major problem with it; the pacing. This movie goes way too fast. Large portions of the dialogue just feel like hasty exposition to explain why the action is happening, there's basically no development for any of the characters, on that note Jack Burton and Egg Shen feel like the only two characters that have any personality set up at all, and the story is so thin it almost feels like the first two acts are a Double Dragon adaptation. A better Double Dragon adaptation than the *actual* Double Dragon adaptation, mind you. All that said, if you like John Carpenter, Kurt Russell or martial arts movies I'd say watch it, but other than that you're not missing much by passing. "},{"Title":"This is art","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is just great - silly, but great. As in most of John Carpenter's films Kurt Russel plays a real macho hero, except in BTILC he's really bad at it. Every time he tries to make a move he fails miserably. But his dialogue throughout the entire film is just hilarious; always bitching and complaining. BTILC is very much a B-movie so don't expect any seriousness in dialogue, plot or action.It's all very silly, very stupid and very entertaining. On the extra-materials DVD there is also a priceless music video, featuring John Carpenter (lead singer), a guy that looks like Adam Sandler and another guy with long golden curly hair and a mustache. This video rock!! Words can't explain how cool these guys look, you have to check it out for yourself. All in all if you like bad movies (like me) this one is a sure winner. "},{"Title":"A great film with a magical atmosphere","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I own this one and have seen it many,many times since i was just a small boy,and its still just as magic as the first time.It has a beautiful atmosphere that makes you (me) want to be there.As you've probably already read its also very fun,well written and directed etc. but its the atmosphere of the film that does it,characters you want to meet and know,places you want to be (and some you don't but they're cool anyway),and fiends you want to oppose.The music's cheesy but great at the same time,it sets the scene and is very memorable.it's a great film,watch it,love it,and share your thoughts and theories on it with me at archmacabre@yahoo.com.au "}{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ah the 80's! The action movies you could get your hands on back then. The sheer volume of action men to choose from, whether it was the full time action men like Stallone, Schwarzenegger, Van Damme, Lundgren, Norris, or part timers like Gibson and Kurt Russell. Now looking back I always felt Kurt Russell followed the trend of charismatic everyman heroes that Mel Gibson and Bruce Willis did most successfully in Die Hard and Lethal Weapon. However the rogue charmster in the conventional action movie was not really started by Gibson or Willis and I always need to remind myself that the marginally less famous Kurt Russell did in fact beat them both to it. Russell starred in a fair few action spectaculars in the 80,s. His most famous being Escape From New York and also his team up with Stallone in Tango And Cash. Interestingly, a solid year before Lethal Weapon and 3 years before Die Hard, Russell starred in this enjoyable little number. An action/fantasy combining effects with martial arts from director John Carpenter. This was one of the seemingly innumerable teams up of the two.BTILC Is an immensely fun film. The plot is simple and brainless while the script is crammed with humour, and enough fist fights and fantastical situations to keep even ADD sufferers happy. Kurt gets caught up in a Chinese gang war that is right in the middle of an evil ghost megalomaniacs search for a green eyed bride to make him whole again and all powerful. The film holds no surprises but it has a sense of fantasy and imaginative production film as packaging for a routine action film. Kurt Russell is good and while this is a film that doesn't do anything to silence the few niggly critics he has against his acting chops, it does show him in good light for an action man. Russell is reliable, as is Willis and Gibson. Now these folk try to at least do more mature fare, but back in the day when dumb movies like this were reliant upon a strong lead, with the quipping and the biceps, Russell was a good bet. We know Gibson, Russell and Willis can act given the chance but in a film like this, who cares? As long as they deliver zingers while running and shooting and the director competently handles the action, as Carpenter does, then I'm happy. As well as Russell there is a pre- Sex And The City Kim Cattrall who in this period was reliable eye candy for mid range films like this. Cattrall has green contact lenses in this and initially when I saw it I thought her character was blind because of the vacant stare she seemed to have. Cattrall is sexy, although in truth not as gorgeous as she is now in her mid-40's.Now as an action lover and buff, this film has a real geek factor to it. It's a bursting at the seems with Chinese henchmen for hire, who have died at the hands of your Arnies, Slys and Lundgrens over the years. Usually appearing briefly to die. Now to casual review readers, when I say Al Leong, you'll think Wha?! Who?! However you would certainly recognise his face if you've seen more than two American action movies. That goes for appearances by other recognisable faces, James Lew, Conan Lee, George Cheung, Jeff Imada, Eric Lee and Gerald Okamura. More scratching of heads I hear but I guarantee watching this film, you'll spot a dozen faces in the background who you've seen in countless American action films, from big movies right down to DTV fodder. The same goes for lead villain, the legendary James Hong, who has appeared in more films than you can comprehend, including Blade Runner. I have to say there was one moment where the action geek inside me was jumping for joy at the sheer spectacle of the moment and that was the brief face off between James Lew and Al Leong in one of the battle scenes.Anyway, this is a film you can't fail to enjoy. It's pure entertainment and a testament to the enjoyably simple films that made careers for the Arnies of this world. *** "},{"Title":"Awesomeness","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Big Trouble in Little China' - Made in the 80s, directed by John Carpenter, and starring Kurt Russell. That's three signs of awesomeness before the movie even starts. John Carpenter has made some awesome movies, but 'Big Trouble in Little China' is his most awesome endeavor, even more awesome than 'Escape From New York'.Kurt Russell stars as Jack Burton, a truck driver who finds him way over his head when he ends up against David Lo Pan (James Hong), both a little old basket case on wheels and a ten foot tall roadblock. It is up to Jack to rescue his friend's fiancé from Lo Pan, and lead the good guys in a battle that has been centuries in the making. Awesome.'Big Trouble in Little China' is another of those movies that represent pure awesomeness. An intentional B-movie, it is hilarious and action-packed. Burton is just an average truck driver, the only character in the whole movie who has absolutely no clue as to whats going, while every other character, no matter how random (and some of them are pretty random), seems to know exactly whats happening. Top this off with some of the best quotes ever, and you have the awesomeness that is 'Big Trouble in Little China'.8/10 - Check it out if you like John Carpenter, or fantasy, or Kurt Russell, or martial arts, or b-movies, or all things awesome. "},{"Title":"The single coolest fight scene EVER (may contain spoilers)","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble is a movie that I have watched many times over the years, for one simple reason  the campy spirit and mondo-cool action sequences never get old.This movie represents John Carpenter's best work.  Having had previous success with the Halloween series, Mr. Carpenter elected to go with a much more tongue-in-cheek film in order to appeal to a wider audience.  And boy, did he deliver.There's no denying that the general tone of the movie is very menacing and scary.  And there's no doubt that most Westerners find the concept of Asian mysticism to be very believable, given how mysterious most Asians are about their culture.  Combining those elements make for a spectacular action movie, but the crowning touch was throwing into the mix a character that will forever have a place in film history Jack Burton.  What a character!!  Perfectly played by Kurt Russell, Jack Burton is a loud-mouthed, arrogant, swaggering truck driver absolutely convinced of his ability to handle anything, anytime.  He's not too bright, though...  His obvious confusion during the scenes when he is completely out of his element, and at a loss to explain the supernatural goings-on is delicious to watch.A kidnapping, a gang war, daring rescues and escapes, butt-ugly monsters, and some top-notch martial arts fight scenes keep the film moving at a torrid pace.  (That's one of this film's major strengths. It doesn't stop for a moment to EXPLAIN what's going on we, like Jack, have to just absorb it and keep going.)  And it all leads up to the coolest fight scene ever made.The scene starts hysterically - the two rival gangs see each other, rattle their weapons and scream at the top of their lungs.  Jack, our hero, fires his weapon into the ceiling - which causes several large chunks of stone to dislodge, hitting him in the head and rendering him unconscious BEFORE THE FIGHT EVEN STARTS!  Meanwhile, the mid-air duel between Wang and Rain had me hitting the rewind button over and over again.Of course, the good guys escape, the bad guys die, no surprises there.  But by the time this movie is over, you will be gasping for breath.Watch this one over and over - it's a classic.My Score a 10. "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie Ever Made","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Big Trouble in Little China is the greatest movie ever made. Why, you ask?Don't ask me why, ok, it just is.  It is so effortless and fun that you can't help but enjoy yourself.  Kurt Russell is Jack Burton, there is no distinction between the two.  He embodies the man that others aspire to be.  See this movie.  If you don't like it then you are lacking in something in your life.  Whether that something is a sense of humor or a pair of testicles, I don't care, you have to like this movie.   "},{"Title":"If you don't get it ....","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  `You are NOT brought upon this world to Get IT!' - David Lo Pan A roller coaster ride through Chinatown with monsters, superhuman bad guys and a blowhard hero - Jack Burton. Mix in a touch of 30's screwball comedy , black magic and the fate of the world and you have Big Trouble.Remember lyrics to the theme song of Sondheim's A Funny Thing Happened on the way to the Forum - Comedy Tonight.    If you are looking for anything else (except for the gods) - you don't get it. "},{"Title":"wheelchairs","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Carpenter certainly was aware of his time and place with this one. Playing out as a sort of Ghostbusters (same year I believe), ON ACID, Big Trouble might be the ultimate eighties movie. It seems like Carpenter closely observed everything 80's Hollywood adventure movies were about and crammed it into one film. It isn't always equally clear how serious he is about it all. Every now and then hints are given (in among other things the acting style) that everyone in the picture, as lead by Carpenter, is laughing with their own clichés. But it's never as well-aimed cynical or as playfully mean-spirited as, for instance, Escape From LA would turn out to be. But once you allow the absurdity to overshadow the genuine Indiana Jones-like adventure aspect, it becomes a very fun and rewarding ride. One notable moment that you just have to surrender to is when there is a conversation between three characters (two main characters and the main villain) and you realize that all three of them are in a wheelchair, for no *real* reason. Another good indicator for what you're in for is that every single character in this film is an incompetent idiot. "},{"Title":"Tall guy, weird clothes....","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jack Burton wins a card game against his long time friend Wang, he explains that he doesn't have Jack's winnings on him, and he'll pay him later, due to the fact that he has pick up his girlfriend at the airport. Seeing as how Jack wants his money as soon as possible, he offers to give Wang a ride to the airport. Unfortunately for the both of them, Wang's girlfriend is kidnapped, as she is a Chinese woman with green eyes, and in order for immortal LoPan to turn back into a mortal human, he must marry her. Now it's up to Jack, Wang, and their friends to save her before it's too late....Carpenter once again throws in the horror towel for this, Indiana Jones light movie, but there is still the old Carpenter trademarks going on. Firstly there's Russell, who looks like he's having a ball playing Burton.And seeing as it's an adventure movie, it's very dark, with some pretty unsettling effects with LoPan in his aged form.But despite the great effects, and good performances, it takes a few viewings to understand every aspect of the decidedly dumb plot, and sporadic narratives.Carpenter has put too many ingredients into the mix, a homage to Bruce Lee movies, Sci-Fi, a little horror, Homage to Indiana Jones, a lot is going on, and it gets a little confusing.So all in all, it's not a bad film, well worthy of it's cult status, just a little confusing, and would make a great double bill with The Golden Child.Plus it's the best film ever made about a man who explodes into a pile of salad... "},{"Title":"If you don't like this you suck!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you don't like this movie you obviously have something wrong or you're not getting laid. Big Trouble in Little China is by far the BEST John Carpenter film and probably the best to come out of the 80's since Star Wars! I mean come on how can you top this movie or even compare it to ANYTHING that has come out after it! There were maybe 3 or 4 good movies in the last 20 years that deserve recognition. F*CK the grammys! Who cares what some board of members says is good or not! That is bullsh*t!WWW.wingkong.netTaking care of all your Big Trouble in Little China needs!j.d. "},{"Title":"Just the weirdest most amazing masterpiece ever","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To anyone who has wondered, i wonder what would happen if Kurt Russell was walking in Chinatown and found a drain full of weird 80's kung fu magic, then believe it or not, this film will answer your question and more. Tarantino tried hard to emulate this spectacle of Kung Fu mastery in Kill Bill Vol.2, but he can't compare to this. B Movie's are meant to be a film that interest sub-cultures and avid film goers, but this is something else. Move out the way Godfather, Shawshank, and all the other wannabes, this is how to make a film. Just give Kurt a gun a girl and a bootylicious (yes, thats right) storyline, and you've got your all time #1. "},{"Title":"Fun Popcorn Movie","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China (1986) *** (out of 4) American trucker Jack Burton (Kurt Russell) takes a friend (Dennis Dun) to the airport to pick up his fiancé who is arriving from China. Soon the woman is kidnapped by a ruthless gang so Burton and his friend follows them to Chinatown where they end up getting in over their head against a magical creature.If there's a serious bone in your body then it's best to take it out before watching John Carpenter's BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA because there's really nothing here to take serious. Even the plot is downright crazy and all over the place but I'm pretty sure that was the point. This is pretty much a B movie that features an All-American macho image mixed with magic, monsters and of course martial arts. This film certainly isn't a masterpiece or anywhere near the best work from Carpenter and Russell but at the same time it's easy to just sit back, eat some popcorn and enjoy the madness in front of you.I think the funniest thing about the movie is the fact that it doesn't take itself serious. I'm sure a lot of people would have gone for a R-rated movie full of over-the-top violence, gore and a lot of cussing but that's not what you're going to find here. What the film is is basically a comic book brought to life where the lead character proudly announces his American and the film also shows the Chinese characters in the best possible fashion. I really liked how the two cultures are brought together and everything else that follows is just fun. The film contains some great cinematography from Dean Cundey and the music score by Carpenter and Alan Howarth is also fun. The make-up effects are what you'd expect from this era in the 80s but they add to the fun.The performances are another plus with Russell really having a good time in the role. While the character isn't nearly as memorable as the ones he played in ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK or THE THING, it's still a nice character and Russell is certainly believable in the role. Dun is fun in the role of the friend and there's no doubt that Victor Wong always adds charm to a film. Then there's Kim Cattrall who is a lot of fun as the love interest and James Hong makes for a good villain. A lot of people have complained that everyone is campy or over-the-top but I'm pretty sure this was done on purpose by the director and I think it works.BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA certainly isn't a classic but it's a fun little B movie that was made for a giant soda and a large popcorn. "}{"Title":"Sometimes an awesomely bad movie isn't as great as people make it out to be.","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I understood going in that Big Trouble in Little China is supposed to be self-parody. I understand the swapped archetypes in the way the characters are presented. What I don't understand was why it was such a bore. I've never been into kung-fu films, so I suppose I am missing out on a lot of the subversive humor. But 90 minutes straight of silly gags and relentless cheesy fight scenes just didn't do it for me. The moments of clever dialog and Kurt Russel's arrogance were welcome but I'm afraid this movie tried to put me to sleep even watching it in the middle of the day. Maybe I just didn't buy the b-movie level humor when I knew they were trying so hard to make a b-movie. Maybe it was the way we are thrust into a nonsensical plot that never gave me a reason to care about anything I was seeing. Whatever it was, I can see this being a favorite silly popcorn movie for others, but the moments of amusement were too often followed by eyerolling for my enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever Made. Fact!","Date":"28 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watch a lot of movies. Over 10,000 to be specific. A lot of people say the greatest movie ever made is The Godfather, or Shawshank Redemption, or even Gettysburg or The Natural. To be honest, these are great epic movies that a lot of people can collectively say are great. But I have always looked for a movie that represents me. I want an original stake in movies, I don't want to just be a sheep who likes what they are told to like. I don't want to be everyone else.If I was talented like John Carpenter, I would want to make a movie that would compel people to say, Only John Carpenter could make that. Scorsese, Cameron Spielberg, Tarantino, no one else could make that movie. And I would want an authentic movie, more like life than an epic sprawling production of escapism. Sure movies are an escape, but some movies take humanity, and our existential condition, to a higher plain.Movies are driven by characters, dialog, action, and plot. I watched Avatar the other day, and the dialog was like it was written by a 3rd grader. Jack Burton is the greatest character in film and TV history, only Eric Cartman comes close. Special Effects have ruined action, Kung fu is real action and real actors. Big Trouble action is far better than the artificial fights in The Matrix. The story line is perfect. A tour guide named Egg. A best friend named Wang. Two girls with green eyes. There is no better story.There is only one reason to argue that Big Trouble in Little China is not the best movie ever made. That reason is that you never watched the movie and focused on its greatness during the best movie experience you will ever have in your life! "},{"Title":"Does this gets old... fast!","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the grand cheese of all cheesy flicks. It's got all the hated Asian clichés  the fantastic evil Asian empire ghost; jade eyed girl; doesn't distinguish the various Asian nationalities (or even language)..But it's a blast.. especially Kurt. Not sure about Snake but I like him much more here. More human, more in his own world. I think he might be doing Snake but in a comedic mood.The whole plot is ludicrous. The acting spilling over the brim. But somehow it fits together in an honest way - poking fun at fun itself.The best scene is what Kurt does after kissing in the elevator ride. I don't remember how it ends... but does it matter ? "},{"Title":"big trouble","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" well after watching this movie , i came out of it, like it was cool for it's time, i mean it had a lot of things that i like and of course kurt russel did a fine job as usual, the surprise here was the hottie kim catrall dam, she can act as well , i liked the special effects with Lo Pan flying around and all of that, i liked how chinatown in San Francisco was portrayed, since I have PERSONALLY been there myself, as far as the storyline, interesting, but i thought it was kinda weak toward the end , and the action was forced, it wasn't a bad movie , don't' get me wrong,, but i thought the first half was better than the second half. "},{"Title":"A Flawed Classic","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm quite aware that this movie is far from perfect.  But most of us have a soft spot for some corny movie that were sick of, seen a million times since we were toddlers, know by heart, and still love.This movie is a personal classic of mine.  I must have seen this movie a hundred times, literally.  At least 3-6 times a year.  I can recite the script in my sleep but every time I see it, it's a blast...if only for a little nostalgia.10/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as the films that inspired it.","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kudos to John Carpenter for being one of the first Hollywood film-makers to recognise the sheer awesomeness of Hong Kong fantasy movies, but I really wish he hadn't done so with such an erratic and cartoonish effort technically, Big Trouble in Little China has a fair amount going for it&#x97;a sizable budget, impressive effects from Richard Edlund, elaborate set design, and stunning photography by Dean Cundey&#x97;but the script is far too scatter-shot and the style employed goes way beyond mere B-movie tongue-in cheek cheesiness and well into hammy territory.Carpenter has proved himself to be an talented film-maker, certainly a master of atmosphere, but I've never considered action to be one of his strong points; Kurt Russell can be a cool and charismatic lead, but here he comes across as a bit of an ass-hat thanks to his overly cocky yet totally useless character. With neither director or star playing to their strengths, some of the cast delivering particularly painful performances (Kim Cattrall is appalling), and the plot careening all over the place, Big Trouble in Little China is far from the unmissable cult classic that many would have us believe it to be.Fortunately, the film does whip along at a brisk enough pace to ensure that it never bores, there's the occasional quotable line of dialogue and decent special effect, and Carter Wong kicks ass, but it cannot hold a candle to the 'real McCoy', incredible Hong Kong supernatural martial arts flicks of the 80s such as A Chinese Ghost Story, Mr.Vampire, The Seventh Curse, Encounters of the Spooky Kind, and Zu Warriors.6.5/10 a valiant attempt but too flawed for me to round it up to 7. "},{"Title":"what is the bloody point?","Date":"29 May 2012","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i have been John Carpenter's fan right from the time i saw the original the thing. then came halloween, in the mouth of madness and assault on precinct 13 which are all mini (some may see B grade) classics. but then today i saw this and i couldn't believe my eyes. Carpenter must have been stoned beyond belief when he decided to direct this pile of crap. bad music, non existent screenplay, tardy action and tacky special effects. soured my morning, turned it into a mourning. couldn't even finish it. had to stop when 20 minutes action was still left. Totally disappointing. Skip it if you have something even remotely better. "},{"Title":"Entertaining fantasy fluff","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Big Trouble in Little China is touted as one of Carpenter's many masterpieces. In fact, it's even touted by some Carpenter fans as his best movie. I have to disagree on both counts. While it is far from a masterpiece, it is an enjoyable endeavor. But John Carpenter has done far superior work. The budget does not make the movie. (Look at Gigli.) Big-named stars do not make the movie. (Look at Gigli.) Personally, I thought In the Mouth of Madness was a much superior attempt.When a big name moves out of their usual genre into that of Fantasy, there is almost always evidence of a large-scale rally of support for this move. Stephen King strayed from his horror genre into Fantasy by way of Eyes of the Dragon. That was so well received by his horror-fan audience that he did more than stray; he dove head first into the Dark Tower series. That series has been phenomenally successful. Dean Koontz strayed from his usual political-thriller formula and wrote Dragon's Tears. It did not fare as well as King's walkabout, but his fan base is not quite as large. Peter Jackson side-stepped the horror genre for a horror/fantasy when he did The Lord of the Rings trilogy which was also phenomenally successful. Wes Craven's Vampire in Brooklyn was his attempt at a horror/fantasy/comedy which was moderately well received. I'll stop here, as I'm sure you get the general idea. Now, don't get me wrong. I believe a fan should support the work of the object of their devotion, but never blindly. A star (be they in front of the camera, behind the camera, or behind the scenes) deserves any level of devotion only if they are worthy. Only if their work is worthy. I am a Lucas fan. I've enjoyed all his movies. Yep. That's right. Every one, including the SW prequels. But I do not support his Star Wars OT money machine. I refuse to support him any further until he listens to the millions of fans who made him who he is today and gives us the OT in its original form. He has forgotten his fans; turned a deaf ear to us, and for that, he is usurped as the Fantasy King. Jackson sits on that throne today.Carpenter should have stayed more within the boundaries of horror and action with this attempt, and dropped the comedic aspect all together. It is not his forté, and it shows. I found the levity to be distracting from the work, and rather out of place in this dark fantasy. He walked up to the bell, but would not ring it. To me, that shows a lack of courage and faith in his work. Had this been darker, had he put more of himself and less Hollywood in this work, it would have been a thousand times better.The martial arts elements are obviously choreographed, but most movie martial arts are. This, however, was executed poorly, as you could virtually see the dance feet chalked on the floor. Step, two, three, Kick, two three. The villains telegraph from so far away, you would have had advance notice of their attacks days in advance. The characters are cardboard cut outs of the worst stereotypes of the 1980's. Jack Burton is a macho tough guy with little or no brains, just brawn, and not much of that, either. Gracie Law is your typical ditsy blonde with too much mouth and very little brains to get in the way. The bad guys are in a gang, the heroine is dumpy and startlingly non-sexual, and you have the cute sidekick element. You also have a decent (but anti-climactic) clash of good wizard vs. cursed/evil wizard and their respective armies (which amount to a dozen or so men). There are some monsters, but in this critic's opinion, they were hokey and unintentionally factored into the comedic aspects of this movie. I was not afraid.Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China is a shallow look into the virtual bottomless ocean that is Chinese theology, mythology, legend, and religious belief systems. It contains the elements of horror (however minuscule), comedy, mysticism, and fantasy. It is not a thinking person's work, nor is it of masterpiece quality and/or content. It is entertaining, well enacted, nicely executed, and enjoyable. But it is a popcorn movie, and nothing more. It is not epically filmed. You will not be frightened, touched, or inspired. You will chuckle, but not laugh outright. You will neither be enlightened nor educated in the ways of these ancient people. You will merely be entertained. For most movie goers, that element alone, is enough. If that is enough for you, then this movie will not let you down as long as you don't have expectations which exceed the real limits of this work.For a much better fantasy, I recommend The Dark Crystal, or Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.It rates a 7.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Bad writing.  Bad acting.  Great martial arts sequences.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only thing worse than the writing in this film was the acting that accompanied it.  Kurt Russell does a bad job even for him and I'm not sure how Kim Cattrall was able to get any jobs after this performance.  This film has received cult status but I, for one, can't figure out why.  The martial arts scenes are the only redeeming quality but even as good as they are they can't totally save it. "},{"Title":"Lots of fans LOVE this movie to death. I'm not so keen.","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ask a John Carpenter fan what his best (or worst) movie is and you're bound to get a variety of answers. Almost every one he has made has someone who will defend it to the death. 'Big Trouble In Little China' is a case in point. For many this is THE Carpenter movie. Just read some of the comments on this page and you'll see what I mean.  Lots of fans LOVE this movie to death. I'm not so keen. While I don't by any means think it's the worst thing he's ever done it's also not a great favourite of mine. Every time I sit down to watch it I get bored about half way through. It really depends on your taste. BTILC is an action comedy tongue in cheek martial arts fantasy. It's played very broad, with Kurt Russell's Jack Burton being little more than a loud mouthed buffoon. Russell looks like he's having a ball even if I'm not. I prefer his work in 'The Thing' (Carpenter's best in my opinion) and 'Escape From New York'. Carpenter deserves some credit for being one of the first Hollywood directors to hook into the Hong Kong action thing. He was definitely way ahead of his time in that respect. Now post-Matrix, Crouching Tiger and Kill Bill this movie has a potentially huge audience. Personally I like my kung fu without comedy or magic so I don't enjoy this movie all that much. Kim Cattrall looks pretty cute, and the legendary character actor James Hong makes a terrific villain, but there's something lacking in BTILC for me.  To be filed alongside 'In The Mouth Of Madness' in the sorry John, no cigar department. "}{"Title":"Big On Mumbo-Jumbo. Little On Pork Chop Express","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well, strictly from my point of view, this slightly creaky Comedy/Action/Romance movie (with some wacky martial arts sequences thrown in for good measure) certainly could've been a helluva lot better than it was.Over the years I've heard plenty of enthusiastic praise for Big Trouble, but, after giving it an honest viewing, I can't say that it was worth anything more than just a 5-star rating.Perhaps I was in the wrong frame of mind when I first sat down to watch Big Trouble, but, thinking back now, I really don't believe that that was not the real problem here.I personally think that Big Trouble's major (and minor) downfalls rest squarely on the bony shoulders of director John Carpenter (as well as the miscasting of Kurt Russell as the lippy, self-satisfied macho-man, Jack Burton, who was a monumental bore-and-a-half).I have never been in the least bit impressed with the likes of John Carpenter as a filmmaker of Horror flicks. I've found that his efforts in that genre to be on the mediocre side, at best (yes, even Halloween). - But, for him to dare to tackle a Comedy/Romance was a certified boo-boo that came mighty close to falling flat on its supremely unfunny face.About the only thing that kept Big Trouble's head above water were the sequences involving the amusing and often over-the-top battles of wild Kung Fu fighting. And, yes, even these scenes got a tad tiresome after seeing it done one too many times.At this point I don't think that I need to re-cap Big Trouble's story-line for you. Once you wade through its excessive muck it all comes down to being just a badly-contrived Boy-Meets-Girl story that features lots of fancy, bright lights and other such embellishments to hoodwink the viewer into thinking that this film is actually something more than it really is.Yes, we are all certainly entitled to our own opinions about Big Trouble, but, to be told that I must excuse this film's glaring flaws and irksome inadequacies just because it was a product of the inexcusable 80s is just not satisfactory enough for me. No way, Jose! "},{"Title":"The Yellow Peril.","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I guess it's not surprising that this kiddie-level action/fantasy came up with a median score of 7.2 stars, coming as it does from a country whose film industry is chiefly aimed at aficionados of cage fighting and air guitar contests.It's not entirely lost. Kim Cattrall is always easy on the eyes in a modelesque yet slightly exotic way. She has the highest flaring malars of anyone on the screen since Gene Tierney. And I like James Hong a lot. At the time he was Hollywood's designated Chinese guy and had some fairly varied roles, from comic to treacherous, the 80's answer to Richard Loo.I don't think it's worth going on about Kurt Russell, an everyman truck driver, and his young Chinese friend who get swept up in Tang wars and wizardry in San Francisco's Chinatown. Most of the movie was shot at the studio but there are some location shots of this colorful neighborhood, where I spent many days tingling with pleasure while mapping the inclination angle of the streets and taking beer breaks in The Happy Buddha.Ready, Jack?, asks Russell's Chinese friend, Wun Hung Lo. I was BORN ready, replies confident Jack.Near the beginning there is a fight between two gangs that is emblematic of the whole. One gang is carrying a casket through the streets, dressed in plain white muslin. (They got that part right.) The mourners encounter a rival gang, dressed all in black and accessorized by scarlet turbans and sashes. A terrific donneybrook ensues, during which the mourners in white begin to don dark clothing, which is a mistake because then they all begin to look alike.I admire the way these martial arts contests are conducted. A fighter doesn't even have to look when he strikes out with a punch to an enemy standing next to him, or even slightly BEHIND him. Chop! Another unconscious body. The fight is ended when three or four wizards descend from the sky and are surrounded by scintillating neon-blue auras that zap out in tendrils and cause harm to those who threaten him. Russell and his friend witness this dramatic display and are, well, frankly surprised, but manage to put it all behind them quickly. Magic or no magic, Russell wants his truck back.But why go on? The movie seems to have a good deal of popular appeal, although it seems to me to be no more than strictly minor entertainment. "},{"Title":"A very weird mess","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's really hard to comprehend how proficient talent goes to waste so easily. Big Trouble in Little China has a lot of good actors yet there's so much that doesn't work. Never have I witnessed such a catastrophe before in a movie screenplay. There was absolutely no continuity in the plot. And some viewers may feel totally lost half the time while watching this.The talent of this film belongs to Kurt Russell, Kim Cattrall and Dennis Dun. All these actors do their job well but nothing is original nor is it entertaining. Kurt Russell plays Jack Burton, a selfish truck driver who has no intent on helping anyone else but himself. Cattrall plays Gracie Law, who seems to be Burton's ex-girlfriend even though they both end up together again anyway. But what really made it confusing was how on and off these two characters were. One scene they're up in each other's faces, the next they're sharing hugs. Please make up your mind people!Dennis Dun plays Wang Chi, Burton's friend who has his girlfriend kidnapped and is to be sacrificed to an evil sorcerer named David Lo Pan, acted by James Hong. Now it's up to Burton and Chi to save his girl. Another thing that just didn't match here was that Kurt Russell is the star of this film, yet his character is given second place. The character of Jack Burton may be tough and snotty but he's always one step behind everyone else. Why is this? If he's the main character, he should be the one taking charge of rescuing Chi's girlfriend, not some other character. This principle applies for my review of Ace Ventura When Nature Calls (1995) and Mr. Popper's Penguins (2011).Another thing that constantly screamed at me while I watched this film was the execution of action scenes. It takes a lot of effort to try and stick to what's going on in this film! There were multiple times where scenes abruptly ended and began something else in the same place. For example, Burton and Chi become stranded in an alley when out of nowhere two Asian groups clash with guns firing and knives throwing. And Burton and Chi are just watching this from the cabin of a truck and no one bothers to get out and do something? What's going on here? Will this affect the outcome of the movie - no; so why have it?However I will give credit to director John Carpenter for having some unique set designs and special effects but that's all I'm giving him. There's no specific direction in the execution of the plot. The audience is just bombarded with random scenes that have Russell, Dun and Cattrall falling through trap doors and crawling into thin spaces trying to escape danger, until finally it reaches its finale. Not fun. I'm surprised that one of the writers, Gary Goldman was allowed to write for any films after this; especially Total Recall (1990), which was a good film! It's unfortunate because I really wanted to enjoy this movie but I couldn't.Director John Carpenter has a knack for doing some amazing things in filmmaking but Big Trouble in Little China just doesn't give the same performance like the ones that came before it. The placement of characters don't make sense and the execution is poor. "},{"Title":"Big trouble with little time","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Here's one that I hoped retained some sort of magic which I seem to have remembered it possessing back when it came out. Most of the time it does precisely the opposite.Trying to forgive the datedness and some intentional cheesiness that would have encrusted the acting, Russell still sounds like John Wayne on dope half the time.I suppose the magic still remains for those who weaved it so in their youth, I merely saw it once and remembered it fondly. Besides for some occasionally uplifting set-work though, there is little reason to revisit this b movie. "},{"Title":"This is like some radical Alice in Wonderland","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Kurt Russell gets little to do save react in this cartoon-like tale of battling Asian stereotypes.Big Trouble in Little China sees him as ironically macho trucker Jack Burton, in a quest to rescue his friend's fiancée from an ancient sorcerer.To be honest, I'm not really sure what the film was trying to achieve. A spoof, certainly, as the overdone exposition would seem to attest. Yet throughout most of the film the sound dubbing is also appalling. Was this a genuinely bad production technique or an attempted satire on poorly-dubbed Asian movies of the 70s? And while the film does provide jobs for just about every Chinese actor in Hollywood, it fudges the issue by having the female romantic lead played by the Caucasian Kim Cattrall.An unusual project for John Carpenter, it perhaps lacks maturity and is too effects-led to appeal fully to adults. Yet it's images of brothels and violent content make it pretty unsuitable for younger audiences too. As a comedy it's not particularly funny, though impressively mounted action sequences propel the whole thing along and make it superficially entertaining. Shame about that mullet hairstyle though. Oh, and is the end a rip-off of the restaurant scene from Monty Python's Meaning of Life? "},{"Title":"It's old and a little lame, but it's entertaining because of it.","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Not that this movie is GOOD or anything, but for being twenty years old now, it has some high quality entertainment value. It reminds me a lot of the old Ninja Turtles Movies; I wonder if some of the same people were involved in the two.So the writing is horrible, the plot is lame, there's even a big rat monster. Its not based on fact at all, so the supernatural themes can't be faulted that much. So with all of these things that are lame, why is it even entertaining. Well, back to the twenty year old thing. Back in 1986, when this film was released, this movie was on top of its game. You know what? It even has some Ghostbuster and Indiana Jones feel to it as well. Kurt Russell was the heartthrob of every woman on earth at the time, which was probably why this movie was so successful as well. Some of the martial arts scenes are amusing, while you can see plenty of unrealistic moves, but there really hasn't been any realistic martial arts action since good ol' Bruce Lee. Current actors are very showy and entertaining, but they always go past realism to be like Superman, which is a shame sometimes.So if you are sick like me, or just want some plain good childhood entertainment, then go ahead and enjoy yourself some Big Trouble in Little China. "},{"Title":"Absolutely STUPID","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was recommended by some friends...therefore took on their advise and saw it...unfortunately because I lost almost 2 hours of my time! I can't believe the users gave it such a high rating as it is only suitable for toddlers. No brainer, the action sucks, the choreography is for laughs and the comedy...which comedy? apart from a giggle or two this movie fails in almost every way. Cheesy lines that make you grin in disgust, unreal fighting (not in the good way), acting is horrible and special effects look like they came out of a child's magic box bought at a pound shop! It is an otherwordly disaster! If you think you are smarter than that do yourself a favour and stay away from this movie! If you are looking for an 80's classic by all means they exist and I have seen terrific movies from the 80's this one is not among them. "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been a lot better","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" BTILC went through many incarnations before it became the movie we are familiar with today. A sequel to Buckaroo Banzai, a Western with Chinese magic, re-written (against the original writers' wishes) as a modern movie, tampered with before, during, and after production. It certainly wasn't an easy project for John Carpenter. Fox had no clue how to promote the film and just dumped it into theatres for the audiences to make up their own minds. Unfortunately it didn't find much of an audience until it hit VHS (in horrid pan-and-scan format).It's a great film for kids, filled with action, humor and remarkably slick special effects. Upon watching it as an adult you'll probably be less entertained. Kurt Russell plays Jack Burton, a bumbling, overly-confident hero who is all hot air and swagger. He's unwillingly recruited by his Chinese friends to venture into the catacombs beneath San Francisco to rescue a girl who is about to be sacrificed to a demon in return for granting flesh and life to a 2000-year-old Chinese emperor. Wow! That's pretty out there. And the fact that the plot is so self-aware of its wackiness prevents it from getting boring. We're constantly bombarded with weirdness and surreal moments. David Lynch once said that audiences would rather be confused than bored. BTILC proves him correct.The action is a let down. There are a few bland, bloodless, badly choreographed rumbles but Carpenter's slick anamorphic Panavision photography makes the rest of the film look so good it nearly makes up for it. His score has its great moments, but is too dated. Really, this is Russell's film. As Jack Burton he's just hilarious and thankfully he's on screen for nearly the entire running time.As a cult film it surely delivers. As a studio production it's a bit of an unrefined mess. Though this is no doubt due to Fox slashing Carpenter's production schedule, causing him to quit studio films for good. "},{"Title":"The 'A Team' meets 'Monkey', nothing worthwhile survives.","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The high points of the dialogue in this film are Kurt Russell grunting as he gets pasted by various Orientals. The low points come when he forms recognisable words.Phrases such as 'No-one's going anywhere till someone tells me what the hell is going on' and 'Where's my truck' over and over again numb even this critic, who had drunk enough to endure almost any brainless romp before viewing this offering. One sidekick even looks steely-eyed at the camera and says 'I'm going - alone if I must' in one particularly riveting scene. And, all Asians over 40 must Yoda speak like?This feels like a farce that they didn't have the guts to complete, a 'Top Secret' played for drama, a Goldie Hawn film without Goldie Hawn.Sorry, but save your time. I suffered it so that you might not. "},{"Title":"This movie is big trouble","Date":"22 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John Carpenter has made two comedies, Starman and this. I think it is pretty obvious which is the better movie (the Oscar nomination is a pretty good clue) As for Big Trouble in Little China, I have to say that this is Carpenter's worst feature. Everything about it is either cheap, fake or ridiculous; the acting, the writing, the special effects, the sets ... There are a couple of fight scenes which are moderately well choreographed for a b-movie, and I may have laughed two or three times, but aside from that, I think this is a waste.Kurt Russell in a failed attempt to parody Snake Plisken plays Jack Burton a ruffian trucker in San Francisco. He liked to hang out in Chinatown where his best friend lives and works. And wouldn't you know it, this friend is getting married. His fiancée has flown in, so Jack gives him a lift to the airport, but before the Chinese lovebirds can even exchange a word, the lucky girl is suddenly kidnapped on the spot. As they soon find out, she has been abducted by the Chinese demon lord Lo Pan who is in search of a green eyed bride to appease the gods. With the help of an ambitious young journalist desperate for a story, and the magic of a local wise men and his bizarre brute squad, our heroes depart to save the day (and the girl)The movie zips by so fast it is ridiculous. The way in which characters are brought into the story is equally random and silly, as are many of the things they say to each other. Not remotely funny. Kurt Russell gets a few good one liners, but nothing that is laugh out laugh out loud.In terms of production values, you can never expect anything special from B-movie, with small budgets and crews, but Big Trouble in Little China looks especially cheap. Although some of the set design is quirky like for instance a giant neon Budda in a temple room, all the sets look like plasticI could continue to go on about the badness of Big Trouble in Little China, but I think I've said enough to make my point, do not see it. "}{"Title":"Erm, just what am I seeing here, exactly?","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I know I might get into some trouble here, cause this movie has a big cult following and I didn't like it.  So, if you like this movie please, you'll save us all some pain if you just don't read my review and don't give me a hard time, okay?Okay.It's like Buckaroo Banzai meets Crouching Tiger, except that it sucks!!! "},{"Title":"A Bad Movie!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe so many people like this piece of crap movie. The acting is bad, the fighting scenes suck, and the parts which try to be funny aren't. This movie tries to be fun, but I can't forget about how bad each scene is while it tries this. If you're a little kid you may enjoy this film, but if you're a mature person you'll think it sucks considering you have an IQ of 90 or higher. "},{"Title":"Fetch the Paxo","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is a monumental Turkey and it desperately needs stuffing - into the nearest trash can. It's glossy, action-packed, exotic, and a total mess. What on earth were the editors doing? Had they uuh powdered their noses in the cutting room? I'm quite serious. You can take any five minutes of this movie, slot it in at any other point and it doesn't make any difference. It really is that disjointed, there's absolutely no trace of a plot whatsoever. Kurt Russell is completely wasted and anyone who saw Escape From New York will be hugely disappointed. He spends the whole movie running around through San Francisco's Chinatown confronting homicidal triad members and for the life of me I can't understand WHY. What the hell is going on here? Big CONFUSION In Little China is more accurate. It's a pathetically weak attempt at an Indiana Jones tribute, and it doesn't work. That, by the way, was also the verdict of joe public, it flopped at the cinema & rightly so. In one word? Yuch. The ONLY compliment I'll pay this awful movie is that it doesn't make silly racial stereotypes of Chinese people. Other than that it's best avoided. "},{"Title":"Big waste of time and little acting ability","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"7 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For year I've heard of how good this movie was supposed to be. Friends said, you haven't seen it yet? Its such a good movie! As a big fan of 80 style special effects and movies such as The Goonies, Never ending story, Ninja Turtles, I really though I was going to love Big Trouble in Little China. Instead, I wasted time that would have been better spent slapping myself in the face with a shovel. I tried to keep an open mind as to why everyone loves this movie so much. But after about 2 hours of some of the worst acting and dialog I've ever seen, the only thing I could come up with was that its one of those movies that people love just because its so bad. Personally, I didn't get it. Whether it was intended to be bad acting, or just ended up that way I was left unamused. Normally, I like to keep an eye out for goofs when I watch a movie, and then kidna compare what other people have noticed. Big trouble in little china had so many mistakes in continuity, audio visual mismatch, and frankly the worst collection of unexplained series of events, I was not only left unentertained but became flat out annoyed by what i was watching. Bad guys suddenly blow up with absolutely no explanation. Dialog and character action is so forced, fake, and contrived, the whole movie was like what you would see from your seat in a haunted house amusement park ride. The only reason I gave this movie a 2 instead of a 1 is because as an armature film maker, I had some appreciation for some of the lousy, low budget special effects. But for Christ's sake, with a budget of about $25 million, Id expect more than styrofoam walls and rubber masks. "},{"Title":"So bad that its good.  No, wait&#x85;its just bad.","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is a sci-fi, mystical, cowboy, Kung-Fu-Manchu movie. The storyline is straight out of a Saturday morning cartoon, full of evil and magical characters who must get it kicked out of them by the rugged American hero. Almost all the lines are delivered with the same kind of conviction as a WWF wrestler, about as wooden as Noah's ark. In fact, most of the characters would not look out of place getting it handed to them by Hulk Hogan. Expect the women to be screaming for help, expect a lot of running around, coming up with plans etc.But what is really going on in Chinatown? Hmmmm? Those Chinese people never say too much. The inscrutable east as Ogden Nash put it in one of his poems. A xenophobes wet dream. It could all be somewhat educational if you happen to have missed Nixon visiting China. You can say its a 'cheap action flick', but be sure to put the accent on the 'cheap'. There's a lot of plastic props that move and crash oddly.From a historical perspective, it is interesting that this movie came out before the internet was popularized, and could therefore cultivate an ignorance that just wouldn't fly today. Its too annoying, too childish, to be a cult classic. I don't believe this one will stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"I love Japanese movies I love Manga I love fantasy stories I love karate kid and I love The Last Samuria but I don't love this.","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Think Mortal combat with unimaginative characters.Heck I love fighting movies Japanese and Chinese culture samurais and comedies but I loath this piece of unimaginative rubbish damn I think a sixteen year old could write better than this I've had better dreams than this movie.I've just finished watching Big Trouble in Little China it was predictable as any rubbish movie, it was boring it was full of rather dull jokes and basically stupid dull crap fight scenes.And I think there was far more posing than fighting from the main bad guys who would pose for an hour wave there arms around as electricity moves all round there bodies and then when the good guys are making there escape they would chase them, or then having a jumping sword fight for an hour.And the worst part is that the Main Villain of the movie has such a rubbish demise a knife in the head yawn.Overall I wouldn't waste my life even thinking about this movie again avoid at all costs even fans of the Mortal kombat movies stay clear. "},{"Title":"Possibly the biggest load of drivel I've ever spent money to watch.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Kim Cattrall is very pretty. That's the only good thing about this movie. The effects are unconvincing. Kurt Russell tries hard but the material's against him "},{"Title":"This movie is awful","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Why are really bad movies being portrayed as ironic, parody, intentional, etc? A movie from the 80's has rubber monsters and stupid light effects cos it was intended to be a parody ?!? No, because it was stupid and because even if it was intended as a parody, i didn't had that feeling and all i saw (well, 80%, couldn't last to the end, shoot me) was a stupid movie.PS. The guy from Midnight Caller is supposed to be Bruce Lee's lost son ?!? Wow!PPS. Hmm... 10 lines of text is the limit to this content. Let's see then, I wanted to stop but looks like i'll have to go on. So... Kurt Russel. What's wrong with him? Why can't he stop looking like a dumb truck driver (yes, excellent choice for this movie, except he drives the truck for 1% of its length and manages to bump it in all sorts of stuff) and why can't he refuse this sort of movies? Maybe because he's a bad actor, who knows.Chinese black magic. Wow! I mean WOW! Gods and hells, smoke and mirrors, ancient traditions and of course big straw hats and spinning knives.Green eyed girls. Yum-yum. Wait, that's a plus for the movie, we're not here for that, I'm only allowing my ISP to bill me more for making fun of stupid movies.Chinese actors. Man, are they really in such a short supply? Are all Caucasian characters in movies made in china/Taiwan/honk-Kong being plaid by the same 5 Caucasian actors? No? Then why do we see the same old 5 Asians in all movies involving karate, Chinese ghosts, swords,bright colors, Kobe Tai (oups) and flying people (or was that daggers... ?)? Yes? I don't care, Hollywood should be better and hire 6 (six!!!) Chinese actors, just to prove they really deserve the Oscars they hand out amongst themselves (yes, i AM aware there is an Oscar for foreign movies, but you're beyond the point)Rubber monsters. I rest my case. (Now it's time to scream Objection, your honor, it was the 80's! Over-ruled, the 80's don't have to be all about stupid movies, if you can't make a scary monster, don't bother coming to work if you're a director/special effects guy or whatever you have to do to get your name in the long name scroll at the end)The end! "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie I Have EVER Seen!!","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of the worst, if not the worst movies, I have ever seen.  The plot is absolutely abysmal.  The acting is mediocre. And the least said about the special effects the better.  It made me regret paying £3.50 to the video rental store.  This film gets 1 star from me and thats only because you cant give a lower rating. "}]