[{"Title":"One pretty funny movie","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't see why this film has such a bad reputation, and is probably regarded as the worst in Tom Hanks' career.  Sure, it's no Forrest Gump, but as a broad comedy it works out well.  Hanks is passionate about every role he plays, and this case was no different.  He's very funny as his snooty rich character.  Adding to the comic relief are Gedde Watanabe (of Sixteen Candles) and the always-funny John Candy.  The plot is predictable, but there are many amusing moments.  Plus, it's refreshing to see a comedy that's Rated R!!!  Sure, it's no hard R, but nowadays filmmakers are so afraid to release comedies with R-ratings that it's not even funny--no pun intended.    My score  7 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Excellent film spoofing many of the great classics.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Volunteers successfully spoofs more classic films than any other - from Casablanca, through Bridge over the River Kwai, to Lawrence of Arabia, they're all there if you're watching carefully enough.It also offers a glimpse of a much younger, fresher and more natural Tom Hanks than the over-processed multi-millionaire product we see so much of today.Full of belly-laughs and quick fire one liners, and packed with so many more subtle references that you'll have to pay close attention and watch it many times to pick up even half of them, this hilarious film really does the job. The Austin Powers and Naked Gun series are almost the only others packing this much fast paced humour into a feature film. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"A consistently underrated movie.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Volunteers is a consistently underrated movie.  I usually agree with the typical video guide reviews, but I fall out of bed on this one.  Volunteers is a very funny, well written, well acted film.  It is so packed with humour it reminds me of the old Mad Magazines with the jokes written in the margins.  Some of the humour is rather subtle and the dialogue rolls right over it.  If you're not paying attention, you might miss it.Tom Hanks is perfect as Lawrence Bourne III, the Ivy League cad.  John Candy is at the top of his form as the brainwashed Tom Tuttle from Tacoma.  Geddy Watanabe as the street smart Thai gives a performance on par with his Long Duc Dong of Sixteen Candles.  And Rita Wilson is totally convincing as the idealistic Peace Corps volunteer out to teach the masses the advantages of Self-Styling Adorn.If you don't think the ratings are off on this one, I suggest this test. Watch Splash and Volunteers back to back and see which one you think is funnier.  Both star Hanks and were made at about the same time.  Splash was highly rated by the guides while Volunteers was given  mediocre ratings.  I think the ratings should be reversed. "},{"Title":"classic pre-oscar tom hanks!","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  before they started winning oscars, struggling actors such as tom hanks and robin williams used to be... SURPRISE!! funny! volunteers is a great example of a movie that refuses to take its leading actors seriously and is all the better for it. this is not a star vehicle but is rather an irreverant tongue-in-cheek romp. it takes its cues from saturday night live, sctv, monty python, and cheesy off-broadway one-act plays. in return, it is spoofed by one particular hollywood blockbuster to follow, austin powers goldmember. mike myers must have been as impressed with the reading the subtitles joke, as well as the asian guy on the toilet/being chased by sumo wrestler schtick. but rather than beat the jokes to death, volunteers assumes we are smart enough to catch them on the fly. i bought this in a $5.00 dvd bin, and was reminded why i liked the movie so much in the first place. it is never particularly mean to any of its subjects, including the primitive thai villagers, the communist revolutionaries, yalies, jews, liberals, conservatives, or any of the other fringe elements put into play. as a result, volunteers doesn't insult me as an intelligent movie viewer. by the way, i had forgotten how humorously effective was the lawrence's bar scene where the local musician plinks out an oddly romantic version of as time goes by on an asian sitar.volunteers is the sort of movie actors must do just for fun. y'know... when they're not too busy trying to win oscars. "},{"Title":"Give it some credit","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I was surprised to see Volunteers rate out at just a 5 on a scale of 10. But that rating is pretty consistent across all demographics, so maybe I'm just a sucker for Hanks and Candy. I *know* I'm a sucker for Rita Wilson.Still, I thought the movie offered several good laughs, solid performances from all the principal characters, and a feel-good ending. If nothing else, it should have taught you the words to Washington State University's fight song!If you haven't seen it, rent it with an open mind. It REALLY IS better than a 5.  "},{"Title":"How many other funny movies with Long Duc Dong are out there??","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" GREAT movie! One of the classics of the 80s! I love Tom Hanks & John Candy together--good foils-in fact, the two of them and Rita Wilson are a good example of very different personalities being forced to live and work together--we have all been there! And Gedde Watanabe (aka Long Duc Dong from Sixteen Candles) is classic--he gets many of the best lines (What have we learned, Dorothy?, etc). The subtitle gag was totally stolen by Mike Myers for his subsequent Wayne's World, the funny graphics/maps was stolen for EuroTrip (and many others)...it's just too amusing! And it's nice to find a comedy that has a sweet message too-this one fits the bill. "},{"Title":"Fun and funny","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jocky Giles and I saw this on the plane out to America for a working summer, and we spent a lot of time in Montauk bars reliving the great moments from this film (and the book 'Money'). I think I put in the hours still gets the occasional outing, whilst Tom Tuttle from Tacoma Washington still enters my head whenever I see John Candy on TV, or even hear two T's together. I really hope Tom Hanks doesn't dislike this film &#150; whilst it goes a bit chase-sequency at the end (as does Splash) the first half has so many gems in it to forgive the rest.Just as Hugh Grant is funniest and most watchable when he's a foul-mouthed cad, it would be good if Tom Hanks played a misanthropic but funny middle-aged man rather than just Tom, nice-but-dull. Give Bill Murray a run, or at least an audition, for his money. And if a film is going to be taken off his CV &#150; please, the nauseating, unbearable Forrest Gump.Last line to Tim Thomerson. This is Mike. Mike's my knife "},{"Title":"I cannot get this movie out of my head.","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's been 15 years since I've seen this film, but still; Everytime I hear Tom Hanks name, it's the first thing to pop into my head.For those who have enjoyed Tom's more recent movies, it's a must see. You can really see the development in his career.For those who have never really been interested in any of Tom's more recent chick flicks, this movie will show you the old Tom, before he realized that... well... Chick Flicks = Oscars and $$$.I'm surprised I don't see it more often on T.V.(but I guess Oscars=money, or is it time=money.... no... Opium=money and money=power.... or is it Opium=power and.... No.. Power=mon...)-=-Inside joke for those who've seen the movie-=- "},{"Title":"Three cheers for Volunteers, a vastly underrated film","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Lawrence Bourne III (Tom Hanks) is a blueblood, snooty Harvard senior. However, he has a taste for women and gambling, racking up an enormous debt to the local mobsters. Lawrence, ever a macho man, decides to go double or nothing on a national basketball game that will be played during his graduation ceremony. Lawrence loses and the mob sends the usual henchman for his hide. Appealing to his equally snobby father (George Plimpton) for a loan gets him nowhere. His only recourse is to ask his erstwhile roommate to switch identities with him, with Lawrence hopping a plane to Thailand as part of the Peace Corps and escaping the mob. It works, although Lawrence has to fork over his porsche to seal the deal. Once on the plane, however, Lawrence has second thoughts. Everyone is singing inspirational songs and looking forward to bringing cheer and good works to the Thai people. As he gets off the plane, Lawrence literally goes down on his knees and begs the leader to send him back. But, its no, no, no. However, things look up when a good-looking fellow Corpswoman, Beth (Rita Wilson) is assigned to the same village, along with gung-ho engineer, Tom Tuttle of Tacoma (John Candy). However, Beth won't give him the time of day and Tom is a royal pain. What will become of Lawrence, anyways, whose attitude is its not that I can't help these people, I don't want to! But, wait, how about establishing a card game or two, for money, with the locals? Things are looking up! This is a funny, funny film that is a winner every time. Hanks and Candy are very humorous while Plimpton is a scream in a brief role as the can't-be-bothered-with-details father. Wilson is touching as the woman who truly wants to help others and is torn by her attraction to a man who is a dirtbag. Gedde Watanabe is also fun as a native lad and the other Oriental cast members do a great job as well. The setting in Thailand is lovely, naturally, and the recreation of the early sixties in fashion and other properties is quite good. In fact, the opening montage of sixties photos, set to Blue Moon is very inspiring. In short, if you are stuck with an evening of drabness, get this film by whatever means necessary. You will issue three cheers for a flick that will never fail to provide some genuine laughs and nostalgia. "},{"Title":"Ask What You Can Do For Your Country!","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" VOLUNTEERS was the second and last time Tom Hanks was teamed with one of the few television based comedians who could match him as a film actor John Candy. They had been brothers in SPLASH, and VOLUNTEERS makes them fellow members of the Peace Corps. They proved to have good chemistry again here - but no follow-up film showed up for them after this. Pity, but maybe just as well as they each would make their own line of comic masterpieces.VOLUNTEERS is also one of the first times that Hanks plays a somewhat unlikeable (if charming) type. Lawrence Osborne IV is a patrician who has just gone through four years at Yale University. We never know what his major was, but he certainly has enjoyed extra-curriculum activities (such as dating the valedictorian of Smith College), and winning multi-thousand dollar poker matches with vicious opponents. But Lawrence owes a gambling hall owner (Alan Arbus) $14,000.00, and decides to bet it all double or nothing on the outcome of a basketball championship the next day (his graduation date from Yale). He is listening to the game on a radio (while missing the speech by guest speaker President John F. Kennedy) at the ceremony - and hears his bet going down the tubes. That night he asks his father (George Plimpton) for the $28,000. But the senior Osborne actually is very realistic - he feels that being beaten and injured for such a stupid bet is just what Lawrence needs, and he refuses to pay the bet. Chased by Arbus's bouncer/collector (Ji-Tu Cumbuku, as a no-nonsense collector who will go as far as possible to get Lawrence, whom he hates), Lawrence hies to New York's Idlewild Airport, and manages to get onto a plane as a member of the Peace Corps group going to Thailand.Lawrence meets Beth Wexler (Rita Wilson - now Mrs. Hanks in real life), a New York medical student, and Tom Tuttle from Tacoma, Washington (Candy) who is an intensive student of management psychiatry. Candy is also an engineer. When they are taken to a village for their service by helicopter operator John Reynolds (Tim Thompson) they find they are assigned to build a bridge connecting this village with the other shore. Soon it turns out that others are interested in that bridge the local war lord and opium dealer (Chumg Mee - Ernest Harada) and the local Communists insurgents. While Lawrence tries to get back home (and finds his wise father has made it impossible for him to do so), he finds that he has annoyed Beth (who is more impressed by Reynolds), and he is dealing with the over-active and inept Tuttle. But soon Tuttle vanishes into the jungle (and into the hands of the Communists) while Lawrence finds he needs to rely on a smart local villager (Gedde Wantanabe) which is good because both men are threatened by the war lord to get that bridge built or else. What follows is a delight, as Lawrence does build the bridge, and then realizes (much as Col. Nicholson does at the end of THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI) that it was a dreadful mistake, and the poor villagers are in danger from two evil groups as a result.Hanks never loses his charm and insouciance, even as he grows into a responsible local leader. Candy is a wonder as an would-be world saver, an over-achiever who insults people as he tries to show he has a heart. Wilson is good explaining how she wants to help the villagers, speaking in Thai - but telling how she wants to kill them! Wantanabe is constantly finding his warnings and realistic view of the situation is ignored and he gets injured as a result (or even sexually threatened by a trio of sumo-wrestler guards of the War Lord). And Thompson has only one really close friend - his knife. He makes George Macready's relationship with his sword stick in GILDA look matter-of-fact in comparison. Finally there is a definite love affair with David Lean in this film. Besides the similarities with THE RIVER KWAI (including Candy whistling Col. Bogie's March and saying, What have I done!) there is the concluding shot of Hanks (having brought prosperity to the village) being cheered by the people with cries of Lawrence, Lawrence!. Wonderful comedy here. "}{"Title":"Funny, Funny, Funny","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies you'll find in the 99 cent rental section. Probably one of the late John Candy's most hilarious roles and you can see glimpses of the great actor that Tom Hanks has become.  This movie is an excellent spoof of several movies, most notably, The Bridge on the River Kwai. I highly recommend this movie to anyone looking an hour-and-a-half of belly laughs.  "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of all time","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Hanks is fantastic...the rest of the cast adds strong support. This film made me laugh so hard throughout. John Candy is great, Rita Wilson is wonderful, and the native characters add authentic flavor to the film. Honestly, anyone who doesn't appreciate the acting ability of Tom Hanks in this humor-filled picture is missing a lot. This is the kind of film you could watch a few times to fully appreciate all the underlying gags and subtle jokes. Terrific film!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Tom Tuttle(from Tacoma!)","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked this one, it's heart was in the right place, I esp enjoyed John Candy as 'Tom Tuttle' from Tacoma. He was a fun guy. And the self-effacing humour-where they read the subtitles and such, goes a long ways towards making this one work.The plot is shallow and derivative, the performances alright but nothing special. I still have fond memories of 'Volunteers'-and think that they did a decent job overall.**1/2 outta **** , not bad. "},{"Title":"It isn't Big but still very funny.","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Volunteers is one of those films that hits the ground running. Though it may lag a bit later on, it is definitely worth watching, just for the opening scenes.Some of the funniest bits occur in the movie's first 15 minutes. After a great intro montage of early 60's images (Marilyn Monroe, Jackie Kennedy, Hula Hoops, The Alka-Seltzer kid, Khrushchev and JFK) the last images fades, into Kennedy's famous Ask not what your country can do for you speech. (JFK also speaks at the Yale graduation later--did this happen? Didn't JFK got to Harvard?) The scene cuts to a seedy bar in New Haven (a mere five years before the Doors would be arrested there at a concert! Amazing how times changed so quickly). Lawrence Bourne III, a Yalie with an upper-crust WASP, Maine accent is gambling , with some scary guys. His girlfriend, a snooty Smithie named Bootsie, tells him What the hell, Lawrence; it's only money? before he wins around 11 grand on a bluff. An odd guy named Cicero (Ji-tu Tumbuku) threatens him with a knife, saying he'll kill him and everyone he knows. The guy seriously looks ready to have a stroke. Lawrence still baits him by pretending he can't understand him, then leaves with a backward hand wave and a Ciao. Bourne and the girl go out to chat with the owner, who is termed my only Italian friend by the preppie. He owes this guy from a previous bet and they bet on the Celtic-Lakers game that conveniently takes place at mid-day during Lawrence's graduation. He doubles the bet to $28,000 and loses, as the bar owner and the Cicero watch, all with transistor radio ear-buds, listening in. He is told to get the money by sundown or else. Prior to that, we are treated to a bit of college dorm nostalgia as we see Lawrence's roommate laying outside the door, listening to the couple make vigorous love inside. Now, now, NOW! yells the girl and Lawrence's roommate, Kent Sutcliffe (Xander Berkely, upon whom I think Jack Black's School of Rock roommate, Ned Shneebly, might be based!) echoes it while pounding on the door. He enters, tells them he needs to get ready and we get a taste of Hanks' dry humor as he pulls out a stethoscope from beneath camouflage net. Well, then we'd to get down to the actual sex then, hadn't we, Bootsie? I love it! She is unfazed by Kent's presence and questions Kent about his gear (that she and Lawrence were using for bedsheets!) and asks, What are you going, the Peace Corps? He tells her he is and she drawls, I was JOKING... Kent obliquely implies that she and Lawrence are selfish, unlike him, as he is going to Thailand to help people. He mentions that he's leaving that night. SPOILERS Somehow, Lawrence makes it from New Haven to Maine (a several-hour drive) for a congratulatory dinner at the family mansion, after which he asks his dad, played with delicious, WASP dizziness by George Plimpton, for a loan. To his shock,his father denies him, saying it will build character, and if they DO break his hips, he'll have to learn to use a walker. It's clear Lawrence got his warped sense of humor from his father. Just then, Cicero shows up and the father talks to him while Lawrence bolts in his Corvette. There is a classic gag, but with a twist, with two lines racing down I-95 to New York with a map that zooms in slowly until it shows the airport map and the Corvette blasts through it onto the tarmac, conveniently close to Kent's plane.Bourne begs Kent to swap places and the roomie reveals his true personality as he finally agrees, but only if he can have Bootsie (Go ahead! says Lawrence, Everyone else has!) and the Corvette's title signed over to him. THAT hurts, says Lawrence, but agrees. He boards the plane, slamming the door in Cicero's face, who now clings to the outside of the plane, in a great sight gag. Lawrence turns and looks through the curtain into the cabin. Everyone is swaying back and forth and singing Puff the Magic Dragon! Hanks gives his trademark horrified look and says, So...this is Hell!.Everyone here has covered other parts of the film quite well, so I will just echo their sentiments by agreeing that this is an underrated film , and that the other performances are wonderful John Candy as Tom Tuttle, Tacoma, Washington is hilarious as the over-zealous engineer with good intentions but no cultural awareness. Rita Wilson's Long Island accent was unconvincing, but her performance as a wide-eyed do-gooder, Beth Wexler, was spot-on. Gedde Watanabe as At Toon, the fast-talking kid who went to an American School in Bangkok, has some of the best lines in the film. At a crucial moment, Lawrence fears for their lives and At Toon mockingly says, I'm okay. I never had a woman. I built a bridge. I got touched by some fat guys. I've had a FULL life! One of my favorite roles was John Reynolds (Tim Thomerson) , the crazed CIA operative, who names his Bowie knife Mike and gives Beth a VERY suggestive Burmese statue. He is an eerie foreshadowing of another comical, yet insanely right-wing Texan, whom many considered crazy, or at least much too war-happy. When John tells Beth he'll show her a good time soon, he says it will be Just you, me and Mike. *Shudder*!Anyone who misses the old Tom Hanks (and just misses Candy!) should see this film again, back when Hanks was obviously not thinking about Oscars and just having a hell of a good time being hilarious. "},{"Title":"Who wants to be developed?","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Volunteers (1985) is quite a comedy. It can't be taken too seriously, but it does have that deeper aspect as well - it's how do we know, when those who are developed don't want to be developed. Volunteers say we don't.Tom Hanks isn't as convincing as he is in his later movies, but it's his teamwork with late John Candy that really gives a spark to this movie. What a comedian we lost when we lost John Candy! I would recommend Volunteers for those who enjoy clever but simply ridiculous comedy. It's the level of exaggeration that makes this movie as funny as it is. I must have watched it at least four times, and John Candy has really made me feel great every time. "},{"Title":"Very funny classic","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Candy really shines in this classic.  Don't believe the nay-sayers. This is a very funny movie.  Besides, Tom Hanks met his wife while filming this picture (she co-stars).  If you like Tom Hanks and John Candy, you are sure to enjoy this movie.  Rent it or buy it.  I watch it often.It is R rated, but mostly for language I think, as there is just one very brief scene of partial nudity.  It is not nearly as bad as many present-day movies rated R, and I would not hesitate to have my grandchildren (11 and 13) watch it.Bill "},{"Title":"Fluff, but funny","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Having visited Thailand many times since the year after this film was made, and having lived there, one of the first things I wanted to see was whether or not it was filmed in Thailand. From the scene where the plane lands in Bangkok -- Bangkok is not surrounded by mountains, but rather sits on a huge plain -- to the scenes in the jungle (which just don't look right)...the film is clearly not filmed in Thailand. Apparently it was filmed in Mexico. Which is alright...just sayin'. On the other hand, many of the villagers were actually Thai people, and you will hear some authentic Thai language in the film. However, the Thai with the largest speaking part...is actually of Japanese ancestry.In terms of the plot, it's okay. Just don't expect much of any reality. But it does a nice job of making retro fun. Chase scenes can be very funny...can be. And why couldn't the movie makers realize there are differences between Asian ethic groups, rather than mixing Thai and Chinese and Japanese stereotypes. Really, this is amateur hour.In terms of the acting. Well, this was that period of time when Tom Hanks was beginning to be a box office draw, but before he learned what real acting was. And in terms of John Candy, at this point in his career, his acting consisted of being a buffoon. He does it well. The remainder of the cast is okay. But this is pretty light fair, so don't expect much.In fact, that's the key to enjoying this film. Just sit back and prepare to laugh a bit. There's nothing intellectual about it. "},{"Title":"Great comedy with an interwoven plot about politics from 1962...","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Come on Hanks, Candy, and the entire cast couldn't have been picked better than they were to represent America and the Communists from 1962. The story includes greed, charity, companionship, technology and true love. Get with it this is a GREAT Flick that deserves a higher rating that shows it all and includes great comedic writing on top! It is important for everyone to see the workings of capitalism through drugs and get a handle on where it is sourced from and where the profits eventually end up. Here Hanks takes a snobbish wealthy no good selfish student whose life was going no where through gambling debts and re- routes his talents for making friends and creates a whole new life. It's a clean humorous yet still interesting view on America in the early 60's and yet it's closer to reality than some people are probably going to accept. Let's not forget John Candy once again in a role that really suited him in every possible aspect in culture and time. "},{"Title":"Shallow but light hearted fun","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" With a plot that looks more like an expanded sketch from Saturday Night Live, Tom Hanks and John Candy play broad and over the top caricatures of their characters &#x96; Hanks an arrogant son from a wealthy socialite family who ends up in the wrong place when attempting to evade his responsibilities, and Candy playing a Peace Corps group leader who is essentially a bumbling idiot. Of some interest is the trajectory of Hank's character moving from a selfish and self-absorbed to someone more altruistic, grudgingly winning over the girl of the piece, a enthusiastic and attractive Peace Corps volunteer, who happens to be based at the same outpost as Hank's character played by Rita Wilson (who actually hooked up with Hanks in real life during the filming of this production, and they have been together ever since) albeit the chemistry between them in this film is board and comedic and nothing hugely profound or involving.Technical credits are solid, if nothing special. However Meyer's direction does look more cinematic and polished than in previous outings. There are also some amusing nods to other films peppered in the script.Overall a reasonably enjoyable but a rather lightweight and forgettable movie "},{"Title":"not quite enough laughs","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's 1962. Lawrence Bourne III (Tom Hanks) is a spoiled rich playboy. He graduates from Yale with a $28k gambling debt. His father refuses to pay and the violent creditor is aiming to collect. He escapes switching places with his roommate Kent who is going to Thailand for Peace Corps. US official John Reynolds (Tim Thomerson) assigns him, Tom Tuttle from Tacoma (John Candy) and Beth Wexler (Rita Wilson) to build a bridge. Local At Toon (Gedde Watanabe) is the only English speaker. The bridge is important for the CIA, the Communists and a local drug lord.The comedy is broad. Tom Hanks is likable even as a scheming douche. That's a special skill. He has the best comedic chemistry with Watanabe. At least, he seems to have the most time with him. John Candy isn't nearly as lovable. He's either separated from the group or brainwashed. Brainwashed Candy is only an one-joke character. The jokes don't work enough. Rita Wilson rolls her eyes disapprovingly at Hanks a lot. There are some good moments like Candy vs the tiger. The movie never fully takes off as a comedy. "}{"Title":"An Okay Comedy!","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 'Volunteers' has a few sparkling moments, but they are few & far between. A wittier & funnier Screenplay was the need of the day!'Volunteers' Synopsis Lawrence is a rich kid with a bad accent and a large debt. After his father refuses to help him out, Lawrence escapes his angry debtors by jumping on a Peace Corp flight to Southeast Asia, where is assigned to build a bridge for the local villagers with American-As-Apple-Pie WSU Grad Tom Tuttle and the beautiful and down-to earth Beth Wexler. What they don't realize is that the bridge is coveted by the U.S. Army, a local Communist force, and a powerful drug lord. Trouble Follows...Despite an interesting premise, 'Volunteers' doesn't amuse much. The jokes here range from good to bland. The first-hour is dull, while the second-hour picks up & offers a truly funny last act. Keith F. Critchlow, David Isaacs & Ken Levine's Screenplay appeals, but only in bits. Nicholas Meyer's Direction is decent. Cinematography is striking. Editing isn't impressive. Performance-Wise Tom Hanks is terrific, as always. He elevates the film at times, with his impeccable comic-timing. The Late/Great John Candy gets limited scope, but he doesn't fail to engage. Rita Wilson is sweet. Tim Thomerson is alright.On the whole, 'Volunteers' is so-so! "},{"Title":"Middle of the Road Character-Based Comedy That Stays Straight and Narrow","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tom Hanks and John Candy lead us on this shallow, silly tour of an unusually volatile Peace Corp mission to Thailand. Both play wacky caricatures - Hanks as a snooty Connecticut socialite in the wrong place, Candy a naive simpleton with two left feet - and that extra dash of color ultimately saves the picture from sliding into the deepest dregs. Though the plot revolves around the construction of a massive wooden bridge to benefit the natives, we spend most of the picture watching Hanks's Kennedy wannabe struggle to emerge from his loathsome, self-absorbed shell, largely inspired by the unrequited affections of fellow missionary Rita Wilson. The pair would actually spark a lifelong romance during filming (they're still together today, bucking the Hollywood norm) but the on-set chemistry doesn't translate to anything special on the screen. Lightly humorous in the spirit of an only-okay SNL sketch, it's inoffensive and flashy but not all that memorable. "},{"Title":"Hit-and-miss comedy reuniting 'brothers' Hanks & Candy","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  VOLUNTEERS (1985) **1/2 Tom Hanks, John Candy, Rita Wilson, Tim Thomerson, Gedde Watanabe, George Plimpton.  Frequently amusing comedy set in the 60s Peace Corps with motley crew of pampered playboy Hanks with the rank and file Candy and lovely Wilson stationed in Thailand trying to assemble a footbridge for the native populace.  Sprinkled laughs particularly when Candy is being brainwashed. "},{"Title":"Keep Your Hands Down.","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Snotty Ivy League student Tom Hanks hops on a Peace Corps plane to 1960s Southeast Asia to elude gambling debts. He immediately meets love interest Rita Wilson and screw-ball John Candy as the trio gets immersed in an elaborate scheme to build a bridge ala Bridge on the River Kwai and fall in with brainwashed Communists and deviant drug pushers. Not near as interesting as it all sounds as Hanks does what he can early, but then the whole thing crumbles as our heroes begin to get put into dumb situation after dumb situation. Tom Hanks is some kind of Errol Flynn clone here as his antics obviously won the heart of co-star Wilson as the duo are married still today. Other than that tidbit though, Volunteers makes no lasting impression. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Average, But Barely","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm a fan from the earliest days of both Tom Hanks & John Candy, but this movie never delivers on any of the comic potential both actors had at the time. Hanks and Candy played brothers in the funny Splash (1984), but neither did as well with their characters in this film.I suppose it was the weak script, because they are good comic actors, and Nicholas Meyer is a good director who had already proved that to me a few years prior with Star Trek 2 The Wrath of Khan, if not in earlier flicks like Time After Time (1979) and The Seven Percent Solution (1976).The identity-switch premise is standard comic fare, and we know that in the end, the Hanks character will take on the identity he is faking and do what that character would do. Likewise for getting the girl.Hanks & Candy could have carried off the predictable jokes a lot better than they did, and the Candy set-up for the brainwashing in the swipe of a screen was so weak I almost missed it. The joke of his babbling communist slogans and rhetoric back at his captors to the point of annoyance is just that annoying. It too, could have worked better.Rita Wilson was a poor choice as the love-interest. I guess she's okay in minor supporting roles, and I know a few people who liked her as the love-interest in Mixed Nuts (1994), but in this role, her exasperation with life in the jungle jokes, in juxtaposition to Hanks' ease with it, are weakly played and not very funny.There are some spots where the script allows the actors to be funny, but they are few and far between, and often underplayed. I know enough of the tastes of my friends and clients to say there are about half of them who would like this movie okay enough, and half who would wish they had watched something else, like Splash, if they wanted to see Hanks & Candy together.Thus, I would rate this movie as Average (5 out of 10), but just barely. If you find it in a bargain-bin, as I did, you might want to pick it up if you are a Hanks and Candy fan and already have Splash, but I would rather spend my money on the latter if I didn't already have it. "},{"Title":"A not-so-great movie","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Definitely not one of Tom Hank's best. Watching this movie, you have to wonder how this guy ever became such a great actor. It's not that his acting is that bad - it's okay. But the movie is just so .. just so .. well, BAD! I suppose that no one could have saved it.I still gave it a '3' because it did have its moments, albeit only a few. A couple decent jokes and some cute situational scenes. Don't buy this movie, but if you haven't seen it, you might want to consider renting it.Or maybe not.  "},{"Title":"Poorly done","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Poorly done comedy with great lead actors to salvage it a bit.The script,screenplay,directing and editing were carelessly done.The producers seemed to know the movie will profit from the bankable lead stars.It could have ruined both Hanks and Candy later on in their careers if not for the other comedy they made around the same time called SPLASH which is one of the greatest comedies of all.Avoid VOLUNTEERS unless you are a really big fan of Hanks or Candy who have their good moments in a scene or two..... "},{"Title":"Volunteers","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A snob on the lam joins the Peace Corps to escape his gambling debts. A badly written, poorly acted film that wastes the talents of Hanks and Candy. The film, however has some value for it was here that Hanks met and married his second wife, co-star, Rita Wilson.  "},{"Title":"Hanks' marriage - the only good to come out of this","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Did you ever think to yourself, Man, that Bridge on the River Kwai was okay, but it should have been a comedy!? Me neither. Bad news somehow, it exists. Tom Hanks, the star of this crap, has said that there are some movies he wishes he could remove from his resume. Volunteers should be one of them, but might not be since he met his long-time wife Rita Wilson through it - love shows up at the kookiest times, huh? John Candy is hands down the most irritating part with his lousy Tom Tuttle character, and it's quite embarrassing to see our precious Hanks act a fool and throw away lines in a lame rich Harvard boy stereotypical dialect. I honestly can't think of anything I'd call my favorite scene... I suppose it's when Hanks throws cigarettes and gum to the villagers. If you really want to see Hanks and Candy paired up in a much better film, see Splash. If you see Volunteers on the rental shelf, do me a favor knock the display case to the ground and splash a loogie on it. Anyone with a brain won't care. "},{"Title":"Great acting bad story","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Candy and Hanks act well in this stinker, but have no material to work with. Tom plays a rich snob who joins the peacecore to avoid paying some debts. Great idea, but no script to work with.  Even John Candy's nerd character can not say this one.  Flush this stinker down the toilet. 2/10 "}{"Title":"Unmotivated and Ultimately Empty.","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tom Hanks stars in this sorry comedy as a gambler who is deeply in debt. He narrowly escapes his bookies and winds up working with the Peace Corps. Cheap laughs are the focal point of this dumb flick.  The performances are very poor and the motive is not very thoughtful.  John Candy does little to heighten the film.  One of the many huge disappointments of Hanks's early career.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Pick someone else....","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  All the elements were there Tom Hanks, John Candy, the high-minded ideals of the Peace Corps, Red China and brainwashing.  But these Volunteers seem to have chosen a no-win assignment.Even Watanabe, the exchange student in Sixteen Candles, fails to deliver any laughs as a local who helps Hanks and Candy communicate with his people.  In fact, the funniest parts of the whole movie are Thomerson's as a gung-ho soldier of misfortune who acts tough but still yells GOL-DARN! as he falls off a high bridge into the water below.Candy tries but aside from an isolated moment or two as his patented good-hearted bumbler, there's nothing that makes this worth his time.And Hanks....  Maybe he thought he was in a serious movie?TIDBIT - It was on this movie where Hanks met his future wife Rita Wilson.  And you know how on-set romances help pictures that are already in trouble.  Just look at Doctor Detroit.Two stars.  Volunteer to skip this one. "}]