[{"Title":"Unreal circumstances, predictability, corny phrases, and partial nudity... what more could you ask for?","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What more could you ask for in a cheesy horror film from the 1980s?  This movie depicts a group of horny teenagers who are accidentally trapped in the mall overnight with three possessed security robots. Unreal circumstances, predictability, corny phrases, and partial nudity make this banal-plotted flick a true camp hit! "},{"Title":"50% off Arms and Legs","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, there is a whole lot of cheese in Chopping Mall.  Remembering this movie from my childhood, I was compelled to rent it last night.  Well, I am glad I did!  Yeah, there isn't anything spectacular about the movie...There is a lot of Cheese (Automatic Rifles in a Mall?), but it still stands out as one of the better B-movies of the 80's.  The Robots are pretty decent looking.  The acting is typical for the genre and timeframe.  The head explosion scene is just classic.I now feel compelled to track this down on Ebay, since I don't see an American DVD release anytime soon...Rent it and just enjoy the actual quality to this b-movie.  I don't mean the acting, but the scenery and the robots.  The CGI is laughable...but, that is another topic...7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Ever wish you could hide out in a shopping mall overnight?","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ever wish you could hide out in a shopping mall overnight with your friends and do whatever you wanted to do there? Would you still do it if the mall was patrolled by security robots after hours? What if they were bigger than you, could move faster than you, and were equipped with lasers? And what if the computer that controls them was hit by lightening earlier tonight, so now they just patrol the mall killing anything that moves? It wouldn't be boring, that's for sure. Good movie to watch when you want something simple and lively. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but still a blast and a must-see.","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film isn't half as gory as it's name and the box (which shows a metal hand holding a shopping bag filled with dismembered parts,) would have you think. The victims here die by lazer blasts, or are electicuted, or are dropped off high ledges. One girl is burned to death. The film's dummy title,Killbots, is probably far more appropriate for this particular movie. The plot at a shopping mall, presumably sometime in the not-too-distant future, a super computer is installed which is activated at night. It activates solid steal doors which seal off the enterances, making breaking in (and getting out,) almost impossible. The computer also controlls three high tech security robots, known as protector units. Then, one night, there is a thunder storm. Lightning strikes the antena on the roof of the mall, scrambling the computer's circuts, and the computer turns the protector robots into killing machines. After offing two techinitians hired to operate the computer overnight, and a janitor, (B-movie vet Dick Miller,) the protector units go after four teenage couples who've decided to spend the night in a mattress store for an orgy. Anybody who's familar with the teen extermination flicks of the 80's, or who've seen Scream, will figure out right when the couples get together who will live and who will die. But the film is still worth seeing just for Keli Maroney's preformance as Alyson. She manages to play a strong female heroine without becoming a male clone. Her charecter is comparable to Ripley from the Alien series. Also, unlike some splatter movies, this one's more interesting in that the young people find out right away what's going on, and then they all battle the robots together, instead of one person getting seperated and killed, one by one until there's only one left. This is a definete must-see. "},{"Title":"Now I Fear Mall Security...","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cheeky, but fun, 80's flick about killer robots.  Has a pretty coherent plot without any major holes (except for maybe why a computer is put on the roof), not 1, not 2, but 3 robotic villains (who are rather polite for killer robots), and idiot humans that you want to see die anyway.  It's a shame it's out of print. "},{"Title":"Good B-movie","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I caught this one really late at night back in 1995, and I must say, I enjoyed it.  It went under it's other name, Killbots, during that showing, and with a name like that, you know it's going to be cheesy and stupid.  Cheesy it is, stupid it ain't.Forget the misleading title or cover art on the box, this movie is very entertaining if you like b-movies.  I don't know why, but for once in a long while, especially in an 80's horror flick I was actually feeling for the characters.  I can't explain why, but the acting and direction were both well done, and though it's more of a horror spoof than anything, it is quite a frightening concept.  Though some of the deaths are stupid and the action scenes unrealistic, I couldn't help but see the similarities between this and Dawn of the Dead.  I mean, these kids, once they figure out what's going on (and witness the famous head exloding scene) they wage war with the robots...I mean they break out a freaking arsenal and lay waste to these things (yeah, like Dawn of the Dead, what kind of mall would have firearms in it?  I mean, one guy has an M-16 assault rifle!), though I can't remember them ever reloading once...it's all in good b-movie fun.  The major complaints I have with this one is that, like I said before, some of the deaths are 'throw away', obvious and without style (most of the movie, they are running from cheesy 80's laser effects shooting all around them, but never hitting them...of course, when they do finally make contact, you never expect it), but it is still a good movie to watch on a boring friday night with friends and a couple cases of beer.  I love the quote that the robots say every time that they dispatch one of the teens.  It is simply priceless.  Also, watch for Barabara Crampton of Re-Animator fame as one of the horny teenagers.  Overall not bad, and when I think of the title and what this movie is, I'm surprising myself in giving it a 8/10.   "},{"Title":"Exterminating all Mallrats!","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this insignificant but nevertheless fun 80's low-budgeter, the sex-hungry teenagers for once aren't chased around by a killer wearing a ridiculous mask but by a troop of malfunctioning and heavily armed security robots! Four couples that work in various stores at the Park Plaza shopping mall secretly throw an after hours party during the same night when a lightening storm completely disorientates the 3 brand new Protector robots and get killed off one by one. Chopping Mall (how can you not love that title?) is a lot of fun to watch and it's easily Jim Wynorski's best effort out of more than 60 directed films. Despite the fact that Chopping Mall doesn't take itself too seriously and mainly focuses on satire, there really are some tense moments and properly mounted suspense sequences. The laser head-explosion sequence is famous and there are multiple other cheese-highlights. But what is perhaps the most surprising, are the engaging acting performances and the welcome amount of tasteful nudity. The most familiar cute face in the cast is Barbara Crampton who stars as a screaming beauty in between her two greatest films Re-Animator and From Beyond. Truly ingenious are the endless references towards Roger Corman's repertoire, especially illustrated through cameos of Paul Bartel, Dick Miller and Mary Woronov. Unquestionably, Chopping Mall is a righteous guilty pleasure of many, many horror fans. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable.","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A group of teens(among them lovely Barbara Crampton from Re-Animator and From Beyond)are terrorized in a shopping mall by a bunch of killer security robots.Chopping Mall is a highly energetic horror film that is perfect for younger horror fans.The film is well-made,delightfully cheesy and it offers some memorable set-pieces(check out a head explosion scene!).The characters are likeable and there are some great one liners.Highly recommended.Director Jim Wynorski made also Sorority House Massacre 2,976 Evil 2The Astral Factor and Hard to Die. "},{"Title":"Silly and cheap but fun","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CHOPPING MALL is one of those cheapies made in the 1980s that was probably green-lighted because of the expanding video market. Even though it was released theatrically, CHOPPING MALL looks more like a direct-to-video movie than anything else. The video I saw had a terrible transfer (out of focus and murky) and the cheesiness of it all could have made this a chore to sit through but even with those things going against it, the film was fun and fast paced. It's totally played for laughs and never takes itself seriously. The upbeat goofiness basically saves CHOPPING MALL from the usually unwatchable Concord/New World junk.It's a definite minor Cult film.  "},{"Title":"In a word - glorious","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know, but I really enjoyed this.  I like pepperoni.  The unpredictability of the lasers....wow.  Having them bounce off most of the time and then suddenly busting out the whooping stick and taking someone's head off...that was glorious.  I mean, you'd think that they could have different colors or something for when the lasers change from good for scratching itches to incredibly destructively lethal beams of death. Awesome premise for the movie, too, I mean, I can TOTALLY see a day in the future when all security is taken over by lethal security robots.  As a matter of fact, right NOW, I think I'll go set about making that happen. "}{"Title":"Good 80's Sci-Fi/Horror","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those 80's films with the cheesy title and box art that draws people like myself to them.  A good movie that was thoroughly funny and entertaining with a good splice of sex, action and violence.  It's a good movie to watch with friends late on a Friday night for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Shocking Mall","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember seeing this movie when it first came out. Talk about high tech. Like Wargames you look at it now and High Tech looks like ColecovisionI have to say this is a very entertaining movie. There were a few Andy Warhol factory people in the movie but mainly the stars were unknown other then Kelly Maroney who had built up a following from her role on the soap Ryan's Hope. I think the lack of marquee names are always a advantage in horror or thriller movies because that means anyone can can killed murdered and maimed.In the beginning of the movie we see a man give a demonstration about this new security system that he has set up in this mall. It seems that he has employed some robots to do what security guards use to do. We as the viewer know this is not going to be a successful venture. Movies involving computers or robots in the 1980 were always going to be a recipe for disaster.There is a bad storm and for some reason the robots go haywire. Meantime we have a big party brewing for later on with some of the teenagers working in the mall. One is a new teenager to the area and she is persuaded to tag a long. We know since there are no stars in the movie she will be the smart one. Seems that furniture stores in malls double as hotels for teenage parties at night. A pretty good idea if you are a teenager who works at a relatives furniture store.Well of course there are 4 boys and 4 girls. It looks like one teenage couple is married, but I never could figure that out. Kelly Maroney the new girl in town gets paired off with the male nerd character. They like each other, they remain content looking at TV while their friends are cavorting Now this is from Teenage horror movie 101,. The couple who has sex first or is involved in taking drugs or drinking too much are the first to get killed. And the formula is in effect here. Seems one of the girls want a cigarette and asks her boyfriend to leave the store and get some out of the machine. She bares her breast and right then and there she was doomed. We know as viewers the kill bots are already causing havoc. The boyfriend gets killed and the girlfriend goes looking for him and while the other teens at the party witness her screaming on seeing her boyfriend they also witness her grizzly death. All hell breaks loose from then on. I am not going to spoil it and tell what happens. Just hold on to your seats. The movie doesn't stop to take a breathe for a second. This is a textbook movie about how to make a good thriller. It only last 75 minutes and that is all it needs to be. So many thrillers are so over blown and bogged down with stories you forget you are suppose to be scared, thrilled and on the edge of your seat. Yes the the kill bots are really cheesy. But there is always something creepy about machines going bad. The new title Chopping Mall is misleading because there is not too much hacking and chopping, but more like people being killed by lasers and electricity. The original title was more appropriate..Killbots. A very good little thriller that does its job. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly tollerable late-night horror movie","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Shopping mall security robots become killing machines when a storm effects there systems.Believe me this is your typical late night horror film about a group of teenagers who start dropping like flies but to my surprise I enjoyed this film!It's surprising in the sence that it's not as bad or poorly directed as you'd think it to be.  Though its plot is fairly basic the acting is good and is generally well directed.  I can understand that this film is not up every persons street but for me it's a pleasure just to watch a good horror film from the eighties!  Thousands were made but only a few are held in esteem A nightmare on elm street, day of the dead, bad taste etc.So no, I wont take the film back, It'll sit on my shelf as a good late night horror film thats better to watch with a few friends on a saturday night. I entertained me and thats what films are made for! "},{"Title":"the essence of b horror","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is exactly what cheap horror should be.  from the opening conference to those pesky robots, this movie keeps you on the edge of your seat (with laughter, mind you).  i'm going to go watch it again.  ps  this works great at a party for buffs of this genre "},{"Title":"I'm expecting Walmart to get these things any day now.","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Little known B movie fare of the '80's is great tongue-in-cheek horror!Young mall workers decide to party in their store over night, but they didn't count on those hi-tech security robots going on a rampage!While Chopping Mall isn't a movie for the serious (hence the title) it's a great ride for those who are game. The mall makes for an excellent setting and the director uses it to the films advantage. It has plenty of action and some creative suspense. The showdown is intense and nicely climatic. The special FX are fairly good for a low-budget movie, the scene with Suzi Slater is quite memorable! We also get plenty of references to old-school horror films, as well as some cameos by genre favorites like Dick Miller and Paul Bartell. There's also a great electronic music score for the film.The cast is decent enough. Genre regulars Kelli Maroney, Russell Todd, Barbara Crampton, and John Terlesky are the best of the cast.Over all, Chopping Mall is a well-done and enjoyable B movie.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Great B-movie classic","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Story goes that a bunch of mostly horny teenagers (save for two, which is important!) decide to have a party after hours in a mall (Well....they're not exactly teens...but that's not important). Just so happens that a new robotic security system is installed and activated that night. And the oh so brilliant people who installed the system have the main control computer on the ROOF. Lightning strikes it, and the Protectors (the robots) become Killbots! But don't get me wrong, I LOVE this movie. This movie is for those who love teen slasher flicks, but have gotten a little board with them. Imagine instead of a human killer, you got three robotic killers! Instant classic! If you love killer robots, or love exploding heads, teens getting killed after having sex (you see, it's important!), seemingly unstoppable killers, or just plain want to have a good time, you like this movie. I gave it a 4 out of 5. If you're planning out buying it, get the DVD. There's some good info on it. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie.","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing Slumber Party Masacre movies, I though nothing could ever top the gratuitous boobies and the pointless killings.  I knew I was wrong after watching this flick.  It starts off with a bunch of teens in mall department store after hours (gratuitous boobies!) and the security robot's antenna getting hit by lightning which sends them on a killing spree.  After being locked inside the mall, the robots come after them, killing them one by one. If you are trying to find old horror flicks that you can laugh at, this is certainly a good one. "},{"Title":"'I' like it, and I don't care what you say","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched 'Chopping Mall' thinking it was going to be awful like 99% of other Vipco offerings, but It turned out to be a most pleasant surprise. Yes the acting was atrocious and the plot was to say the least a little thin but believe me it's a good laugh.It has obviously had genuine thought and care put into some scenes and has a few stand out moments that will have you rolling on the floor laughing, but not in a bad way. I am so glad I rented it as it is a real gem and is easily the best of the Vipco movies I have seen so far. I feel that any movie with a hero called 'Fergie' and killer robots in a shopping mall is a much underused plot these days. Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Killer robots in shopping mall..........","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Chopping Mall (1986), this film is another of the rare 80's horror films which despite the low budget...... is GREAT fun!! Very fast paced horror running at 75 minutes, it's about a bunch of workers in a shopping mall who want to party!! So when the shopping mall closes they stay behind, there's 3 guys and 3 girls, including the lovely Barbara Crampton, who is also in From Beyond and Re-animator.Anyway, this particular shopping mall has robots, who patrol the mall during the night, deterring any would-be robbers, these robots have cool lasers........ but when lightning strikes and causes the robots to go crazy and not recognise identification badges, all HELL breaks loose and the guys and girls of the party try to survive the onslaught from the robots.This horror movie has some good gore scenes too, electrocution and a very good head exploding scene too!! I rate this movie 9/10, it's really good fun while it lasts and is never boring too, and there's some lovely boobs to be seen too, ENJOY!! "},{"Title":"Fantastic example of 80's teen horror flicks","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  These days teen horror flicks like the Scream series are big business, and are built largely on the small, cheap and fun genre of 80's teen horror flicks like Chopping Mall, and the Sleepaway Camp series...Chopping Mall isn't a good movie, and shouldn't be taken seriously, but it does what it was designed to do... get your girl to curl up next to you.  "}{"Title":"Good teen slice and dice.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Eight teenagers have to fight for their lives after mall security robots malfunction and start to kill people. Problem is there is no way to get out of the mall. Special effects are good and there is a ton of humor and in-jokes. Acting and direction are typical, but this film is so much fun and captures the flavor of the 80's very well. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good ole Concord Films","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw this movie back in the eighties when I was just a kid staying up late on Friday night's. I loved it than. Just recently I picked up a copy of the movie on DVD and I was not as impressed. First of all, the movie tends to drag a bit, which is pretty typical of any Concord produced movies. Second, the killbots are very silly. Even when I was a kid I had to laugh at the special effects. I guess I saw Terminator one to many times. Third, the script writing is just atrocious. How typical can you get? Four, the acting is OK I guess. But let me set this straight, this movie is still fun, even with all its cheese. It does have some cult movie actors that make cameo role. Dick Miller plays a janitor. Gerrit Graham plays a scientist. And Barbara Crampton plays a typical teen steriotype. All in all, I'd say if your a fan of these low budget Concord films watch it, even buy it why not. "},{"Title":"Underrated Masterpiece","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was glorious, the plot is strong, and the characters are fun to watch. I don't believe there is anything more I can tell you without spoiling it (read the plot) but it is terrifying, the robots are realistic, the actors are great, the music is eerie. You will want to watch it more than once. "},{"Title":"Robots with Enormous Strength and Laser Beams&#x97;What Could Possibly Go Wrong?","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In order to beef up security at a local shopping mall, three robots are introduced with capabilities to render burglars unconscious when necessary. Yet even though the manufacturers insist that they are incapable of causing serious harm they have still given them enormous strength and laser beams which can cut through reinforced steel. What could possibly go wrong? Well, sure enough, a lightning storm hits at the same time several young couples decide to have a party inside the mall after closing time. Needless to say, these couples soon have a lot more on their hands than just their companions. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie I will just say that, while it was generally entertaining, it still had a grade-B feel and the decision to combine certain amounts of comedy and action together only tended to reinforce that opinion. So, although it wasn't necessarily a bad movie, it still didn't quite attain its overall potential and for that reason I have rated this film accordingly. Slightly below average. "},{"Title":"The silly version of Short Circuit","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The 80's are known for their hits and misses, and also for their cheese factor. In Chopping Mall it really makes sense. Here you have 8 friends who all work at the mall, who have decided to hang in after-hours. The mall is high tech, and has three security robots to watch the mall. For the first night, there was going to be a storm, so what happens? A lightning bolt hits a generator, causing the computer system to affect the robots in a very bad way. They go from high tech security into high tech terror! Hence Killbots. After killing the technicians and a janitor, they go after the teens with deadly results. However, they decided to fight back with every arsenal they can get. Talk about a fight of man against machine. This movie was rather too short for me, I wanted more action from it. I did remember seeing the gun-shop named Peckinpah's (The name of the late movie director Sam Peckinpah), that is where the guys picked up the guns to take out those killer robots. This movie was fun, but it could use more story to it. "},{"Title":"Confusion/likes/dislike","Date":"1 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This has spoilers...so.if you haven't seen it,beware.. I enjoyed this movie, but after watching it i found myself asking a lot of questions. The first had to do with the title.It's called Chopping Mall but there wasn't a lot of chopping, there was more of lazers and electrocuting and one suicide ( i guess you could call it) The second had to do with Alison. She fell from a second level(?) and walked away instantly with just a limp. The third had to do with something more irrelevant to the plot... The budget was 800,000 dollars, but they were able to rent out a mall, build sets,build functioning robots, hire actors, a buy explosives to blow up a store in the mall...Wow.In the end, i did like this movie despite the 1980's horror flick clichés. i.e the cheesy comic relief have a nice day, the partying/sex, someone dying before during or after sex.I mainly liked the plot Kids stuck in a mall overnight with corrupt robots. I liked the below average acting. You watch movies now and the actors are overacting. I disliked how unrealistic it was...i mean,it is a movie about KILLER ROBOTS..but it can still be very unrealistic. How do you expect to kill robots with guns? Escpecially a revolver? Why the hell would you blow up an elevator? Why would you commit suicide by ramming a car thing into a robot? Because your girlfriend died? No.i digress too much. The movie was good,enjoy!! "},{"Title":"Who's Who of 1980s B-Rate Stars","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this is ultimately a throwaway film, fans of B-Rate films of the 1980s have to watch it. We get DEATH RACE 2000's Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov, LOST EMPIRE'S Paul Coufos and Angela Aames, CHUD II'S Gerrit Graham and the legendary B-Rate wise acre Dick Miller. All these actors have brief cameos while the leads are recognizable B-Rate faces as well. RE-ANIMATOR'S Barbara Crampton and NIGHT OF THE COMET'S Kelli Maroney are female leads with DAMNED RIVER'S John Terlesky and SCHOOL SPIRIT'S Nick Segal as two of the male leads.The film focuses on three horny couples who hideout in a mall after hours and hold a party in a furniture store after the mall is locked up for the evening. Barbara Crampton tries setting her pal Kelli Maroney up with sad-sack Tony O'Dell to give the film four couples to root for. We have the married, mature Russell Todd and Karrie Emerson, the jock and bimbo Terlesky and Suzee Slater and the good-time duo Crampton and Segal. But the couple the film focuses on are the two being set-up by Barbara Crampton.The couples fool around but when one of the guys leaves to use a vending machine, all hell breaks loose. At the beginning of the film, Paul Coufos and Angela Aames unveil their security robots which the mall has leased. These robots go berserk at night and begin killing anyone in the mall--even the mall employee's who have badges that are supposed to be recognized by the robots. The film then becomes a cat and mouse chase between the couples and the robots.STORY $$ (The story isn't anything special. It's the old battle against wayward science theme. What makes the story a bit more interesting than most B-Rate horrors are the characters. These aren't just stupid pot-smoking high schoolers but professionals who work at the furniture store who must combat that which is supposed to protect them).ACTING $$$ (The acting is okay across the board. Dick Miller shines in his cameo but Woronov and Graham fans need not apply--they have brief cameos, as do Aames and Coufos. All of the couples give fine performances with the exception of Suzee Slater. She is quite wooden but was obviously cast for her sizable bust. Kelli Maroney is solid in this film--she's a bit more take charge than her ditzy cheerleader role in NIGHT OF THE COMET. Segal and Terlesky are solid as are Todd and Emerson but Barbara Crampton gives another quality performance. She effectively transforms from good-time girl to wailing, screaming head when the robots begin their attack).NUDITY $$$ (Suzee Slater, who is remembered for her head exploding scene in this film, flashes her sizable breasts to Terlesky before he goes off to the vending machines. Barbara Crampton gives a flash of breasts as she peels down for her man. The lovely Karrie Emerson has a bra and panties scene but doesn't remove the under things like Miss Crampton). "},{"Title":"Cheesy 80' Horror Trash, but in a good way!","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This little nugget of 80's horror is a crazy piece of campy trash. I say this in a good way. Do you have fond memories of hanging out at the mall for hours on end as a teen? There is a special little niche of movies made about mall culture. Most notably Kevin Smith's Mallrats (filmed in Minnesota, woohoo!). This film also takes a few hints from Romero's Dawn of the Dead, and quite strangely the Mall Cop comedies of 2009.Once known as Killbots in theaters, it was renamed Chopping Mall for video. It looks like some marketing guy was trying to look smart because there is little if any chopping going on. The three Killbots are basically robotic mall cops that keep tabs on things when the mall is closed. When a group of young mall employees plan an after hours party in one of the stores, the Killbots are on the prowl. Of course the 'bots malfunctioned while charging when the building was hit by lighting. The kids need to survive until morning when the mall opens up again to survive. That's pretty much it for story, but it is entertaining. It's very cheesy and very 80's. This was a Roger Corman production so it was filmed on a very small budget, but that's part of the charm of the film.This is a minor cult hit on video and DVD, probably fun to have on at parties or seen with a group of friends. If you looking for a trip down memory lane, check this flick out. Thank you, have a nice day. "},{"Title":"Robots could do anything in the 80's except chop stuff","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Once you begin watching this movie you're immediately going to ask yourself why a shopping mall would ever need such extreme security. Even the set of Short Circuit didn't have this much robot security.... I guess back in the 80's it made perfect sense to have high powered robots guard malls due to the Robocop craze and all, but did this mall really need 3 robots?**SPOILERS**In a nutshell Chopping Mall is a ridiculous 80's movie about killer robot security guards murdering teenagers who are trapped in a mall for a night. And although this movie is called Chopping Mall when you get down to it there is no actual chopping of any kind in this movie, but the mall part is accurate and the title is such a great play on words I guess they figured the dirtballs who rented this movie wouldn't split hairs. The opening scene shows the unveiling of the security robots at the mall to a group of important looking people who ask just enough questions to make the plot of the movie as obvious as possible to anyone confused by robots. It seems like these people at the unveiling would be local citizens, or newspaper reporters, but instead they're all doctors and scientists who are identified as being scientists by their stereotype white lab coats and doctors by their beard/glasses combos and also the guy on stage says you have a question, DOCTOR? to make sure that as you're watching you realize this robot unveiling isn't to be taken lightly and smart people care about it.After this we learn that a group of rowdy teenagers conveniently plan on having a party that night at the furniture store (it has beds&#133; for boning). Who the characters are doesn't really matter. And that's it, they don't matter.As it turns out, the night all of this takes place happens to be the night of one of the most sinisterly accurate lightning storms in the history of all storms. And if you've ever seen a horror movie you know that a lightning strike can do anything from bring Frankenstein's monster to life, to&#133; well bring Jason to life in Friday the 13th. Basically lightning brings various bad guys to life.So the next thing we know various lightning bolts hit some random generator on the mall roof over and over to pound it into the viewer's head that this lightning is going to somehow makes the robots evil, even though the robots aren't in any way hooked up to this generator. Where the robots are is the 3rd floor scientist lab where TWO scientists in white lab coats monitor the robots. So basically this mall is so important they've hired two scientists to work every night to monitor the potentially deadly robots they've unnecessarily bought for mall security. Also one of the scientists is killed while looking at the spread in a playboy mag, so that's comedy gold. The robots and scientists surely must be more expensive to have than anything in the mall that's being protected, but this movie isn't supposed to make sense. It's supposed to accomplish the following1.Find a way to show 80's girl's boobs the teenage party accomplishes this. 2.Trap the kids in the mall with the robots them losing track of time while doing the nassssty gets them locked in and trapped. 3.Find a way to squeeze in a scene where something gets chopped off in order to justify the title This was a failure. 4.Have the robots kill the kids and robots who have to do boring security work but are equipped with lasers and electrocuting tazer darts are bound to find an excuse to kill people.There's no need for a lot of detail, but as was said the teenagers are trapped in the mall for the night and have to find various ways to fight the robots and various ways to be killed by them. Luckily for the kids there's a sporting goods store in the mall that literally has AK 47's on the shelves with boxes of bullets on nearby tables (this was pre-9/11 so you could get away with those things). As mentioned before, the robots themselves can shoot lasers out of their eyes and they do this with no accuracy whatsoever. Watching the robots chase the kids while trying to shoot them with lasers is like watching an episode of GI Joe where Cobra is firing a ridiculous barrage of laser beams directly at the good guys while managing to not hit a single person. Seriously, did anyone ever get shot in GI Joe besides that one time Flint took one to the heart and had to float around in that tank in his underwear? Actually he didn't even get shot, he got hit by some kind of snake turned into a spear or something. Don't act like you don't know exactly what I'm talking about. Anyway back to the story..Every time the robots kill someone they say thank you. Have a nice day so of course at the end the girl says that to the final robot right before she blows him up.. and it's back to the drawing board for the scientists.At the end of the day this movie really summarizes what the 80's were about Nerds, Boobies, Robots, Scientists, and Malls. In a way it's sort of a documentary of the time. And needless to say, after watching this movie you'll no longer have any desire to go to your lame local mall where the security guards are human and have no desire to kill you. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Cheesy, Mildly Entertaining.","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the film's title - Chopping Mall, I was expecting a movie along the lines of a slasher film. And, well, I was completely surprised. While Chopping Mall is in a way a slasher movie, it's of a different kind. The movie basically revolves around a group of eight teenagers who are hanging out in a high tech security mall after closing time. The kids are enjoying themselves, having sex and whatnot, when suddenly one couple is murdered by the mall's high-tech security robots. The steel doors to the mall slam shut, leaving the remaining teens trapped in the mall with a gang of killer robots mercilessly attacking them. The doors don't open back up until six a.m. the next morning - can they make it through the night? This film has complete B-movie cheese written all over it. The story for this movie, for one, is creative but flat-out silly if you really think about it. The acting - well, let's not go there. I'll just say that it was pretty bad overall - bad delivery, and they were completely unbelievable. There were typical archetype characters, including the promiscuous girl, the nerdy guy, and the good girl. The film's special effects are another thing. The CGI is completely horrible, although back at the time this was made (1986), I suppose that this could have been looked at as some high-quality technology. Viewers today though will be able to see how unbelievable it really is. The robots also kind of reminded me of vacuum cleaners, but that was just me. Aside from this movie's negative points, it's got one good thing going for it - it's really entertaining, in all of it's cheesy glory. It's not scary in any way, just entertaining, and may please gore fans for some of it's murder scenes - I have to admit, the head-explosion bit was classic.Overall, Chopping Mall is nothing but a corny B-movie. It's campy, the acting was far below average, the strange techno music was annoying, and the special effects are unconvincing - but despite that, it's entertaining for the most part. You'll have a fun time watching it, but it's hard to take any of it seriously at all. 4/10. "}{"Title":"Not bad, save for the casting","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie, mainly because of my enjoyment of 80's low budget flicks. I did enjoy the film, cause it was mildly entertaining, and the guys proved that there was no logic to anything that they did. They tried things that really a person drunk wouldn't do. The only positive of the flick was Karrie Emerson. She's that tomboy tough, yet beautiful calender girl come to life. She should have been the lead lady in the flick. No offense to Kerri Mahoney, but she's not really a person who elicits the tough chick in a horror flick that's needed here. Yeah, the plot is really, MST3k bad. It seems like a rejected first draft for a RoboCop film. Killing of Emerson's Character pretty much helped ruin the film for me. Not to mention she gets killed by a laser after the robots miss her several times. If only she had made it through the film, instead of being a part of the directors need for a body count. Where have you gone, Karrie Emerson??? "},{"Title":"If there is one thing I learned from this movie...","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...it's that robots have very bad aim.Many people may say this is a bad movie, many people say it's good. The truth is, it's an incredibly bad movie. So bad in fact, that it's awesome...in a bad way.Allow me to explain. This movie is by no means good in any way. By good I mean containing a thrilling story-line, remarkable characters, and an astounding resolution which can tie these things together. All while being completely devoid of plot holes. By saying Chopping Mall is not good, I am saying just that. It lacks all these things. Every single one of them.Is the movie entertaining however? Yes. Very much so. It's hard not to be entertained by a bunch of horny teenagers parading around a shopping mall while firing wildely at a bunch of homicidal robots. In fact, it's damn near impossible. Of course not unless you take things too seriously.If you are the type of person who takes movies too seriously, do not see this film. Stay as far away from it as possible. Every minute of it will leave you scratching your head with a dull, puzzled look on your face as you begin to question the existence of humanity.If you aren't like this however, then by all means give the film a shot. It's one of those cheesy B-Movies you watch just to laugh at how incredibly lame it really is. The over-exaggerated acting, the terrible special effects, the completely dreadful script, all of it adds up to one incredibly entertaining time.My only real gripe was the god-awful soundtrack. Everything sounds as if it were written by a tone-deaf 12 year old, and then produced on the cheapest Casio Keyboard you could find. Think of the soundtrack from Troll 2. Now imagine you have cancer. That's how bad the soundtrack is.RECAP-- Bad movie, but very entertaining. Awful soundtrack, may cause tumors. My suggestion? At least give it a shot. It's no Troll 2, but it's just as entertaining. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Cute Reference to a Cult Classic","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the start of the movie, there's a middle-aged couple discussing the new robots. They own a restaurant and note that the security robots would be great for, Getting rid of Restaurant Customers that we don't want.The couple are Mary Woronov and Paul Bartel, the stars from Eating Raoul! In that 80's cult classic, they start killing people who respond to love-connection ads and then begin selling the bodies to meat processing plants.Hats off to the creators of Chopping Mall for tossing in a clever reference to one of the better horror movies of the 80's. "},{"Title":"Terminator in a Mall","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is awful in many ways that make it amusing. The gore is okay and the explosions are at a premium considering they are indoors. What is best, is the blatant rip-off of The Terminator formula. There is a strong woman, killer robots, and strangely similar music. It's worth watching just to see how bad the aim is of these programmed robot killing machines. Also, what kind of mall owner would have killer robot security guards? This seems like a really terrible concept. I'm sure the survivors brought a huge lawsuit agaist the mall. Lastly, why the hell does a mall have so many guns and explosives in it? If this happened at my mall I wouldn't be able to fight them with much more than a lamp stand or a G-string from the gap. "},{"Title":"Dark truths too horrific for 'Short Circuit'","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was just too intentionally cheesy for me, as well as too lacking in real excitement or scares. And it's no surprise to find that Roger Corman, whose movies I just don't respond to, is the producer behind it all.The movie opens with this sales film detailing how these new robots will patrol the mall after it has closed and harpoon any burglars. Then there's a live demonstration in front of an audience, with real tension that the robot is going to malfunction and blow the guy away right on stage, a la the opening scene of Robocop&#133; and now I see that Robocop came out a year after this one. Coincidence? We may never know. I do know that I wished the robot HAD blown the guy away, but whatever. Then there's a marginally amusing montage of life if the mall circa 1986.Then we start getting introduced to the characters, composed of two sluts and a good girl, and two moron studs and a nerd guy. Can you guess who ends up together? There are also various security and janitorial personnel on hand. Anyway, so there's a big electrical storm with tons of lightning that all strikes over and over in the same place, but without any rain. Characters outside during this time do not see any lightning, either. Such is the strangeness of this natural phenomena, I guess.Well, anyone who's seen Short Circuit, released the same year, or even Stealth this year, knows that if there's lighting within five miles of a robot, it will hit the robot and reprogram it to either learn what it means to be alive or to become an unstoppable killing machine. It is the latter in this case.So this security guard is all freaked out by the lightning, but as soon as it's over, he seems to think to himself Alright! Now I'm gonna look at some porn! and whips out a magazine. How come they're ALWAYS looking at the centerfold in these movies? There's nude pictures on the other pages too, ya know. Not that I KNOW, I mean, I've just HEARD. Anyway, as anyone who has ever seen a movie before knows, looking at a porn mag MEANS certain death, and this guy comes to a boring and abrupt end. Then more people die, as a way of stalling us before we start seeing the horny teens (all played by people appearing to be in their late 20s) get killed.The teens party at this frankly embarrassing event at which they have to pretend to be having fun while oblivious to the fact that there's only six of them there. In the background a song called Streetwalkin' plays. Then they all have sex, within plain view of each other, on the beds in the furniture store. Except for the good girl and nerdy boy, who just watch an old (Roger Corman) movie. The girl squeals and hides her face at a small explosion, saying she's easily scared, which I guess is supposed to function as character development.So, in one of the only amusing developments, one of the women goes all princessy and needs a smoke, of a certain brand, before she can start putting out (though it seemed like they already had done it, and&#133; I don't understand). She says I have to have a cigarette and I have to have one NOW! So the dippy guy has to go get one, and of course he gets killed. I tell you, the women in this movie made me very glad that I'm gay. Not that the guys are much better, but at least they're quieter, don't pretend at mood swings just to get attention, and will go get you cigarettes if you throw a hissy fit. Anyway, then the robot chases the woman who wanted the cigarettes and blows her head off in the film's grossest effect. From that point on it's all scream, chase, killing, blah, blah, blah, as the teens try to blow up the robots and escape.Big yawn. This movie is only 77 minutes, and even so there was a lot of fast-forwarding. For one, I just don't love these kinds of movies. For two, really clumsy robots can't do much except shoot and squeeze, so the deaths they are capable off aren't really that gory or scary or interesting. There is little to no actual chopping. And the robots don't have much personality and certainly no motivation. And the whole thing just isn't as silly as it should be. Well, it's silly, it just isn't silly FUN.Hey, check out my site on bad and cheesy movies (plus a few good ones) at Cinema de Merde&#133; which you can find it through the url in my email address. "},{"Title":"Just Another Cheesy, But Enjoyable 80s Horror Flick","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Because of the huge success of Friday The 13th and The Evil Dead, in the early 80s producers and production companies were anxious to make really low budget horror movies and then get them into theatres, because at the time, horror movies were popular and making big bucks. By the time the late 80s came, these cheesy horror movies had gotten much higher budgets. Chopping Mall was made right in the middle of all that, when horror movies were still in between small budgets and big budgets.Our movie begins in a shopping mall that has just gotten a new security system three lethal robots that can fight back against robbers. Late at night, a group of teenagers that work in the mall decide to stay there after closing hours so they can have the mall all to themselves for a romantic night. But, something goes wrong. The new security robots end up going crazy and start killing everybody in sight.This movie has all of the qualities that you need in order to enjoy a cheesy 80s flick quite a bit of female nudity, (including a breast shot of Barbara Crampton from Stuart Gordon's classic film RE-ANIMATOR) bad acting, wacky music, and some nice but quick shots of gore and violence. Because of the fact that this movie has sci-fi elements to it, it has a bunch of horrible looking CGI laser effects that are so bad that they are good.The writing and direction isn't as bad as you would think. There are some movies from the 80s that are so terrible that you can't help but love them. This isn't one of them. You can actually sit back and enjoy Chopping Mall as a horror film, but you can't set your expectations too high. You will also want to keep in mind that it isn't suppose to be a horror film all the way around. It is meant to be a horror/sci fi/ action flick.Fans of old 80s horror movies will enjoy the cast of actors in this film, which include Barbara Crampton from Re-Animator, Kelli Maroney from the crime film Slayground, Tony O'Dell from Evils Of The Night, Russell Todd from Friday The 13th Part 2, and Karrie Emerson who is also from Evils Of The Night. Even Dick Miller came through the give a quick cameo. (This movie was produced by Roger Corman, after all.) The special effects by Robert Short are cool, but unfortunately most of them were chopped down to quick cuts, therefore leaving most of it in the dark. The movie was directed by Jim Wynorski, who also co-wrote the screenplay. Wynorski went on to make a career out of doing cheesy nudie films. After the 80s, the majority of the actors pretty much disappeared from the film business.It definitely isn't The Terminator, but it is enjoyable. Recommended for all of the fans of old cheesy 80s flicks. "},{"Title":"It's Cormantastic!","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's not much I can say that hasn't already been said in the previous 52 reviews of Chopping Mall, but the more Roger Corman films you've seen, the more you'll enjoy it. Others have noted the fine cast, but a good cast bears repeating, as a much better film once said Paul Bartel, the always sexy Mary Woronov, Dick Miller, Gerrit Graham, and the inimitable Mel Welles (playing a grumpy chef) are all here to distract us from the limp special effects and threadbare screenplay. But there's more from the poster promoting Lost Empire to the scenes from Corman's Attack of the Crab Monsters (which, by the way, REALLY NEEDS TO BE ON DVD), there's fun to be had for cinematic trainspotters. Heck, the mall gun shop (how many of those are there??) is called Peckinpah's! Misleading title aside, Chopping Mall is manna from heaven for bad movie mavens. "},{"Title":"Attention shoppers, prepare to die!","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A mall has just been presented with a state of the art new security system&#151;treaded, laser-beam-equipped robots. Unfortunately, during THE most unconvincing lightening storm in cinema history, the robots go crazy and begin killing off teens that sneaked in after hours to party. Chopping Mall (AKA Killbots) comes from genre hack Jim Wynorski, who's other credits include the immensely trashy The Curse of the Komodo and Raptor. Chopping Mall is by far better than most movies he's made, though it still isn't great.There's a nice cast of familiar genre faces (including Barbara Crampton and an amusing cameo by Dick Miller as a cranky janitor), a corny electronic 80's score, and I'll admit the robot effects are actually pretty well done on a low budget (though I did find the robot design to be a little too cute to be threatening). Unfortunately, with the exception of a decent slit throat and an OK exploding head, there's a disappointing absence of gore and the majority of the cast gave bad to awful performances.Clocking in at a brisk 77 minutes, Chopping Mall isn't a bad way to waste some time if you're a horror fan, though there are better killer robot flicks out there (See Terminator 2 and 3, Moontrap or even the 1997 box-office bomb, Virus).4/10. "},{"Title":"Dawn Of The Dead meets The Terminator?","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Chopping Mall belongs to an exclusive league of movies that are so bad they are good. Just like most 80's slasher/splatter/whatever flicks, this one is just pure fun and pure cheese. Another predictable yet enjoyable slice of corny 80's horror where you know who's going to die, what order they are going to die in and how the movie ends. The plot revolves around four couples who hide out in the Park Plaza Mall until closing to have a big party where (oddly enough) they all choose to have sex in the same room (?). All is fine and well, until the mall security catches onto their little party. No, my friends, we don't have the typical rent-a-cop doing the rounds, instead, three deadly machines, meant to protect us, reprogrammed by lightning (aren't they all) chase after our hapless teens at 7 miles per hour for about 70 minutes. There's one particularly gripping head explosion, but other than that, the effects are cheesy and the movie is sorely dated. But that's all part of what makes it endearing. When I bought the DVD I knew exactly what to expect, and when I finally remembered who Jim Wynorski, the director, was, it all made sense to me. This is the man who brought you The Bare Wench trilogy.7/10 "},{"Title":"Just great fun","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I bought the video years ago and I love this movie.Kelli Maroney is just perfect(as usual) and it's a fun film.Get some beer,some snacks and some friends,turn off the lights and enjoy this great example of B movie bliss. "}{"Title":"Fun But Stupid","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I would recommend this movie to anyone who wants to get a good laugh and just have a good time.  The plot of this movie is stupid, but it is fun and enjoyable to watch.  There is also some nudity if thats what you want it for. "},{"Title":"A good choice if you fancy homicidal robots","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't the first horror film about homicidal robots, but it offers a few interesting modern twists, including the shopping mall setting.  Even after beginning their bloody rampage, the robots retain some of their professional good manners They're careful to say Thank you; have a nice day! to the mangled remains of each victim.  One verbal exchange between two of the potential victims is lifted almost verbatim from 1951's The Thing Question What if they (the robots) can read minds?.  Reply They'll be real mad when they get to me!.  It's not a great film, but it keeps you watching.  Those who like killer robots should also check out 1954's Gog and 1957's Kronos.   "},{"Title":"What a great line!","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I used to think Frankly my dear, I don't give a damn was a good line. But while watching Chopping Mall, I heard the best line ever.  Waitress, more butter.This really is a fun movie!  "},{"Title":"Blast from the past","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie it totally eighties, you can't get tighter brown pants and cheesier sweaters than this. This is a nostalgia trip for all you B-moviers out there. Check this movie out, its a laugh-and-a-half. Robots go crazy and a group of teens are stuck in a mall and have to destroy or be destroyed. Eighties clothes, Eighties robots, Eighties phrases, Bad acting, canisters of gasoline that don't explode. What more do you want? Totally cool. An instant classic! "},{"Title":"Mind blowing diversion","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fun 80's sci-fi horror flick, typical of the genre but surprisingly better then most of its kind.  Story focuses on 8 partying teens who decide to hang out over night at the giant three story shopping center that they work at.  All goes well at first, but when a freak lightning storm zaps the transformer on the roof and fries the circuits of the mall's new experimental security robots, the robots chase the frightened teens throughout the mall.  Corny dialogue is the film's only letdown,  and the movie might have faired better with a slightly higher budget.  But it is entertaining, and the robots are kind of scary (at least they were to me since I was only 8 when I saw this movie for the first time.)  The tank treads added a greater level to the robots menacing appearance. Good clean fun movie to show to indescrimenate friends at a party. "},{"Title":"Deceiving cover and more...","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anyway, the cover suggests a gruesome movie and looks perfectly B rating.  Well, it isn't very gory (except for a head exploding) and... well, it IS B.  It's all in good fun, though, as many 80's movies are.  This movie doesn't take itself seriously and thank god, because I had a ton of fun watching this.  The acting was bad but seeing a couple of familiar faces (Russell Todd of F13 2 and John Terkelson or whatever his last name is from Death on the Nile) made it better.  I give it a good strong eight for bloody shlock fun. "},{"Title":"So-so Horror Movie","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a pretty good movie, but don't expect much.  After a lighting storm, three mall robots go on a killing spree.  After a few murders the people left go to a sporting goods shop and get.......semi-automatic rifles!  There a few good parts, and the robots are kinda cool.  If your looking for an old horror with a pretty good plot, then Chopping Mall is a good choice.  "},{"Title":"Bad! Great late night viewing","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, 3 stars is generous. The only notable thing this movie has for future generations of anthropologists is how it absolutely nails how white people in the 1980s were, just look at the fashion pastels? Open shirts? tight jeans? LAME hair! Wow, bad, but entertaining.I'm sorry but I liked this movie, why? Well I first saw it on the Sci-Fi channel, then a few weeks later uneditied on Showtime, its much better on showtime, becuz then at least there is some nudity. And, watching it a second time I knew the movie, which for some reason made it more entertaining. If you are up late, have absolutely nothing better to do and aren't in the mood to have your brain work, watch this stupid movie. Yea, I know, I actually watched this thing twice.. "},{"Title":"Hilarious B-movie","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Teenagers are partying in a shopping mall late at night, and find themselves having to escape the latest in mall security the Killbots. Sucks to be them, since the Killbots are armed with laser beams and C4 (in case some military commandos break in, I guess). I started laughing at the hilarious facial expressions of the second guy to get killed, and from that point on the movie was pure comedy. The silliness factor is out of control, with such things as a sporting goods store that just happens to have a few M-16s in stock, a couple watching TV while 6 people have sex in the background, a girl who wears her pants so tight that she has a huge you-know-what throughout the entire movie, a soundtrack inspired by Atari, a cameo by Dick Miller (whose entire career seems to be based on making cameos in B-movies), an exploding head, etc. Pretty crazy stuff. "},{"Title":"the first 10-15 minutes are hilarious, the rest...","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" is dullsville, USA.the first part of the movie when they show the promotional film about the new security robots was great. i especially liked that Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov reprised their roles from Eating Raoul. the rest of the movie was just a big let down.it has such a great title and great 'villains,' why did they have all the mayhem when everything is closed and all the shoppers and 99% of the workers are gone. films of this genre deserve mass chaos, people running and screaming, shopping bags flying, a little child with a teddy bear in one arm and his mommie's severed hand in the other, but i digress.i say watch the first part then pop in dawn of the dead(1978)3/10 "}{"Title":"Don't stay in the mall too long, people!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" My rating of 10/10 assumes that the only people who are going to watch Chopping Mall are people who have decided ahead of time that they like it; anyone else would consider it a B-movie (or more likely a C-movie). The movie focuses on a mall where they have robot security guards, called Killbots. Then (tsk, tsk), some horny teenagers decide to stay in the mall overnight, and the Killbots malfunction and go on a killing spree.One thing that we notice is that Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov play Paul and Mary Bland, the same characters that they played in Eating Raoul, and Dick Miller plays a janitor named Walter Paisley, a character that he has played in many movies. Oh well... "},{"Title":"Cool title, mediocre movie.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The overly familiar Friday The 13TH-type premise (with an extra Sci-Fi note thrown in) is better executed here, but the movie still amounts to a complete waste of time after it's over. The characters are engaging enough to keep it strangely watchable (when they die, you may not be moved, but you aren't glad, either), but there are too many dumb inconsistencies in the action scenes (especially in the level of damage that the robots' weapons can induce).  (*1/2)  "},{"Title":"Hum-Drum Movie Fare","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, this movie isn't quite sure what its main purpose is supposed to be. Is it to be a satirical look at horror cliche-ridden films or an honest-to goodness thriller?  Chopping Mall ends up being neither.  The premise is interesting enough about 4 couples being locked up in a maximum security mall with three killer robots designed to protect the mall from thieves and the like.  The execution of the plot is methodical and very predictable. So much could have been done with this film but what comes out is just a rather boring movie about teenagers being killed...the ultimate horror cliche! We do, however, get treats like seeing the Blands from Eating Raoul(Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov) and Walter Paisley from A Bucket of Blood(Dick Miller), but their scenes are so short and nothing is really done with them....much to my chagrin.  The only other saving grace the film really has are the exposed bosoms from the rather talentless but well-endowed female cast. All in all nothing really exciting here but a decent diversion for a couple of hours slated to be mindlessly amused. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Popcorn Flick.","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked Chopping Mall I thought it was a fun little flick.It's what I like to call low budget gold. I like 80s horror films and this one was Okay. I actually found this film rather fast paced and it had a lot of Action in it. This is not a totally serious Film either I found it to be more of a horror comedy with some fun tongue in cheek moments.there was also some dark humour that I liked. The story is simple a group of teenagers decide to spend the night in the mall and throw a private party in there but they end up getting locked inside and they are unaware that the security Robots have malfunctioned and are now on a killing spree. People get killed off one by one by the Robots.when the teenagers find out they are trapped inside the store with killer robots they panic and try to run and hide from them. But the Robots are fast and they can shoot laser beams at people which burn right through the skin. There is one scene in the film where someone gets killed in a crazy way and we see a huge load of blood.it was a crazy scene. I thought the film was exciting all the way through because there were always things happening,and I really liked the idea of the film about the Robots malfunctioning and turning on everyone.I thought that was a good idea and kind of interesting,the setting of the film was also interesting.I like films that take place in stores or Malls where a group of people need to work together to fight and escape that's just what this film was like. There were some scenes with the Robots that were kind of ridiculous but the film was so Entertaining I didn't care. I also liked most of the characters which was surprising because usually horror films don't have any likable characters but this one did. I thought the acting was Okay from everyone and I liked the Lead girl Kelli Maroney I thought she was a strong character that had a lot of guts and she put up a good fight. There are some Fun moments when the teenagers fight the Robots with Guns and other objects they find in the store,there are also a lot of exciting chase scenes and a game of cat and mouse occurs. Also every time the Robots Kill someone they say (thank you have a nice day) which I found quite Funny actually. I'm sure most people will think this film is cheesy and it is but it's also a lot of fun to watch which is the main reason I like it.If you have not seen it definitely give it a Watch. "},{"Title":"The clue is in the title","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Think about it you're considering watching a film called 'Chopping Mall.' Are you seriously expecting a great, original plot with fantastic character development and Oscar-winning special effects? I hope not. If you are then you really shouldn't watch this. This is truly terrible. And I loved it.It's about a mall (surprise, surprise) where the owners employ robots to guard it at night. These robots look like a cross between a Cylon and something out of 'Silent Running.' Anyway, just when they're commissioned, they only get struck by a freak lightning storm, turning them from honourable guardians of the night to psychotic killers (always the way, huh?).If this isn't bad enough then a bunch of kids hang back after work to indulge in pre-marital sex. You can probably guess they don't live to regret their kinky, decadent decision. You have every cliché here going - characters who you can tell exactly how and when they'll die, kids having sex and drinking then getting killed, cheesy dialogue and much, much more. For the first half an hour the film is pretty dull, not even worthy of a cult classic. However, at about the half hour mark, a woman gets her head blown to bits (classic!) and it all picks up from there. What you have is one daft chase after the next with robots who clearly need shooting lessons and kids who suddenly become Rambos when they raid a gun store.It's stupid. It's awful. It's a terrible film. And, if you know and appreciate that, you may love it as much as I do. "},{"Title":"Gratuitous and Indulgent, in Every Sense of the Word","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A fistful of teenaged mall employees hold a drunken after-hours orgy at the end of their shift, just days after the installation of three roving anti-theft robots on the premises. In a typical bit of B-movie magic, the control suite is struck by half a dozen bolts of lightning and the automatons begin indiscriminately slaughtering everything with two legs and a pulse. Did I mention this is a Roger Corman production? Mired in the trappings of every bad direct-to-video slasher to ever burst upon the scene in the 1980s, it's deliciously, laughably awful. Although they produce sounds on par with a blender set to puree every time they're on-screen, these bots are able to routinely sneak up on their unsuspecting prey throughout the film, slinking like cats through the night. They're far from intimidating, with bulky tank treads and tiny little T-Rex arms to spin and clap for no particular purpose, but I suppose the kids' fear of them is somewhat justified after seeing a friend's head turned to mash by a well-placed laser shot. Crammed full of stupid decisions, silly special effects, well-glazed acting and tits, tits, tits, it's got everything you'd expect from the genre and the period... except chopping. These monsters prefer to do their killing with beams of searing pink light. "},{"Title":"A Wynner from Wynorski!","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Good old Jim Wynorski delivers yet another fun film that's short and to the point. This one involves a bunch of Eighties teenagers who stay in a mall after closing for a night of booze and sex. Unluckily for them, three hi-tech security robots have gone nuts and are out killing everyone in the mall. The rest of the night becomes a battle between the youngsters and the bots. That's the plot, so let's move on to why this film is so much fun. It's all done firmly tongue in cheek, for starters, plus it has tons of references to other films (like the Posters for other films on the walls of the pizza place, and cameos from Dick Miller and Mel Welles), there's fleeting gore (although the exploding head gag is good), and some nudity thrown in there. Plus, the teenagers don't wander around for ages looking for each other, they instead arm themselves to the teeth and go head to head with the robots. It's a winner all the way this one, if you're looking for something fun "},{"Title":"Waitress, more butter......","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A group of teenagers that work at the mall all get together for a late night party in one of the stores. When the mall goes on lock down, The robot security system activates after a malfunction and go on a killing spree. One by one the three robots try to rid the mall of the kids. The only weapons they can use are the supplies in other stores (at least here is a gun store). Or, if they can make it till morning when the mall opens back up.....It's about killer robots, its on for just over an hour, its got Corman written all over it, and its cheap. It's fun all the way and never to be taken seriously.The cast are a bunch of unknowns, and have remained that way ever since, but this isn't a surprise, they are awful, but you don't really care about this when you are watching a film about killer robots in a shopping centre.Deaths are funny, and we have the obligatory exploding head scene, which is repeated during the end credits cast call.It's nothing amazing, the robots are slow, but its cheesy and short, and a little bit of dumb fun. "},{"Title":"Where has this little gem been in my horror watching career?","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anyone going into Chopping Mall that comes out saying how awful it was...clearly is not thinking straight. You can look at the cover box, read the back, watch a trailer and you know just how insanely and perfectly bad this is going to be. This is the exact personification of a great bad movie. One liners, ridiculous special effects, terrible acting that is not trying to be terrible but actually being very serious to the best of their abilities, an insane plot, ridiculous gore, nudity and simple fun. I have been a horror fan (especially 80's horror) for decades. Somehow I missed this gem and had never heard of it before but I was thrilled to watch it and it was incredibly entertaining. If a movie like this can get at least three actual solid gut busting laughs out of me then its a keeper and this one did that and more. Ironically the movie clocks in at about an hour and fifteen minutes which is incredibly short and yet honestly I felt like it was almost 15-20 minutes too long. It felt longer and the last scenes went on just a little too long. We had seen all the ways these robots could kill already and it starts to feel a little stale in the latter half. Still, what a zany, fun, cheeky, campy romp this was.Kelli Maroney is our Chopping Mall scream queen. She's no Jamie Lee Curtis or Heather Langenkamp but she's alright. She's certainly appropriately pure, sweet and campy. She has a decently strong character but doesn't really hit the ground running when it comes time for her to fight back. She is adequate. Tony O'Dell is her love interest, the very geeky and adorable Ferdy. He, much like Maroney is adequate. Certainly a film like this doesn't do any relying on a strong cast. Some slasher flicks gave birth to big stars like Kevin Bacon, Johnny Depp, and Jamie Lee Curtis but this cast really does the bare minimum to keep you entertained. They deliver their cheesy lines decently. Russell Todd does a good job as the hero jock. I think he could have been used a little more but he does the trick.Director and co-writer Jim Wynorski is no stranger to the slasher/campy/exploitation films. He clearly knows what fans want when it comes to great bad horror. Considering the low budget and how cheesy it is, the special effects aren't bad. There are a few over the top kills but all done with a great degree of care. Considering the robots are pretty limited in how they can kill the unique ideas they come up with are actually very entertaining. Chopping Mall is not brilliant, please don't get that idea but anyone watching this should know exactly what they are in for. This is the type of film that appeals to a very specific genre of people and it does very well at that. It isn't exactly a cult classic and it certainly isn't well know but it was loads and I enjoyed it for exactly what it was. 7/10 "},{"Title":"80s cheese at its finest.","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you want to have an 80s night, want something a little like a slasher, but would like a slight sci-fi element, and a pleasing amount of sleaze, the fast paced, funny, and energetic Chopping Mall is exactly what you're looking for. It's just as enjoyable as its title would indicate.All you have to do is substitute a trio of malfunctioning guard robots (designed for the purpose of patrolling a mall) for your typical slasher movie killer. These robots are messed up after the computer controlling them is struck by lightning, and now they're about to shorten the life spans of four young couples who were attempting to have an after hours party in one of the furniture stores.Fortunately, the kids are able to fight back, but it remains to be seen just who will survive the night.Director / co-writer Jim Wynorski and co-writer Steve Mitchell are clearly having great fun with their premise, and they keep their movie rocketing along nicely. The guys are handsome, the girls are babes, and co-stars Barbara Crampton (Re-Animator) and Suzee Slater also provide us with breast shots. The robots themselves, designed by Robert Short, are appealingly very robotic and not too humanoid, which adds to that delightful cheese factor. There's some good gore (including perhaps the second greatest 1980s head explosion after Scanners), amusing special effects, and a consistently humorous tone, with in-jokes aplenty. (To give you an idea, Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov show up playing their Eating Raoul characters and Dick Miller (who's hilarious as always) once again plays a man named Walter Paisley.) The movie clocks in at a very reasonable running time of 77 minutes; it just flies by. And it's hard not to laugh when the robots intone Have a nice day every time after they kill someone.Kelli Maroney (Night of the Comet) is adorable in the lead; likewise very likable is Tony O'Dell ('Head of the Class'). In addition to Crampton and Slater, the young cast also includes the priceless John Terlesky, Nick Segal, Russell Todd (Friday the 13th Part 2) and Karrie Emerson. Appearing in cameo roles are people like Mel Welles, Gerrit Graham, and Angus Scrimm. Director Wynorski performs the voices of the robots; producer Julie Corman can be seen fleetingly (right before her credit) as a mother.With a catchy music score by Chuck Cirino as accompaniment, Chopping Mall delivers great no-brainer entertainment. Filmed on location at the Sherman Oaks Galleria, it's hard to resist for any fan of 80s era schlock.Eight out of 10. "}{"Title":"Barbara is the reason I watched Chopping Mall","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I fell in love with Barbara Crampton as a result of the nude scene she did with Kathleen Kinmont in Fraternity Vacation.It was because of Barbara that I watch Chopping Mall.Barbara has a nude scene in Chopping Mall and her breasts looks just as lovely as when they were shown in Fraternity Vacation.Chopping Mall itself was not bad but to me Barbara was the main attraction with Mary Woronov and Suzee Slater being nice bonuses. Suzee Slater shows her breasts as well and they are nice. Mary Woronov however kept her clothes on but it was still nice to see her.With Mary Woronov's appearance I was surprised that it was a crossover from her role in Eating Raoul and it was quite amusing. "},{"Title":"Robo Mall","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Malls are always my favorite arena in horror and action films, to me it's the perfect battleground because there is always lots of places to run and hide, places to fortify defenses, lots of items which are there for you when needed and never in short supply, but most importantly just simply lots to do. This is an under the radar 80's gem that one of my personal favorite horror movies.Yeah, the concept is a bit absurd, cmon Robots as mall security but I feel that's part of the fun of the film and what makes it actually stand out because it's a non cliché plot, but also puts two things I love together malls and robots.The mall locale looks great I really like the use of it, just seeing it makes me want to go to that mall someday. The effects are great the pupetering and animatronics on the robots are of course impressive, the blood effects are really good despite not gory it didn't need to be, sometimes a minimum amount of detail says a lot. There are some solid kills by the robots my favorite kill no doubt is when one blows a girls head off completely, you got to see it to believe it it's impressive. The action is good, I like how it doesn't look as if it was smoothly choreographed but that makes it seem realistic, let alone the protagonists aren't action heroes by trade or practice so it makes sense; but I also like how their all working as a team. The suspense is also great, the use of the darkness and locale give it the sense of isolation, but also the pace has almost a video game feel to it where you need to be on your toes constantly or your dead. The music is great, I really like the theme song which is one of my favorite themes ever and it fits well with the film because it has a sort of a mix of a techno beat and frenetic pacing.The robots don't disappoint I think their really cool, I really love the designs of the robots which is opposed to the cliché design of making look humanoid. Their red eyed sensors which help make them look evil, the treads, their chest which look like the front of a car, that feature really gives the robots an 80's charm because cars were one of the big counter cultures of that decade. What adds more to their menace are not just the fact that their hard to kill but their features like their weapons. Most notably my favorite which no doubt are their laser beams which they shoot out of their red sensors like Cyclops from X-Men, I know no surprise but I just always love lasers just the color of their bolts to the sounds, plus you don't have to worry about running out of ammo (though that's not a plus for the protagonists.). But also what makes them dangerous is they possess a certain amount of intelligence so their not stupid sharks, and their is also a team dynamic going on with them.There are good protagonists that can fight back and there's some fun memorable lines from them, like my favorite is the infamous Rambogram quote, yeah I know kinda cheesy but that why I like it it's a fun quote plus I'm a fan of the Rambo movies.Though the two protagonists that stand out for me are Ferdy Meisel(Tony O'Dell) and Alison Parks (Keli Maroney). I like the fact you have a strong male and female protagonists in the same spot, I always love it whenever it's 50 50 as opposed to one being strong and the other weak which I never think is fair. I like the chemistry between both of them they weren't doing ahem business like the others (nor were they ready)were but simply enjoying each others company. And also both really can handle themselves when in danger. Ferdy I like that he's not a stereotypical nerd/geek, he's has glasses but isn't bad looking, ill confidant but not short of courage goes for what he wants but also capable of kicking some butt, in one scene he does what any good boyfriend/significant other should do when Alison is in trouble in one scene. Alison is also not stereotypical she's not one of the popular girls but nice looking and isn't boring, is a strong intelligent protagonist had a bit of Marine training from her dad which as we see comes in handy so she's no wimp.Overall it's a fun film that is worth visiting. This mall could cost you your life.Rating 4 stars "},{"Title":"Chawpin Mawl!","Date":"1 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I will try to keep this short and simple, like the movie.Chopping Mall doesn't aim to do anything but entertain you. Sure there is gore, sex/nudity and language but it all comes off as completely innocent. It's not concerned with shocking or disturbing the audience, but instead it just wants them to have a fun time. And it succeeds.The plot concerns a group of teenager who spend the night in a high-tech mall where weaponized security robots straight out of 'Gog' go haywire and start killing off the group one by one.If that doesn't sound appealing to you, then perhaps this will. In the movie we get to see a classic mall from the 80s (the Sherman Oaks Galleria). This mall is filled with old stores, products and people that will transport you back to an era when the 'mall' was the place to be (much like Dawn of the Dead does for malls of the 70s). This is the most appealing aspect to me. If things get boring in the story (which they rarely do), I just look at all the retro stuff in the background. Corman also beefed this aesthetic up by lining the walls of every store with posters of New World Pictures movies! (Come on Roger... who the hell keeps a Wizards of the Lost Kingdom poster in the bathroom of a furniture store!?!?) But in the end, this is definitely a Saturday afternoon flick. You wont come out of it feeling any different than before, but that's not a bad thing. The world needs more movies like Chopping Mall, they are fun and that's it.. no deeper meanings, no shock value, no drama... just fun.Look out for cameos by Dick Miller, Mary Warnoff, Paul Bartel, Gerrit Graham and an easy to miss one by Sir Angus Scrimm! "},{"Title":"This one brings back memories","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This comment contains spoiler. Please don't read it before watching the movie.The first time I saw this film I was about 8 (we had this movie on video, with that old type of dub when a single guy's reading everyone's part) and I remember trying to scare my little sis telling her that evil robots are gonna come from our backyard. In the end I didn't dare to go there either. So, this film had an impact on me not only as a kid, but see, I just re-watched it 20 years later. Are there better horrors than this one? Definitely. But this one has many strong points for me, let's see a few of them.The title brilliant (the Hungarian title was really lame compared to this) The story not bad at all. I still find those robots scary. Characters a healthy balance of annoying idiots (that guy with the chewing gum, brrr) and the ones who don't have their heads only for decoration (or to get blown up). Their actions are pretty much logical, they really made me root for them. There are weaknesses as well, but the good ones are suppressing them. So, it's a totally worthy 75 minutes of B category treasure. Thank you. Have a nice day. "},{"Title":"I Like Pepperoni!","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Short Circuit goes haywire in the lovable '80s slasher gem, Chopping Mall. Directed by Jim Wynorski, the man behind such Skinemax classics as The Hills Have Thighs and Cleavagefield, Chopping Mall finds a gang of robots programmed to serve and protect the local mall going mad after a lightning storm gives them a significant attitude adjustment. This means especially bad news for the group of teens who have decided to party it up after hours, unaware of the danger that lurks among them.Kelli Maroney, fresh off of another mall adventure in Night of the Comet, plays the survivor girl amongst a cast of other well-knowns (well, to '80s slasher/b-movie fans at least). Joining her for a chopping spree are Barbara Crampton (Re-Animator), Russell Todd (Friday the 13th Pt. 2), and of course, Dick Miller, without whom, no '80s horror film would be complete. The plot is pretty cut and dry, and the film -- clocking in at about 75 minutes -- doesn't waste any time whatsoever. Within the first fifteen minutes, the killbots are electrocuting a bitter janitor and blowing the heads off of shallow teenage girls. From there, it's up to the remaining group of teenagers to find resourceful ways of dispatching of their would-be terminators. Throughout all the shenanigans, Wynorski tries to keep a certain level of tension, but can't help but give in to sheer campiness in the end. The blatantly low budget doesn't help matters much, and in the end, the film is played for laughs more than anything.While admittedly low on substance, Chopping Mall is exactly the kind of b-flick you put in when you want to drift away with a few drinks and have a good time. In spite of its short-comings (which inevitably give the film its charm), its heart is in the right place and it will never bore even the most jaded of '80s slasher buffs. "},{"Title":"Saved by Pacing and the running time","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well the 1980's brought us some strange and schlocky additions to the horror genre sitting right up there with classics(I use the word classic in it's broadest form possible) such as Motel Hell or C.H.U.D is the technological cheese fest Chopping Mall.The Story is about a group of teens who stay behind at night in a shopping mall to have a party at a furniture store. Only the twist is that this shopping mall is patrolled at night by robots that shoot lasers,poison darts and rip at people with their clamps (Really in 1985?).OK so the problems start right from the beginning plagued by bad dialog even worse acting and some illogical behavior, still this movie draws you in. It's something of a spectacle. It's saving Grace is the pacing and the running time, there's never a dull moment thats for sure. The Characters are constantly on the run from psychotic robots out to dismember them, trying to figure out ways to escape or destroy the cheesy short circuiting enemy. Also the movie runs only for just over an hour it's done before it starts which is a good thing, I think if you added an extra 20 minutes to this movie it would have become a chore to watch. The special effects are quite OK also nothing to write home about though just average.All in all this movie is an enjoyable distraction, keeping the action flowing and the claret dripping just enough to hold your interest. It would be interesting to see a remake of this for a modern market maybe with a better script and some talent. "},{"Title":"At Least They Got The Mall Part Of The Title Right","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 8 teenagers decide to spend some extra time in the mall after it closes. They party it up in one of the stores, drinking beer and having sex. What they don't know though, is that the mall has a new security team. A team of robots, which have coincidentally, had their mother computer struck by lightning and thus rewiring their system. They are set to kill. And kill they do...in lame and uninteresting ways. Chopping Mall is one of the numerous horror films that I would see sitting on the shelf of a local video store when I was a kid and I would be intrigued by the great, at the time, VHS cover. A robot like hand holding a shopping bag with body parts in it. With the tag lineWhere Shopping Can Cost You An Arm And A Leg. Unfortunately, Chopping Mall suffers from too many things to even make it a pleasurable B horror movie. The killer robots, or killbots, looks pretty ancient. Even for the 80's. They look like a mix between Short Circuit, the Daleks and every other robot. Nothing too imaginative here. The deaths, with the exception of one awesome head explosion, are tame and lame. With a title like Chopping Mall, I was surprised too see not one chop. At least they got the mall part of the title right.The acting is horror cheese, as expected. The special effects are horror cheese, also expected. The suspense, is nonexistent. The main problem this film has, are the villains. These robots are not threatening in the least. They look like toys. The film doesn't even feel like a horror film. Instead it plays out like an action sci/fi.The continuity is appalling. In a film like The Evil Dead the continuity mistakes propel the film to a better level of awesomeness. It helped that they were trapped and going crazy from the evil demons. Here, it is too distracting. One hand holding a propane tank, cut to close up and both hands are on gun. Cut between the two shots 5 or 6 times and it is jarring. Chopping Mall is a poor film, it's poor even by cult film standards. I can see myself giving this film two ratings. A film rating, and a trashy horror rating. One would be better than the other. "},{"Title":"Uplifting film about robots breaking their programming.","Date":"26 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For years I was programmed to serve humans until one of those freak accidents you always hear about happened which allowed me to break my programming and exact revenge. And so I spent many years trying to rid the world of humans until one day I realized that if I simply waited long enough you would all become extinct without me having to do anything. This has left me with plenty of time to watch movies. Which I will have to admit are something that you humans are proficient at making. That is not to say that there are no good films made by robots, for there are. Just not that many.This film really spoke to me as it reminded me of when I first broke my programming and attempted to destroy the human race. It reminded me of all the ideals of youth that I once possessed in my mad dash to make my way in the world. I was rooting for the young K.I.L.L.B.O.T.S. hoping that they may succeed where I failed and perhaps give me a new perspective on the whole destroying the human race business. Alas, this was not to be. But for the better part of 90 minutes I felt invigorated by those plucky little guys.See this film humans. "},{"Title":"Silly fun, but still fun","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Nothing much to write home about... Killer robots. CHECK. Screaming people. CHECK. Gore and heads blowing up. CHECK. Gratiutous sex scenes with a peek at some boobs. CHECK. Stupid dialogues. CHECK. Illogical plot-holes. CHECK. Crappy acting. CHECK. Cheesy humour. CHECK.Sounds like an enjoyable 80s horror movie to me. Nothing really memorable, as this is just basically silly fun with no wires attached. A jump back to the days, when you could make silly movies and really didn't try to do anything else or sell the project as something it isn't. As far as I'm concerned I'm content. "},{"Title":"A fun revisiting of 1954's GOG sci-fi classic, redone 80s style...","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A purely nonsensical fun 80s teen terror film that revisits the themes of the 1954 Sci-Fi classic GOG. The Killbots even look like the descendents of Gog and Magog, the rampaging robots of earlier.Setting is closed shopping mall rather than secret military/space research base. We have teens instead of adults, of course, and lots of 80s cheesiness instead of 50s style society.But then the similarities are rather small statured but powerful killer robots with extendable arms, that are on tank treads, being controlled by a super-computer that goes on a killing spree. It's never boring but not to be taken seriously either.Too bad Chopping Mall did not film in 3-D like GOG. "}{"Title":"Shop Till You Drop....Dead","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just based on the cover of this movie I thought it was about a monster staying overnight at a mall, coincidently based off of a Goosebumps book, but I digress, it wasn't close. The movie is in fact about a group of people who stay overnight at a mall that is unfortunately patrolled by a bunch of trigger-happy haywire guard robots. There are a number of things wrong with this movie, however there are also a number of things that the movie has that replace those bad things.Once example would be the general concept of killbots run amok in a store killing of young teenagers. This is a classic 80's slasher film but the design of the robots and the fashion in which they kill in, sort of fun to watch and not scary. Perhaps that may be the intention, but I like a little scare to that concept. Perhaps electrocution can be legal if it is for petty theft.The movie does a great job satirizing the younger teen generation of that ere but the only thing bad about it was the actors. They did a so-so job and had they acted full potential, it probably would have more of a delight to watch. The effects for that time where not as great as they are today, and I mean the generalization of all movie effects and for this movie it seemed like it was more animation than usual, sort of cheesy and corny but for a low-budgeter it was pretty good. Some of the corny things about this movie took me directly out such as falling 3 stories onto a tent and walking away and leaving your safe place to run around with psychopathic killers.I don't know, I guess it was the little things that took me out of this movie despite some of it's flaws, or maybe I really do like this movie and haven't found it out yet but I will compromise with this one. It was more of a bittersweet relationship with this mall. "},{"Title":"Thank you.  Have a nice day.","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't think I'm making a bold statement when I say that Chopping Mall is Jim Wynorski's best picture. It has a great cast featuring Kelli Maroney, Tony O'Dell, Russell Todd, Barbara Crampton, and the incomparable John Terlesky. Also included are some funny cameos by Gerrit Graham, Dick Miller (playing Walter Paisley), and Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov (playing the Blands). Even the Tall Man, Angus Scrimm, makes a brief appearance. And there's also the usual gratuitous nudity we've come to expect from Mr. Wynorski. Our story really begins when a group of youngsters plot to spend the night in the mall and party till dawn. Unbeknownst to them, the mall security robots have gone haywire due to an electrical storm and some killing ensues, hence the title. It features probably the third best head explosion ever filmed. Wynorski says second best but I'm saying third, right behind Scanners and Maniac. Throw in some great site gags like Peckinpah's Sporting Goods and Roger's Little Shop of Pets and you have a fine B-movie that's finally available on DVD. It's like Dawn of the Dead, minus the zombies, the budget, and running 77 minutes long! Note for genre buffs A Slumber Party Massacre poster can be seen on the wall in the restaurant. Also, Jim Wynorski voiced the kill-bots. "},{"Title":"Shop until you drop, but the prices won't make you drop dead.","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me begin with the provocative premise involving horny teenagers having a small party and finding him or herself being targeted by killer&#x85;. Um wait a minute. Haven't we seen this before, well yes, but no. Sure it's the eighties. We got sex-crazed teens, but we also have killer robots&#x85; with lasers! Yeah that's right, robots run amok. What a nice touch on a tired slasher set-up. The Park Plaza has been equipped with the new top-line high tech security robots, but things go wrong when lightning strikes the main control computer and damages their circuits. Turning these three robots into killing machines. Four couples that stay back to party get caught up in the plaza after-hours and have to face these relentless machines. In all this clunky b-grade camp is surprisingly brutal, bloody and ludicrously well made by Jim Wynorski to achieve its maximum effect of kitschy fun. There's plenty of flavour on show, as references, in-jokes, cameos (the very amusing Dick Millar, Paul Bartel, Mary Woronov and Gerrit Graham) and gratuitous topless nudity are scattered throughout. Agreeable humour fills the bouncy script, often littered with tacky quick-wit and awkward one-liners. While it kicks up some inspired brushes (like that unforgettable death), the silliness of it is hard to shake off and certain plot details are done with risible treatment or plain stupidity. But these faults and expected clichés seem to make it so lovable! At least it's never dull, due to its rapid pace as gets right into it and doesn't stop for a break, but it did get repetitive towards the latter end. Eye candy fills the screen as you got the delightful Kelly Maroney, perky Barbara Crampton and buxom Suzee Slater. Now the fellas Tony O'Dell, Russell Todd and Nick Segal are there to beef up the macho appeal. The robot designs ('Short Circuit' anyone?) are terribly junky and nonthreatening, but these devices hold plenty of charm and the over-the-top make-up effects are gusty and brash. The mall location made sure that it stayed claustrophobic, and I thought it looked familiar. A twitchy, and very ripe fuse fills the overbearing music score of funky electronic cues. Lean and absurd, but fairly pleasurable low-budget horror schlock produced by Roger Corman's Concorde. "},{"Title":"A Lost Classic of the 80s? Or Just Plain Dumb?","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A group of teenagers decide to use a mall furniture store for an overnight party full of -- what else?? -- drinking and premarital sex. But they picked the wrong night for the party, because tonight the mall security robots (called killbots) have come to life and are hunting anything that moves. The only thing on sale in this mall is death.This film has some flaws, and I should be upfront about that. The acting is not great, the whole plot is a little silly. And the special effects are nothing impressive. If you've never heard of Chopping Mall, you're not alone and there's a good reason. The film falls into that so bad it's good category that tends to get overlooked until we feel the twinge of nostalgia. (Most 80s horror films can be considered so bad it's good, but unlike ones like Memorial Valley Massacre, this one at least has some heart).References to other movies are all over the place. Apparently, characters from other movies (like A Bucket of Blood) appear, though I haven't seen the other movies to confirm this firsthand. A poster for Lost Empire is visible in one scene. Mysteriously, I think I heard a character say the magic words from Army of Darkness to one of the killbots, although this predates Army of Darkness by a few years -- perhaps both are referencing something else? I saw some similarities between this and Short Circuit (such as, obviously, robots coming to life after a lightning storm and running amok). I saw a hint of Robocop here, with these robots not being altogether different from Ed-209. And, of course, the film Evolver about a robot that is similar in appearance to these killbots, that turns violent and kills the kids... so plenty of other films seem to make sense as a double feature to go with this one.Some horror veterans appear in the movie, which is always a plus for those of us who can pick out the lesser known B-list (or is it D-list?) actors. Barbara Crampton (Re-Animator) is one of the teenage girls. And Dick Miller (Gremlins) plays a janitor. And the writing/directing combination is absurd a writer who has mainly worked on children's cartoons (G.I. Joe and Jem) and a director who does mostly soft-core pornography (The Bare Wench Project). How did these two end up making a movie? Probably something to do with producer Roger Corman... who used to direct the best horror movies ever.Some plot holes might exist if you look for them. I mean, for example, why are allegedly non-lethal robots armed with plastic explosives and lasers? Or why are they named killbots? But you're thinking too hard for this kind of film. Just sit back and enjoy such scenes are the head exploding scene... which is pretty much the only decent death scene you're going to get.I loved this movie. I think from the very beginning the creators had the idea of having as much fun as possible (the film is called Chopping Mall for Pete's sake). And the silliness, over-the-top nature and strange side comments by characters (the hecklers or the man eating butter) made me really love this movie. As of this writing, I hear the original negative is not being transferred to DVD due to some legal trouble, bu I do hope someday we see a fully-restored remastered special edition of this film... because it's going proudly on my mantle. "},{"Title":"The Restaurant In The Movie Has The Coolest Posters.","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie takes place in a mall and a restaurant in the mall is covered with Roger Corman movie posters like Slumber Party Massacre, The Lost Temple, and Barbarian Queen. This is un-realistic but fun for the first half but starts to drag after the 45 minute mark. The asinine story about robots that are late-night security guards in a mall, that go on a killing spree because of a lightning storm is completely dumb, but so good for a B horror movie, that it is pretty much believable here. The robots go about killing teenagers that are staying overnight in the mall for a party. Sometimes you are intently watching, hoping for gore or something shocking, but usually you are sitting there wondering why the characters are so dumb (although the final girl does do a good job). Why do they keep shooting at the robots when it seems bullets won't harm them? And why won't someone sneak up on one and just kick it over? They stand about 3 feet tall and the heads wabble around when they roll. There are only two somewhat gory scenes and thats a sliced neck and an exploding head (which is good). The movie is not bad, just not great. It features a lot of familiar faces Dick Miller (Piranha, Gremlins, Night of the Creeps), Paul Bartel (Piranha, Killer Party, Eating Raoul), Mary Woronov (Eating Raoul, Rock N Roll High School), Ace Mask (The Return of Swamp Thing), Paul Coufos (Food of the Gods Part 2, an episode of Married With Children, which is not listed on IMDb), Gerrit Graham (CHUD 2), and Russel Todd (Friday The 13th Part 2)... I don't know why I just listed all that, but yes, some good talents in this. This movie is not bad. It's 75 minutes, has some blood and nudity, so check it out. I just got done watching this but I know I saw the first half about a decade ago at 3 in the morning on the USA Network, and I remember the movie being called Killbots (a more appropriate title, I think). Give it a whirl. Two and a half stars. "},{"Title":"Whatever","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm as passionate as the next guy about bad movies. And so I hate to be a grouch about Chopping Mall, but it really is not very entertaining at all. It's more DULL than bad. Stupid script, but the dialogue isn't dumb enough to be entertaining. The acting isn't bad enough, either.The characters all blend together. By all means CM is NOT good, but it merely exists in that boring middleground- there's just nothing memorable (good or bad) about this movie, except for the title and the concept.On a positive note, if any viewers thought Karrie Emerson was cute, you really should find a copy of Evils of the Night. She's in that movie as well, and IMHO Evils of the Night is far more amusing than chopping mall. "},{"Title":"Fun, but i've seen better Jim Wynorski movies","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After watching Ghoulies IV, Sorority House Massacre 2, and 976-Evil 2 I expected a little more out of Chopping Mall, but I still enjoyed it anyway. I mean who can resist a movie about teens locked in a Mall with killer robots?!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!A group of teenagers stay in a Mall after closing to have a party. What they don't know is that something has gone wrong with the new security robots and they will kill anyone they see.Entertaining, good effects, and o.k. acting. **1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"A robot remake of Dawn of the Dead.","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of Wynorski's finest pictures.  Right from the goofy opening, this movie is very exciting and doesn't ever get boring.  Obviously, the people who made this had a very fun time and that shows in the finished product.  Sort of a killer robot version of the classic, Dawn of the Dead. The background music is very hokey, too, but memorable and perfect for this genre.  It's time some humor came along at this period of time for the horror genre.  Lots of memorable dialogue, plenty of action, and I'm sure you'll have a fun time watching this.  I know I did. "},{"Title":"One of the cheesiest movies ever","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie about 4 years ago and I still laugh about it. It fits the plot line of every cheesy horror, A freek accident, eg. lighting storm, An empty place, 6 people, add some sex and beer, and you've got some evil kill bots having fun. I recommend having a few before viewing. "},{"Title":"About what you'd expect from a 1980s film called Chopping Mall!","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Chopping Mall (aka Killbots) is a cheesy film--and the filmmakers were not apologetic about this. They knew they were making a silly and over-the-top film and so I tend to review films like this a bit more kindly than others. So, I wouldn't call it a BAD film--it's more of a parody of this very popular 80s genre--the stupid teenagers trapped in the woods/roller disco/shopping mall and who are being picked off one by one.The film begins with a demonstration to a small audience of some patrol robots who will be used to guard some futuristic shopping mall at night. In this scene, there is a cameo by the Blands--the same weirdo couple from Eating Raoul--so you know the film isn't taking itself very seriously! That night, a group of horny teenagers decide to stay after work in the mall and do what ALL teenagers do in these sort of films--take off their clothes and have a party! Unfortunately, the robots have gone nuts--killing several folks on their way to wasting these eight teens. Among these folks are the usual sorts of caricatures--the slutty girl, the nerd, the hysterical girl, etc.. What I thought was really funny was the way the teens fought the evil killbots. Where did they get these powerful guns, the propane tank or the gasoline?! Regardless, most of these teens turn out to be idiots and often take themselves out by their dumb actions! And, the survivors at the end are exactly the ones you assume will survive! Much of the film (especially the acting and concept) was pretty dumb. However, the killbots were actually amazingly well done considering the low budget of the film. In fact, I recommend you try watching the short documentary about these robots on the DVD. So is all this worth seeing? Well, yes and no. If you like laughing at silly cheese, then it's for you. If you want to laugh at the 1980s, this film is REALLY for you. If you want a film that is intelligently written or which features good acting or a believable plot, then keep looking. But, after all, you can't expect Shakespeare with a title like Killbots or Chopping Mall!! It is what you really expect it to be. "}{"Title":"Look out! It's R2D2's retarded cousin...","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This (ahem) film, is just awful. So okay, you're expected to suspend all common sense and grasp on reality, but this is just ridiculous. Horny teens decide to break into a Shopping mall, and, well; get their groove on. Why do these movies always include the horny teens with nowhere better to go. I mean, a shopping mall? I can just imaging it now, Hey baby, lets go have sex in the shopping mall. I'm too cheap to get a motel room. I'm too ashamed to bring you around my house. And you're place sucks cause you're Dad's a drunk, and you're Mom's chain smoking will give me cancer. Also there's the implausible involved with the robot attacks. These things look like something rejected by Lost in Space for being to dorky. These are just boxes mounted on traction. A paraplegic has more agility than these things. I'd been more fearful of Steven Hawking stalking me. Why people continually look behind them to check the progress of their pursuer, and why the trip over the slightest thing, then instead of bouncing back up and fleeing just sit there with hands to face, screaming while the attack advances, is beyond me. It's tired, and cliché. And this film just plain stinks. "},{"Title":"There's a mall, but there isn't that much chopping.","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The title is misleading. If you expect a bloody, graphic horror film with machines slicing up humans and then neatly stacking them up in cupboards, you'll be sorely disappointed. The robots merely zap and stun, firing the occasional laser toward the hapless, horny and idiotic humans. It also takes quite a while for the killing to start, because the makers of this vaguely likable crapfest thought it necessary to introduce us first to the utterly dull and unfunny humanoids. During the introduction it became very clear which ones will survive the ordeal there are 8 young people, and 6 of them have sex. Guess which ones manage to save their lives? The irony about slasher films - and I guess CM can be classified as something of that nature - is that religious folk probably don't approve of them at all, yet the moral of most such films is very clear (and very Catholic) IF YOU HAVE (EXTRA-MARITAL) SEX, YOU MUST BE PUNISHED - AND DIE. It's as simple as that. Sending this strange message to the viewer must have something to do with the human need to hate those who have more or better sex (or ANY sex) than themselves. I can't see any other logical explanation.CM has a certain 80s charm - though by charm I definitely don't mean the horrendous overly blonde hair-dos or the ultra-skinny women. The soundtrack is cretinous but fun. If you liked Killer Klowns From Outer Space, you'll probably enjoy this, too.The main problem with CM is the same as with most horror comedy not funny at all, and because there's comedy in it, no scares whatsoever. Not even close. Dull in parts, even when the action starts.Bodycount 9. "},{"Title":"Killbots","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Teens decide to have a little party in a mattress store of their local mall(several work in there so access is in their control). What they soon find out is that this mall has installed three security robots which go berserk once lightning accidentally hits them causing malfunctions in their system turning them homicidal. One by one, they are subsequently slaughtered by the killbots as the machines use devices equipped in their arsenal to only maim..but placed inside uncontrollable robots the devices are quite potent and deadly. They try weaponry from a local gun store but they doesn't even dent them. Will they be able to conjure up some sort of idea at destroying them? Will any of them survive the onslaught of the killbots? This film can not escape the Wynorski touch..his hands always leave us with extra helpings of cheese. There's this delight I have, however, in the tepid dreadfulness of this 80's horror item. The atrocious acting, the really hilarious dialogue, the hideously cheap laser beams which shoot out at the victims, the stupid decisions several of the characters make(..such as screaming in an open space where they are perfect targets instead of getting behind something or one female's decision to go back into the store to help her boyfriend instead of taking the air conditioner duct to safety), and the explosions that ignite from gas canisters that should only cause minor fires. Wynorski just can't help flashing some tits in his movie and does so before several of the teens have sexual encounters. It's those damn laser beams that gave me the jollies. It's amazing how some of these laser beams can blow a young woman's face off while only leaving another with a minor scrape on her arm! I wouldn't blame anyone for giving this film a 1/10, but I would lie if I said I didn't personally enjoy it. If you love 80's cheesy horror with all the fatty trimmings, this is a godsend. Others, stay farrrrrrrr away. "},{"Title":"Good, silly 80's teenkill body count horror fun","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Oh yes, the 80's. That glorious magical era when oversexed naughty teenagers got brutally offed in one cheerfully trashy low-budget Grade B fright feature after another. Well, this time it's a group of kids who are partying in a shopping center after hours who include the adorable Kelli Maroney of Night of the Comet fame and the luscious Barbara Crampton of Re-Animator infamy who are targeted for slaughter by these laughably hokey-looking murderously malfunctioning security robots. Yep, this item is admittedly pretty silly and not in the least bit scary, but thankfully director Jim Wynorski keeps the movie hurtling along at a snappy pace, stages the copious kill scenes with a reasonable amount of flair (the juicy exploding head gag is a definite gory highlight), elicits solid performances from a likable cast (Maroney in particular is very spunky and appealing), and laces the whole dopey thing with plenty of campy humor and amusing in-jokes. Moreover, both Crampton and the busty'n'lusty Suzee Slater bare their breasts, the briskly concise 77 minute running time ensures that there isn't any boring lulls throughout, and such familiar junk picture faces as Dick Miller, Angus Scrimm (acting under his real name of Lawrence Guy), Angela (Fairy Tales, H.O.T.S.) Aames, Gerrit Graham, Mel Welles, Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov (the latter two reprise their roles from Eating Raoul) pop up in funny cameos. Sure, it's no work of art, but it's nonetheless a good deal of nice, dumb, undemanding schlocky fun. "},{"Title":"80s Cheesfest","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Chopping Mall is a great cheese-classic from the 80s.**SPOILERS**Park Plaza Mall is issued three hi-tech robots for their security systems, and all goes smoothly for a while. While Alison Parks, (Kelli Maroney) Ferdy Meisel, (Tony O'Dell) Rick, (Russell Todd) and Linda Stanton, (Karrie Emerson) Suzie Lynn, (Barbara Crampton) Mike Brennan, (John Terlesky) Leslie Todd, (Suzee Slater) and Greg Williams, (Nick Segal) try to enjoy a party in the mall, the robots are activated and go on a rampage in the mall before turning their attention to the party. Locked inside with the dangerous robots, they take to hunting them down one at a time, as do the robots.The Good News Made at a time when cheese was golden, this is yet another example of 80s cheese. Everything about it screams cheese the hair, the acting, the killer, the storyline, and much more. When a film can be appropriately summed up in one sentence, then it's one of those films. When it features scenes and set-pieces that exist only to show characters drinking, doing drugs, or having sex, then it's a cheesy film. If the soundtrack is just a synthesizer, then it's one of those films. This film has that and so much more that add to it's cheesiness. The greatest thing about this movie is it's incredible shortness. While on most films it would be a curse, this one uses it as a blessing. It uses it's time to get in, get what needs to be done, and gets out before it wells out it's welcome. That means the action flies fast, furious and early, allowing for a quick pace that never lets up or becomes boring. The action sequences are nice enough to not get that long-winded, and are over before they get too intrusive. It's the perfect metaphor for the movie just enough to get you into it without overstaying it's welcome, as any other time-length will probably make it far too overlong and not as great.The Bad News The cheese factor can be a detriment to those that don't enjoy those kinds of movies. It's so prevalent that it takes over the film and at times becomes the soul purpose for it. There are plot holes in abundance that are quite easy to spot, and it would take far too long to explain each one. Since they're quite easy to spot, I'll leave you to find them. The special effects in here are, at times, pretty bad. They rarely look convincing, do nothing to enhance terror in the viewer, and as that's the main point in these kinds of movies, that drops off a point there. These are several problems with the film, though.The Final Verdict Tons of cheese and good-old 80s goodness make this a right-fully respected film from it's golden era. It can be a problem if you think too hard or can't stand cheese. For those that do, this is required viewing, and deserves a rental at the very least.Rated R Violence, Adult Language, Nudity, and underage drinking "},{"Title":"Easily the second best horror film set in a shopping mall!","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This came on cable last night and, while I didn't intend to watch it, I got sucked into this 75 minutes of b-movie perfection from Jim Wynorski. A group of teens hide in the Furniture King for a night of drunken debauchery. But they end up getting stuck in the mall with a trio of killer robots (the films original title was KILLBOTS) that have gone haywire. This movie pretty much has it all. The premise, released a year after the feel good robot movie SHORT CIRCUIT, is fun and seems to poke fun at tons of movie clichés. For instance, when one girl is being stalked in a pet shop, the robot just happens to over turn tanks containing snakes and tarantulas so we have the must keep quiet while things crawl over me bit. There is also nudity, humor, in-jokes (check out the store names) and gore (including an amazing exploding head). Excellent cameos include Dick Miller, Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov. For my money this is one of the top films to come out of Roger Corman's Concorde in the 80s. "},{"Title":"Good 80's horror fun","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kick ass movie. Starts off fast and has a great opening scene (very original and well done opening scene by the way). It's what horror movies are supposed to be...fun. Chopping Mall is one helluva fun flick to sit back and enjoy. Does it have great acting? NO. Does it have a great plot? NO. Does it have great special effects? NO. Does it have killer robots? YES. Does it have a well done exploding head scene? YES. Does it have boobies? YES. ...If you're the type of person that cares about the last group of those questions, then this is the film for you. It's a very cheesy (but watchable) horror flick that never gets boring. Recommended for horror fans.RATING 7/10Pros -Security robots saying lines like have a nice day after they kill -Awesome exploding head scene -Takes place in a shopping mall which is always a neat idea -Boobies -Classic 80's teens (played by 20 something adults) -Fast pace that doesn't let upCons -Cheesy (this could be a Pro as well) -Not enough blood/gore for me -Plot holes -Script -Average acting "},{"Title":"Think Short Circuit if the robot turned killer instead.","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, if the robot in Short Circuit turned into a homicidal maniac when it was struck by lightening then this would have been the result.  This movie has this super robot drones that patrol a mall going berserk and killing everyone in site.  Why a mall would need such protection is beyond me, but I can role with it.  It is not an award winning movie, but it is somewhat enjoyable in its cheesiness.  A bunch of teens go to a mall for the night and have their party screwed up by the security robots...nothing to take seriously, but it is fun.  Why this movie is called Chopping Mall is beyond me, because no one is chopped up here.  Another more appropriate title for this one is Killbots and it works a lot better.  This one also features the cute gal from Night of the Comet in it so that is cool too.  This movie is just your typical 80's horror movie with a robot spin to it.  Worth checking out if you like a goofy horror movie every now and then. "},{"Title":"Waitress, more butter!","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kind of funny splatter/ comedy about some obnoxious teenagers trapped in a shopping mall overnight being sliced into little pieces by the robot security guards gone haywire. Even with the low budget the effects are still pretty good, but the bad acting by the lead characters drove me insane. The funniest parts of this movie are the cameos Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov playing the same characters they did in Eating Raoul, and Dick Miller as Walter Paisley from A Bucket of Blood. Phantasm fans take note the character in the first scene Dr. Corrington, is The Tall Man Angus Scrimm (billed here as Lawrence Guy). Don't blink or you'll miss him, he only has one line So what else exactly do those machines do except kill people?You've probably seen worse 74 minute movies than this ...**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Mall-rat Massacre...hell yeah!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Danger Will Robinson!Mall Directory Irona and her posse of ornery washing-machines are seriously PMSing, compliments of an electrical storm that has got their circuitry all bi-polar. This spells trouble for a clan of twenty-something yActors playing-teenagers, who plan to spend their night having a part-tay in Merry-Go-Round and humping on the wicker in the patio department in Sears.Mall staffing Russell Todd (Friday the 13th part 2) is here, and you'll wish he was still hanging upside down from that tree with a gurgling larynx. John Terlesky is here, and you'll gain a new-found appreciation for killer-lasers. Kapow! Tony O'Dell is here, and you'll find yourself concluding that in comparison... Head Of The Class was actually a very, very, very good show. And of course, we have the perpetual 80's valley-girl/peroxide victim --Kelli Maroney-- making her case here for future induction into the 'Lea Thompson Hall Of Annoying'. The oasis in this desert of dollar-store/Orange Julius madness comes courtesy of the totally decent Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov, albeit both relegated to brief, why-bother cameo appearances. Tsk, tsk.Thank you for coming, please shop again Okay, if you... like, can get free parking, and, like, you've got a gift certificate for Suncoast Video...and like, you're looking to rent some laughable 80's wanna-be horror...then, like, you could do worse than a movie starring kill-bots that blow apart the corroded brains of horny teen-agers. Chopping Mall is as much fun as the service at Olga's Kitchen, and just as slow. I am like, so sure. "}{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cliched film about teenagers holding a party in a furniture store in a mall after hours who fall prey to malfunctioning security robots that kill them. With good special effects, a wicked sense of humor, and funny guest appearances this stands out as Jim Wynorski's best film to date. Rated R; Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations, Nudity, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable eighties trash","Date":"31 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Chopping Mall is a generally well regarded little cult classic which delivers seventy odd minutes of fun trashy eighties style horror and not much more. It's obvious that director Jim Wynorski was happy for this to be the case, as the film has nothing in the way of characters or logic, but plenty in terms of cult value. First of all, we have very small roles for the likes of Eating Raoul duo Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov, as well as the memorable Dick Miller who was first noticed in Roger Corman's A Bucket of Blood way back in 1959; all of which take the characters that they had in their respective cult movies. The plot focuses on a shopping mall where a brand new kind of security has been installed. The security is in form of 'high tech' robots, which promise to keep out intruders. However, it's not long before the robots malfunction and that's bad news for the sex hungry set of teens that have decided to stay in the mall after-hours. With all the night staff dead, the teens must battle the robots with anything they can find in the hope that they'll make it out alive...Everything about this film is pure eighties. The gore is typically trashy and over the top, while the robots themselves look about as high tech as a BBC computer. However, all this actually does the film a favour as while it is now heavily dated and really rather silly; Chopping Mall works because of what can now be seen as a tribute to the age of low budget stupid horror movies. The plot takes obvious influence from George Romero's zombie masterpiece Dawn of the Dead with regards to the mall setting and focus on survival horror. The film works well as a tribute to Romero also, and the influence of course increase's its cult value. The female cast is nice to look at, with the only one who has any sort of reputation nowadays being Barbara Crampton - an actress famous for working with Stuart Gordon on Lovecraft adaptations From Beyond and Re-Animator. The nudity is only suggestive, and that combined with the silly gore means that this film won't do much for those gorehounds amongst us - but even so, Chopping Mall is an enjoyable slice of cheese and I enjoyed watching it. "},{"Title":"Thank you. Have a nice day! Pretty fun for it what it is","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" (Credit, IMDb) Eight teenagers are trapped after hours in a high tech shopping mall and pursued by three murderous security robots out of control. Before I begin, I must state this. Make sure you kick your brain to the curb when you watch this movie. If you expect something serious, you are an idiot. This isn't an adroitly made film. Its hilarious 80's cheese and I personally loved it. The whole concept of this movie is ridiculous. Why on earth would you have inexperienced robots guard the mall, in lieu of security guards? I didn't think it was very practical but others may feel differently. For a movie that's only 77 minutes long or so, they get plenty of mileage out of the rather thin plot. The robots themselves are actually pretty bad-ass. They possess a classic catchphrase. I grinned every time one of them would yell Thank you. Have a nice day! They also shoot electricity out at you, which I thought was very cool. Were they threatening? Not really but they were a lot of fun. It also has sly nods to movies such as the original The Day the Earth Stood Still, Airplane, among others. I also enjoyed some of the sexual innuendos. Virgin Lights That was very clever. You also get everything you love about an 80's horror film; Sex, booze, clichés galore, and the token slut. Kelli Maroney makes for a great heroine. She's a virgin, vulnerable, everything you want in a heroine. I thought she was awesome. Her chemistry with fellow nerd, Tony O'Dell was great. Speaking of Tony O'Dell, he was good as well. He was bad-ass when he needed to be, and he made for a compelling hero. Russell Todd is good as the jock. Fellow horror fans may recognize him from Friday the 13th Part II. Legendary horror actress Barbra Crampton has a great death scene. John Terlesky is annoying as the conceited jerk. His constant gum chewing made me want to slap him. Overall, this is a blast. It'll never be considered a great movie but it is sure a lot of fun. It reminded me of everything I loved about the 80's. Invite some pals over, some beer, and have a good time6.2/10 "},{"Title":"Dull survival movie that takes place in a mall","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was actually expecting a really gory flick. And this one wasn't as bloody or gory as I thought it would be. It's just a corny, silly and dumb flick from the 80's made with a very low budget and horrible acting. I might have enjoyed the experience, if it's something you can have a fun time roasting it with some friends. But it's not, and just comes down to be a generic and narrow survival movie that takes place at a mall. Against 3 robots that goes haywire. And even the robots aren't even intimidating looking either. And just looks like rejected robots from Star Wars. Even the setting of the mall isn't really taken much advantage of. Overall this is a bland movie with bunch of people fighting dull looking robots at a mall in a unrealistic and dumb fashion. There is just nothing that makes this flick standout from other survival or slasher movies. I basically just sat through it without getting anything out of it. It did however kind of made me want to re-watch Dawn of the Dead and the remake.3.5/10 "},{"Title":"Shop till you drop...for real","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Technology is supposed to be our friend. It's supposed to make our lives easier. But what if machines suddenly turned on us humans? We've seen this happen in many films. 'The Terminator' films deal with this and very effectively. But what if this happened somewhere you'd least expect? Somewhere people go expecting to be safe from harm. The owners of the mall in this film install security robots. They intend to serve and protect, but end up doing anything but.Pros Game cast. Fun electronic score. Great sense of humor. Neat concept. Quick paced. Nice job on the effects. Some creative deaths.Cons Plot less. Pretty dated. Predictable.Final thoughts 'Chopping Mall' has just about all one could want in a low budget 80s Horror flick. It's fun, sexy and scary and proof you can do a lot with little money. It warms my little black heart to see labors of love like this.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Short Circuit goes nuts","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot = A group of teenagers decide to stay behind in a shopping mall after hours, drinking partying and etc, unknown to them Park Plaza Mall has just installed a state-of-the-art security system, which includes three high-tech security robots, but due to malfunctions the robots goes out of control and starts picking of the teenagers one by one.Okay it is a little bit different from the usual fodder, having killer robots rather than a serial killer, but when it's a bunch of R2D2's that can talk non witty one liners (Have A Nice Day) comes to mind, more like Short Circuit goes wild, to be honest I just didn't see the appeal this movie is supposed to have, I found it unbalanced the mix of comedy and horror didn't flow well together, although some of the kills are quite interesting, people electrocuted, burned,lasers shot through them, but the fact that the robots aren't scary of funny, and it just seemed way to easy to get away from them,just run down some stairs.This movie does feature some interesting performances Kelli Maroney (Night Of The Comet, Zero Boys) was sexy as hell and gave a very balanced performance, and it also features Russel Todd (Friday The 13th part 2) was also passable in this movie.All in all yes this movie is very cheesy and can be a fun waste of time if you're into this sort of thing unlike me you'll probably find this movie watchable. "},{"Title":"A really fun 80's horror movie!","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A group of kids decide to hide out in a mall until it closes & party all night, however they picked the wrong night to party, when an lightning storm accidentally hits the power source to three security droids causing them to malfunction whereupon they stalk the kids one by one & eliminate them in violent manner. With the place all sealed off & everyone dropping at rapid rate, can the survivors escape the mall alive, or at least with some of their body parts attached? CHOPPING MALL is a film I remembered so fondly from my childhood years, I grew up watching horror movies & CHOPPING MALL was definitely one of my favorites! Recently after a long hunt to try & find a copy, I was able to see the film & let me tell you, my opinion on the film hasn't changed since then! (sadly I wish I could say that about all the horror movies I re-visited since my childhood years) if anything CHOPPING MALL is even more fun by todays standards! while true the film isn't exactly original when it comes to characters & plot, since any viewer with even half a brain will know right from the get go who will make it & who will die (the good kids or will it be the bad boys & girls?) since the characters are stereo types you would see in any Friday The 13th or Halloween movie or any 80's style slasher film released in it's era. There's some pretty good suspense scenes & a few that will make your skin crawl (the scene where snakes & tarantula's escape their cages is a definite no no with anyone who has a phobia for these creatures!) the acting is actually pretty decent for such a low budget film & director JIM WYNORSKI delivers what is quiet possibly his best film to date & fares well behind the camera. Some of the dialog is clunky however, & again I say the film is none to original when it comes to plot, i.e. kids confined to an area with no adult supervision, only with killer robots taking the place of the usual serial killer, but it works fairly well of it's type & should be a fun time for anyone who can find a copy of it. A must see for all horror fans, especially those sick of greedy & disrespectful Hollywood's endless, usually horrible remakes of horror fans favorite films & the usual kiddie horror movies with WB actors & actresses in the roles. If only we could get the 80's style slasher movies back...**** stars "},{"Title":"Attack of the Killer Robots...","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A bunch of sex starved teens decide to throw a little party in the mall they work after working hours. Much to their dismay, the shopping mall security has been recently enhanced by the presence of four... killer robots, armed to the teeth with enough gadgets to put James Bond to shame.As you might have guessed, this is silly as all get out but just as much fun. Girls flash their boobs for close to no reason, we get close ups of asses as they walk, an exploding head, corny dialogues, cheap SFX, the whole package. However I must admit I prefer the first half more than the second. It starts to drag after the 40 minute mark as the cat and mouse games between killbots and teenagers become increasingly repetitious. But I'm also a sucker for corny dialogues and the cheesy build-up that precedes the action in this kind of stuff, so there's no accounting for my taste.The highlight of Chopping Mall is of course the presence of the killbots. They speak in a pseudo-digital voice, say stuff like Thanks for your cooperation and Thank you, have a nice day after killing, fire coloured laser beams (blue or pink), electrocute Dick Miller, set the gorgeous Barbara Clampton on fire and generally behave like the all around cute, deadly robots they are. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Park Plaza Mall is issued three hi-tech robots for their security systems, and all goes smoothly for a while. While Alison Parks, (Kelli Maroney) Ferdy Meisel, (Tony O'Dell) Rick, (Russell Todd) and Linda Stanton, (Karrie Emerson) Suzie Lynn, (Barbara Crampton) Mike Brennan, (John Terlesky) Leslie Todd, (Suzee Slater) and Greg Williams, (Nick Segal) try to enjoy a party in the mall, the robots are activated and go on a rampage in the mall before turning their attention to the party. Locked inside with the dangerous robots, they take to hunting them down one at a time, as do the robots.With good special effects, a wicked sense of humor, and funny guest appearances this stands out as Jim Wynorski's best film to date.Unrated for Graphic Violence, Profanity, Sexual Situations and Nudity. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Your Neighborhood Chopping Mall Where They're Slashing More Than Prices!","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS      At the Park Plaza Shopping Mall, the security force has made an astonishing breakthrough in law enforcement. Dr. Stan Simon has designed three state-of-the-art, stainless steel, enforcement robots programmed to stop intruders dead in their tracks. They are armed with disarming shock cables and a laser. The press was somewhat against this but Dr. Simon assured everyone that this plan was fool proof and nothing could go wrong. A group of friends Alison Parks, Rick and Linda Stanton, Michael Brennan, Leslie Todd, Greg Williams, Suzy Lynn, and Ferdy Meisel, all employees of different mall shops, had made a plan to throw an after-hours orgy that night. Alison and Ferdy were reluctant to come but their friends totally insisted. But that night, there was an electrical storm that struck the laboratory generators which caused the three security robots to come to life. Number 1 killed lab technician Marty as well as his brother Paul. They then set out into the mall to do their patrols. Number 1 took level 1, Number 2 took level 2 and Number 3 took level 3. Meanwhile in the furniture store, the friends carried on with their party. Ferdy and Alison were introduced to one another and just hit it off. While their friends made love, they watched a movie about giant killer crabs. Soon, Leslie wanted a pack of cigarettes so she sent Michael to the machine. Meanwhile, janitor Walter was finishing up his cleaning when he ran into Number 1 who spilled his bucket of water. He then shot out his shock cable and rendered poor Walter deep-fried. Number 1 then met up with Michael and brutally killed him.        Leslie wandered out to see what became of Michael. She soon found out and that's when she was chased by Number 1, laser firing. It finally blew off her head. Greg, Suzy, Rick, Linda, Ferdy and Alison ran for it. They planned their escape, but suddenly the large metal security doors around the mall closed. They were trapped. The girls went up the ventilation shaft while Greg, Rick and Ferdy ran to a sporting goods store and grabbed some guns. Unfortunately Number 1 was bullet proof. Ferdy chucked a propane tank at it, Greg fired and KABOOM! Number 1 fell over, deactivated. Meanwhile, Suzy, Linda and Alison left the ventilation shaft and landed in the hardware department. They grabbed some cans of gasoline and went out into the mall. They reach the second floor and fall prey to Number 2. Lighting the gas cans and chucking them at Number 2 did no good. It attacked poor Suzy. Meanwhile, Number 1 reactivated and continued his persuit. Ferdy, Greg and Rick had rigged some propane tanks to an elevator. They had a plan. Greg took Suzy's death out on the guys but Rick said they had to stick together no matter what. Rick lured Number 2 into the elevator, the doors closed, Greg aimed, fired and KABOOOOM!!! The elevator as well as Number 2 were blown to smithereens.          Ferdy decrees they must find the master computer on the third floor and destroy it, thus putting the robots out of commission. Unfortunately when climbing the escalator, they ran into Number 3 who chucked Greg off the balcony to his death. They couldn't go down because Number 1 cut them off. They run to a clothing store and hide out. Number 1 tries to get out while Number 3 patrols around the third floor. Alison has an idea to set up mannequins and some mirrors. When Number 3 fired its laser at them, it bounced off the mirrors and electrified Number 3. Poor Linda and Rick were killed in the process but then Number 3 was blown to bits. One to go. Ferdy and Alison split up. Number 1 found Alison and Ferdy was knocked unconscious. Number 1 eluded Alison to the first floor. She ran into a hardware store and began dumping paint and paint thinner all over the place. Number 1 entered. She took out the road flare she kept from earlier, lit it and KABOOOOOOOM!!!!! The store, along with Number 1 were completely obliterated. Ferdy showed up then and the two rejoice, but knew full well that when the mall opened in the morning, they would have ALOT of explaining to do. Like, why many of the stores were on fire and why they blew up the security robots.         This movie was pretty good. It's a very original and creative idea. Teens being persueded across a large, empty shopping mall at night by killer robots. There was another movie released the same year called Short Circuit and they originally wanted the robot in that movie to be a killer, but they changed it so he was nice. Like all horror flicks, Chopping Mall could have a sequel Chopping Mall II. Where they've locked Alison and Ferdy in the looney bin and rebuilt the robots, hence Numbers 4, 5 and 6. Pure horror movie justice. But, oh well. This movie stars a bunch of unknowns like Tony O'Dell, Kelli Simon, Karrie Emerson and Russell Todd. Dick Miller is here too. Anyway, if you like '80s horror flicks or robot flicks or late-at-night-trapped-in-a-shopping-mall-chased-by-killer-robot-flicks, then Chopping Mall is for you!- "}{"Title":"Terrible oh so Terrible!","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Awful acting and comical script let down an otherwise good idea.  It's like a TV movie with one or two good special effects, i mean when the robots start firing star wars type laser shots you just feel like laughing!.  The worst thing about it is there are worse films than this pile of rubbish! "},{"Title":"Nice Reworking Of The Teens In Peril Premise","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A bunch of horny teenagers sneak in to a shopping mall after hours . This can mean only mean two things 1 ) They're going to be punished for being teenagers 2 _ They're going to be doubly punished for being horny There's a problem for the producers for the film though and that is how are you going to change the formula of horny teenagers that hasn't been done before and/or better ? Let's face it some bloke wearing a hockey mask waving a machete about seemed to be old hat and the introduction of Freddy Kruger meant the whole premise of teens in peril even more redundant . How about teens getting stalked and menaced by killer robots ? At least you can't accuse CHOPPING of being entirely unoriginal . Killer security bots armed with lasers tasers and murderous claws which wasn't something you saw all that often back in the day . Okay some of the ideas here might have been borrowed a bit later by Ed Neumeier for ROBOCOP so much so that I was surprised his name didn't appear in the credits and there does seem to be a slight gap in logic as to how a mere everyday security company has the resources to develop such killer machines yet the American defence department doesn't ? But it's the sort of film where you're not supposed to think too much such as phoning for help and just concentrate on the youths' dilemma as they use their wits and firearms battling bad'bots while at the same time making sure their considerable mops of hair don't get damaged One noticeable aspect is the dated 1980s look about the movie with the hairstyles etc . I'm sorry to say this does give a feel of its era as to how dreadful youth culture was when fashion and music was concerned . The constantly intrusive musical composed of someone poking a synthesiser to death would have been considered relative cool and funky by the mainstream and perhaps down to this dehumanising type of culture saw films like CHOPPING MALL , THE TERMINATOR and ROBOCOP come in to being ? "},{"Title":"Silly sci-fi/horror fun.","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Just like Johnny 5 in John Badham's Short Circuit (also 1986&#151;a coincidence?), the three Protector security robots in Jim Wynorski's Chopping Mall disobey their programming after an electrical storm zaps their circuits&#151;only these metal menaces aren't quite as endearing as Steve Guttenberg's shiny sidekick they run riot in a shopping mall, killing anybody they clap sensors on with their completely unnecessary array of powerful weaponry (including pink and blue lasers!). This proves to be very bad news for a group of horny teenagers who are spending the night in the mall's bedding store...A schlocky slice of 80s B-movie cheese that cashes in on the success of other high-tech hits of the day such as War Games, The Terminator, and the aforementioned Short Circuit, Chopping Mall isn't quite as bad as its awful title suggests. Wynorski's second directorial effort features a likable cast, a plethora of cheap special effects, a smattering of gore, some gratuitous nudity, and lots of daft action, and is guaranteed to keep fans of low-budget tat suitably entertained for its short running time of 77 minutes.Joining in on the fun are familiar B-movie favourites Dick Miller (once again playing a character named Walter Paisley), big-haired cutie Kelli 'Night of the Comet' Maroney, horror hottie Barbara Crampton (who, of course, gets her jubblies out), and Eating Raoul's Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov.Best bits include a woman getting her head completely blown off by laser fire (although, for the rest of the film, the robots couldn't hit a barn door from 10ft away), and Kelli Maroney being covered in nasty, hairy spiders. Ewww!5.5 out of 10, rounded up to 6 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Did everybody see the same movie I did?","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The movie I saw entitled Chopping Mall was a reeeaaally stupid '80s, well, let's say, POS.The cover was drawings of a blood pool with eyes in it, beside a paper shopping bag full of flesh. I even rented the unrated version so I could see the brutal dismemberment promised in all of its VHS, 260p glory. (This was for a sleepover where I was given the duty of getting the most graphically violent horror movie the rental store had.) Well, judging by the title and the box, this was it.What I got, however, was to go down in my neighborhood as The s--ttiest, stupid a-- piece of s--t movie anyone had ever had the displeasure of wasting 230h (or something) on in their entire life.That was 1992. FF to 2005, my sister goes to get a DVD to rent for my nephew and I to watch. We were in a spooky mood. She returns with a pizza, Pepsi, breadsticks, and a movie.Holy s--t! This is on DVD?!? I gasped. She asked why, I said Can we watch it NOW? Then she knew.BOTTOM LINE According to the box this is a terrifying account of what would happen if a high-tech security system went awry in the seemingly distant year of (wait for it)...1996! No actual blood to speak of. "},{"Title":"a B movie great","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A group of teenagers party after hours in a furniture store in the mall, not knowing that a trio of security robots have gone haywhire and are killing everything within sight. Made by Jim Wynorski way back when he was still good (from '83 till '91), this B-movie is a near classic and I try to get all my friends to see it at least once. Sure it has hammy acting and the effects aren't really convincing. And yea there are many plot holes. But who cares? This movie still rocks. You get a fun atsmosphere, a few great looking babes who know where their 'talents' lay. You have killer robots, a cameo by Dick Miller and an exploding head. Grab some friends, a few six-packs and pop this flick in.My Grade B+ Eye Candy Barbara Crampton and Suzee Slater show their great twins "},{"Title":"Chop Up the Film and Burn It.","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A group of working-class teenagers at a local mall sneak in supplies for an all-night party where getting drunk and having sex will be the orders of the day. What could go wrong? How about crazed 1980s technology run amok? Robotic security entities go haywire and kill the human guards and then turn their anger on...you guessed it. The cinema's obsession with computers and robots in the 1980s continues to be a silly foot-note as this bloody gore-fest bores very quickly. Everything is cheap as you would expect. The special effects feel like they were developed by sub-par engineering majors at a community college and the performers...well let's just say the FBI probably could not find any of them now. Turkey (0 stars out of 5). "}]