[{"Title":"A truly good movie, nothing to change!","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"72 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I will not summarize the plot -- you can read others' comments for that, or, better yet, see this yourself. Classic film buffs who say that there was a Golden Age of Cinema after which all is in decline need to see this one (although I realize that 1987 probably is long enough ago to qualify as a bygone era for younger IMDb users). I would not change a thing in this production. Every member of the cast delivers the goods, the story is moving and truthful, the characters come to life and you're swept up in their lives. When you weary of car chases with explosions, language you can't repeat to your mom, cliché-ridden distortions of human relationships and humor based on normally-private bodily functions, give yourself a treat and watch this movie. If you think only hobbits can be sweet and kind and show us the Good that can reside in common folk, check out the humans in this one. If you . . . never mind, just see it. "},{"Title":"A love story, but not the way you're thinking","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"60 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Helene and Frank never actually say they love each other - hell, they never even meet - but they love each other in an unspoken way that people today would not understand.  The movie never plays it for sappy romance; its way better than stooping to that level of convention.  They are good to one another and enrich one another's life - isn't that love? Hopkins has an amazing moment when Helene has to cancel her trip to London due to some much-needed dental work.  His face shows so many things, all at once, that it really is beautiful and breaks my heart, no matter how often I see it. For Oscar fans - this movie has four winners - Bancroft, Hopkins, Mercedes Ruehl and Judi Dench. I am grateful that this movie got made with such care and humanity.  "},{"Title":"Simply the best.","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"53 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 84 Charing Cross Road is one of my favorite movies. Based on the memoirs of Helene Hanff (the book contains the letters from which they read throughout the film), this is the story of a single New York woman named Helene Hanff (Anne Bancroft) who builds a forty-year friendship with some people who work in a bookstore in England. The movie begins during WWII as Helene, a writer, is searching for out-of-print books and, frustrated at the poor selection in the city's bookstores, starts writing letters to the Marx brother's bookstore in England. Through her letters, she not only becomes a frequent customer, but eventually, becomes quite close with all of the bookstore's employees. And through their letters, they share experiences over the years, which the viewer witnesses through a juxtasposition of two different cultures American and British. I like the technique used in this film. The interaction between Helene and her British friends occurs only through letters, so rather than have the characters write a letter and then dub what is written, eventually, the characters just face the camera and say what they would have written, with the camera cutting back and forth for each others response at times as though we suddenly become the recipient of their conversations. The film also has a wonderful cast with Anne Bancroft as Helene, Anthony Hopkins as the generous Frank P. Doel, Judi Dench as his wife, and Mercedes Ruehl as Helene's neighbor. It is a wonderful story. "},{"Title":"My favourite film","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"47 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whenever anyone asks me, which isn't often, I tell them this is it. And they invariably have never heard of it, which is a terrible shame.I love the film, and advise those who love it as well that they SHOULD read the book too... and also read The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street, and find out what happened when Helene went to England after all those years.And don't stop there... look up the Oxford Book of English Prose and the Oxford Book of English Verse (http//www.bartleby.com/101/), edited by the venerable Q (Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch), and see what inspired Helene to begin the correspondence in the first place (basically she decided to read everything Q mentioned, unless it's fiction.)  "},{"Title":"A poignant and well-crafted story of long-distance friendship.","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"36 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is an example of how the cinematic medium can powerfully explore a mundane activity as letter writing. The movement of the characters through their activities and concerns over different times of life and across 2 physically separated cultures is smooth, subtle and engaging. The movie does not contain the bombast that many others seem to be more pre-occupied with. Rather the viewer is taken into the quiet enjoyment of human conversation and communication. And just like a good conversation, one is left with both satisfaction and longing. "},{"Title":"A Different View of Singlehood","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"33 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie in 1987, read the book, and just rented it again in memory of Anne Bancroft. It remains for me a gem-an amazingly done story. What is really amazing however-and a sad comment on where people's attentions are focused-is that in 1987 there were two movies that dealt with married men and single women. This was one of them; the other was Fatal Attraction. What a difference! People flocked to see the latter film in which (spoilers for F.A. here) a single urban career woman has a brief affair with a married man, tries to kill herself, tries to kill everyone else, fricassees a pet rabbit, etc. Now in 84 Charing Cross Road, the heroine's finances prevent her from crossing the ocean to actually meet the married man of her daydreams- but even if she had been able to visit England and meet him,I doubt she would have baked his children's pets or kidnapped his children. This was not,thankfully,that kind of film. This was a true story of a single career woman whose life was happy in spite of her being single. She had friends, her writing, the books she was buying and reading. We see at one point a photograph on her bureau of a man in uniform-was this a former boyfriend,a fiancé,who was killed in the war? Possibly-but the woman does not live in grief nor does she go melodramatically crazy. It's too bad that America chose to make the derivative trash that is F.A. popular while not honoring 84 Charing Cross Road for its depiction of a brainy adult relationship. "},{"Title":"Impeccable Acting & Dialogue","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A fantastic piece of work. This movie is for those who are interested in dialogue and masterful acting. The acting is impeccable and the dialogue is magnificent and very touching. Surely Anthony Hopkins deserved an AA and so did Anne Bancfroft.  "},{"Title":"Next time, I'm in London!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 84 Charing Cross Road is a wonderful enchanting film about the differences and similarities between the Brits and the New Yorkers over the years. Helene Hanff really was a special writer. She gave an identity to 84 Charing Cross Road to last a lifetime. Her letter writing relationship between a bookstore and herself is one of legendary stories to become part of London and New York. Sadly, she died 5 years ago. I am sure that 84 Charing Cross Road will always remember the writer, Helene Hanff, who inspired such a legacy. Anyway the film has a wonderful cast like Anne Bancroft who is ageless in the role. Sir Anthony Hopkins as the bookseller. Dame Judi Dench as his wife and Maurice Denham in a supporting role. Also, I have been to London three more times since I wrote this review and sadly this time, I made the effort to visit 84 Charing Cross Road, sorry folks, it's a Pizza Hut and I had dinner there tonight anyway. THere is no plaque. I still think Anne Bancroft was superb now that she's gone. So has Maurice Denham since I last wrote this review. God Bless them wherever they are. "},{"Title":"A remarkably fine film for those who enjoy a great personal story. Here, we get two!","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  '84 Charing Cross', from the address of the used book store in London, takes place over roughly 20 years from 1949 to 1969. Watching it today, I became totally immersed in the story, and I found out why later, because it is based on the real story of Helene and Frank. I always like movies based on real people, and closely identify with the idea of a seemingly random event triggering a new and perhaps lasting friendship. Helene (Anne Bancroft), a New York Jew and struggling writer, loves English literature but cannot find suitable and reasonably-priced books that she wants in NYC. She finds a simple ad in a publication, writes to the bookstore in London, they send her two of the three books she seeks, for a total of $5.30, and the story begins in earnest from that point. Bancroft (Helene) and Hopkins (Frank) are magnificent here, in this wonderful little movie of two people, quite different, living worlds apart, but who become lifelong friends. One of my new favorites!!The rest of my comments contain SPOILERS for my recollection, please stop reading if you have not seen the movie.  The correspondence between Frank and Helene, who became a somewhat successful TV writer, carried on for 20 years from 1949 to 1969, and was published in 1970, which eventually led to this movie. During that time he sent her photos of his family, she sent 'care packages' of food to them in post-war rationing times, she requested certain books, he found and sent them. One planned trip to London had to be cancelled because of $2500 of emergency dental work for Helene. Then, in 1969 she gets a letter that Frank had died after an attack of appedicitis, and later that the bookstore would be closed. When she finally was able to make her trip, we see her walk into a now vacant space, but she smiles as she recalls 20 years of correspondence with Frank and the other workers there.The movie actually begins at the end, as she is on a plane, and awakes to sunlight through her window as she approaches London. Then, as she enters the vacant store, the movie flashes back to 1969. When the movie ends, we see her in the store, the completion of that earlier scene.  No extras on the DVD, but it has a good picture and sound. "},{"Title":"A very pleasant , very intimate film","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I recently saw this film for the first time, as a chance to see an Anne Bancroft film I had not seen before. Bancroft and Hopkins are both excellent in this. And, more than almost any other film, they have to be excellent; their performances are the only thing this little film hangs on.Everything about this film violates almost every screenwriting 101 type rule. The two main characters communicate primarily through letters. Characters address the audience directly. There is no real conflict. Change occurs only with the natural passage of time in the characters' lives. No heroes, no villains. No romance, no violence, no adventures- just two people (one a writer, the other a rare-book dealer) living their lives and caring about how the other leads theirs.And yet, the film works. Over the span of the 20+ years portrayed in the film, the audience gets to know and like both of the main characters, and their compatriots as well. And just getting to know them and their unique friendship makes it all worthwhile.Also, the portrayal of the privations of the post-war U.K. of rations and food shortages is done very well. Michael Palin, amongst others, have addressed the tragicomic aspects of postwar rationing in the U.K., but in this film, it is poignant how even a poor American managed to make the entire bookstore's Christmases worthwhile with a well-timed shipment of Danish food. "}{"Title":"For once you shouldn't read the book","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When you first take a look at the story, 84CCR hasn't much going on for it. A movie about books(even worse old books!), for 75% told off-screen and with two stars who don't share one scene together. It's a miracle that this movie has so much impact on the viewer. The atmosphere is really tense, it's like you're in that little dusty bookstore and you really like the characters, though you don't know that much about them. Great acting by all. Hopkins, playing a character that resembles the ones he played in Shadowlands and even Remains of the Day, is impossibly convincing in his role. Anne Bancroft, although sometimes slightly over the top when she talks to the viewer, makes a great match.Rating8/10Most Memorable Movie Moment Bancroft raving on about the works of John Donne. "},{"Title":"And the winner is","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoiler Alert!! It never ceases to amaze me sometimes how and why some films get nominated for awards and how some actually win them.In my humble opinion this film is the best I have had the pleasure of seeing in many a year and how it was not nominated for Academy Awards beggars belief. The Best Actress Award for 1986/7 should have undoubtedly gone to Anne Bancroft for her portrayal of Helene Hanff and Best Supporting Actor to Anthony Hopkins as Frank Doel. Not forgetting David Hugh Jones, Hugh Whitemore and Brian West for Direction, Adapted Screenplay and Cinematography respectively. (I could smell the mustiness of the old bookshop)84 Charing Cross road was EVERYTHING a film should be, funny sad, riveting and perfectly acted. Not a single sign of sex, nudity, expletives or needless violence. How very, very refreshing.I never wanted this film to end and when Helene finally got the chance to visit England and her 'Little Bookshop' It was oh so sad knowing that she was too late to meet Paul. The man she so obviously fell in love with.How I wish I could write prose like Helene Hanff.  "},{"Title":"A beautifully made film that captures it's era","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie before I read the book it is based on. I usually see films based on books in this way, but this time, I wish I had read the book first. There are letters in the book that should have appeared in the movie to flesh it out a bit more. Even so, it is one of the most affecting movies I have ever seen. It starts with a middle aged woman in a plane flying to London (Anne Bancroft). When she gets to the place she has been seeking, it is an abandoned storefront. She looks around wistfully as the first letter is read in her voice in the background. Magically, the film transports us back to the late 40's in New York, and to the correspondence between a woman living there and the man who is the manager of a bookshop at the title address in London (Sir Anthony Hopkins). The letters are read with great warmth and style, and the opening up in the film is well done and appropriate to the story. As the years advance, we are caught up in both of these people's lives and their correspondence. Due to events that look contrived in the movie (but make more sense in the book), Helene Hanff leads a life of the lower middle class and much as she would like to, there is no chance for her to afford the trip to London. So London is brought to her in both the great books she buys from the bookshop and by reading about the lives of Frand Doel and his family, and the other people who work at the bookstore. One of the most affecting scenes deals with the letters she receives from the other employees thanking her for the food parcels she sends to the employees for holidays. I look something like Bill Humphries, the cataloger, and his scene with his Great Aunt brought me to tears. As the years pass, there are some changes but the relationships endure. Many people have called this a love story, but the movie gives more evidence of this than the book ever does. I don't believe in that angle. Frank Doel was just part of Helene's feelings of London, and not a romance on her or his part. My only real criticism has to do with the end of the film. The book does not lead you to the same ending, and it is very helpful to read the sequel to 84 Charing Cross Road, called The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street. She did not call a few days after Frank died to find the cost of a trip to London to go there. If they had filmed it from the book it would have been just as compelling. She decided to publish the letters as Frank had died, and the reprint of the book by Reader's Digest and the fact that a London publisher decided to publish the book over a year later gave her the impetus and the finances to go to London. Having said all that, it is a great film, with amazing performances all around. This is just about the only time I have ever said, the book is better. If fact, I would encourage people to read all of Helene Hanff's works. She was an astonishing writer, and someone I wish I could have known. "},{"Title":"Luscious, Intelligent, Delicate Epistolary Love Story","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 84 Charring Cross Road is a luscious, intelligent, delicate, epistolary love story.It isn't for everybody. Viewers who require movies to shovel piping hot, sex-and-violence-drenched plot down their gullets won't get this movie; it will pass right over their heads.If you are the kind of observant, sensitive person who can see someone sitting on a park bench and intuit their biography from the way they wear their scarf, hold their bodies, and read their newspaper, you will *hear* all that this movie is saying, and it will move you to tears.Helene Hanff (Anne Bancroft), is a single New Yorker, of mixed Jewish and Christian family. She is a no-nonsense lover of life, cigarettes, hard liquor, and books. She is the kind of reader that every writer dreams of writing for -- she is like a sponge, soaking up every word; she is like a bell; when an author's words strike her, she rings. She is like the very best of interlocutors. Writers dream of having a reader like this to interact in dialogue with their works.When Hanff can't find a book she needs locally (and that she can't find a book she needs locally tells you something about her expansive tastes -- she lives in Manhattan, after all, not a shabby place to book shop), Hanff begins writing to a London book shop, Marks and Cohen, staffed by one Frank Doel. Doel meets her needs. That's in 1949. Their exchange of letters lasts decades into the future.The film lovingly and deftly chronicles the decades' changes in fashion, not just in clothing, but also in architecture. Both Helene and Frank are living in distinctly 1949 dwellings when their exchange begins, and are living in more modern dwellings toward the end of the story. Hair styles, current events, the sound of rock music heard from a passing radio, act like clocks to remind the viewer of the passage of time in this relationship.That chronicling, via visual cues, of the passage of time is just one of the many ways this movie communicates that may be too subtle for many viewers. What the film is saying in these details is this these two people and their acquaintances and colleagues who participate in this correspondence, are investing time in each other in a drastically changing world. As the world spins precariously around them, from the post-WW II rationing in Britain to the introduction of the miniskirt, Helene and Frank continue to be there for each other.There are so many other ways in which this movie tells a wondrous, rich tale that have nothing to do with conventional ways that films communicate. There are no conventional love scenes, or fight scenes. What there are are scenes that, in painstakingly crafted detail by painstakingly crafted detail, build up a story as rich as full fat cream.By the end of this movie, the observant viewer will *know* Helene and Frank in a way that very few movies allow viewers to know their characters. The observant viewer will have participated in these people's real lives in a way that feels almost like watching a home movie.Watch Frank react to being asked to participate in a conga line. Watch the joie de vivre that Helene brings to ordering gifts from a Danish catalogue. Listen to Helene talk about books. Watch Frank as he goes about the business of meeting his customer's needs.The two loudest scenes in the movie are the scene in which Helene goes to a movie theater and watches Brief Encounter, a classic film about a brief, extra-marital affair. While watching this movie, Helene fantasizes about finally visiting London. That scene, and that choice of movie, tells you much about how Helene feels about Frank. Similarly, carefully watch a scene in which Frank reads, aloud, a Yeats poem which ends, Tread softly because you tread on my dreams. There are so many movies about people who are nuts about sports. Movies about people who love guns, or war, or cars.84 Charring Cross Road is the best movie I know about unbridled passion for books, for words, and the kind of intimacy that can take place when one person who loves words makes contact with another who shares, or at least appreciates, that passion.If you don't get this movie, I really think you can become a better, more sensitive, more aware person by watching it again, and trying to hear all it says. To the person who really listens, 84 Charring Cross Road is one of the richest movies I know.PS the film is perfectly cast, and every performance is spot on. Anthony Hopkins has never been more sympathetic. Anne Bancroft was born to play Helene Hanff. Judi Dench, Mercedes Ruehl, Oscar winners all around -- how can you go wrong? "},{"Title":"But no Keats or Shelley; I need poets who can make love without slobbering.","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lines of dialog like the one above, spoken by the energetic writer played by Anne Bancroft in 84 Charing Cross Road, appeal to those who inordinately enjoy books . And if you are one who is delighted by literary references(in books, music or movies)than this is a film that will hold great appeal for you.Those who prefer conventional action will find this movie far too low-key and dull. Personally I was very involved by it. It is the type of motion picture where you find yourself wanting to enter and befriend the characters, who undoubtedly would be willing to talk with you about most anything. And for those who have actually been to London(myself included)there's the added delight of recognizing many of the locations it presents. "},{"Title":"A perfect movie  Perfect cast, timing, build-up and end+","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is as much about books as Bull Durham is about baseball or Rocky is about boxing.  It is a story about people and relationships and the myriad things that can happen while we experience this thing called life. If a wonderfully acted, beautifully written movie dealing with that theme interests you then turn off the telephone, put the kids to bed, and curl up for an entrancing experience. "},{"Title":"-Love between the Lines-","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Super love story! Dizzy American in New York with a penchant for old books develops an everlasting friendship and eventual love for a London bookshop and many of the characters associated with it. All arising from an exchange of letters and correspondence.Based on a true story the fact nothing particularly dramatic occurs suggests to me that the movie not only depicts true life for many people but also that the events in the film really did happen. And hey what could be better than showing true love arising in any form! Wonderfully atmospheric aura of post-war Britain with a fine production as well as performances all around; 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A charming yet bittersweet tale of a 30-year correspondence between writer/book collector Bancroft and rare book dealer Hopkins.","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An eccentric New York woman (Ann Bancroft) with a passion for English literature (in their original hard copy editions) discovers a mail order house in London that buys and sells the kind of books she is looking for. Beginning in the early 1950s Bancroft makes her first order to the book store manager (Anthony Hopkins) and, upon receiving each order, she responds with clever, pithy reactions to her previous order while also placing a new one. Hopkins mentions the bad postwar situation with the lack of good food and Bancroft responds with some generous care packages for several years. Hopkins and everyone else at the store are endeared by both her witty letters and generosity.  Their loving correspondence transpires for about 30 years and Bancroft never has the time nor money to visit England in person until Hopkins dies.  This extremely quaint, bittersweet story was adapted from a stage play by the film's screenwriter Hugh Whitemore.  Why has this film never made its way to home video on laserdisc or DVD? "},{"Title":"A Quiet Gem","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The British are known for movies that can tear your heart out without excessive emoting. 84 Charing Cross Road is one such picture. It's been on many, many times and I know my mother loved this movie but I never saw it, who knows why. But having discovered Dame Judi Dench, who has a somewhat minor part, I wanted to see her in this movie. Well, I was mesmerized! There was no snap and pop here; just the quiet story of a book lover and a bookseller who live on 2 different continents and who are total opposites (or so it seems) but who form a friendship through letters --- what today's youngsters would call snail mail. She's a dyed-in-the-wool New Yorker with a New York accent as thick as a deli sandwich. He's a dyed-in-the-wool Englishman whose accent isn't as thick but who is British through and through. Yet they both share a passion for books. This gentle true story, based on Helene Hanff's book, is told mainly through their correspondence and what a terrific correspondence it was.Letter-writing, unfortunately, is a lost art. As convenient as Email is, it's not quite the same as a good, old-fashioned letter. This movie reminded me of that and of the 17-year correspondence I shared with my best friend (he has since died). I'm told I have a talent for letter-writing and I have 2 friends with whom I share this talent. I used to think those friends should get a computer but now I see I was wrong. Email is expedient but letter-writing is so much more long-lasting.One of the reasons I stayed with the picture was one scene Helene goes to the movies (remember, this was 1950) and what are they playing? My all-time favorite movie, Brief Encounter. I couldn't turn away after that and I'm glad I stayed with it. This is one movie I definitely will add to my DVD and/or VHS collection. It's a keeper for sure. "},{"Title":"84 Charing Cross Road","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie is brilliant and follows the book almost word perfectly. Anne Bancroft's Helene is the perfect foil for Anthony Hopkin's Frank.If you enjoyed this movie and you will, then I believe it is well worth getting hold of Helene Hanff's books, in particular 84 Charing Cross Road and The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street (usually sold in one volume)(when she went to London after 84 was published and had such a huge success) also The Apple of My Eye which is her wonderful account of living in New York but looking at it as though she were a tourist. Underfoot in Showbusiness in which she tries to make it in Showbusiness and her last book Letter from New York, a collection of radio talks she did for Woman's Hour. "}{"Title":"No One Who Thinks...","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" No one who thinks himself civilized should fail to see, and to appreciate and enjoy, the rare gem that is '84 Charing Cross Road.' It's not a perfect film; its most unsettling flaw is Bancroft's direct speech to the camera - her performance being otherwise eminently artful yet genuine, and profoundly moving; and the remainder of its flaws are minor; but it's a powerfully encouraging film from which one comes away refreshed and renewed in faith in our imperfect species - and in its members' common destiny. Its intelligently, warmly told story reassures us that each of us souls ought not fear living or dying.Hopkins is in fine form - again brilliant in understatedly conveying all from the subtlest to the deepest emotions; he's perfectly the mate here for Bancroft's exuberant, beautifully expressed duality of intellect and earthiness - in fact I cannot imagine another actress approaching, let alone succeeding at, the role of Helene. I agree with the many others who think it reflects ill of popular culture - particularly of one of its chief champions, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences, that this pair were not awarded Best leading role Oscars for their splendid turns in this touching, moving film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw Producer Mel Brooks--I suddenly became very afraid. He's one of my favorite directors--but doing this book??? But then I found out he'd bought the rights as a present for Anne (who adores the book), and I suspect that was where his influence ended. I've read the book and seen the movie, and this movie is a wonderful and faithful adaptation. and no, it's not just for book lovers. go read it, go see it, and your faith in mankind will be just a little greater by the end. this is a well-deserved 10.P.S. Last time I was in london, 84 Charing cross road was slated to become a touristy pub and grill. the neighborhood association was fighting it, but whether or not they prevailed is an open question. There is a plaque by the door, which the pub and grill people apparently promised to keep up. Hope I didn't spoil your day... "},{"Title":"Excellence from printing to silver screen","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Helene Hanff's 84 Charing Cross Road and it's amazing that the movie version is up to the same high standard of the book. The castings and screenplay are perfect. This film is magical and it's very educational in literary sense and performance from Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins are superb.This film shines in drawing out the cultural and social differences between London and New York during the period of their letter correspondence. "},{"Title":"Perfect movie for anyone interested in books, literature and London","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely marvellous movie, although the most static film I have ever seen. Perfect for bookworms like me, or anyone interested in books, literature and London. I translated it into Estonian for TV, and believe or not, I would have liked it last for more and more... "},{"Title":"Merely one of the most life-affirming movies you'll ever see","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this at least 3 times now, and it still enthralls me as if watching it for the first time.In my opinion, this is Anne Bancroft's proudest moment. It could not have been more perfectly cast or more skillfully executed.Don't let the literary aspect scare you off if you're not well-read. It won't be over your head and you won't feel patronized. This is one of the best ever tellings of the making and nurturing of a friendship between two people who share a common passion... in this case, English Literature.  The gentle humor throughout is delightful.If you're intimidated by the eloquence of their snail-mail correspondence, perhaps you should be!  Our school system is so pitiful now that most of us can barely spell our own names.As another IMDb member wrote so well... shut off the phone and give this movie your undivided attention!  Just SHUT UP and watch! "},{"Title":"The Most Charming Film for Bibliophiles, Readers and Book Collectors","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" For many years, Charing Cross Road in London was a nucleus for book enthusiasts, particularly for book collectors and bibliophiles. Rare and second-hand bookselling is not one of the more glamorous areas of collectibles trading, as many aspects involve lower-end as well as higher-end selling. Unlike auctions of master paintings and collectible jewelry which often receive much press coverage, antiquarian bookselling often occurs in quiet library-like shops. Customers and proprietors alike speak in low tones amid dimly-lit corridors. 84 Charing Cross Road brings viewers into the world of antiquarian bookselling and purchasing as no other film does.Anne Bancroft (who played Mrs Robinson in the Graduate) is a writer habituating the exciting world of the New York scene. To quench her ever-present thirst for reading, she decides she wants to acquire books of an antiquarian nature, fine editions which have a bit more elegance than cheap mass-market editions. She also wants to read books of classic English literature rather than simply the latest NY Times Bestseller. She visits her local second-hand bookshops in New York, and none of the proprietors carry the books she seeks because, she is told, they do not have enough demand among NY book buyers. She then hears about a rare and second-hand book firm in London on Charing Cross Road and writes them, hoping they might have the kinds of books she seeks. One of the main purveyors, although not one of the owners of the firm, is Frank Doel, played with an understated civility by the incredible Anthony Hopkins.Thus begins a correspondence between a humble book firm in London and an informal client in New York. As the correspondence progresses, she begins to learn more about and understand better the people whose livelihoods center around books. The scenes are mainly split between the contemplative world of the London bookshop and the loud and raucous city that is New York. Even the interactions between characters on each side are quite different. Helene the American is often smoking and boozing with friends while those at the shop quietly but seriously go about their business. Helene the American and Frank the Brit correspond in English, but almost immediately we sense the wide difference in their respective letter-writing styles, their palette of colors quite diverse. The American is direct, blunt, and easily conveys her frustration if a book arrives which does not please her. On the other hand, the Englishman Doel writes in an overtly congenial tone, very low-key and almost formal, and courteous to the point of near-humility. He is never upset or put-off at the occasional brashness of his counterpart's letters but always attempts to make things right if his client is not entirely pleased with her purchase.Then, in an interesting turn, Helene learns of the food rationing that is occurring in Britain largely as a result of the war. She resolves to help the struggling employees of the book through a black market coming out of Denmark. The employees become elated when a special package arrives for them. As a result, Helene and Frank become close in ways almost like a reader and a book, their images and understandings of each other only through words on paper, never through voices or body language. However, although they learn much about each other's lives throughout the correspondence, they never meet, but only can imagine each other's worlds.84 Charing Cross Road is almost like a play with the correspondence, often spoken in voice-over, as the driving catalyst of the story. The piece is more a character study of the participants rather than having a real plot. But it is one of the few films I know of which celebrates the world of antiquarian booksellers and their prospective book buyers. Unfortunately, since the rise of the internet and the struggling economies in both America and Europe, the presence of second-hand and antiquarian bookshops have been markedly reduced in many urban areas. Charing Cross Road which used to boast many booksellers now has only a handful, which is strangely predicted by the film at the end. "},{"Title":"If you read books, this film is for your soul.","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A literature teacher with a flair for old English-literature starts running low of readable stock, alas! of all places in New York. Even empties public libraries, and there was no IMDb-similar in those days... so she finally finds the address in England to mail-order the delicacies she expected 84 Charing Cross Road in London. Being a bibliophile myself, then comes the most sublime part of the film, when she receives the first batch of books, previously owned and mastered editions, gosh of all goshes my own emotions as being raised with the best Classics ever printed, is really like kissing your first love! Ahhh, Anne Bancroft awed by the mail order service starts asking for more and rarer editions, but at the same time asks herself about the knowledgeable people behind the business and establishes a Pen-Pal relation with a typical London bookstore, of which I visited many back in 1986. She starts getting involved with their feelings and different way of life, what starts urging her desire to meet these distant friends...Eventually, her professor wage allows for the trip and...Oh, is an end that also happened to me looking for war-surplus stores. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Period Piece about Kind, Literate, Intelligent People","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" All the characters in this novel are intelligent and kind. Most of them are very well read and share their lives via the now charming notion of cross Atlantic letters. This movie got the feel of the book down very very well.You learn a lot more about Helene Hanff if you read the book and the sequel. Also it has come to light that all during this period Helene was having a decades long affair with a very married and super famous American male who she refused to name, although those close to her know who he is and hint about it as she did sometimes. She became very close to Mr. Marx's son who is also a writer and he states that he might reveal who it was someday.So to look at Helene as some innocent woman with no sexual satisfaction or too many morals to have a long term affair with a married man is nonsense, although she did have the apparently now gone discretion to be able to keep her private life just that....private.I look up to Helene Hanff as a woman who lived her life single, free and doing what she wanted. "},{"Title":"For the love of books","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Do you like to read books? Do you have a love affair with books that is hard to explain to family and friends? If yes, then you will really, really enjoy this movie and true story. A true story that will delight and inform you.The economic times and conditions in NY and London right after WWII and into the 1950s couldn't be too much different; but, this story of a struggling New York writer and a barely surviving London book seller finds similarities in people who learn to survive and thrive.When the self-taught writer Helen Hanff struggles to find good books on British literature, she also finds a kindred soul in Frank Doel a book merchant in London. Their correspondence over 20 years develops into a mutual love, respect and understanding that benefits both. "},{"Title":"the above comment was wrong","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 84 Charing Cross Road is NOT a pizza hut, Its a common mistake because the numbers of the road tell you that it should be there but trust me it isn't, staying on the same side of the street, stand in front of the pizza hut and cross the road to the left of the hut, go a few doors up and there on the wall is the plaque, I went looking for the shop, and for years i too thought it was a Pizza hut but i was wrong, I seem to remember the last time i went it was a record and book store.keep looking.... the plaque IS there! I have photos to prove it!Now that is cleared up i can comment on the film, It is very rare that one finds a movie with this much heart, love and wistful romance between two people who NEVER meet, and knowing that it really happened makes it all the more magical. Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins play their parts heart breakingly well, their unspoken words can be deafening at times. Helene Hanff comes across as someone we would all like to have known, and all of the books she wrote following 84 Charing Cross Road show the same wit and personality, if you loved this film as much as i do please go to your local library and find the book called The Duchess Of Bloomsbury Street which is a personal diary written by Helene on that much wanted first trip to London, Apple Of My Eye (about her love of New York) and Underfoot In Show Business (about her struggling career as a play wright)and all her other titles are also written in the same style that draws you in and makes you want to know more about her amazing life.There is a legend with the book of 84 Charing cross Road, once you have read it, you should leave it on a bench in a public place with a PLEASE READ ME note attached, so you can pass this wonderful story onto thousands of people who may never have heard of a humble script reader / writer from New York. "}{"Title":"In A World Of Woe - A Gem Of A Film","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" To say I love '84, Charing Cross Road' is an understatement. This is a film that truly grabs you by the heart. I first saw this on the screen when it was released. Actually, my older brother and I were set to see an action film; alas, it was sold out when we got to the cinema. We, reluctantly, opted to see this, as we didn't feel like driving back home. We both liked Anne Bancroft, but being teen guys, we were not thrilled to be seeing this movie. Ten minutes into the film, both of us were hooked. I choked up and became misty eyed at several points during the screening, though I tried to hide it. When the film ended, my brother and I were absolutely taken with it.I came across the video years ago, and I cherish it. To me, '84, Charing Cross Road' is the quintessential film of the tenacity, the durability, the indestructible forces of friendship. And it's so, so much more. There are so many layers to this film, and I believe that's the key element which keeps me under its spell.Anne Bancroft, the wonderful, magnificent, legendary, and, sadly, late Anne Bancroft, gave an outstanding performance as Helene. Anthony Hopkins was equally enchanting. Brilliant script, direction, and performances by all the cast. The touching scenes when the Marks & Co. staff receive their Christmas food packages still brings me to tears.I had a great female friend who I met here in Canada; in 1987, she moved to London. We exchanged letters up until her death in 1994. Those letters...those letters are what remains of our close relationship. It's no wonder '84, Charing Cross Road' resonates so powerfully with me. I only recently purchased the book, and it sits on my bedside table; I read a letter or two from it now and again. It is simply a perfect book. I also LOVE 'The Duchess Of Bloombury Street' - MAN! - could this woman write! As for the film - Dear God, what a treasure. "},{"Title":"Hidden Gem","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the great mysteries of filmdom, as far as I'm concerned, is that it took a pot-boiler like Silence of the Lambs, and what was essentially a minor lacklustre supporting role, to bring (Sir)Anthony Hopkins to the attention of the general film-going public. Particularly with so many stellar stage, television and film roles behind him, dating from the late 60s to the very early 90s when SOTTL was released. During this period he made 84 Charing Cross Road - on the surface a modest little family movie. But for those who look behind the gaudy video tape cover, the cast was the tip-off. Just look at the actors (Dame)Judi Dench; Anne Bancroft; Ian McNeice; Maurice Denham; Anthony Hopkins, and, of course, the unutterably lovely Connie Booth (in one of her rare film roles). In the event, 84 Charing Cross Road really was, and is, a triumph of the film-makers and the actors art. No violence, no explicit sex scenes, no computer-generated scenes, nothing but the interaction of actors playing ordinary, everyday human-beings but the result is gripping and uplifting. 84 Charing Cross Road, brilliant though it was, was not the acme of Anthony Hopkins screen performance in the 80s, a couple of years later he went on to make Alan Ayckroyd's A Chorous of Disapproval a movie which was supposed to star Jeremy Irons in the lead role. Although Iron's performance is beyond reproach, Hopkins stole the movie with his performance as the stereotypical amateur dramatics producer Dafydd Ap Llewellyn - another tour-de-force for Hopkins and a movie which can be watched time and time again. Getting back to 84 Charing Cross Road? One of my favorite movies! When the weather is dull and drear and there's a touch of winter in my soul, 84 CCR is one of the happier movies which lifts me up and gives me faith in the human condition. "},{"Title":"Anne Bancroft Throwing the Book","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" With the death of Anne Bancroft and the most frequent mention The Graduate, the one about Helen Keller, and the nun movie with Fonda, I find it deeply negligent to omit Charing Cross. She makes you feel, smell and touch the reality of that time period, the hilarity of individuality and the precociousness of defiant survival. There is nothing she ever did that was inferior, but Charing Cross is beyond equivalent to The Graduate and the other two, with the scene throwing the book an excellent example of her natural confidence that for me epitomizes her career. The one with MacLaine about ballet was her sleekest. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time faves","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I could watch this film again and again.  It is one of the single most clever and touching pieces of movie-making I have ever experienced.A stellar cast and simple old-fashioned storytelling make this one that will be treasured and remembered by a wide audience.My vote an enthusiastic 9/10  "},{"Title":"Touching, Literate Story of PostWar Penpals","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favourites. Though I was never an English major (hence many of the references went over my head) the period atmosphere and top-notch performances by Bancroft and Hopkins bring this book/stage play to life. As someone who's had penpals overseas for years, it struck a real chord. Hopefully it'll be out on DVD soon. "},{"Title":"perfect.","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is one of the few perfect films ever made.  it's gentle and powerful and the performances are superb all around.  this film alone moves me with each viewing.  i can understand why people who don't read or people who require at least one bloodbath per movie would be bored with such a rich and subtle experience as this, but it is truly their loss. "},{"Title":"A love affair between two people who never met","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a rare movie.There's no plot really. There are no explosions. No chases, that would make Dirty Harry's day. No death's that involved gore. No sex even mentioned, let alone witnessed. There's not even so much as a chaste kiss between the two main characters. Would you believe that two of the highlights was nothing more dramatic than poetry read by people who knew how to read it? Would you also believe that the plot revolved around the delight of a reader of English Literature, and the slow mutual regard that developed between reader and bookseller? Would you be as entranced as most of us who wrote reviews were as we listened to these two exchange the simple pleasure both enjoyed in the other? And yet it's a remarkable movie that many people rated as a ten, including me.I thought it was a ten because everyone spoke like people.The movie was not only about books, and literature and poetry. It was about how people helped each other through difficult times with little acts of kindness before the term was even thought of.While the main point of the correspondence between these two concerned books, the humanity of one American (the character played by Anne Bancroft), and the proud dignity of one Englishman (Anthony Hopkins) was really a celebration of what is best in all of us. That is what made the movie so touching.It is also what made it worth its ten. "},{"Title":"Non-traditional Love Story","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I find it interesting that so many people cannot grasp the notion that there are many kinds of friendships and many kinds of love affairs. So many people miss the point of the film. We've been taught to believe that lovers must consummate a relationship and become a couple. That our friends are only real if we know them in person. This movie is about how people we may never meet can enrich our lives. In the age of internet relationships, this story has a particularly significant voice. I chuckled when I read Roger Ebert's review of this movie. How he found it boring and wondered why Helene didn't just jump on a plane to London. Then what? Destroy his marriage? Uproot her career? Or worse, drag this genteel brit back to 1960s New York? The story is about how people can live comfortable, perhaps even mundane lives, and yet find sweet escape through books and letters. The relationship itself is nothing more than restrained words on paper, and yet it's as real as any relationship either of them have with people they see every day. It's real because they share the same passion for the written word. Yes, it is tragic that they never meet. You want them to, but realistically, you know they can't. In the end, we realize they were lovers the whole time, and their love transcended the physical obstacles that kept them apart. "},{"Title":"Back before email and Twitter, there were letters...","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The year is 1951 and New York book-lover Helene Hanff (Anne Bancroft) writes to a small London bookshop in hopes of finding a rare book. Her request is filled quickly and politely by employee Frank Doel (Anthony Hopkins). Delighted with the good service, Helene continues to order books from the shop at 84 Charing Cross Road for the next twenty years and she and Frank become devoted pen pals, sharing stories about their personal lives in addition to their love of rare books.Bancroft plays Helene as loud, brassy, and generous while Hopkins' Frank is reserved, dignified, and kindly. They connected on many levels and became great friends even though they never met. Just when I thought their friendship was too contrived and precious, I remembered this was a true story and appreciated the depth of emotion that sprang from their letters. It's hard to imagine today how meaningful handwritten, heartfelt letters could be but they were, and this movie is testament to the power of the personal letter.The movie spans twenty years and each era is wonderfully recreated in the clothes and cars and current events. This is a sweet movie that has no action, but a good script that pulls at your heartstrings all the same...two real people who found an enduring friendship through their correspondence. Recommended. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film based on a true story","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 84 Charing Cross Road is directed by David Hugh Jones, is based on the book by Helene Hanff and stars Anne Bancroft, Anthony Hopkins, Judi Dench and Maurice Denham.This is a funny,romantic and touching film about friendship,love and books. This is a true story and is set just after the Second World War, it tells the story of Helene Hanff(Anne Bancroft)an independent feisty American who loves to read.Helene writes to a small book shop in London requesting some rare English classics.Shop owner Frank Doel(Anthony Hopkins)replies and soon they begin a regular correspondence which turns into a valued pen pal friendship and later into something more.There is fine support from Judi Dench as Frank's wife Nora and small appearances by Connie Booth,Ian McNiece and Maurice Denham as an elderly bookshop employee.Well acted and written this is a film to warm your heart. "}{"Title":"Wonderful story of friendship","Date":"30 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is just a wonderful story of a friendship developed entirely in written correspondence between a bookseller in England and his customer in the United States of America. There is almost no plot-just a chronicling of the key players lives as they tell each other about them. And there is no action to speak of at all.But somehow the audience is drawn to the characters and we sympathize with each of them as they face the ups and downs that go with life. We feel what they feel. And we see some fundamental decency, courtesy and charity (in the old sense of the word) that people can have (but seldom do). This film gives me hope for mankind, as silly as that sounds.Both Anthony Hopkins and Anne Bancroft give wonderful performances, which can not have been easy given the nature of the film. But they make it work.Very slow, very touching, and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"An intimate charming poignant and sad story that is perfect","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've rated this ten only because there isn't an 11 listing. Anthony Hopkins, Anne Bancroft and Judi Dench star in what has to be one of the most enduring and bittersweet movies of all time. Supposedly based on a true story (and yest the shop in the story did exist at one time) it is beautifully filmed tale of a woman who loves old and hard to find books, who lives in New York and the letters which are sent between her and the manager of an elite second hand book shop in London. With excellent supporting roles by Maurice Denham and Ian MacNeace, and a fine supporting cast this film is not an action film, but the friendships that develop from these letters between Helene and Frank Doel are the stuff of legends. If you like loud screamy films, this one is not for you. Otherwise, enjoy and have a ball. Keep the tissues handy. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" How can you not like something with the great Anthony Hopkins and the perfect Ms. Bancroft? I really thought the movie was excellent and I enjoyed it. Bittersweet yet historically accurate it provides a vehicle by which one could understand the consequences of war without any blood being shed.It also shows that love conquers distance and time and preserves itself in the hearts of those we touch.It is almost a forerunner to on line relationships in that these people developed, through the power of words, an endearing and deep love. Being told today it would lose its charm as they typed in instant messages!!!!! The pen is mightier than the keyboard! "},{"Title":"Two Separated by Water","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Had the creators and the producers of 84 CHARING CROSS ROAD decided to make this a more experimental movie I believe they would have succeeded because the nature of the relationship between Helen Hanff and Frank Doel suggests a Brechtian tableau. Instead, a more direct view was the result, and this is the movie that made it into theatres. However, it's a well-made feature, with Anthony Hopkins as usual portraying a man with a deep inner world that does not include his wife played by Dame Judi Dench (who back then was mainly known in her country and barely known here), and Anne Bancroft playing a woman with a singular temperament without going overboard or chewing scenery. One glaring minus is the repeated use of voice-overs, but that I believe would have been the only way to construct a narrative of what was mainly two decades worth of correspondence. It, overall, is a hard sell, but one that deserves a peek even if to complete both leads' filmographies. On a side note, this movie was produced by Mel Brooks, who also produced David Lynch's THE ELEPHANT MAN, a film which also starred Bancroft and Hopkins who also did not share significant screen time with each other. "},{"Title":"We loved this film!","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderful script and fantastic acting. A look back on a time of letter writing and making lifelong friends through simple acts of generosity. The pace of the movie was perfect. This film didn't drag and kept my interest the entire time. The passage of time was artfully portrayed via costume and news events. It was a bit of a stretch for Anne and Anthony to play 30 something in the beginning of the film, but we can forgive them that. I liked that this was not your typical Hollywood ending. This is a great movie for someone that wants to sit back and appreciate fine acting and a great story. Other movies (not like this, but that we liked) Baghdad Cafe, Don Juan deMarco, What's eating Gilbert Grape, Life According to Garp. "},{"Title":"Sweet and sad...","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" this is a lovely film, well-acted and portrayed through the time span of 1949-1969, encompassing the correspondence and friendship between NY playwright and freelance writer, Helene Hanff (Ann Bancroft) and British bookshop proprietor John Doel (Anthony Hopkins).Ms. Bancroft does an excellent job as a writer living in NY, trying to make a living, and developing a long-term correspondence with Hopkins. He helps her acquire the John Donne collection, Pepys' diaries, and other English literature collections she had difficulty acquiring in NY. She reflects a true love and passion for these writings, which is well conveyed throughout the film.The audience sees both sides of the relationship, as she is a struggling writer, and as Mr. Doel (Hopkins) interacts with his family (including his wife, well portrayed by Judy Dench). There is a warm, true emotionality to this film that is rare. One feels empathic for the Bancroft character, as well as several of the British characters she comes to know and correspond with. Also noteworthy are the performances of Mercedes Ruehl, as Hanff's NY friend; Daniel Gerroll, and Ian McNeice.The accompanying score hints at loss, opportunities missed, and passage of time. Ms Bancroft's performance as Helene Hanff is not to be missed. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A haunting movie","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A memorable, haunting, movie, which faithfully captures the atmosphere of the period and the passage of twenty years. Perhaps it works so well because the characters played by Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins are so different. She is such an outgoing, vivacious correspondent with a consuming passion for literature and he is so very low key; just an ordinary suburban Londoner, methodical, businesslike and undemonstrative. The scene where Helen learns of his death is totally unexpected and quite heartbreaking; one of the great movie moments.What a different place the Charing Cross Road is now that higher rents have driven out nearly all the little old bookshops and the big multiples have moved in.I guess some of the reviews above are written by Americans, as they refer to care packages. We Brits always called them food parcels and were very grateful for them in those grim years of rationing after the war. "},{"Title":"A true favorite of mine...","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most of my friends would find this film boring. A sad thing, really, because I love films like this.The 'conversations' between Hanff and Doel are absolutely wonderful, and Bancrofts portrayal was both touching and hilarious. Hopkins' performance is exceptional, as would be expected. And I felt the other characters all had a charm that isn't often shown in films currently made.If you don't need blood-and-guts ... or major CGI to enjoy a film, give this charmer a try... To me, it's well worth the time invested to watch. "},{"Title":"None needed.","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A thoroughly charming, brilliantly acted film that shows anyone interested in the business how it should be done. Instead of my usual Oh. My. God. That's two hours of my life I'll never get back again response to a film, I'm ready to watch it over and over again. It is definitely a film that would never get made today - email just does not carry the same weight for communicating as the personally written word, does it. Every performance by every actor in 84 was meticulous, practically down to the extras. The only reason I give it an 8 instead of the 10 is that I had some problems with the directing - felt heavy handed and cumbersome at times when the strength of the story and film was that it is a delicate and subtle work. RIP, Anne. You did such marvelous, marvelous work. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and literate love story of trans Atlantic pen pals","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a beautiful, touching movie with an unusual theme and presentation. In the modern age of rapid onset sex in real life relationships and constant sex on the screen, this film tells the tale (based on a true story) of a thirty or so year correspondence across the Atlantic, where love develops gradually between two people who never actually meet in person. It's awhile since I've watched it so I forget the details, but it very much moved me at the time, the memory lingering on long afterward. The correspondence is between Helene, a New York writer who, seeking out rare hard cover books, stumbles upon a bookshop, Marks & Co., catering to such tastes at 84 Charing Cross Road in London. The book shopkeeper, Frank, and Helene write letters (formally, book orders) back and forth, discussing their daily lives, contrasting aspects of British versus American culture (postwar rationing, for example), and develop a close bond, eventually even an undeclared love. Unfortunately, Helene's planned visit to England falls through due to a dental emergency, and by the time she finally makes the trip, it is too late; Frank has passed away and she is left with her 'unfinished business', to make the pilgrimage to the little bookshop with only her memories. The story is told in flashback as her plane approaches London.Some commentators, especially those that read the book, claim that this is not a romance, that Helene develops a friendship with ALL the shopkeepers at 84 Charing Cross Road, Frank merely being one of them. However when I saw this movie, I got a distinct sense of deeper emotions between Helene and Frank. Personally, I found unnatural Helene's approach of addressing her remarks directly to the camera. However, it's a wonderful story, beautifully told, of ordinary people who touch each other's lives across the miles. Helene is portrayed by Anne Bancroft with the wonderful Anthony Hopkins compelling in the role of the reserved bookseller, Frank. Pour yourself a nice cup of tea or a snifter of brandy, curl up by the fireplace, and enjoy this film. It's like a good book. "}{"Title":"excellent acting and script","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a nice little movie--with a simple script, no special effects and some terrific acting. In particular, Anne Bancroft stands out for her fine performance. Anthony Hopkins, though a fine actor, really plays a minor supporting role as do all the British cast. I applaud the director, producer and writers for taking a simple story and taking lots of care in creating a sweet movie. Despite the cover of the DVD, it is NOT a romance--unless you would count Bancroft's love of British books. However, despite the excellent acing and some sweet moments, the movie really seems to be about opportunities lost. Because of this, there is a definite bitter-sweet edge to the film. This movie would NOT appeal to the average teen or those who demand explosions or gratuitous sex in their films. No, this movie is meant to cater to a more sophisticated viewer who wants to see a film about real people. "},{"Title":"made without mel?","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" do movies like this get made without clout? mel produced, anne stars, i delight. i recommend to friends and get it was OK. i feel wicked glee they don't get it. its my movie even more.sometimes we look for singular pleasures that only we go gaga for to somehow give ourselves a kind of standout uniqueness. we all have that musician or group that we are a little overboard about. mine is harry Nilsson.but this beautiful little movie is not about that. this is what happens when it all goes right. restrained performances, beautiful writing, controlled direction,and everybody seemingly on the same page.i rarely get excited about movies anymore.but i sure am about this one.raspberries,the great aunts smile, the rain joke. i never tire of seeing this film. "},{"Title":"Simple And Low Key, But Heartfelt","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It was about an era long, long ago - when people used typewriters and wrote letters and couldn't order everything online. Helene (Ann Bancroft) lives in New York City and has a love for old English books, but has no way to get them. Frank (Anthony Hopkins) runs an antiquarian book shop in London, and receives a letter from Helene one day asking him for help in finding the old English books she's looking for. That simple request leads to a decades long correspondence between the two, which blossoms into a friendship (made obvious in the latter parts of the movie, when Frank's rather formal and official sounding letters start to be signed off with Love, Frank.)The two never meet. They just correspond across the ocean. If that doesn't sound very exciting, well, it isn't. You don't watch this for the excitement. It's a very human movie. It's neither exciting nor in many ways particularly interesting, but it comes from the heart. The pen pal type relationship between Helene and Frank is very touching, and one hopes throughout that somehow and at some time either Frank will come to America or Helene will go to England and the two will meet. That they didn't could have come as a letdown, and yet it really wasn't. The movie ended on the right note, as Helene finally does travel to London to see the book shop at 84 Charing Cross Road, but only after she's learned that Frank died suddenly and unexpectedly.We see a little bit of English and American history scattered through this movie. The British election that returned Churchill to power and the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II (not to mention the rationing that went on in London many years after World War II.) America, by contrast, is a land of plenty, but the student riots that break out in the 60's are depicted. It was an effective way of interspersing a bit of history among Frank and Helene's relationship.The structure of the movie perhaps meant that Hopkins and Bancroft (both excellent actors) were somewhat underused. Mostly, they narrated; reading the letters they wrote to each other while we saw background action. But this is an effective movie, and it does touch your heart a little bit as you learn of Frank's death, and as Helene finally visits the book store. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Engaging Vehicle for Bibliophiles and Bancroft Lovers","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" How can a true bibliophile not like this 1987 chestnut? Based on Helene Hanff's semi-autobiographical story which was later translated to a short-lived Broadway play starring Ellen Burstyn, this is not a movie that has much action or even significant character development. However, it sneaks up on you with its delicate portrayal of a time-spanning, transatlantic friendship that develops between Hanff, a brash, struggling New York writer and antiquated book lover, and Frank Doel, the genteel manager of Marks & Co., a London bookstore specializing in rare books. It's a relationship based solely on postal correspondence, and they bond over the things they share about their lives. That's really it. Yet, director David Hugh Jones and screenwriter Hugh Whitemore flesh out the episodic story with warmth and affection. Also helpful in setting the right tone are George Fenton's period music and Brian West's burnished cinematography.Executive producer Mel Brooks bought this property as a birthday present for his wife, Anne Bancroft, and it's no wonder as it affords a prime opportunity for this wondrous actress to show off her subtle dexterity in making us care about this irascible woman with just her typewriter, endless shelves of books and a small circle of friends. Yet, she is not a pitiable character by any means, as in Bancroft's hands, she's smart, opinionated, funny and quite empathetic to the woes of the British after WWII. As a precursor to his similarly quiet work in The Remains of the Day, Anthony Hopkins brings an unexpectedly coiled passion to the strait-laced Frank. Well before her imperious persona set in, Judi Dench plays his Irish wife with warmth and a hint of her trademark spunk. I could have done without the decision to have Hanff look into the camera to narrate, and the episode where Hanff gets taken away in a police wagon is rather contrived. Regardless, the story evolves in such an engaging manner that it produces the necessary emotional response from the viewer by the end. Sadly the 2002 DVD has no extras. "},{"Title":"Near perfect film","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a wonderfully sweet, surprisingly engaging movie. This movie totally shocked me, I went in expecting to enjoy it... but not this much. Nor was I expecting it to be quite this realistic and touching. I moved from England to America not too long ago and it made me realize just how much I miss my home, the old streets of London and it's culture. It really shows the contrast between the American way of life and the British way of life. I didn't at first understand how a movie could be made focusing on the relationship between 2 people who had never met, live on opposite sides of the ocean and aren't ever in the same scene together, but it really does work.The script is fantastic, when Helene's friend describes the old book store at 84 Charing Cross Road, I could actually smell the old wood and books and hear the floor boards creaking beneath my feet. The acting is just as wonderful, Ann Bancroft was perfectly cast with her quirky sense of humor and charm, and Anthony Hopkins was also perfectly cast as the proper, polite English gentlemen. I love the fact it gives you a sense of what life was like back in day, but is also relatable to the world we live in now. I met my husband, the reason for me moving to America on the internet, so I could relate to the strange unorthodox friendship/relationship between Frank and Helene. My only complaint, and just a small one is about the scenes where Frank and Helene talk directly to the Camera, to us the audience. I really didn't feel that necessary and it took away something from what could of been a perfect movie. "},{"Title":"Anne Bancroft and 84 Charing Cross Road","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie touched me personally and inspired me to get on the plane and go to England. I, like Helene, in the movie loved books and reading and always wanted to visit Britain. Also I had put it off for years and now that I am over 50 I finally made that choice to go and this movie was my inspiration to do so. Anne Bancroft was wonderful in the movie and it's sad she is gone. I have a great respect for books, reading, adventure and now England. I found the interaction between Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins to be somewhat romantic and it's ashamed they couldn't have met. I believe that their relationship here was on a very different level and very interesting. Also, the relationships that were there with the people in the bookstore were also delightful. It's a wonderful film and should not be overlooked. "},{"Title":"Delightful, poignant","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lovely, low-key film. Anything with Tony (excuse me, Sir Anthony) Hopkins in it is worth watching, and he doesn't disappoint here. Anne Bancroft also tuned in a wonderful performance. Kudos to Mercedes Ruehl in a small part. Grade A- "},{"Title":"lovely","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" books, love, letters and two existences. more important, extraordinary cast. it is difficult to present impressions or verdicts about a film in which Anne Bancroft, Sir Anthony Hopkins, Judy Dench creates the soul and the flesh of a touching-seductive story. the flavor of antique store, the emotions of characters, the joy of life, the bitter pieces, the dialogs and the silence, the words to the public who is, in fact , the other, the charm of old story who remembers cookies of childhood, all is perfect, delicate and comfortable. if you love one of the actors from cast, must see this film ! if you are one of nostalgics who has the soul in 1980 years , must see it ! if you are romantic or only small bookworm, you must see 84 Charing Cross Road ! and the after this exercise, all becomes clear. Pleasant viewing ! "},{"Title":"One of My All-Time Favorites","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" How could any flick with Ann Bancroft and Sir Anthony Hopkins be anything but good? ... This film is simply one of my favorite films of all time. The story, script, character development, acting ... everything about this film is A-One. Even the support performances are excellent. I could watch this film over and over again and never get sick of it.Bancroft is at her seasoned best in this movie. She is funny, smart, and attractive. So many people remember her only as Mrs. Robinson, but she is so much more than that, and this film really shows how good she really was. The world is a sadder, darker place without her in it. She will go down as my favorite actress of all time.This movie is quietly brilliant. That's all I can say. You have to watch it to believe what I'm saying. It's just ... lovely. "},{"Title":"Gentle nostalgic drama","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just after World War II, impoverished New York writer Helene Hanff (Anne Bancroft) takes to writing to London booksellers Marks & Co at 84 Charing Cross Road in pursuit of cheap used books. Her irreverent correspondence comes as a breath of fresh air to Marks' manager Frank Doel (Anthony Hopkins), and the English end of the correspondence gradually becomes less stuffy as Helene's correspondence opens up to include all the shop's staff and their families.The book comprises the letters between Hanff, Doel, and the other people involved. The film does a pretty good job of dramatising what is essentially no more than the contents of those letters. The story is gentle and nostalgic, starting just after the war and lasting about 20 years, chronicling the growing friendship between Hanff and Doel, punctuated by her ongoing (and constantly thwarted) attempts to get to London to meet her friends.I thoroughly enjoyed the book, and it was no surprise that I enjoyed this film too. "}{"Title":"Who a Person Is","Date":"14 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I suppose liking or appreciating 84 Charing Cross Road comes down to what one goes to movies to see. This is the case with any movie, obviously, but for any number of kids disappointed by reaching into the trick-or-treat bag and coming up with a granola bar, there are some who like the granola. 84 Charing Cross Road is cinematic granola. It's no Indiana Jones or Casablanca, but that's not to say there's no sense of wonder or adventure. To some viewers, a film about the love of reading and relationship through written correspondence has that. It may not sound like it, but consider that you can't make a movie about people writing to each other and liking or disliking books unless it's about the situations they're in as they write each other, what causes them to do so, and how their passion for literature defines their lives.The characters in this film are indeed human beings, probably more like the people watching it than is the case with most other movies. How implausibly eventful does a person's life have to be without being interesting or emotionally fulfilling? However slight the story arguably is, Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins are nevertheless deeply connected to the people it's about. Emotion and impulse on a salt-of-the-earth human level are the very wheelhouse of Bancroft. Her ability to be emotionally free and available to various nuances of feeling is key to her talent.There is not one false moment in the whole movie. For the invariably impeccable Sir Anthony Hopkins, he gives his performance the texture of real life with the spontaneity and idiosyncrasy of every one of his transitions, every one of his reactions to every emotional event. And though her role is small, Dame Judi Dench is given the difficult task of being there for many of the emotional events in her husband Hopkins' life, and does it modestly, sparingly, realistically and completely in the daintiest handful of scenes.I can argue in favor of 84 Charing Cross Road on a logical level, but at the same time, I still can't say there's anything profound for me to grab onto when I watch it, which is what I tend to desire from pared down human stories. The story blossoms into a chronicle of a beautiful little relationship that leaves a lasting imprint on the lives involved, my experience was that what happens is just life. No situation seems challenging enough to be anything more than the natural progression of the contact between two uneventful people. But that can also be considered a credit to the film. It seems designed to be for someone in particular, not everyone. You can maybe argue that if it were for everybody, it would then be for nobody in particular. Because it speaks to the tastes of a select audience who would be moved by this tale, and because it's thoroughly effective on that level of integrity, it's destined to be a cherished little critic-proof installment in their personal home entertainment collections. "},{"Title":"Understated Classic","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" For me, this is the kind of movie that starts out as a curiosity, becomes familiar and finishes being loved. My relationship with it is very much like that of the characters depicted.It's simple enough; a feisty but struggling all-American New York single-woman discovers a British Bookshop in London that has the kinds of books otherwise unavailable in her home city. She begins a series of purchases by mail-order and an intimate if platonic relationship develops between herself and its staff.That doesn't sound very promising. There's no action. Nobody is murdered, there are no reckless car-chases, not a hint of pyrotechnics. Moreover; there is no great spectacle either, no sweeping wide-angle pans. Almost the entire story is contained within a stuffy Charing Cross Road bookshop and the scarcely less stuffy apartment of the American customer, with brief sorties into the stuffy homes and lives of the other characters.Nevertheless; this movie has STORY in spades. We get to explore the microcosm of the characters' private lives, and the result is a spellbinding experience.Ann Bancroft is perfectly cast as the demanding, emancipated New Yorker who won't take 'no' for an answer when it comes to having the books of her dreams. Anthony Hopkins plays the shop manager with the sort of undemonstrative reserve that has become his hallmark when not eating people. These two lead a cast of nicely chosen and believable individuals - including Dame Judi Dench - who fill-out the fabric of their story. A great deal of the dialogue is composed of narrative, being the two leads effectively reading out their letters to each other. It's a great ploy, because by their means the story can be slowed or advanced in any way which might suit the circumstances.The movie takes us on a developing relationship that lasts for years, predating WW2, and then ever onwards. Times change, fortunes flourish and decline; people come and go. Some die. It's a bitter-sweet slice of life, of how we accomplish what we can, but seldom realise our dreams and must surrender to - yet be reconciled with - the unremitting passage of time.This is a great movie about human life on a human scale. Simple, hopeful, but ultimately in vain, it's all of our lives in the end. Collectible and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Nostalgia is best when it is all still there in front of your eyes","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Anyone who knows London knows and loves Charing Cross Road that has been able to resist any kind or urban change, even recent urban renovation, since I first stepped into it in 1960. I have walked it up to Tottenham Court Station and Road and down to Trafalgar Square and the National Gallery more often than Champs Elysées in Paris or Broadway in New York. It is for me one street I love discovering every single time I am in London with all its book stores, Covent Garden on one side and Soho on the other side, Leicester square on that other side, and the National gallery at the bottom of the street not to speak of Saint Martin's in the Fields and its underground crypt where you can eat with the ghosts. Fifty years haunting that place, that road, its shops, theaters, churches and left or right hinterlands. The Strand next to it is nothing and I can live without ever setting one toe of one foot in it, but Charing Cross Road&#x85; This film is thus nostalgic about what it was, and still is, in spite of the death of two people and the closing of Marks books that I actually visited before it closed, or it might be another one, they were and are all just as beautiful and intriguing. But the film is not about nostalgia for some place you have visited and loved, not even a person you have loved and lived with in a way or another, but about a service you can only get from true secondhand bookstores because they don't sell books but they sell the books they love and cherish to people who love and cherish them just the same. These secondhand bookstores and booksellers have a charm that is not only quaint but is like an accomplice-ship in the crime of loving books, old books, beautiful books, books that have been used, visited and read by what we imagine are hundreds of people. The last book I got from England is from the University Library of Leeds, still with its barcode, its number, its Reference tag, its not to be borrowed tag and a book that was published in 1960, precisely, fifty years ago, a book no one can find any more except in university libraries and I have it on my desk, as if I had borrowed it and forgotten to give it back and left the country with it. That's what a second hand book is, and that's what this film is trying to make you feel by exploring the feelings of the bookseller and the customer, one in New York and the other in London, sharing (a perfect word for Charing Cross Street) the love of old books and the hunt and chase for them and the pleasure of a capture that can never be planned out and foreseen. No one can imagine what it means to hold an original edition of Walter Scott's novels and the communion with all those who have turned the fragile pages. Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins are rendering these feelings intertwined with real events from 1949 to the early 1960s, care packages and one coronation, plus plenty of New Year celebrations and Christmases, and we feel that spiritual love adventure among several grownups who will never meet and who are bringing together emotions and passions all connected to those books and the help one can bring to all the others in their hopes and sufferings. You will definitely see more of London than New York but London is the main character brought to life by two great actors and a sweet story.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Bottoms up, you'll enjoy","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Naysayers would describe 84 Charing Cross Road as static, simplistic of plot, devoid of conflict and not challenging to the film-goer. Yet it is often moving in the way its long-distance relationship develops like a slowly steeping tea (between Helene and the bookstore employees), arch in its humorous bits of dialogue, and evocative of London and Londoners circa 1940- 50's. It makes you long for the day when businesses treated their customers with the ongoing care and courtesy that the employees of 84 CCR showed to Helene Hanff (even though the participants are 3,000 miles apart)! The film could have been spiced up by showing more locales (a tavern or social get-together after work perhaps) than the bookstore, Helene's apartment or the characters at home enjoying Helene's food packages. But I've seen this movie 4-5 times and it seems to bring one to a contemplative mood like a cozy sofa, a favorite book, and a snifter of brandy. "},{"Title":"An interesting true story that is respectfully told and generally well-made","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is the supposed true story about an American book collector and her transatlantic communication (via letter) with an English book store owner.Seeking a rare book, Helen (the late Anne Bancroft) contacts a store in England and is delighted to find the book she is looking for. The owner (Anthony Hopkins) sends it to her, cheap. She continues using the store as her new hunting grounds, contacting the owner frequently in pursuit of new rarities. Eventually the two form a friendship and plan to meet.I saw this twice, once in a hotel room in London and again on Comcast's freeview service channel. I enjoyed the film both times and, although I found it a bit slow-moving at times, generally it's engaging and remains interesting throughout.Hopkins and Bancroft both give very good performances, with Hopkins perfectly epitomizing the classy Brit; whereas Bancroft does great work as a loud New York Jew. (These are not my words!) The movie won three BAFTA Awards when it came out back in 1987 and I can see why. It's not great but it's very good and respectfully made, well-told with an entertaining and quite amazing story. Worth seeing if you can find it on TV some time. "},{"Title":"A Good Time-Waster","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" True story of a transatlantic business correspondence about used books that developed into a close friendship.Roger Ebert somewhat humorously wrote, Miss Fiske was the librarian at the Urbana Free Library when I was growing up. She never had to talk to me about the love of books because she simply exuded it and I absorbed it. She would have loved this movie. Sitting next to her, I suspect, I would have loved it, too. But Miss Fiske is gone now, and I found it pretty slow-going on my own. That Ebert was a funny guy. As he notes elsewhere in his review, this movie is built on a very thin premise. And that is its ultimate downfall. While the movie is fun to watch, it has so little going on basically two people corresponding about books to order. It's nice for a book lover like myself, but it did begin to wear after a while. "},{"Title":"A superb tale of the friendship that arose out of a mutual love of books","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the 1981 play by James Roose-Evans which was itself based on the 1970 memoir by Helene Hanff, this is a superb tale of the friendship that arose out of a mutual love of books. The film concerns the almost 20 year correspondence between Hanff, a New York-based lover of English literature, and the staff of the antiquarian bookshop Marks & Co. in London, in particular its chief buyer Frank Doel. Although it began as a purely professional arrangement, the correspondence eventually blossomed into a very close friendship between Hanff and Doel, even though they never actually met in person. Hanff also enjoyed long distance friendships with the rest of the staff but none of them were on the same level as that which she shared with Doel. The film does not have a plot per se, being primarily concerned with its characters and the small details of their lives as opposed to the major events thereof. In order for such films to work, the writing has to be very sharp and, perhaps even more importantly, the characters in question have to compelling and/or sympathetic. To that end, I am glad to say that I found this film to be fascinating, engrossing and at times very moving. It has a perfect script by Hugh Whitemore who, by relying on the source material, was able to paint a vivid and authentic portrait of the two central characters. The film is very well directed by the prolific theatre director David Jones, who is able to very effectively contrast the various locales of London and New York. In this sense, the direction goes hand in hand with the script, which nice explores the difference between British and American cultures.The film stars Anne Bancroft in a wonderful performance as Hanff, an initially fairly impoverished script reader living in a small apartment in Manhattan who is attempting to further her education through the acquisition of out of print editions of British classics as well as more obscure books. One that sparked my interest in particular was The Idea of a University by Cardinal John Henry Newman. Cardinal Newman founded the Catholic University of Ireland, the predecessor of my alma mater University College Dublin. Hanff is equipped with an occasionally caustic wit but she is a lovely person who cares about others deeply. She has a tendency to tease the staff at Marks & Co. when they are not very prompt in fulfilling one of their orders but she regularly sends them gift packages of items such as meat and eggs, which were still rationed in Britain when the correspondence began in 1949, in gratitude for all of their efforts. It is a very kind gesture that goes above and beyond the call of duty. Hanff eventually gets a job as a scriptwriter for The Adventures of Ellery Queen and receives a salary of $200 per episode, which is increased to $250 after a while. She had intended to use this money to travel to London for the Queen's coronation in 1953 but the fact that she requires extensive and expensive dental work put paid to that idea. She finally makes it to London in 1971, by which time Marks & Co. has closed down.Bancroft's Young Winston and The Elephant Man co-star Anthony Hopkins is excellent as Doel, who grows equally fond of Hanff over the course of two decades. Taking them at face value, they would seem to have little in common as he is a somewhat shy, naturally quiet and reserved man whereas she is a live-wire. Their friendship grows out of their shared love of books but it is not confined to that as their letters cover a wide variety of topics from Yorkshire Pudding to his love for Tottenham Hotspur and hers for the Brooklyn Dodgers. He becomes more open in his writing and does not hesitate to tell about his wife Nora and their daughters Sheila and Mary. Over time, they become best friends and each is perhaps the greatest friend that the other ever had. When Doel finds out that she is not coming over in 1953, he is quietly devastated as he had longed to meet her. In January 1969, Hanff discovers that Doel, whom she nicknamed Frankie, died of peritonitis the previous month and she breaks down crying in a beautiful scene. It is clear that not travelling to London and beginning a more conventional friendship is one of her biggest regrets, not least because she previously told him that she thought that he understood her better than anyone else. It is a tribute to the great skill of both Bancroft and Hopkins that the evolution of Hanff and Doel's friendship is presented in an entirely believable manner. There is a great chemistry between them even though they never appear together on screen.The film has a small but strong supporting cast. Judi Dench does not have a big role but she is nevertheless excellent as Nora, who becomes friends with Hanff herself but admits after her husband's death that she was occasionally jealous of their close friendship. This is best illustrated in a tense dinner scene in which Doel avoids making eye contact with her Nora, who looks at him somewhat bitterly. In spite of this, however, she is never depicted as being an unsympathetic character and there is an clear but understated sense of love and affection between the couple. The nature of the film means that no one other than Bancroft, Hopkins and, to a lesser extent, Dench has a chance to shine but I also impressed by Maurice Denham (in one of his final film roles), Mercedes Ruehl, Ian McNeice and Eleanor David.Overall, this is a marvellous film which is able to communicate the joy of reading far more effectively than I would have thought possible through this medium. "},{"Title":"Letters across the pond nourish a special bond","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" 84 Charing Cross Rd. is my idea of a fine movie and one that seems totally British. Ironically, as a fan of British movies, I was surprised to learn that this movie was produced by New Yorker Mel Brooks, a departure from his usual slapstick comedies. He also produced The Elephant Man and his wife Anne Bancroft appeared in both, as did Anthony Hopkins. The film is based on a book by Helene Hanff, one of the two main characters. This story took place during a the period from 1949 to the end of the nineteen sixties. The plot neatly shifts from New York to London as the two leading characters exchange letters as part of their antiquarian book transactions. Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins are excellent in the roles that bring together Helene Hanff and Frank Doel over their shared love of books. We hear voiceovers from both as each character reads their own letters. This is a touch that fits in beautifully with the movie. Frank is very businesslike in his role as the bookstore manager. The feeling of elation or disappointment are palpable as Bancroft opens the packages she receives from her London bookseller. Bancroft is an animated script writer whose love of literature is well matched with Anthony Hopkins' own vast knowledge of the book business, particularly the market for antique books and first editions. Bancroft is a single woman with close friends but no life partner; however, she is bright and witty with a great zest for life and especially for English literature. (Frequent cutaways to the portrait of a sailor strongly hint at a past romance.) Hopkins is a very proper English gentleman who is married with a young family when they first became acquainted. He runs an efficient book business with a staff committed to the quality service he exemplifies. Judy Dench has a minor role as Frank's wife Nora, whose main appearance comes towards the end of the film. Bancroft's love of books sparks Frank's interest and he gives excellent service, which she reciprocates with warm, witty and very funny letters. She tries to burst his natural reserve. He is English to the very core, just as Bancroft is pure wool Manhattan. Over time, the relationship becomes very close. Anne Bancroft's character becomes like a family relative to the staff of Marks and Co, sending gifts of food to the London employees and their loved ones who are coping with post-war rations. At one point, Bancroft's friend visits London but does not connect with Frank who is out of the office at the time. A planned visit by Helene to coincide with the coronation of the Queen in 1953 is cancelled at the last moment; Frank is devastated. Will they ever meet? "},{"Title":"subtle, classy, kind","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" There were three things I deeply appreciated from this film how one can love a book, the kindness of complete strangers, and how well the letters were crafted. I have a passion for reading and a dire need to write, hence the education I received in this film was priceless. Since I am of the mindset that very little impresses me, it was fascinating to be reminded of that great hope and excitement of entering new territory completely unawares.I understand her complaints of Chaucer and the Anglican bible translation, but found myself wanting to know how this uneducated woman had such a desire for acquiring these many treasures. That is an exceptional characteristic, NOT weird my dear....I thought of all the kind gestures I have made over the years, typically to friends, colleagues, wanting to impress, and not exactly for the noblest of reasons. How the pay it forward concept was manifest in just a few simple lives, but made such an impact on so many others.My writing skills, albeit a published technical author, is so very lacking in refinement and humorous expression. Yet another work and lessons in progress.I was extremely fond of the lead performances and the capture of just the right sights and sounds of a busy New York City apartment. Mel Brooks is the last person I would assume to produce this type of film. I thank him for taking that chance to bring it to an audience who has the patience and sentimentality to cherish every moment. "},{"Title":"Brought To Book","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's strangely apposite that this more or less true story of an American Anglophile should be told in a style that is all but an homage to two great English writers, Noel Coward and Terence Rattigan who personified the Englishness that Helene Hanf found so beguiling so it's fitting that the film 'borrows' the device more or less patented by Coward in Cavalcade and one he used again in This Happy Breed, that of telling a story against a backdrop of real events that effectively move the story forwards in a block of several years at one fell swoop. As others have noted here the cast, although led by two brilliant performances, also functions as a well-drilled ensemble that would have no trouble masquerading as a Swiss watch and it would be churlish to single out any one individual. Understated, tacit, art concealing art are descriptions that come easily to mind. A small gem. "}{"Title":"same experience at the moment as in the movie","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am 73 yrs young retired airline captain and since 2 months have correspondence and telephone communication with a Russian lady (60) psychologist. We have never seen each other and have deeply fallen in love on a level such as Anthony and Anne. Now the lady psychologist is in doubt and says its not possible we are in love with a phantom.We have to see each other first. There are numerous cases in history and literature where love existed only via letters. I am trying to convince my sweet Russian lady with showing her this movie. Our telephone conversations every evening for six weeks in a row last for about 30 to 60 minutes sometimes even longer. Anyone reading this, please if you know where i can buy the video i would be grateful to know. Also if you agree with me that what we have now can be real please let me know and i'll forward your support if any. Anthony and Anne were both fabulous needless to say. I identify very much with the characters. "},{"Title":"A de-dramatized hagiography","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A feel-good film for nostalgic bookworms, adapted from Helene Hanff's 1970 eponymous epistolary memoir, stars two acting legends Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins, and spoilers alert, they never share one single scene together! It is about a transatlantic friendship between two people they have never met, they correspond by letters only. Everything starts in 1949, Helene Hanff (Bancroft) is an American writer living in NYC, feeling frustrated by the deficiency of British literature in the city, she tries her luck with an antiquarian bookshop Marks & Co, located at the titular address in London that does mail order. This initiates not only a 20-year-long friendship between Helene and Frank Doel (Hopkins), the manager of the Marks & Co and a family man with 3 daughters, but with the rest of the staff as well. From ordering books, they start to exchange gift packages, especially when Helene mails the food parcels, which become a sensation for those in the food shortages after WWII in Britain. Through the length of 20 years, they correspond each other discussing literature, their daily life (although Helene's family background is intentionally circumvented), and historical moments such as the coronation of Elizabeth II. The picture is director David (Hugh) Jones' second feature work, one biggest challenge is the running account narration of its source material and wanting cinematic spectacles. So Jones has completely de-dramatized the film, even for the tragedy which completely annihilates the chance of a belated face-to-face encounter between Helene and Frank, it only shows Nora (Dench), Frank's wife, writing a letter with well-handled forbearance; whereas Helene responses the news with superficial composure, restrained shock and sympathetic grief. But that is it, otherwise there is no palpable undulation in the emotional quarter. Instead, Anne Bancroft is jubilantly sprightly in beautifying Helene's monotonous life orbit, an intellectual with good sense of humor, she embraces life fully and it is not so often we can see Ms. Bancroft reveal this facet of her personality. So she gladly won a BAFTA for BEST ACTRESS for the role (in a time when BAFTA hasn't degraded into a precursor for Oscar race). Hopkins, whose gentleman like bonhomie is also a treat to enjoy, since soon his Hannibal Lector's image would entrench in our general prospect for him. Dench is so unassuming in her supporting duty, yet she and Hopkins' perfect line-readings are purely divine. As a whole, it is not an exciting piece of cinema for my material-leaning taste, however it at least can evoke the nostalgia to appreciate a bygone era when pen-friend-ship can be intimately moving and essentially important during one's life. "},{"Title":"Perhaps enjoyed best by lovers of books and quiet films","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is based on letters exchanged between a New York City woman who loves English literature and a London bookseller who does his best to satisfy her specialized requests. The two never meet. This is not great source material for dramatic cinema and credit must be given that this movie keeps our interest as much as it does. A relationship develops between the two protagonists as would be expected between two people who share a passion. Through subtle facial expressions Anthony Hopkins is able to give hints as to deeper emotions that lie beneath the reserve of the bookseller. Ann Bancroft, though more open, is less convincing in her role. We never see much evidence that she is reading, or has read, any of the weighty books she orders. Judy Dench plays a small role as Hopkins' wife and has a good scene in reading a letter she writes to Bancroft informing her of Hopkins' death. Apparently infrequent transatlantic correspondence can be a cause for jealousy. The fact that someone's reading a letter is a high point says something about this film.Various devices are used to try to spice up this essentially talky movie. One that did not work for me was Bancroft's talking directly to the camera, presumably using it as a stand-in for Hopkins - I found this distancing rather than inviting.The movie is not without its small pleasures, particularly Hopkins' creation of character. Just don't expect to be kept on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Two nice people being nice to one another","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Charing Cross Road is a street in central London, running between Trafalgar Square and Oxford Street. (Rather confusingly, Charing Cross Station does not actually lie in this street). It is a centre of the London book trade, renowned for its bookshops (Foyles being the most famous), selling both new and second-hand books. 84 Charing Cross Road was the address of the antiquarian booksellers Marks & Co, although the firm no longer exists. (The building, which now bears a different address, is today a restaurant).Helene Hanff's book 84 Charing Cross Road was one of the unexpected publishing successes of 1970, even though it is only a compilation of letters passing between Miss Hanff herself and Frank Doel, the manager of Marks & Co. The book was later turned into a play, which in its turn served as the basis for this film.The story is a simple one. In 1949 Helene Hanff, a voracious reader of all types of literature (except fiction), is unable to find a number of classic works of British literature in her native New York City. She notices a newspaper advertisement placed by Marks & Co and in desperation writes to inquire if they can supply any of the missing titles. Doel writes back to say that they have most of the books in stock. Hanff continues ordering books from the company and over the years her relationship with Doel evolves into a long-distance friendship. They correspond about all manner of topics, not just about literature but about family matters and current events. Hanff cherishes the hope that one day she will be able to visit London and see the bookshop for herself, but she is unable to afford the fare until 1971, by which time Doel has died and the shop closed.Both the leading actors, Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins, are excellent. They dominate the film; all the other actors, including its third big name Judi Dench as Doel's wife Nora, have comparatively little to do. Hopkins is sometimes regarded in specialising in forceful, flamboyant or monstrous characters such as Hannibal Lecter or Captain Bligh in The Bounty, but in fact he can be equally good as quieter, more restrained individuals, such as Dr Treves in The Elephant Man, the butler in The Remains of the Day or C S Lewis in Shadowlands, and Frank Doel is another similar character.And yet, despite the quality of the acting, this has never been one of my favourite films. When I read Hanff's book (admittedly a long time ago) it never struck me as a naturally dramatic story, so I was surprised when it was adapted for the cinema. The film's rather static nature betrays its origins in a stage play, and I was not surprised to learn that the director, David Hugh Jones, was a well-known theatrical director with little experience of working in the cinema. (This was only his second film).I think, however, that the fault lies not so much with Jones's direction as with the nature of his material. The eighties saw a number of distinguished adaptations of stage plays for the screen, such as Willy Russell's Educating Rita and Shirley Valentine or the Dustin Hoffman version of Miller's Death of a Salesman. None of those dramas contain much in the way of physical action, but they do contain plenty of dramatic conflict, what might be called emotional action. There is nothing of that in 84, Charing Cross Road. Hanff's book is little more than a record of two nice people being nice to one another over a period of two decades. Although she can occasionally be sharp-tongued when a book she has ordered fails to meet her expectations, she is really very kind-hearted, something shown when she sends food parcels to Doel and his colleagues, suffering from post-World War II austerity, and he always comes across as the perfect English gentleman. Their relationship never generates enough dramatic tension to make this an altogether successful film.On a final note, I have never understood just why Helene Hanff found it so difficult to find the books she wanted. It might have been more understandable had she been living in a remote small town, but were New York bookshops in the forties and fifties really so badly stocked that they did not carry the works of such major British authors as Chaucer, John Donne, Pepys and Jane Austen? 6/10, largely for the quality of the acting. "},{"Title":"Despite fundamental problems, a simple story eloquently told...","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Helene Hanff's book, initially transformed into a celebrated play by James Roose-Evans, becomes a genteel romantic film about a bookshop in London, specializing in antiquarian English literature, receiving orders--and, soon, personal correspondence--from an American book-lover in New York. The bookstore's proprietor (Anthony Hopkins, acting noble) and the lady reader (Anne Bancroft) somehow develop a special bond through the mail, with hope on both sides of the Atlantic that one day she will visit. With this material so reliant on voice-over work from the central characters, the flow of the picture's narrative takes some time adjusting to. Eventually, with such interesting things being said in the narration, what we're hearing is more involving than what we're seeing--this fault due in part to Bancroft's over-emoting. Bancroft doesn't simply smile or reassure us with a nod--she plays to the rafters, full of vinegar and jazz, and director David Jones' decision to occasionally have her talk directly to the camera was unwise. The movie, opening in 1949 and spanning many years, does a poor job interjecting the political upheavals of the day (and a later reference to the Beatles is cringe-worthy). However, when Jones allows the story to unfold gently, the picture does provide light enjoyment for patient fans of human drama. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Pleasant and yet...","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins. How wrong could you go? As others have said, this is a charming little story about two people worlds apart who communicate via letters. It covers about 20 years and the people, the writer Helene and the book store manager Frank, never meet. Their whole world exists on paper -- letters and books to be exact. In a way, it was refreshing to see this movie, because this kind of story today would never be made. It also has a pre-007 Judi Dench, who is also fabulous, though she doesn't have much to do.Performances aside, there are three things about this movie that do not work for me. One Is the character of Helene a nun? Asexual? A lesbian? I mean, the woman has absolutely no romance in her life at all, unless you count her letters to Frank, which, although they seem to border on occasional flirting -- it is simply not a romance, sorry. So, we're asked to believe that this woman has gone through her entire life without even contemplating romance? Yeah, okay, she asks Frank to send her a book of love poems. Whoopee. What does she do on Friday nights? Nothing apparently.Second, I simply cannot understand why it is that the director and/or producer thought it would be funny to break the fourth wall and have Anne (and, in one scene, Anthony) talk to the camera. It was really irritating and totally destroyed the mood. Absolutely unnecessary and did nothing for the film. Third, what exactly is the point of the ending? I kept waiting for something to happen. Absolutely nothing does. First, how the hell does Helene get a key to the book shop. By magic? Second, at the penultimate moment, she eyes some letters on the floor -- it would have been so touching, so moving if she had found her own letters to Frank. Instead, she looks at them, then back to the camera and says something lame like, I'm here.The character of Helene was such a tightwad that even when it's clear that she has moved up in the world, she is still absolutely unwilling to take a trip to London to visit Frank -- and she's apparently so cheap she can't even pick up the phone to call him. There are other unnecessary characters in this film and several scenes which could have easily been cut.All of that aside, Anne and Anthony are a pleasure to watch because they're good actors. It was fun going back and forth between NYC and London, but about three-fourths of the way through I thought Anne, get on the damn plane and go already!Interesting, yes. Perhaps something pleasant for a rainy Sunday afternoon. Riveting, no, but if you're a fan of Anne or Anthony, it's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"I'll probably never watch it again","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't not like this film, but I don't think I'll ever watch it again. I enjoyed the idea and I think the cast did a superb job. Anne Bancroft is a funny woman and she brings a lot of humor to her part, which was nice.but the movie has that 70s decade of film making surreal understated feel to it. The kind where you're watching the movie and it feels like the story line is on a tread mill and all of sudden something tragic happens and the audience has to figure it out by caging camera movements and the actress crying. It uses these techniques instead of a film score to explain the story.Now, I don't mind this style of filming. It works in other movies like The Thomas Crown Affair and the comprehensive movie All The Presidents Men, but in this movie I felt like it took away from a unique plot that would have been expressed well if the moments of friendship were dealt with closer attention, and not treated like collateral damage in some kind of 1960s peace movement documentary.This movie could be remade and if done right the newer version would be better then this one. Remade by the likes of Emma Thompson and her gang of literary elites...Not The Lifetime Channel! "},{"Title":"I _ought_ to have loved this movie... but I didn't","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just finished watching this film, and I must say I am disappointed and cannot really understand the very high marks and good reviews it has got. Especially as I _ought_ to have loved it, as it is about two things that have always been very important in my life books and pen-friends. Love and letters! Not to mention Anthony Hopkins, whom I have loved in so many movies Shadowlands, The Remains of the Day, The Edge... Therefore, I was a bit disappointed that it was not more to it.I know very well from my own experience, that pen-friendships with people of the opposite sex very easily spark love feelings and fantasies - although of course you never mention this overtly in your letters. Because you do not _really_ want to destroy his marriage - or your own - and cause great havoc for everybody.Or - worse, to be honest - you have the fear that the person you have a secret love relationship with in your imagination, will turn out to be someone quite different in reality. This is also my sad experience from the times when I have met my pen-friends (of both sexes) in reality people who read and write a lot and are good with words, are often not so easy to get along with in real life. This is of course the reason why they have turned to the books and corresponding it is the only way for them to reach out to other people and try to break their loneliness.With this in mind, it does not have to be at all wrong that Anthony Hopkins was a much less interesting or attractive character than he usually is in movies. It is in fact quite appropriate, that he was grey and insignificant. And the same goes for the American woman who was even worse too loud and unfeminine and not sympathetic at all - certainly not a character I could or would want to identify myself with. Maybe they _were_ both supposed to be people who were not popular in real life, and therefore turned to this correspondence for solace..? ...but of course when you watch a movie, you do not want your hero to be grey and boring, and your heroine unwomanly and unlikeable! You want to see beautiful, charming people that you can identify with and love and admire... Otherwise, the movie could never become a great movie and a favourite - at least not to me. (Maybe this proves me shallow..?) I wish it could be remade with Hugh Grant and Emma Thompson in the leads! And also that the love fantasies between the couple could be stated more clearly. They were now too much understated, and that also contributed to the boredom of the movie. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was a big disappointment. I thought it would be like You've Got Mail but in an earlier era. I expected the letters to be at least personal, if not intimate, but they're essentially just friendly business letters. Helen talks about why she loves certain books and authors, but Frank only talks about finding the books she asks for - we never learn anything about his own feelings for them. It was also confusing, and a little disturbing, that her motives are so unclear. She develops strong feelings for Frank (based on his helpfulness, I guess) but once she learns that he's a husband and father, what exactly is she hoping for? All in all a missed opportunity, especially with such fine actors. "},{"Title":"84 Boring Cross Road","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel like a bull in a China shop and like perhaps I should sneak out now, before I get noticed or break something - because everybody - and I do mean everybody - who reviewed this film loved it.I cannot imagine anyone being interested in this film other than people who are interested in very old books, or if they are a big fan of either Anne Bancroft or Anthony Hopkins - because nothing happens in this movie, and I do mean nothing. Some here have termed this a romance. I wouldn't.Bancroft and Hopkins do excellent work, given the circumstances, and their characters and everyone else in the film are very nice, sweet, generous, decent people--the kind you want to know in real life, but not the kind of people that make for an interesting film. These people led boring lives--and consequently it made for a rather boring movie.Now I don't need nor particularly want constant action in a film, but a little drama, a little plot can help tremendously. This film had none of those things.So what was the film about? Well, it's about this older spinster who is a very nice, somewhat feisty lady, who lives in a large city in the USA. I assume New York. If they said, I missed it, probably due to my eyes having glazed over. Her name is Helene Hanff (Anne Bancroft), and she is a lover of old books written back in the days of yore, especially non-fiction.She has difficulty locating these ancient tomes in New York and she finds out about this bookstore specializing in just the kind of books she likes, only it's located in England.So Helene sits down and pecks out a letter on her manual typewriter in late 1959 to this bookstore in the UK. She receives a letter back from employee Frank Doel (Anthony Hopkins) and he has the books she wants.That's it, folks, that's the entire movie - these two people write back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. She orders books. He finds the books she wants and sends them to her.For some reason, Great Britain, at that time, was on a food rationing system. Why the rationing, I never understood, no doubt yet another instance in the film where I spaced out. I mean it was well after the end of WWII, the U.S. economy was booming - so what was Britain's problem? Were they still recovering from the bombings and the war? Well, don't fret your mind over this detail, because it doesn't really matter anyway, other than to explain why Helene orders canned goods for the people at the bookstore, from Denmark and sends these care packages.She does this several times.Soon she's writing to another person as well who works at the bookstore. Eventually she's even writing Frank's wife, buying the daughters some nylons and hearing all the boring family news.Helene apparently would correspond with anybody who was willing to write back to her.She wants to go to London, and as we see at the very beginning of the film in the opening scene - she does. That too, however, comes to nothing much.4 stars out of 10. I'm sorry, but that's the best I could give it. "}]