[{"Title":"all reviwers must be knee-jerk fundamentalists","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"94 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  so far, aside from the comments here at IMDB, i have not seen one positive review for this film. i just don't get it. i honestly think it's a political assault against a film that threatens reviewers jealously guarded dogmas.for me the film is escapism at it's finest. it's a film about cave dwellers that doesn't condescend by having the characters speak in english, but instead in subtitled neanderthal. it gives the film believability as far as i'm concerned.it's not a film about great conflicts and battles in pre-history, it's merely a character study about the final days of the neanderthals and how they are threatened by cro-magnons (daryl hannah).it isn't an overly flowery movie. a couple of times it gets down and dirty in it's portrayal of mob rules mentality and racism. maybe the film offends viewers because they see themselves in the characters and don't like the comparison. all of the unpleasant behaviors, although simplified in the movie, still happen today in more civilized times. people are still threatened by anyone different, women still get raped, sexism hasn't gone away and populations are still ruled by ruthless dictators.for me, clan of the cave bear is a totally believeable story of life as it may have been 50,000 years ago. it protrays primitive people with primitave language, laws and beliefs with an honest affection. it's more of a documentary about daryl hanna's trials and tribulations in her adopted tribe than it is a plotted story. it comes off more like real life.while anyone is entitled not to like the movie for whatever reason, i find the movie highly entertaining and an excellent escape into the world as it might actually have been long ago. it easily holds a spot in my top 50 list for it's totally unique experience.i give it a 10 for bravely going where few films dare to and succeeding admirably without following boring hollywood formulas. it just doesn't deserve it's bad reviews at all. i don't give 10's out to many films either.  "},{"Title":"And we thought that cavemen yelled yabba dabba doo!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the films that I grew up watching, and even now, I love it and admire its beauty as much as I ever did.First of all, comparing movies to their books isn't something we should do, because they are two different forms of entertainment, and can take different liabilities.  What is important is if the movie still tells the basic story, and in the case of the Clan of the Cave Bear, it stuck to the original story in a very suitable fashion.  I must admit that when I first saw this movie, I did not know that this was from a book.  It wasn't until 15 years later that I read the book, and it confirmed my statement that the movie kept the story intact.As far as the acting was concerned, I have to admire a cast that had to convey throughout an entire script in a totally different language, and manage to keep it consistent.  Watching the film, you can see that certain gestures always mean the same thing, as well as certain grunts and sounds.  Folks, that is the result of a lot of hard work, and to put down that part of the film is like looking at the Empire State Building as just the result of an erector set.The basic story of the movie is to show prejudice against what is new and not understood.  Ayla's presence is meant to show the Clan what the future holds, which is the underlying reason why they fear and hate her, though they are unaware of the reasons.  Ayla endures many trials throughout the movie in order to gain their trust and approval, which ultimately prepare her for a journey into the world without the Clan.A movie worth watching again and again.  The book is great also, by the way, so I recommend them both. "},{"Title":"Why was this so coldly received?","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"40 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this little unknown gem two days ago, and I was just blown away by all the horrible reviews for it back in 1986. I just don't understand why people didn't want to see a healthy Darryl Hannah as the cave girl, Ayla. Maybe it's because, Darryl Hannah didn't appear nude, even though the costumes are scantily. All in all, It is a nice movie to watch. It tugs at your heartstings seeing all of the brutal honesty presented on screen. And that music! Oh, I was the Niagra Falls from the beautiful music.  The most heart-breaking scene of this movie is when Ayla is separated from her mother at 2, from a vicious earthquake. The ghastly R rating is unecessary, altough the rape scene is horrible and graphic, they could have sacrificed for a PG or PG13.Watch this one if get the chance. You won't be disappointed!1986 98 minutes Rated R CC. "},{"Title":"Decent adaption of an epic novel","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The movie version of 'Clan of the cave bear' isn't really a bad adaption - but the very fact that this is a movie, running less than two hours, forces it to be a very compact version of the book. A lot of the details are left out, which of course is unfortunate.Overall, the acting is quite good. How are we really supposed to act so it will be like neanderthals? Can you really put all their knowledge and way of life and act it out when modern man is so much different (or are we?). Daryl Hannah is probably a good choice for Ayla at the time, and thanks to the 80's still Allowing 'rougher stuff' to be shown, or as I prefer it more natural, the abuse described in Auel's novel is to most extent included.To sum it up an OK adaption, but a 2-hour movie does not make this novel justice. "},{"Title":"An intense story of a young woman's survival","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If the movie lacks anything it is the beauty of the photography in films like Quest for Fire and Windwalker. Otherwise I can't find any serious flaws. It is rare to find a decent movie about prehistoric peoples. Quest for Fire is the best movie of this kind in my opinion but Clan of the Cave Bear is a close second.I am not trying to compare Cave Bear to the books by Jean M. Auel. To me the film takes the best part of Auel's story and makes a pretty good movie. The later Auel stories become more romance novel fodder and to some that may be more entertaining. Clan of the Cave Bear is not romantic. It captures the brutality of prehistory very well for a fiction film. I've seen documentaries about the Neanderthal and was surprised how accurately Cave Bear showed that time. The flaws in human nature are shown in all their rawness in this movie. There is prejudice, oppression and abuse in full force. What makes it bearable for me is how the Darryl Hannah character is able to deal with this and eventually over come it.Cave Bear also shows some of the ritual of stone age culture with the Shaman and the hunting rites of passage. There is some beauty in that culture. But the bottom line for these people is survival and that was a very difficult thing to accomplish. They were scratching and clawing (literally) just to eat and raise children. And sadly we know that they are doomed (except for a few Neanderthals who possibly interbred with Cro-Magnons).This kind of documentary approach in Cave Bear will not thrill those who want a stone age comedy-romance, Caveman, or a special effects absurdity of prehistoric people fighting lots of dinosaurs, One Million BC, (which is historically impossible). But if you can appreciate an intense story of a young woman's survival in the wild and her experience with a lost stone age culture, then I recommend Clan of the Cave Bear. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Out now on budget DVD, fun to watch after all these years.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The popularity of DVD has exploded the past couple of years like no new entertainment technology before. We are seeing more and more older films released on DVD for a pittance, like this one, Clan of the Cave Bear, which I purchased for under $6US. There isn't much sound in this film, but the images, all shot in British Columbia, come through really well.The setting in time is prehistoric, during the brief overlap of the Neanderthal and Cro-Magnon humans. Ayla (Daryl Hannah), a very blonde Cro-Magnon, was orphaned as a small girl, wounded, and found by the dark-haired Cave Bear Clan of Neanderthals. Against the wishes of the leader, she is taken in and nursed back to health by the medicine woman. As she grows up we see that she is innately smarter than her adopted family, learns things quickly, begins to innovate. The Neanderthals are portrayed as if they had perhaps an IQ of 80, while Ayla certainly has an IQ of 120 to 140. This causes difficulties for her, because the women are totally subserviant, and one of them showing smarts or initiative is punished. A woman who even touches a hunting weapon is sentenced to die. But when Ayla does to defend a tribesman, she is only exiled in the winter and, if she survives, allowed to come back. She does, but finally realizes her spirit is different, and leaves to look for her own kind. After she fights and defeats the young alpha male, who earlier had raped her thus giving her a child.Some critics scoff at the primative community portrayed here, but it in fact is very accurate. In the DVD commentary we learn that much of the design for this film came from watching a few crude videotapes that were actually made by the Cro-Magnons during that prehistoric period and were discovered, well-preserved, in far northern sub-freezing caves in the 1960s. Not surprisingly, they were in the Beta format.The whole film is about acceptance of someone different and of change. This is a common theme in many many films over the years, and is closely related to the popular Pleasantville of 1998. What makes this one different and enjoyable is the setting in time, the depiction of community values of these prehistoric peoples. I rate it highly overall. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, well worth the rent","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you liked Quest for Fire, you should enjoy this fictional visit to the origin's of civilization. I always loved the film's poster and my wife loved the book(s) but we missed the movie when it was in the theaters, partly because it wasn't receiving good reviews. When we rented this, we expected a turkey (we love to study bad film) but were pleasantly surprised.Simply said, this made a good Sunday Morning film to wake up to with a hot cup of java. I was a little disappointed that the look Daryl Hanna sports in the film's poster never fully comes to fruition in the movie (it got close in one scene) but none the less it was fun.   "},{"Title":"I watch it again - and again!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw it was on the TV I got up at 2 in the morning to watch this film! I just couldn't wait until the morning! I thought it was really good but advice to anyone is READ THE BOOK! The story is absolutely captivating and involving from the start. Darryl Hannah is a good Ayla (if not a little old - she is supposed to be 12!) and the film does well with the language problem. The hand signals are good and there aren't too many sub-titles. I really like the music as well. I think this is a good attempt at summarising Jean Auel's work  (which is really very difficult to film successfully) - But summary is the right word so you are really missing out until you read the novel - there is so much more to it- I think the film could be a little longer - it is a 800 page book! Even though it doesn't live up to the book it's still really good fun to see. I also think that a film of her later books would be a success - especially as the language isn't a problem then. My sister watched it before reading the book and she was hooked, so it's definitely a success whether you are familiar or otherwise with this compelling story. I think it's a real shame that it's deleted in the UK! It should be on TV more often so people have a chance to watch it.On the whole I would advise any fan who is prepared to be open-minded to watch it - you are in for a treat. If you are just going to nit-pick about the plot - Forget It!  "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have read Clan of the Cave Bear by Jean M. Auel several times and I have listened to it on book tape as well.The book is magnificent. It is not high English Literature, but it is face-paced, engaging, thorough, realistic and very well researched. I have also read the Valley of Horses and the rest of the Earth's Children Series. However, I put Shelters of Stone down because is pales in comparison to her earlier work in Clan of the Cave Bear and Valley of Horses.When I heard a movie had been made, I was both curious and concerned. Curious because I really enjoy the story and the prehistory genre - concerned because the vast majority of film adaptations from books are really disappointing.I really enjoy this film and I now include it in my DVD collection.The writers and directors did a very brave and wise thing by subtitling the language of the Clan, rather than making the big dumb cavemen speak some form of grunting English. They captured the dignity, culture and subtly of the Neanderthals as they were portrayed in Auel's novel, they didn't look like raging men in cheap gorilla suits as they did in Quest for Fire. What could not really be captured was the depth of herb lore and knowledge possessed by Clan, it would not have made for exciting film if a lengthy explanation of plants were included.I thought Hanna did an excellent job. The reason why they could not use a teen-aged girl was most likely the height factor. Ayla is supposed to tower over even the largest man of the clan, big and ugly. It would have been very difficult to find a teenager who could not only ACT convincingly in such trying conditions, but who would be tall enough in comparison to the Neanderthals.The rape scene is horrible, but is realistic and it was necessary to include it. It is a pivotal point in the novel, a moment in time when Ayla's spirit could have been shattered, she suffers as a result and is the stronger for it. I would not let children watch it though, for that scene.The hunting scene is very well done, it is real and tense and true to the book, so are the clan gathering and the sacrifice of the Cave Bear.I do not understand how a fan of the book could dislike the movie.***Spoiler*** The only things I disapprove of are the end when Ayla leaves and the lack of explanation of Clan memories. In the book, Creb dies and Ayla is cast out of the Clan with her loved ones huddled together under the tyrannical leadership of Broud, which is what would have happened to a people who had become incapable of adapting. There was no satisfying reprimand from Brun, ripping the leadership away from his son, Broud. The ending is way too Hollywood and pink, and I do not know why they bothered to change it. The film is real and gritty throughout, why fluff it at the end? The vision of the shared memories that Ayla and Creb have at the Clan gathering is NOT the same as it is in the book. The vision in the book shows the journey through time from the primordial beginnings of life on Earth to the technological future and possible end. It is the main message of Earth's Children (In my opinion) and it is unfortunate that it was altered in this otherwise very meticulous film.I am very pleased that the film was made, and I am disappointed that it did not get better reviews at the time, it deserved much better. It is quiet and patient and authentic. Real animals are used, no over-the-top musical scores are employed, subtitles and gestures are very well done, casting and costumes are detailed and the camera shots are long and unhurried&#133;. It captures the raw nature of the time.Although I would be pleased to see Valley of Horses made into a film, to see Thonolan and Jondalar and the rest of the interesting characters and wrenching moments depicted, I hope that a sequel is NOT made&#133; unless someone who is true to the books bothers to pick up the project.Most Hollywood movies are really awful nowadays and I would doubt that a studio and film-making team would be able to do it justice with the cast and the budget, and the patience they would need to do it right. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am not going to say it sucked because it was nothing like the book. I am merely going to say that if you have read the book, don't bother because it will only tick you off. And What ticks me off is not that it didn't follow the book closely enough, it didn't follow the book AT ALL. There are scenes that should have happened well after they did, and scenes that happened that would have explained other scenes that were in the movie that aren't. To the above commenter who said that the subsequent books were all romance fodder, first Valley was not, it wasn't until the end that most of the pleasures were added, with small intermittent scenes throughout. Yes, there are a lot of Pleasures scenes in the books, Yes, they could have been done without, but that doesn't mean that the rest of the story is not worth reading. That is not what I am writing a review on, however. I was more upset that the movie didn't even maintain a SEMBLANCE to the book, other than the character's name, almost as if the director skimmed the book, and took pieces from sections without thinking about how they would go together. "}{"Title":"Drama/adventure about a young Cro-Magnons woman who is raised by Neanderthals.","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Prehistoric tale set in Stone Age about cavemen plenty of drama , adventures , thrilling events and speaking a special language and particular primitive movements . At a time in prehistory when Neanderthals shared the Earth with early Homo Sapiens , a band of cave-dwellers travels through uncharted landscapes towards an unknown territory , searching for caves to shelter themselves . During their quest , they encounter and battle various animals as buffalo , lion , wolves and tribesmen in order to survive . Iza (Pamela Reed), Medicine woman of the Clan of the Cave Bear meets little Ayla from the other's clan ; the little girl loses her parents , Ayla is taken in by after her own parents are disappeared , tradition would have the clan kill Ayla immediately , but the Medicine women insists on keeping her . Iza as a primitive gamine adopts blond and blue-eyed Ayla , the lost child of the Others . As it results out later , she's a bright girl , but has a hard time to keep her place in a clan with different habits . As the scrawny cavegirl named Ayla (a gorgeous primitive babe played by Daryl Hannah) matures into a young woman of spirit and courage , being helped by Creg (James Remar) , she must fight for survival against the jealous bigotry of Broud (Thomas G Waites) , who will one day be clan chief .This interesting film about primitive humans contains drama , emotions , fights and is pretty entertaining . Ponderous and sometimes slow-moving , the picture failed at box office , however , nowadays being better considered . Based on Jean M. Auel's popular novel with screenplay by prestigious John Sayles , there is minimal narration ; subtitles translate the Neanderthal gestures and primitive spoken language . A planned back-to-back sequel never made it into production . Emotive musical score by Alan Silvestri , though composed by synthesizer . Colorful and brilliant cinematography by Jan De Bont , subsequently become filmmaker . The motion picture was well realized by Michael Chapman . Chapman is deemed one of the best cameraman of cinema , he photographed a lot of successes such as ¨Evolution¨ , ¨Primal fear¨, ¨The fugitive¨, ¨Rising sun¨, ¨Ghostbusters II¨, ¨Shoot to kill¨ and masterpieces for Martin Scorsese as ¨Raging Bull¨, ¨Last Walz¨, Taxi driver¨ . He occasionally directed some films as ¨The viking sagas¨, ¨All the right moves¨ and this ¨The clan of bear cave¨.Other films dealing with cavemen are the following  ¨One million B.C. ¨(1940) by Hal Roach with Victor Mature and Carole Landis ; ¨One million years B.C.¨ by Don Chaffey with Rachel Welch and John Richardson ; ¨!0.000 B.C.¨ by Roland Emmerich with Steven Strait and Camilla Belle ; and the best is ¨Quest of fire¨ by Jean Jacques Annaud with Everett McGill and Ron Perlman . "},{"Title":"A good looking disappointment","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw 'Cave Bear' when it first came out on video back in 1986 and quite enjoyed it, though it did wander far from the novel. Having recently bought it on DVD as an adult I can honestly say the film still looks great but the film makers took a powerful, epic story and turned it into a one dimensional piece of fluff that never succeeds in enthralling us. I have always been a huge fan of Daryl Hannah, and though she really seems to be doing her best here, I believe she was miss cast. Ayla was meant to be a young teenage girl - Daryl was far too old. The fault here of course is not with Daryl but with the Director and Producers. The main saving grace of the film is the cinematography - it looks beautiful and must have been a difficult film to light considering it all had to look natural and ambient. The DVD release was aweful - it wasn't in widescreen and looked little better than video. It was released by 'Force Video' (never heard of em') and didn't even feature a scene selection function. I know that Jean M. Auel was not entirely happy with the film (I wrote to her once and was thrilled to receive a letter back from her, some of it even hand written by her!) so perhaps one day the entire series of 'Earth's Children' books could be made into a mini-series for television.  "},{"Title":"It's OK, but somewhat commercial.","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It ain't Quest for Fire, but does an OK job of getting it's story across.  I've seen this film a couple of times, and am not really thrilled by it, but I also don't have too many criticisms of it either.If I were to point my finger at one aspect of the film, an aspect that I thought was holding back a better movie, I'd have to place my finger on its direction.  The actors are in earnest of their performances, and do their absolute best to give us a paleolithic saga, but the director points both story and performances to a high energy commercial film.  For myself the performances, though genuine, aren't natural.  They're forced, and that's no fault of the actors.This combined with poor light design and mediocre cinematography really torpedos what could've been a better film.  And for a film supposedly shot in 70mm every viewing I've ever seen has the film shaking in the gate a great deal.  Not to mention the number of hot spots from reflectors bouncing sunlight onto the actors.  The nail in the visual coffin is the color timing.  The upside is that the location selected was quite impressive, though the film never conveys the geographic location it's supposed to be.The notion of a blond haired beauty adopted into, quite literally, a low-brow tribe is fair enough.  But the fact that she's superior and blond puts a wry knowing smile on this viewer's face.  Then again it is Hollywood, so the sappiness is probably there by design.  It's also somewhat ironic that a woman narrator, one with a seemingly African accent, helps convey the story of a blond heroine.  It just seems silly to me.I've never read the book, so I can't comment on the adaptation.  However, I will say this; I found many of the plot points implausible, contrived, and just plain outright wrong, as well as disconnected from what is known, or at least believed to be understood, about our ancestors.If you must see a caveman epic, then do yourselves a favor and pop Quest for Fire into the video machine of your choice.  Clan of the Cavebear is watchable, but not overly great.  I might call it an above average flick, but by no means exceeding.Watch at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Engrossing and Fascinating","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have not read the book, as most of the reviewers have, so I did not have any expectations. I found the movie quite intense and gripping. While the movie did not have an epic quality, it was extremely believable and realistic for me. I empathized deeply with the clan and the outsider, Ayla.Daryl Hannah was terrific. I do not see why people praise her for Splash, and do not see the great acting she does in this movie. It is not easy to erase 30,000 years of civilization, but she does it without a single false emotion in any scene. I really think she is a victim of male chauvinism. Apparently, when she plays dumb, sex hungry mermaid, men praise her, but when she plays a woman smarter and more courageous than the men around her, they can not say anything.As many people have suggested, I hope they reboot the movie series as I wish to find out what happened to the character and the clan. It is too bad that the series did not continue 22 years ago. The critics really messed up on this one.I am excited about reading the books now. "},{"Title":"A study of the human condition","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Comparing movie adaptations to the books from which they derive is like comparing apples and oranges (I like apples better - but that's beside the point). Print and celluloid mediums have their own inherent strengths and weaknesses and I would like to share my views on the Clan Of The Cave Bear movie while trying to be fair to both vehicles used to tell this wonderful story.Daryl Hannah performed the part of Ayla admirably well, the cinematography by Jan de Bont is amazing and Alan Silvestri wrote some fantastic music. The rest of the cast were almost method-driven in the delivery of their respective characters which is A Good Thing considering the lack of dialog but some of the character interactions could have been stronger. This is science fiction in its truest sense, a study of the human condition when an ordinary person is placed in an extraordinary situation.SPOILER ALERT!!! There is one key scene involving wolves that totally ruins the possibility of subsequent sequels - unless a re-shoot is done using a more appropriate animal. Hyenas perhaps.The Earth's ChildrenT series by Jean M. Auel may require, IMHO, a larger canvas if it hopes to capture some of the grandeur of these four (of possibly six) books. A mini series per book or even a direct-to-DVD scheme might provide the timeframe needed to encapsulate the huge scope of this sequence. What makes these stories so massive? The characters, their relationships with each other, the situations through which they toil and the societies in which they interact all contribute to this finely crafted tale. The Clan Of The Cave Bear movie failed to match the intricacies of the book because the character relationships were condensed. Was it necessary? Well, not every adaptation is going to be as successful as The Godfather and its awesome sequel. Sometimes we just have to rely on the talents we have to do the best that we can and hope to be forgiven for any shortcomings. "},{"Title":"Prejudice has always existed.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The Clan of the Cave Bear is a wonderful story about a young Cro-Magnon child who has lost connection with others of her kind. She is found by a group of Neanderthals, and accepted by 2 of the group as their own, while the rest consider her one of the others and would have preferred she be left behind.I thoroughly enjoyed Daryl Hannah in this movie. She's perfect for the part. I found it very interesting her struggle to be accepted by the clan. Not only did she have to deal with being an outcast because she was Cro-Magnon but also because she was female. And although she proved herself worthy of acceptance many times, she was still rejected. Rejected out of fear. Cro-Magnons had a larger brain capacity than the Neanderthals and her intelligence caused great fear. Cro-Magnons were also much more athletically agile, which was another threat.Very good movie. "},{"Title":"Immersing","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A fictional take on the meeting of cro-magnons and Neanderthals. When her mother dies, the child Ayla(Hannah, mixing her usual determined, almost masculine, approach with some longing to be accepted, to fulfill a role) nearly dies. She is found by the titular clan, and in spite of tribal xenophobia(I use the term in a neutral sense), the medicine woman Iza(Reed, embodying the healer) and the spirit-talker Creb(Remar, who forms a deeply personal relationship with our protagonist) convince the others to take her in. As she grows into adulthood, she must face many trials as one who does not belong.I have not read novel, albeit I imagine it's well worth reading, as my father is familiar with Jean M. Auel, and explains she researched thoroughly. This has some of the best child actors I've ever witnessed. Even the youngest are entirely convincing. Every performance is raw, honest, and doesn't hold back - making it ideal for the tone, that does not shy away from unpleasant subject matter, without it venturing into exploitative territory, either. The production design is beyond reproach. Nothing can be pointed to as less than perfect - the work with animals is gripping. This has not, and will not, age... other than possibly being disproved by new scientific discovery. Jan De Bont uses the camera extremely well - turning the audience into a voyeur to signal that someone is being watched, maintaining tension without being overt, etc. Alan Silvestri's score is powerful and effective.As I won't be able to avoid comparing this to Quest for Fire, I will simply go through all of their differences. This takes the focus mostly away from tools and the exact how of what these beings did, and instead opts for a more personal tale. There's even a sort of antagonist character, to complete the more traditional approach to storytelling. This allows for greater complexity - rather than being fully about a struggle to survive in nature, this explores universal human themes, ones that relate to all of our history, regardless of geography or culture. The status of women and men, birth, talent, origin, etc. Both have a credible spoken language that we can try to understand - here, it is subtitled, and supplemented with English narration. I would be interested in watching a version that omits both - see how much is successfully conveyed without them(I trust the majority of it).There is some bloody, graphic violence, mature and disturbing content in this. I recommend this to anyone who wants to take a journey into where we came from - even if the trip can't be verified, it's an amazing, inspiring ride. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A movie I spent years watching","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As a teen, I started watching this movie; until my mom walked into the living room during the rape scene. OFF went the VCR and TV - no rentals for me for awhile. As an adult, some years later, I finally found a copy and promptly bought it. I sat down and watched it several times, loving every moment of it. Then I loaned out my copy - and 'poof' it is gone!The movie itself is done rather well, which is to say Daryl Hannah is a great choice for Ayla, and we can all dislike Broud rather easily.Unfortunately, as an avid, repeat, reader of the entire Earth children series of books by Jean Auel; I have spent years (5 to 7 of them) waiting on the next book, and most of my life waiting for the subsequent books to be made into movies. though if more movies based on the book series are ever made - they need to be more in depth and atuned with the books and would do best, I think, as each book made into a trilogy. "},{"Title":"Neanderthals prefer blondes","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Entertaining and surprisingly engaging, The Clan of the Cave Bear teaches us that there was a time when mankind was divided into two species. Type one &#x96; the Neanderthals &#x96; had big foreheads, dark hair and a monobrow, while type two &#x96; the Cro-Magnons &#x96; were tall, blonde and had great teeth.Ayla, a Cro-Magnon child, is left for dead after being attacked by a lion. However she is found by a nomadic tribe of Neanderthals. They are reluctant to help at first as she belongs to a group they refer to as 'the others'&#x96; the Cro-Magnons. This is obvious from her blonde hair and the stylish cut of her animal skins, which also singles out the Cro-Magnons from the more shaggy-looking Neanderthals. A kindly Neanderthal male, Creb, talks the tribe into letting he and his wife Iza take the child with them.Years pass and Ayla has become one of the Neanderthal tribe despite the fact she has grown tall, blonde and has great teeth. In fact, Ayla has become Daryl Hannah, and although she would have little trouble in reaching the finals of the Miss Cro-Magnon pageant, to the Neanderthals, she is quite ugly and decidedly forehead and eyebrow challenged.Despite this, one of the young Neanderthal males, Broud, is attracted to her. No doubt, the way Ayla fills out her animal skins caught his eye. In Neanderthal culture, a desire to couple is indicated by the male clasping his hands; the deed then takes place without further ceremony. After Ayla responds to many handclasp signals from Broud, she falls pregnant.Ayla is also a bit of a tomboy and wants to throw spears, use a slingshot and hang out with the guys target shooting. However this is taboo in Neanderthal culture; the punishment for a woman caught fooling around with the boy's toys is instant death. But Ayla becomes an expert with the slingshot. When a wolf carries off a young Neanderthal boy, Ayla brings the animal down with one shot. Her cover blown, she is forced to demonstrate her skill to the males who will decide her fate; they quickly realise that she has in fact become a prehistoric Annie Oakley with the slingshot.Although she would normally face death, she is instead banished for the winter. She delivers the baby by herself and survives by using her hunting skills to catch food.As the years pass, Iza and Cleb grow old and feeble, Ayla on the other hand does not change much at all, she retains her youthful appearance proving that an outdoor life free of smog and pollutants does wonders for Cro-Magnon skin. When the clan joins a great gathering of Neanderthals, another male disregards Ayla's lack of forehead and monobrow and takes a shine to her. This is Brun, and he is everything Broud is not; he is thoughtful, polite and chivalrous. Unfortunately he literally loses his head when the young men of the tribe attack a bear &#x96; showing how precarious existence was before the invention of the tranquilliser gun.Broud becomes leader of the tribe, and his first act is to take Ayla as his wife. When he attempts to separate her from her child Dirk, Ayla refuses and fights him. The tribal elders come to her assistance. Broud is stripped of leadership of the clan as he has failed to uphold the tribe's charter on every possible level.But now, Ayla, who has developed a markedly spiritual side to her character, decides that her destiny does not lie with the clan. She says goodbye to them all including her child, who is half Neanderthal and destined to become the leader of the clan. She is last seen heading towards the sunset to seek 'the others' to whom she feels she more rightly belongs.The last scenes are quite moving. Identity and the feeling of belonging are dominant themes in the film. Anthropologists might question some of the liberties taken by the filmmakers, but Clan of the Cave Bear is one of those movies where the best thing is to just sit back and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Not alike the movie, But good.","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Lacking some of the minor details. And changing it slightly. As in that she hadn't seen her mother fall into the pit. She was playing in the river. And she doesn't learn to speak until quite a bit later. Or that in the beginning, she never touched a weapon. Of course, Book to video always changes. So that much was already expected. The progression of the movie, compared to the book was startling. And Why was there a flock of doves or pigeons living in the cave? They completely forgot the whole ceremony for the cave, and the feast. and the whole reason broud hates her. I find them very important aspects of the story. But they held some accuracy at least. It wasn't completely all there, but it wasn't a bad movie, overall. "}{"Title":"Am I convinced?  Not entirely","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Many years ago I tried starting to read Jean M Auel's novel. Despite the fact that it is very much my kind of thing, I could never get into it. So I come to the movie, 25 years after it was made, completely cold.Its story of a Cro-Magnon orphan being adopted into a tribe of Neanderthals and having to cope with prejudice and antagonism is absolutely fine. The events and motivations all seem entirely reasonable, and who is to say otherwise? The story progresses satisfactorily, is easy to follow (with subtitles and voice-over where necessary), the photography is lush and the performances aren't bad (I don't think you have to be particularly subtle to play an irritable Neanderthal).But there were a couple of elements which made the suspension of disbelief a little difficult. One was Daryl Hannah's tasty clean-haired blonde Cro-Magnon, just a little bit too 20th centurily gorgeous to convince as a stone age trailblazer for women's lib.And the other is the Neanderthal wigs. The prosthetics are, for the most part, fine (and appropriate, of course), but the wigs don't cut it, I'm afraid. They are so immobile that they might as well have been cast in plaster, and they scream, This is an actor in a wig. And, of course, that's exactly what it is, but you don't want it hammered home during every second of screen time. "},{"Title":"Disappointing movie adaption.","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I admit, I was disappointed. Having been a fan of the books since I was 14, I was at least hoping to enjoy the film but felt sadly let down. There was just something lost - perhaps the magic - that the books had. And Daryl Hannah was far too old to play Ayla at 11 or whatever. The second girl to play Ayla should have stayed on for the rest of the movie, she looked about the right age. And I was sad to not see more of Brun. In the book you get a sense of the respect between Ayla and Brun that was missing in the movie. In fact I think this is an overall issue, that I feel the connections were not strong enough between the characters. Still, the movie is interesting if only to see the interpretation of the language, and look of the era. "},{"Title":"Very good film, wasn't long enough!","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I just recently watched this film for the first time, in 2011. With many of the new movies out, I've been making it a point to re-visit the 60's-90's films I haven't seen yet.I wasn't at all disappointed. According to other reviews, I agree that it seems 'short'. Even though I've never read the novel it still has that feel to it.To be honest at first I really didn't think I'd care for it, but the acting is good and the story very good as well.As far as 'accurate' I don't think anyone can claim it is or it isn't, considering that the only clue we have that people even existed at that age in history is a few bones and other circumstantial conjecture. I do suppose there was a time between humans being raw animalistic and 'civilized'. Even though 'civilized' is still a stretch for humanity even now in 2011.It's not the BEST movie I've seen, but it left me wanting to see more, which few films do, so I'll give it a 10 just for that, along with the acting and story. There were a couple twists in the film that I wasn't quite ready for seeing it for the first time, which also strikes me as it's rare that I can't predict 80% of the movie just because the stories are so cliché. I can't say I've seen a new movie, including Avatar that wasn't pretty much wholly predictable. "},{"Title":"Excellent imagined history, good story as well, star superb","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I agree with the first reviewer that this is an excellent film and I also enjoyed the book. I have always found the epoch it is set in fascinating and this film makes a good stab at suggesting how life might have been. It strikes me as reasonably credible anthropologically and its message about the value of human intelligence and initiative is positive and valid. Primitivism is not idealised but shown as what it is - a set of obstacles. It's also in the great and good tradition of entertaining Hollywood films about prehistory starring babes, e.g. 2000 Years B.C. Another interesting aspect of these films is the approach to language, and I like the subtitle solution. I should mention that the cast are good as well as Daryll Hannah. A fine film on a challenging subject. "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am giving four stars for the acting and cinematography, which were excellent.What bites is the degree to which the movie strayed from the book. Now, I realize that some of this would be inevitable. But the screenwriters took it too far, as if they didn't get the spirit of the books. They essentially made it an altogether different story with the same names. The movie lost me after the first scenes depicting the earthquake and the cave lion attack, which were done well. After that, I didn't recognize it. I'm talking about major differences in both plot and character.Plot The movie says Ayla is the first of the Others that the Clan had seen. What about the man with the broken arm, whom Iza's grandmother had treated for his injuries? It is The Mammoth Hunters, the third book in the series, that finally reveals just who the man was, but the story is told in CotCB.Plot Ayla is not pregnant at the time of her exile. She does not give birth in solitude. As a matter of fact, she doesn't even reach full adulthood until long after she is caught using the weapon, the crime for which she is exiled (death cursed) in the first place.Plot The movie suggests that no one would provide for Durc simply because Ayla had no mate, and her adopted father could not himself hunt. In fact, the baby was half Cro-Magnon. The Neanderthals had never seen a mixture before and didn't understand the combination of features. They saw Durc as hideously deformed, even more so than Creb. It was for that reason that the men of the Clan had wanted to leave him to die, not just because he would be a welfare child.Character Broud has been raping Ayla repeatedly. Like modern rapists, he is actually getting his jollies from making Ayla do something she hates. Finally, during the last rape, she is so happy about being pregnant that she doesn't care anymore and doesn't react. To put it as delicately as possible, this completely deflates Broud, and he can't continue. So far so good. But then one of the women who are watching immediately takes a dig at Broud's wife Oga, using a stick in her hand to illustrate her point, and the women giggle. Mrs. Auel had made it clear in her book that 1.) The Neanderthals were not able to smile or laugh, and 2.) The women are genetically programmed to be so submissive and fearful of the men, that they would never have laughed about a man's shortcomings even if they could.Character Brun also is seen smiling, something that he should not have been able to do.Character Blond, blue-eyed Ayla is seen as terribly ugly by the Clan, because she is so drastically different. Her height and her propensity for hunting make her, though she seems the ideal of feminine beauty to us, appear to the Clan as something of a butch. So why would Brug, the blue-eyed Clan (which is doubtful) have ignored Uba, a young woman from the highest line of medicine women, in favor of so-called ugly and unladylike Ayla? The movie suggests that had Brug not been killed in the bear ceremony, he would have possibly pursued a mating. I have trouble adapting to that. Which leads me to-- Plot There is no Brug in the Clan of the Cave Bear book. It was Gorn who was killed in the bear ceremony. Brug doesn't come along until Plains of Passage. He is also known as Brugar, and then he is a different person entirely.Plot The hallucination Ayla experiences after she follows the mog-urs into the cave is nowhere near the book. Also, the movie shows Ayla being summoned to the cave, drawn by Creb/Mog-ur's voice calling to her by name. Actually, for her to be there was deadly taboo. The movie did not make this clear.Plot AND Character After making Broud leader, Brun would not have had the power to then fire him. And Broud's falling to the ground in abject humility after Brun's chastisement of him would not have happened.The playing-with-the-echo scene, I understand, is simply a method by which they showed the passage of time as Ayla grew to be a woman. Seemed a little cheesy to me, though. I had wondered why in the heck she would be standing there repeatedly calling out her own name. It took me a few viewings to realize that she was, in fact, playing with an echo.Kudos to the actors, to the makeup artists, to the people in charge of scenery, etc. Not-so-kudos to the screenwriters. I think they blew it. "},{"Title":"Has it's flaws, but all in all a good movie.","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I recently rented this movie off of blockbuster and I went online to IMDb.com and I found mixed reviews for this movie. So I watched and after wards I felt mixed about it myself. I felt unfulfilled. Because I wanted a sequel. But later found out that a planned sequel never made it to production. Anyway, I have to say b/c of all the bad reviews I had low expectations for this movie. It is a pretty good movie. Obviously it is a 80's movie. My only problem is I wanted Broud to get his ass kicked even more by Ayla. If you are a fan of mostly mainstream movies this movie is not for you. But if you are open-minded go for it! And if you are a fan of James Remar(The Warriors). And if you really like it make it a part of your DVD collection. I know I am. "},{"Title":"Quite underrated, anthropologically interesting drama","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time in 2000, and was pleasantly surprised. This movie employs almost no dialog in English (there are subtitles to combinations of uttered proper names and sign language), but the viewer becomes accustomed to this quickly.  I recommend this movie to anyone with an interest in prehistory, anthropology, or heroic drama -- it's a very underrated movie. "},{"Title":"A mildly convincing but generally lifeless, prehistoric tale","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Based on Jean M. Auel's novel, Clan of the Cave Bear is essentially a Tarzan premise, only instead of apes, our protagonist (the young Cro-magnon girl Ayla) is raised by a clan of Neanderthals in Ice Age Europe of 35, 000 years ago. This was around the time when the two species first came into contact.Critics say never expect a history lesson from Hollywood how about a prehistory lesson? Compared to Quest for Fire, this movie is somewhat sub-par, but next to last year's 10, 000 b.c, with dreadlocks and horses, this film is the Godfather. There are still some scientific inaccuracies however. For example, it is made clear that the Neadanderthals forbid women to use weapons, but science has proved that not only did Neanderthal women participate in hunts, but it was one of the reasons for the demise of the species. In the earliest social units, our own species divided the workload based on gender, leading to a more organized, better prepared society (men hunt, women sow, make clothing and make tools). Neanderthals, while they were good hunters, did not lead such organized lives. What bothers me most about Clan of the Cave Bear is not the scientific errors, but the way the story is told. It kind of plods along, with no general sense of direction. Quite noticeably, the editing is sloppy and the transition between scenes is awkward.Some of the other challenges however are executed with competence. There are numerous fights with Ice Age animals, including muskox, lions, wolves and bears. Anyone who knows the film process will know that working with animals is a challenge of epic proportions. To make it even more difficult, most of these scenes are shot in forest and challenging terrain to set up camera and gear in. Animals tend to get restless when in such conditions. These scenes are pretty much the only parts where the film has the skill to scale to a good level of drama and tension. Quite frankly most of the picture is just dull. It occasionally offers moments of charm and rising tension, but The Clan of The Cave Bear doesn't really come alive. It is neither a complete failure nor a success, but if you are looking for adventure or education, you'll only find a little of either here. "},{"Title":"I think a longer version of the film exists in WB Vaults","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" it was announced some time ago for an Extended version SE Laserdisc set, but never arrived. The movie must have been much longer, but test screenings gave the studio cold feet and they cut it down to a mere 98 minutes-impossible to even sketch out the basic plot in that amount of time.... Cave Bear also shows some of the ritual of stone age culture with the Shaman and the hunting rites of passage. There is some beauty in that culture. But the bottom line for these people is survival and that was a very difficult thing to accomplish. They were scratching and clawing (literally) just to eat and raise children. And sadly we know that they are doomed (except for a few Neanderthals who possibly interbred with Cro-Magnons).This kind of documentary approach in Cave Bear will not thrill those who want a stone age comedy-romance, Caveman, or a special effects absurdity of prehistoric people fighting lots of dinosaurs, One Million BC, (which is historically impossible). But if you can appreciate an intense story of a young woman's survival in the wild and her experience with a lost stone age culture, then I recommend Clan of the Cave Bear "},{"Title":"Not the best picture around but thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" True, this isn't the most splendid picture you'll ever see. The scenario is a bit sketchy, it all goes a bit too fast to take the whole span of the story seriously, the make-up of the Neanderthals looks shabby etc. Nonetheless, I quite enjoyed watching this film. I just love the feel of prehistoric stories with wide landscapes, clothes in hides, wildness in people and animals, caves, camping fires etc. Next to that, it's always a pleasure to see a young Daryl Hannah especially cloth in hides and with her legs barely covered. Sexy. But I even like the story, even though the book it's based upon could be better brought to the screen. In the book, for instance, you get a much better feel for the depth of difference between Neanderthals and Cro-magnons, which is why you better understand why Ayla has such a hard time in the clan, and why she has constant troubles mainly with Brun. In the movie all of that is not clarified. So I say if you like the movie but want to dig deeper read the book. "}{"Title":"Nice Try, but Keep Trying","Date":"23 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Not true in all respects to Jean Auel's novel, but entertaining in its own right. Then again, neither the book or film is accurate in light of more recent archaeological and anthropological research. The story is clearly set in the ice age, and close to the ice. Many Paleolithic burials have been found in this kind of setting. The stunning Canadian scenery, with its dense coniferous forests and mountains scarred from the last ice age, is perfect to convey this. Acting is good, with Daryl Hannah doing very well in the lead, and James Remar outstanding as Creb, the crippled holy man. In the book, I believe Ayla was about twelve, so it would have been smart to give Nicole Eggert (as the younger Middle Ayla) a lot more screen time, and she was certainly capable of it. The scenes with Nicole Eggert and James Remar conversing are the most enjoyable in the film. I think costumes could have used a little more work. All of the characters wore furs and pieces of leather crudely patched together, but for some reason Miss Eggert's costume didn't look quite right and appeared unduly cumbersome for a kid to wear; probably should have tried some different styles for her and the handful of other young people in the film. At the other extreme, it seemed kind of odd for men to be out hunting muskox wearing practically nothing at all. Okay, maybe the Arctic isn't always freezing, but muskox live only in the Arctic and like the cold. Along with Quest for Fire, Clan of the Cave Bear is a serious work about the Old Stone Age. Unfortunately, both films fall somewhat short when it comes to truly great cinematic entertainment about our Paleolithic ancestors. The film industry needs to continue trying to meet the challenge. "},{"Title":"Better than you would think","Date":"28 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this film on the day of its release because I liked the look of it and I enjoy films about prehistory. I had not, at the time, read the book although I have since enjoyed them all. The film doesn't do the book justice but it is a jolly good bit of fun. A lot has been made of the lack of realism but to be honest, at the time the film was made we didn't know as much as we do now. I thought Daryll Hannah was delightful as Ayla and searched for years till I found a copy on DVD. I have watched the film several times since and still enjoy it. It was better than One Million Years BC by far and better than most contemporary films of the same subject. Suspend your willing disbelief and give this film a try. You may be surprised. "},{"Title":"Good, but a little disappointing.","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I read the first two books before seeing this movie.  I had hoped for a longer version that would introduce the love interest.  I found it firmly based in the first book, but with some changes I found unnecessary.SPOILER FOR BOOK FOLLOWS The worst change was leaving out the death of The Mog-Ur, since the character was based on a real Neanderthal skeleton and it was the final break between Ayla and the Clan.  Kreb's death in the earthquake had so much meaning...it bookended Ayla's early life between earthquakes, and symbolized the ultimate death of the Neanderthals!  Altogether, I found the movie lacked emotional involvement, but so did the book.I think I was expecting more emotional involvement when I could see the people on the screen...would my eyes have watered if Kreb died in the movie? Maybe I read the book too close to the movie, and was too busy comparing to become involved.Incidentally, I was disappointed in the Neanderthal makeup...they didn't look much like the drawing of Neanderthals.  Maybe the movie felt they needed to look more human. "},{"Title":"Solid film, but could have used more work.","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I admit that, compared to the book, this movie was very much a letdown. It cut out many important scenes from the novel and didn't do a very good job of familiarizing the audience with its characters. In fact, I found myself often confused at who was who, but since the movie centered around the important characters anyways, it was easily overlooked. I was looking forward to seeing more of Ayla practicing her medicine, or of her relationship with Creb and all the others in the Clan--these were events significant in the book yet lacking in the film. I was disappointed with many things in this movie, but I must admit there was also a lot to admire. I especially like the actors who were casted...Emma Floria made an adorable baby Ayla! I also liked Nicole Eggert as Middle Ayla and can see her everytime I read Clan of The Cave Bear. Daryl Hannah totally *becomes* Ayla in the film. I loved her performance in this movie--her spirit, that look of defiance in her eyes that makes her so believable as the Woman Who Hunts. Pamela Reed and James Remar were excellent as Iza and Creb, John Doolittle embodied Brun's character, and Thomas G. Waites was amazing as Broud. Other things to compliment on are the upbeat music score and film location. I also liked the make-up and costumes. All in all, I enjoyed this movie. It had a solid plot, but would have been much better if it stuck with the original storyline. This movie has a unique take on the characters and events...I suggest you read the book first and then watch this movie. It'll make things much more gratifying. "},{"Title":"Where's the problem?  It was pretty good.","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" After watching this movie, I was wondering why this was said to be so bad? I've never read the book, but as caveman movies go, it places a solid second to QUEST FOR FIRE. This was back in the '80's when make-up was cool, so I loved the make-up jobs. This was back when Jan DeBont was a great cinematographer, so the film was visually gorgeous. And Alan Silvestri's score was beautiful in a very '80's kind of way. Acting was pretty solid, and I thought Daryl Hannah was very good. (It must be very difficult to play a Neanderthal without feeling ridiculous.) The story was simple and wonderful. I have no reservations. If you like caveman movies, this is pretty good. If you don't, rent something else. "},{"Title":"They Have to Make the Rest of the Series","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The rest of the series of the books are far different and better than this first story.  The Clan of the Cave Bear lays the foundation for a magnificent story.  They are perhaps one of the best series ever written. I would love to see each story be a mini-series of it's own because the books are so phenomenal, a 2 hour movie could not do it justice.  They would not have to be entirely sub-titled either because she finds the `Others' ands learns to speak their language. "},{"Title":"complete disappointment","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am one of those who absolutely adore the stories of Ayla written by Jean Auel. I've read them all several times and am still waiting for the upcoming parts to the story. However, not until now have I seen this movie... and what a disappointment..There is just too many holes in this story that there's no end to it. I mean, I understand that in -86 there was some things you couldn't make as perfect as you can in modern film - like the looks of the so called Neanderthals of this movie, or the small variations in the clan way of behaving.. But you could at least keep to the story. If you can't make a long enough movie, so you could include all the important details instead of making your own short version, then why even bother?I mean just for example First of all, the way Ayla lost her family and when she saw Iza for the first time. Why change those small things? The way Creb learned her how to speak the Clan way - was it so hard to show more of that, to express how hard that was for her? The way Ayla got her totem, and when! Iza would never have asked Creb to find a totem for her, and why the long time? Uba wasn't supposed to be born! When Iza started training her to become a medicine woman.. It was way earlier in the story than that. Why Ayla decided to hunt even though it was forbidden, and why she learned to throw two stones. When Broud raped her, and why. When Ayla got pregnant, and why she wanted to keep it so badly. Why Broud separates Ayla from Durc when he gets leader.. That Ayla would use her weapon against Broud... that's insane.And the fact that she would give birth to Durc alone in her cave is just WHAAAT?! Complete mix-up. And that Ayla and Uba would have met one of the Others in the middle of nowhere?! (Jondalar?) I mean that doesn't fit into anywhere.It's mostly small stuff that I don't understand WHY they would change, but I could have lived with small differences as long as they could've kept to the true story and not cutting it short because of budget or whatever. The relationships between all the characters was never told the way it should, it feels like more than half of it was left out.If i hadn't read the books beforehand I'm sure I could have appreciated it better, but this simply pisses me off.It's a shame that such a great story never will be told the way it deserves, because of this. "},{"Title":"Gruntlicious!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Visually stunning,gorgeous locations. Imaginatively good story and quite believable given known societal(tribal)mores. "},{"Title":"Did not do justice","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While the story of The Clan of the Cave Bears is a magnificent tale the movie did very little to capture that story. The film attempted to capture a deep and intricate epic story in the flash of a moment... and unfortunately failed grandly. I was hoping to see some of the wonderful scenes, written by the author Jean Auel, come to life but instead found an overview, a weak one at that, of the story in a very low quality format. Not even Daryl Hannah could save the film. If you want to know The Clan of the Cave Bear read the book... You will not be disappointed! "},{"Title":"An Affront to an Excellent Book!","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have seen this movie and I have read the novel that it is based on.  Let me make this clear  this movie does not hold a candle to the book! Jean M. Auel's novel is a great piece of prehistorical fiction, and my personal favorite book (and it's in competition with books like Huckleberry Finn, Jane Eyre, and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest). I know that movies based on books are rarely as good as said book, but this is intense.  The movie cuts, adds, changes, and mish-mashes things together, all of which is at a detriment to the story line (I know some part of that is grammatically incorrect).  The movie loses all the depth and subtlety of Ms. Auel's novel, and it miscasts Darryl Hannah.  Don't get me wrong, she's a fine actress, but she was also way to old to play the leading character. If you are interested in the plot or premise of the movie, read the book instead. Your braincells will thank you.  "}{"Title":"women leaders","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I wish the powers that be would continue the series. The Clan Of The Cave Bears is A great movie,showing how women can be great leaders in life too! Yes the struggle can easily reflect the struggles a girl can go throughout life and will go through in the future. This movie shows when you(man or Woman) believe in yourself there is no obstacle that can restrain the will to fight to live. Beside I would love to see Miss Daryl Hannah star in another blockbuster not only is she hot she is wickedly talented! I don't want to forget the director and producer and all the other people who this movie. Because of every individual in even the smallest way added enough of themselves just so perfectly it has inspired me to stand up and tell someone,anyone this is a really fucken cool movie about people for people yeah its dated,but thats why we have Hollywood! please take me away for an hour or two today my work week was tough. Thank You. Michael "},{"Title":"I quite enjoyed it","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film is very much reviled by the Jean M. Auel novel's many fans. I don't have the baggage that comes with having read the book, although, even if I did, I tend to think I'm a much better judge of cinematic adaptations than most people. It's easy to see that the novel is likely far better than the film, just because the story feels rushed at times and the climax is extremely weak. But I honestly enjoyed the movie. Heck, Daryl Hannah is always pleasing to the eyes, even when she's playing a filthy cavewoman. The acting all around is quite good. And I thought the film did a good job imagining prehistoric communication and society. The grunting and simple signing should seem much more ridiculous than they do here. My main reason for enjoying it could be because Roland Emmerich's film 10,000 B.C., released early in 2008, is still fresh in my mind. Clan of the Cave Bear beats the heck out of that one, despite the two good action sequences it contained (Clan isn't an action movie, more a girl excelling in a male dominated society type of movie). And I still haven't seen what is purportedly the best caveman movie, Quest for Fire. I have, however, seen Caveman, starring Ringo Starr and Shelley Long. "},{"Title":"Very Close Adaption of the book","Date":"9 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was very surprised that this was so low rated. Over the years I had ignored this feature due to ratings. I have just finished rereading the book and felt  Let's give it a shot . Was well worth the investment and I recommend it to any fan of the books.The adherence to the book's story line was excellent considering the limited time. also the 3 AYLSs were very good. Admittedly the Cro Magnon clan looked more like a group of good old boys but were acceptable. Creb, Brun and Broud were very good and maybe should have been nominated. I must admit that I would now love to visit British Columbia where this was filmed but alas age will preclude this . The location is stunning and feels right. "},{"Title":"Clan of the Cave Bear","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Ayla, a Cro-Magnon(Daryl Hannah)tries her damnedest to become a part of the Neanderthal Clan of the Cave Bear tribe, but is met with constant resistance because many are secretly afraid of her. The film clearly dictates that Ayla is superior in many ways to the Neanderthals for she can indeed depend on her own abilities while the women of the tribe often are subservient in every way. She tries to adapt, but her greatest foe is Broud(Thomas G. Waites), a warrior of the clan who may be groomed as leader one day. Broud seems threatened by Ayla and uses his clout in the clan(mainly his being male)to often force her into unfortunately uncomfortable situations. Ayla, though, is gutsy and determined. She isn't dumb and is able to learn how to use hunter's tools even though if she is indeed caught even touching them it means certain death. We see that the Neanderthal tribe live by their belief in spirits in every conceivable way. The spirits determine their course of action in many arenas of life including specific choices they desire for the group. Creb(James Remar)is a scar-faced Mag-or who becomes quite fond of Ayla and Iza(Pamela Reed)becomes her surrogate mother. Ayla lost her mother to a hideous earthquake and was scratched on the leg by a lion while hiding in a small crack in stone. Ayla, if left to her own devices, probably would've perished if Iza hadn't pitied her. The film's theme is quite adjacent to the thinking of today. A woman can change the ways men often believe should stay as they are. Ayla plays such an archetypal role as Ayla. What she does over the course of the film is challenge an inferior way of life and in the end comes off as being very right. In the opening paragraph(..and throughout Salome Jens' narration)we understand that Ayla's memory would remain long past the declining Neanderthals that would soon vanish. If you can not change then you're sure to vanish away with the dust in the wind..I guess that is how I perceive John Sayles's script from the novel being in a round-about way. Sayles seems, to me, to be using the Clan as a metaphor for us in modern society. The mores and ways of the tribe are challenged and considered fodder for certain extinction because they could not change and grow. Ayla was the way of doing just that and in ways her upending of Broud proves that the Clan could've improved if they had followed her path. The film can probably be seen two different ways. Those who approach it seriously understanding that Sayles and Chapman wanted to create something unique and interesting or as a laughable exercise. It is not at all a critics' darling..anything but. I have to say though that I enjoyed it and found it interesting to watch. I liked the approach at having the clan speak this native talk with us following along in subtitles..and yet this could be found laughable if the person can not accept it. I think the film is flawed in how the clan is portrayed. I myself do not believe this could happen. I certainly can not envision a young woman getting away with what Ayla does, but I didn't mind it because I felt I could see Sayles' reason for doing so(..that is if he was using the Clan as a metaphor for our more intelligent modern society and how we and many other countries still have our resistance against change). Many complain about Hannah being in this film, but I liked her myself. It's also wonderfully shot by cinematographer Jan de Bont. I think the movie's acceptance will come down to each individual viewer. What one is willing to accept in regards to how the film portrays this people and their confrontations with Ayla. "},{"Title":"A great Story","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Jean Auels books are a piece of art, you cannot help but visualize what she has written as you read her books. The depth of the storyline and feelings that she pours into the books and the fact that she went and learned as well as researched living in the wild and also survive off the land so as to write the book more accurately is incredible. The movie tried to follow her book, but with a lot of masterpieces in literature it is often difficult to create a movie that follows it as closely as the book. Choosing Darryl Hannah I believe was done because of her hight as Ayla was tall and taller than anyone in the cave, I agree what one person said, Ayla was a teenager so Darryl Hanna looked too old in this part, sorry Ms Hannah. But she did a good job I wonder though how many of the actors who starred in this movie actually read the book? I hope that one day they will try to make this movie again maybe the director that did the Lord of The Rings, he would do it justice having endured creating such a marvelous piece of work such as that book, with the huge detail he put in to make sure he didn't leave anything out, someone like him I believe should make this movie someone that loves and cares about the richness and intricate story lines of the books and how important they are to convey in the movie. "},{"Title":"caveman fantasy seen through 20th century eyes","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film was shot in a remote part of a beautiful park in Southern British Columbia, Canada. That's the good part. The premiss of the film is that at some point Neanderthals and Cro- magnons must have encountered each other and interbred. There is now DNA evidence that this happened approx 100,000 years ago, likely in several places, perhaps including Southern Europe and Southern Turkey. Unfortunately the tale that the film tells is about a young woman (the Cro-Magnon) who plays a headstrong righteous person seeking emancipation at the hands of tyrants and an oppressive culture. The development is painfully slow, people communicate through the kind of hand signals and repeated utterances, as you might see in Mexico while watching stupid tourists. Darryl Hanna is easy to look at but boring otherwise. Her repertoire consists of cliché movements and faces. In short, it's a combination of bad entertainment and an awful documentary. "},{"Title":"An average movie","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I first saw that there were in fact a movie to see which was done by the books I was captivated. I thought I just got to see that movie and I had already read the five existing books at that time so I knew what would happen and such so I bought the movie, from this site actually and when I got it I was so pleased and watched it ten seconds later ;) The beginning was good but what I didn't like was that they made too many sounds and the language that they spoke was not so beautiful as they said. And the makeup wasn't so covering so they looked kinda like Darryl Hannah but after all the movie was made at 1986 and I guess they didn't have as many possibilities then as today but another reason why I thought that it was a little boring was because that they'd left out too many details that should've been there but it wasn't, and much of the book had been changed when they made the movie. I didn't think that this interpretation did justice to the book. But what I do think was good was that the most important details they hadn't left out, which was good. So if you saw it for the first time without even had read the books you would understand the content of the movie and still like it. I do think that if you wanna like the movie, watch it before you read the book because if you read first and then watch, many of you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good adaptation","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw the film before I read the book, and as a result I was unaware of how much was omitted.  This said, however, the film does an admirable job of condensing this vast story into one-and-a-half-hours.It is the very human nature of the story, focusing on the emotions of the characters, not necessarily the events that transpire,that makes this unfocused film work.Oh, and I don't know why, but I've never seen a bad caveman film. "},{"Title":"leaves 90% to your imagination","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  great movie about the meeting of the new kind of man and the old kind (cro magnon and neanderthals) i was interested the whole time and when it ended i felt happy and i wondered what happened after. it leaves so much to your imagination. "},{"Title":"Shootout at the O K ave Coral?","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" From the standpoint of being able to take a Good book and turning it into a piece of rubbish?  This then was a masterpiece.  I had no problem with the casting of this film. Actually I thought the actors did a good job all things considered.  However, Daryl Hannah as Ayla ...was for me a total wash out, this part required a stronger acting presence and in my opinion called for an actor of great ability.  The visuals of the film were magnificent, and the Photography sometimes bordered on genius.  But why is it that screen writers think that they have to fix a perfectly good story, by taking the same time it would take to tell the actual story and instead telling a silly disjointed and inaccurate one?  One where none of the characters really develop nor become loved by the audience.   Oh yes, I know that screen writers must compress events and so on.  But this screenplay of Mr. John Sayles, was one of the worst examples I have ever seen.  Not only was the time line of the story tragically out of whack, but when Ayla broke Brouds spear with her sling at the shootout at the O.K. Coral scene at the End of the film...  Anyone who read the book would be able to tell you that had that actually happened, based on what we knew from the characters and the clan in this wonderful book,  she would have been killed by the clan immediately.  That would have been a travesty of enormous proportion for them.  The real heart of the actual story, was the relationships between Ayla, Iza,Creb and Brun,  and her interpersonal growth as a being, was almost completely missed in this film and the development of the characters whom you loved in the book was no where in sight.  Basically the film characters. by virtue of really bad screen writing became a bunch of cardboard cut outs without connection one to the other.  It was a mish mash of people running in and out of scenes.  Jean M. Auel could not have been happy with this mess.   I hope she was paid enough. If any of you fellow viewers have seen any of her comments on this film, I would appreciate you E-mailing them along to me.  I would happily give her and her book at least a 9.  but this movie was a mess and it's present IMDb rating of 4.9 is about 2.9 points to high.   If you have read the book and wish to suffer....see this film. That is this viewers opinion. "}{"Title":"Maybe animation could pull it off?","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm in the middle of the 2nd Clan book, Valley of the Horses, enjoying reading the series tremendously, and held off on seeing this film till I was well past the first title.The usual rule seems to hold that if you really love the book, you ain't gonna dig the movie. I wonder, though if it's partly the look of the film, and not just the inability of one genre to capture the best of another genre's take on the bad old days, complete with thoughts and lots of solitary scenes for the main character.Maybe a really great animated version using the latest technology and some good-old fashioned character building could come a little closer to a strong depiction of the chinless, flathead Neanderthals than the comical looking folks with the bad wigs and prosthetic brow ridges that crowd this picture. While I haven't lost my critical faculties reading the books, they've never prompted me to smile or wince so much as this film did.Just a facetious suggestion--I suspect the story is just not one that's good for film adaptation. "},{"Title":"Such a disappointment","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I understand why this film has bad reviews. I wonder if all of them had read the book. You could not help but be disappointed with the film if you had. The film just didn't live up to it.I'm reading the last book again, and that made me think of the film. You know what, I thought it was that bad when I watched it, that I can't remember that much about it, I mostly just remember let down by the potential the story had for a really good movie.I thought Daryl Hannah was a good choice for the part of Ayla when I first heard about it, but when I saw the movie, I realised she didn't have a strong enough presence to carry off the part properly. I have a vague memory of Creb, but none of the other characters. I'm wondering now if I actually watched the whole movie. Thinking about it, I only really remember Creb teaching Ayla to talk with her hands....I love the books. I've read all 5 (3 or 4 times)and I'm eagerly waiting for the next one. I just hope that it doesn't take as long to come out as Shelters of Stone did. I do wish they'd kept with the original cover designs though, so they look better on the book shelf. o) I hope one day,someone will decide to remake the movie. Maybe a mini-series. I think that would be better. There's too much in each book to fit into a film. Hopefully it would be good enough so that the other books were televised too. "},{"Title":"Good movie but read the book.","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The movie deviates far from the book and cuts a majority of it out, so even though I have read the book a number of times I would not have had a clue what was happening in the movie had there not been narration.The acting is good, a sign of its times, and the characters are cast well, overall it's not a bad movie, technically. The plot is great if you have not read the book or for those who are not fans of books. I just felt there were many aspects from the book, such as hierarchy, that were not addressed properly in the movie. Hierachy was such a huge element in the development of the characters in the book and yet played only a minor role in character development in the movie. However I felt the ending of the movie was excellent, in comparison to most book to movie endings. If you could insert the movie ending into the book and write it in, the story would be perfect. So as good as the movie is if you have the chance, read the book there is so much more to the story. "},{"Title":"just read the book","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a below-mediocre film adaptation of one of the most brilliant books I've ever read.  The book's plot is severely butchered, and the beauty is all gone.  Darryl Hannah is surfacy and vapid, and what I (and tons of other people) love about the book is basically gone.  Definitely read the book (it's amazing), and then, afterwards, maybe see the movie, but don't expect much, and prepare to be disappointed.  Boo.  You know what, forget the movie.  Just read the book. "},{"Title":"One of those films that is so bad it's good.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Having just seen this film for the first time on TV, I came away reeling and breathless with laughter.This film can evaluated at first glance by the cliche of actors in ugly masks attempting to be Neanderthals by grunting, yawn. No, what made this film to die for were the subtitles as the apemen hammed it up.These must be seen to be believed and will have everyone but the completely credulous in tears of mirth. Sample He will be the son I could never have. This from an apeman ??If you fancy a laugh, this is for you. "},{"Title":"Hits and misses","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Very Good --------- Inventive 'sign language' (although some viewers may consider this a 'very bad' aspect of the movie)Good ---- Music (but it is a little repetitive), Darryl (needed far more nudity)Bad --- Story pace, Voice over, Brow ridgesVery Bad -------- Teeth, No T-RexNot a bad film, quite enjoyable. Often more like watching a National Geographic doc about some lost tribe. Some intelligent use of sign language - very consistently used and plausible. Apparently, the woman who wrote the book sued the production company because the film bombed and slurred the good name of her novel. It was a cave-man adventure book, for heaven's sake, with hot sex scenes every other chapter. The sort of book you buy at an airport, read on a beach, then leave in a hotel room. If anything, we should be suing her. "},{"Title":"Dissapointing, but good anyway","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When i read the books, by Jean M. Auel, i was absolutely in love with them. I was so excited when i discovered there was a movie and so rushed out to get it. Unfortunately the movie was terrible, compared to the books.I thought that they chopped too much out and I hated Darryl Hannah- She is just WRONG, and the Neandethals arn't realistic enough... although how can they be- they're actors!Even though i didn't really like it, i get real defensive, because it is still a fantastic attempt to capture cro-magnon life. Movies are never as good as books, and especially not ones as thick as Auel's series.Please give it a break!!!! "},{"Title":"Not that bad...","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Everyone who seems to have commented here, did so in the negative form. True, it was a very rudimentary movie, with many no name actors, but in my unprofessional opinion, still did a damn good job...Daryl Hannah aside, look for sneak appearences by Nicole Eggart, later of Baywatch fame, and a young James Remar, made to look like an elderly disabled man, better known for his role as Rayden in Mortal Kombat 2.The score is wonderful, haunting and scene appropriate, beautiful filming location in Canada.I still can't understand how they recieved word that the clans were gathering, what did some random cro-mag wander the entire continent looking for people to invite to the shindig?? LOL...and, alas the movie starts too quickly, with the totally unbelievable death of Aylas mother, who can totally avoid the huge hole in the ground...and just dives in headfirst..accident my ass...and what is Brouds PROBLEM? Spoiled little b*****d who likes to push down old guys and a very violent way of pulling the old little boy likes girl so he hits her on the playground way...a near hit, and sometimes miss, but overall a good movie, worth watching late at night with the lights off...7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Xena meets Quest for Fire","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Some 35,000 years ago, orphaned Neolithic woman, Ayla, is adopted by a group known as the Clan (don't read too much into this opening statement, I'll fill you in later). Ayla is very different from the Clan. Physically, she is tall, blonde, blue-eyed, smart, brave, sensitive&#133; and the people in the Clan are not.An often frustrating narrative (novel or film) that quite basically tells the audience that racial and gender-based forms of social discrimination were a lot worse in Prehistoric times. I came away from this movie thinking that I am not one of the descendants of the chosen Caucasoid race (correct me if I'm wrong, but the Caucasoid race descended from areas such as northwestern Russia, some Nordic countries, etc.; bones of Paleolithic man were mainly discovered in areas of what is now India, Pakistan, Rajastan, Gujarat and Bihar).But enough of this 'OCD / anal-retention'...If we're to believe the story, Neolithic primitives as depicted in the novel eventually paved the way for the Dawn of Civilization. Again, I'm being too sensitive, and I sometimes have the habit of making hasty generalizations. Still, I can't help but point out the fact that Ayla, our platinum blonde, blue-eyed hero, leads a group of otherwise Troglodytical morons to safety and survival. Anyway, I said it and it's out there for anyone to dispute for himself or herself (I would say Cromagnon is the correct term for the prejudicial Cave Bear Clan, if my physical anthropology course taught me anything).When female author Auel's 1980 novel was published, historians and anthropologist fiercely denounced the validity of her work. I personally would agree the story is biased and pro-Aryan...hence the protagonist's name Ayla, but I'm well aware that I'm merely drawing at straws with this one. In defense of the author I must recognize the fact that female author Auel worked-up considerable sweat; she spent three years researching the material for The Clan of the Cave Bear novel. With this in mind, I asked myself How much time did these pooh-pooing critics spend in rejecting it? The novel sold more than one hundred thousand copies its first three months after its publication, which doesn't prove anything but the fact that word-of-mouth&#133;or whatever&#133;impelled eager readers to purchase a copy of Auel's book. While doing some research on the film itself, I came across this for in her blood (Ayla's) flows the future of humanity....Whatever! Let's just say that Auel's work of fiction (and the movie adapted from it) makes for an interesting read, despite moments of almost unendurable frustration. "},{"Title":"Bad!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is deffinately not as good as the book, it disappoints me, as the book is so good, and this movie so dismal! It is so loosely based on the book, it isn't even really the story of the clan of the cave bear story because they changed it so much! "}{"Title":"Dull","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Young Alya loses her mother in a landslide and wanders alone across the country. She is discovered by the bear tribe and taken in. However she is not one of them and many of the clan don't accept her and she must fight to gain their trust within the tribe.This is a pretty weak film. There's no spoken dialogue - the clan have their own language and the small amounts of talking is subtitled, however there is a narrator throughout. The plot is very thin - girl isn't accepted by tribe etc, not much actually happens. The plot is helped either by having characters who have no redeeming features or personalities. I know they're meant to be cavemen but the scenes of them in makeup are just funny, while the scene where one tries to take Daryl Hannah from behind but fails to get it up is just stupid.The performances are pretty poor - however everyone having to grunt and do sign language all the time under huge wigs makes it difficult for anyone to do well. It's interesting to see Hannah in an early role, however she doesn't bring anything other than her looks - which isn't reason enough to watch.Overall a boring film that will have you feeling glad that you didn't live during this time in history. If only because everyone wore huge wigs and spoke funny. "},{"Title":"Reading a few comments I went for that movie, how wrong was I !!!","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" After reading a few comments, I decided to give a chance to it...HOW WRONG WAS I !!! Apart the scenery, yes, it's nice, the rest is just under the belt, and much under an average movie...Was it not supposed to be an all family entertainment, or what else ever ? Are we not supposed to have a brain ? I wonder...Some comments talk about the rape, I will too, writing it was quiet realistic...Yes, it was... just great ! Come, come... You're kidding ! I sincerely advise anyone who has children to have a look at it, before to see it with your children (fortunately I did).Though rape is not a pleasant thing (or am I wrong ?), I don't mind for such scenes in an adult movie, if it has a meaning...The scene of rape, in Jean-Jacques Annaud's great War of Fire is tough, yes, though it doesn't drive to sinless conclusion ! I thought The War of Fire was good, but compared to this c..p, it just confines to excellency !!! Scandalized, it's just what a feel about that garbage-melting pot.May be I'm all wrong, I should just take it as at 36th degree of silliness intelligence...appreciating how bad it is... (as suggested by one more clever commentator !)About Jean Auel's book, just read it, fantastic adventure and great value !!! PS She got an honoris causa for it, following 20 years of scientific denials for the Man's Evolution ideas she advanced in her book...finally considered as genuine and authentic facts... ) "}]