[{"Title":"The posterchild for the 'so bad it's good' film brigade...","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lacklustre direction by Lloyd Kaufman and Michael Herz, a goofy script (by Joe Ritter), truly poor FX and even worse acting all add up to, for some strange, abstract reason, a stupidly enjoyable film experience.Maybe it's the camp sounding music, the over the top (and in some cases *way* over the top) 'acting', or perhaps it's just the fact that it's so unashamedly weird and downright cheesy that makes it such fun to watch, who knows? Whatever the reason this definitely isn't a film to spend long hours contemplating such things, instead just sit back and enjoy the crazy show.Performance wise, as already mentioned, none of the actors give even remotely decent performances, with the exception of Andree Miranda who's actually pretty good in her role as Toxie's blind girlfriend. All of the other actors are so far over the top (or indeed just so downright terrible) that by films end they too have somehow managed to take on their own distinctly cheesy charm and add greatly to the whole 'so bad it's good' motif.As I may have mentioned once or twice before 'The Toxic Avenger' is cheesier than a block of cheese factories, and as such it takes a special type of person to enjoy 'this type of thing', however for those with their tongue planted firmly in cheek, and for lovers of schlock cinema and 50's z-grade monster movies this is a must see. For most everyone else though it's probably best avoided and will most likely induce headaches and annoyance rather than belly laughs and amusement. Which of the above descriptions best suits you I'll leave you to decide for yourself.7/10   "},{"Title":"Revolting, disgusting, stupid- I loved it!","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"32 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  As a child I loved to stay up late and watch USA Up All Night (with Gilbert Gottfried or Rhonda Shear, I wasn't picky). This allowed me to sample pretty much every major Troma movie, and I discovered the meaning of the phrase guilty pleasure. As I got older I stayed away from Troma, as their movies radiated the kind of feeling you get from wearing a shoddy Halloween mask too long and getting nauseous inhaling the cheap rubber fumes. But after sampling the delightful Tromeo & Juliet I decided to return to my roots and check out the directors edition of the classic Toxic Avenger.While I was right in remembering the films as the guiltiest of pleasure, the cheap charm of the film was undeniable, and there was a ton of gore in the movie that I never saw on T.V.  Arms are severed, guts are ripped out, seeing-eye dogs are shot, and children's heads are crushed- and it all looks pretty good! Some of the acting will make you wince, some of the jokes are atrocious (there are mother-in-law jokes), and some scenes go on too long (the idiotic out-of-control-car sequence) or too short (Toxie taking his revenge on his tormenters is strangely gore-free, which is explained in the director's commentary), but I can't bad-mouth a movie that has it's hero stuff a little old lady in a washing machine. If you're a gore fan with a high thresh hold for bad taste, then give the Toxic Avenger another shot- I did, and I'm a better person for it. I think.  "},{"Title":"The beginning of a new era...","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger (1985) was the flagship of Troma's movie line during the early to mid 80's. This film was responsible for keeping the company a float during this time period and it also marked a turning point in the company's history. For years, Lloyd Kaufman and company were making cheesy sex comedies. With the birth of the Toxic Avenger, they started to expand their horizons, focusing on low budget horror/comedy trashy spoofs films. Instant cult classics were being produced by Team Troma. The Toxic Avenger is a Charles Atlas tale gone a wry. A weak nerd is transformed into a superhero of superhuman size and strength. Melvin Junko is his name. Melvin was a mop boy for a local health spa. One day when a mean prank turned into a horrible accident, he was exposed to an open drum of toxic waste. That unfortunate mishap transforms and mutates Melvin into an avenger, a TOXIC AVENGER. Troma becomes a worldwide phenomenon and the Toxic Avenger becomes one of the most famous cult films of all time. A must for all campy cult film fans!!Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Undeniably fun","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  You always have to take Troma films with a grain of salt, and that's exactly what I did.  I enjoyed this film quite a bit.  Though it's a typical B-movie, the premise is creative and I actually felt sympathy for the character of Melvin before his mutation.  I know what it's like to be the underdog, so I was able to somewhat relate to him.  So while some may have laughed at his quirky antics, I was too busy feeling sympathy for pool little Melvin.  The film is filled with quirky, low-brow humor, which often works.  I just felt that the premise wore thin after a while, and that's when the film seemed to simply go through the motions.  Despite that, I had a good time and can understand why this is the film that put Troma on the map.  So if you're in the mood for a funny, low-budget, low-brow horror-comedy, then please check out The Toxic Avenger. My score  6 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"The Citizen Kane, uh, Citizen Toxie of b-pictures...","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" For those that don't know, there are intentionally bad movies, and then there are intentionally bad movies; The Toxic Avenger is the latter. Troma Entertainment is the undisputed king of bad b-pictures, but the 1985 cult hit The Toxic Avenger ranks as their finest effort. Essentially a take on superhero movies and sci-fi pictures, The Toxic Avenger is Troma's Citizen Kane.With co-directors Michael Herz and Lloyd Kaufman at the helm, respective veep and president of Troma Entertainment, The Toxic Avenger begins with a humiliating prank gone horribly wrong. Melvin, the resident 90-pound geek and janitor of the Tromaville health club, is fooled into thinking a blonde bimbo wants him. But instead the prank, which involves a stuffed goat and pink tutu (don't ask), goes wrong and ends with Melvin diving out a second-story window and landing in a vat of misplaced toxic waste.What emerges from the bubbly green goop is Tromaville, New Jersey's hideously deformed, bloodthirsty vigilante mutant monstrosity who sets out on a vendetta against all forms of evil in his hometown, particularly against the jocks (who are too sick to be believable) who made him what he is. Meanwhile, Toxie eventually finds romance with a blind woman who is unaware her boyfriend is responsible for the recent wave of gruesome vigilante killings (in essence, they're the perfect couple).A sick and depraved sense of humor is flaunted throughout this low-budget film project, which is in itself (to the politically-correct), an inspired, mean-spirited, overtly racist, funny, and completely, utterly insane cult flick that also reveals a slight penchant for animal cruelty.The acting is atrocious, the gore is plentiful and the low budget shines, but there's no question I loved this flick. Like any horror film, it's rightfully found its place in this film lover's heart.Vote for Citizen Toxie in 2006!10/10 "},{"Title":"the epitome","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Troma's best to this day, I still believe.  Actually, I haven't seen the vast majority of their movies, but this has got to be the one on top.  I love this!  Deservedly the companies' most widely recognized film, it can't be ignored for it's willingness to go ahead and do whatever the hell it wants!  The acting is completely ridiculous, but when was the last time you had so much fun watching???  The effects are pretty good, nice and gooey in all the right parts....If you've got a special place in your heart for satire, or just like bad, goofy movies, this is the one to see.  All the pieces fall into just the right places. "},{"Title":"one of the goofiest, funniest, stupidest, goriest and politically incorrect cult classics ever made.","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  first off, if you love B-movies like i do, you've probably seen this classic cheese-fest numerous times.But for the uninitiated, what better film to introduce yourself to the wild wonderful and cheesy world of Troma films (and B-movies in general) than The Toxic Avenger.this film has it allover the top graphic violence and gore including head crushings, dismemberments, eye-gougings, animal cruelty; offensive portrayals of blind people and the elderly,  some truly inventive murders and acting that is all over the map.what sets this film apart is that a lot of the humor is actually intentional (though the movie does have it's fair share of deliberately unintentional humor.)the version to see is the unrated-director's-cut that is only available through Troma Team Video. it has all the gore that had to be cut out to earn an R-rating in the U.S. (some versions in other countries were even more severely cut!)a genuine cult classic and B-movie-making at it's most inspired.rating9.5 (on a B-movie scale)   "},{"Title":"Troma's masterpiece!","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" In the town of Tromaville New Jersey, janitor nerd Melvin Fern (Mark Torgel) has been picked on and bullied by the jocks at the Tromaville gym until a prank goes horribly wrong when he falls into a barrel of toxic chemicals. The material somehow transforms him into a muscular and powerful mutant creature called The Toxic Avenger (Mitchell Cohen) and has a powerful instinct to kill only evil people and save Innocent people. He soon becomes the town's monster hero and falls in love with a lovely blind woman named Sarah (Andree Maranda) but the local crooks especially the wicked Mayor Belgoody (Pat Ryan Jr.) who all wants him dead.A brilliantly hilarious, entertaining and gory as hell horror comedy that became Troma's landmark film and made the studio the popular cult independent studio that it is today. Yes the acting is laughable and the film gets a little cheesy, but this is pure escapism at it's best! The film was originally given an X rating for it's extreme violence and gore such numerous head crushing and brutality. But the movie went on to become one of the greatest cult movies of all time, this is definitely a movie for those with a strong stomach and warped sense of humor.A must see! "},{"Title":"a tinge of Ed Wood","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" My 10/10 rating assumes that you like this movie before you've seen it. The Toxic Avenger is the ultimate movie for anyone into 1980s schlock. No doubt it was intended mainly for teenage boys (I lost track of how many naked women there were here). But overall, it's great to see a movie never self-conscious or anything like that (I mean, come on, look at that ridiculous outfit that the title character wears); the movie's really gross and proud of it. Troma must still be proud of this flick.Oh, and of course Marisa Tomei has a small appearance in the movie. Who ever would have guessed that one of the people starring in this would later win an Oscar? "},{"Title":"Kick Ass Troma film!","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Rated R for Strong Violence/Gore,Sexuality,Nudity and Language.The Toxic Avenger is one of those so bad its good Troma made films.This is the only Troma film I have seen fully though I saw a bit of Class Of Nukem High.I saw this a while back on the channel Drive In Classics.The Toxic Avenger is a great movie.Yes it is cheaply made but it has a great mix of gore and comedy.The movie is about a geek who one day falls into a batch of toxic waste.He then becomes this deformed superhero.He basically then fights crime while befriending a blind girl.The Toxic Avenger spawned three sequels, none of which I have seen.The Toxic Avenger is a great movie and if you like those entertaining so bad its good films, then I recommend it. "}{"Title":"What's not to love?","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I was put off at first by the title. I like pollution and go out of my way to pollute the planet so I wasn't sure whether or not this low-budget comedy would have some underlying hippie environmental garbage message or not. Nevertheless, I decided to buy it... Oh my god, it was hilarious! Melvin is a lonely, awkward, ugly geek working as a janitor in the local health club, in Tromaville (known as the toxic chemical capital of the world). During a harmless if not somewhat cruel prank on Melvin, he gets into an unexpected accident involving hazardous waste, and hurries, terrified, back to his mom's house, where he mutates. Unsure if he can survive in society, he lives in the garbage dump on the outskirts of town... but it isn't long before he dons his mop and literally cleans up the town, getting rid of psychos, perverts, pedophiles, drug dealers and corrupt cops. He also falls for a very nice girl, Sara, who happens to be blind and can't see his mutated appearance.Aside from the constant crude humor, which I found annoying and rude, The Toxic Avenger is a comedic movie you just can't hate. From the catchy 80's soundtrack to the weird sheep kiss prank played on Melvin, the acting, the gore effects, the very original idea, this is a movie you won't want to avoid! I don't recommend you let your kids watch it, there are a few disturbing scenes, some violence, sex jokes, nudity, a couple of racist/homophobic comments and a rather misleading and stereotypical portrayal of the blind girl. Adults can enjoy the film while knowing better than to say these things, but kids could easily pick up various phrases from the film. A children's version of the film, Toxic Crusaders, is the better thing to show your kids.I don't know if I'll be watching this film again but I'm certainly going to view the others in the series! If you want something comedic, action-packed, low-budget and original, you'll love this. "},{"Title":"So 80's you can reach out and touch the mullets","Date":"17 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Four crazed teenagers speed down the road in their car, wildly bragging about points they've notched up by running down different people in the car. So many points for someone on a bike, so many points for an elderly person, and big points for a small child. How many points for a child on a bike? asks the driver, excited. Learning this will earn him maximum points, he proceeds to knock the small child off his bike, and he goes flying over the hood. They turn round and see the child move in pain. Horrified that he may lose out on his points, the driver then proceeds to reverse over the child's head, squashing it completely. Two girls get out of the car and take some pictures. This scene, for me, represents the majority of this film. More shocking than it should be, even today, but never taking itself at all too seriously, regardless of the horror on show.Melvin (Mark Torgl) is a skinny, nerdy loser who works in the swimming baths, forever cleaning up with his mop. He is frequently bullied and humiliated by a high school gang who one day play a trick on him, which sees him kissing a goat dressed in a tutu. Horrified, Melvin flees and throws himself through a window, landing on a conveniently positioned (and open-topped) barrel of toxic waste. He begins to burn and rot, and eventually the toxic waste causes him to mutate in a taller, stronger, and ultimately more heroic beast, who wants revenge on his tormentors. Toxie (as he is now called, played by man-mountain Mitch Cohen) starts to clean up the city of Tromaville, which is being run by corrupt mayor Peter Belgoody (Pay Ryan), while at the same time romancing blind girl Sara (Andree Maranda) who he rescues from a rapist in a restaurant.This was Troma's first big hit, and also their first foray into horror, having previously focusing on really crap sex comedies. After this, which after an initial unsuccessful run became a popular cult favourite on the B-movie circuit, they focuses only on horrors. This is the second Troma film I've seen. The other was Killer Nerd. You can probably assume from the title that it is a god-awful excuse for a film, although it is quite amusing in it's filmed-on-video awfulness (starring Harvey Pekar associate Toby Radloff). This, I'm pleased to say, was actually good! It was a hell of a lot more violent than I was expecting, and the special effects are actually pretty impressive in some places. And Toxie proves to be a likable vigilante/superhero, however hideous he may be.Having said that, this is a low-budget Troma, and it's not exactly Citizen Kane. The acting is wooden, and the film is so 80's you can practically reach out and feel the sweatbands and mullets. But it is funny, satisfyingly gory, and, most importantly, fun. Toxie proves to be a more interesting 'superhero' than the majority of others. And the film actually has a social message in there somewhere, beneath all the tits and human-taco-making, recognising the pollution that we are all too aware of in our age of global warming and climate change. Now to sit through the three sequels, which I am quietly confident will be awful!www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"believe it or not","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Think about this - tonight's screening was the first time an uncut print of Toxic Avenger has ever screened in Canada. This well-known trash fest had the importunity to coincide with the reign of the Ontario Censor Board's Mary Brown and her meat cleaver. Exactly what interests were served, what causes were advanced, by keeping those precious minutes out? I resent this kind of paternalism and I'm glad I had the opportunity to see it. Okay. But I still don't like it. I'm working on the ideology, which is supposed to be a no-go zone in spite of the relentless baiting. I mean after I left the theatre my Ipod rolled around to Body Count; and I cracked open Burrough's Blade Runner (A Movie); same diff in the filthy-iconoclast department, right? Nein. Ice-T and Burroughs are, in their separate ways, turning the world upside down, the better to shine an erratic light. These Troma guys just inflate the usual knee-jerk stereotypes until their eyes and boobs pop out. So you're invited to point and laugh at Asians, blacks, Latinos, queers, handicapped people, fat guys, fat ladies. As well as, I admit, jocks, cops and politicians. But the cumulative effect is oppressive because it's just too broad, too strained and finally not very funny; maybe a couple nice laughs only. Technical incompetence only earns you fleeting irony points, even if you try to make a career out of it, hint hint. The pre-sold audience at this screening were eerily quiet through most of the flailing grotesquerie. So here's a pull quote that I'm sure the man would love Lloyd Kaufman is a grandstanding putz! "},{"Title":"Troma's cult classic","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film is one of Troma's finest films that deserves to be a cult classic, the acting is bad yet funny since it's a horror comedy, the gore effects are good and the soundtrack is nice with some memorable songs like Body talk. The fight scenes are pretty cool like the scene in the Taco Resteraunt that had some neat fighting moves. Some scenes did show the same scenes over again to pad the film up but that isn't too bad since they don't drag for too long.The make up for The Toxic Avenger is good and the effects for the gore are cool. The Toxic Avenger is one of those cult classic's that must be seen for some humour, horror, nudity and gore. Check this out. "},{"Title":"A Jersey Classic","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Troma Films is legendary in the New York/New Jersey area, where most of their films are shot. (I was on site during the filming of a crowd scene for Class of Nuke'Em High in Paramus, New Jersey during the summer of '85, but to be honest I've never been able to find myself on screen in the movie.) The Toxic Avenger is arguably Troma's most accomplished work, and remains its most famous/popular film. Oddly enough, despite the tasteless humor and constant gross-out scenes in this movie, the title character spawned several sequels (of varying quality) and was eventually re-cast as a kid friendly cartoon character (!) with an environmental message in the late '80s that resulted in a line of comic books, toys and action figures!! Watching this gutbustingly hilarious 1985 classick (pun intended) now, it's hard to believe how far Toxie came. The Toxic Avenger's humor is definitely not for everybody, but if you're from Jersey, you are hereby required to rent it at least once. On a side note, Joe Zarro, who appears in this film as the proprietor of the dry cleaner's shop, taught English and Film Studies at Paramus High School in the late 1980s. His star turn in Toxic Avenger was widely known among the student body, yet he seemed somewhat embarrassed by it and naturally, he wouldn't even consider screening it for our class. What a shame!! "},{"Title":"great parody movie 1980's style","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" 1 you must like spoof & parody movies. There are endless details making this movie great. Its texture is not much different from A class/budget spoofs like police academy, naked gun, hot shots etc.this movie is an endless parody of movie clichès. Some people mistake targeted parody for poor acting. No way. I'm not saying it's an A+ Hollywood rubbish colossal, yet during the first part of the movie ( the mop man weakling made fun of ), you clearly see facial expression, mimicks etc are over the top & purposefully so.This movie has scenes that are copied, borrowed or else identical in super budget A+ later movies. Ex when the mop man bathes into toxic waste Joker from Batman movies, anybody? Ex when the monster hijacks a car with two villains, killing one and riding the other at full speed to his death the crow, anyone? And when the car finally explodes & the monster is unarmed Terminator anyone?The blind girl ( Maranda is very very pretty ) affair reminds of Ben the rock man from the fantastic 4 in some comics.the scene where the slutty bimbo teases the mopman to wear a ridiculous outfit to arouse her, only to trick him in front of a sheep with bra in front of everybody, so he runs away in shame with all the overly exaggerated gestures is a clear parody of many culprit trauma scenes from more famous movies.The moral is all those glossy & fancy morons poking fun at the nerdy mopman are in reality drug addicts, weirdos, killers, hit&run drivers, pimps, pushers etc; so in reality the pathetic mopman & the ugly monster are much better than those scumbags.There is gore but not much & anyways not enough to bother an adult. There are a few girls who'd belong to a porn flick, a sauna masturbation scene & the monster has sex too, but overall it isn't more graphic than most cable TV crime movie; i'd say less.There is violence bar none two weirdos cane an old lady to death; a dog is shot & the blind bimbo is almost raped (clockwork orange spoof ).There is also parody of more conventional items in superhero movies. Ex Batman hides in the bat caves; Superman in the north pole Fortress and the monster hides in a junkyard. When he gets the blues for being sick of mashing criminals, he & his girlfriend go hide in his favourite place another dump. There you get a camping tent & she's in bikini.The monster roars & that's clearly an incredible Hulk spoof. To rescue hostages in a fast food, the monster faces criminals who are themselves a parody of the bad bunch an horny Negro, a painted-face punk white and a third slick dressed white who faces the monster with some agility martial arts moves, etc. Again, parody of a bunch of clichés.The monster helps oldies cross the street; helps housewives open cookie jars (fun poked at conventional superheroes)I liked this movie very much. It's a spoof; it's a comedy. You can't expect Orson Wells and Kenneth Branagh, yet the acting is not so poor as let believe. Watch it. "},{"Title":"Awesome Cult Classic, That Is Extremely Enjoyable, With A Fun Cast!","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is an awesome cult classic, that is extremely enjoyable, with a fun cast!. It never takes itself seriously, and all the characters were pretty cool, plus This is the best Troma film i have seen so far!. It has great make up and Gore effects, and there is plenty of laughs, plus it features plenty of hilarious villains!. I admit i love Troma films, and coming into this i had high expectations, and i wasn't disappointed, as it delivered everything i wanted, gore,laughs, cool characters and a cool story!. If your looking for great acting look elsewhere, but if your looking for an extremely fun cheese fest, with plenty of gore and lots of laughs you have come to the right place as this film has plenty of that!. This is an awesome cult classic that's extremely enjoyable,with a fun cast, and i say it's a must see especially for Troma lovers (like me!). The Direction is great!. Michael Herz and Lloyd Kaufman both do a great job here, with great camera work, especially on a low budget, good angles, and keeping the film at a very fun pace!. There is plenty of gore!. We get a kid who is graphically run over,nasty decapitation,extremely gory toxic waste effects,guts pulled out,harsh bloody beating,gory gunshot wound,dog is shot (hated it),brains bashed in,ripped off arm,head crushed in half (Extremely gory), and more!. The Acting is actually not too bad for a Troma film,(still bad though), but it's a lot of fun!. Mitch Cohen is awesome as the Toxic Avenger, he had some great one liners, was a lot of fun to watch, had awesome chemistry with Andree Maranda,and kicked that ass!. Andree Maranda is hot, and was great as the blind girlfriend, i liked her lots. Cindy Manion is pretty good looking, and plays the slut well, however her acting needs a lot of work!. Gary Schneider is a terrible actor, however his performance is amusing as Bozo and cracked me up a couple times. Mark Torgl is amusing as Melvin the nerd, and did fine. Pat Ryan is terrible as the mayor and really played a poor villain. Robert Prichard is okay as slug and nothing more. Rest of the cast are adequate at best. Overall a must see! especially for Troma lovers! (like me). **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"bulllcrap, even if its a spoof","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" although it was kinda hilarious,it was downright terrible. i have never given a film a one, but this one deserved it. the violence was just too much and my favorite flick is John Carpenters The Thing. for chrissake, an old lady gets beaten and a kid gets purposely run over. now it did give me a few laughs, but this was a complete disgrace to the film genre and should not have gotten almost six stars. it makes me sick to think people actually liked this film. house of the dead was a somewhat better movie than this. the best thing i liked about the movie was the comedy, though. the mayor was a pretty funny guy and the kid who played Melvin was a RIOT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"It's Toxic, It's Independent  but it's not a Waste.","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This little pleasant surprise came quite unexpected, and the reason why I love independent movies such as this, directed by Lloyd Kaufman and the reclusive Michael Herz, founders of Troma Entertainment in 1974, the independent movie distribution company for the low budget B-Movie genre. The Troma Company can be proud to have had the likes of Samuel L. Jackson, Kevin Costner and the actress Marisa Tomei as early rising stars on their books, and with over 165 movies, to date, to their name, Troma Entertainment has become very entertaining indeed.With a strong zest for independence, shock, black comedy, sex and with a youthful cast, these movies have become cult figures that certainly deserve the recognition and respect amongst their peers and fans alike.As with their biggest hit, The Toxic Avenger is a clever filming of parody and sardonic humour. Is The Toxic Avenger a social comment on the narcissistic and materialistic and bigotry ways of Western society or just a plain horror movie parody reflecting on how society should be more tolerant to difference? This is the story of Melvin, the Tromaville Health Club mop boy, who inadvertently and naively trusts the hedonistic, contemptuous and vain health club members, to the point of accidentally ending up in a vat of toxic waste. The devastating results then have a transmogrification effect, his alter ego is released, and the Toxic Avenger is born, to deadly and comical results. The local mop boy is now the local Superhero, the saviour of corruption, thuggish bullies and indifference.There has been a lot of hard work put into these movies special effects, for a movie of this genre, it has worked very well. With the extremely visual talents of Jennifer Aspinall, she has made this movie virtually her own, her numerous Award winning flair on special makeup effects is astounding. There is also her movie pedigree to reflect on too, such as Spookies (1987), Street Trash (1987), the Saturday Night Live and Mad TV television shows, The Mexican (2001), Ticker (2001) and A Cinderella Story (2004) and others.Apart from the well thought out stunt fights, car chases, clever make up and witty script, The Toxic Avenger is, down to base level, a very funny movie, this has, no doubt, been used as a stepping stone to greater things for some here. The humorous gags, the amateurish acting, the experience in front of the camera, as well as behind, have most definitely not been a (toxic) waste.Seeing is believing, and believe it when you see it. Be independently minded and support The Toxic Avenger. "},{"Title":"Top shelf trash","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Mark Torgl's performance as Melvin Junko, a mop jockey at a Tromaville gym for jocks and sluts, is one of cinema's finest. You can't better his measured, heartfelt I don't smell nothing'! response to his boss's Melvin, clean up those toilets, they stink! line. This Troma classic, one of their few, is the purest of trash and highly entertaining. After he is humiliated and forced to wear a ballet dress, Melvin plunges from a third floor window into a vat of radioactive slop. When he emerges, he is uglier, stronger and more socially adjusted than he was before. After laying low at the local dump for a while, he re-emerges as The Toxic Avenger. The film shows criminals harassing the innocent so Toxie can harass them back. The script is not Pulitzer material. There is a sick joy to be found in the various crime spree scenes. A restaurant robbery, which features the slaughter of a blind girl's dog and theatrical robbers, is hilarious. There is also a funny scene where a young boy is hit by a car that reverses and hits him again and again just to be sure. None of this is serious stuff, but the easily offended will be. Lousy sequels followed, but this is top shelf trash. "}{"Title":"The greatest anti-comedy ever!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Toxic Avenger is a grotesque parody on 80s teenager flicks like Pretty in pink or Ferris Bueller´s Off Day, the same as a silly homage on comic heroes like the Swamp Thing or the Incredible Hulk. This film is a typical Troma release so watch it at your own risk what you get is horrible acting (Marisa Tomei, anywhere?), sometimes infantile, sometimes macabre humor (beating up grannies, shooting guide dogs, running children over...) and comic book-like violence. Nevertheless it´s quite enjoyable and entertaining. A strange movie at all, but great for its kind! Highly recommended to people who like Attack of the Killer Tomatoes or stuff like that.6/10 "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever forced on humans","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ah, Troma. Troma excels in turning out some of the most horribly made suckfests ever to go straight to video. The Toxic Avenger is the crown jewel in their crown of crap. I don't know why this movie has so many positive reviews, my only guess is that only people that like the movie would feel moved to write something about it. Since I hate this movie over all others I've ever seen, I was moved to drop a little hate and a different viewpoint into the user comments.The production values, plot, acting, soundtrack, all suck the chrome of a trailer hitch. The movie budget couldn't have been more than 40 bucks. The gore and violence are far beyond anything I've seen elsewhere. I love violence and certainly don't mind blood but this movie actually offended me and this is from a person who looks forward to mayhem and bloodshed in all it's forms. I would love to tell you about my true thoughts on this film but the IMDB forbids profanity so I must remain silent on that.Bottom Line The Toxic Avenger is horrible. The worst movie you would ever be cursed to see. If you enjoy bad production, over the top gore and violence, and truly amateur acting, this movie is for you. If you demand quality, forget about Troma films entirely. "},{"Title":"Bad, Awful, Terrible, Don't Lose Time From Your Life Watching This Movie","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" That this movie is rated 6.2 on IMDb undermines hope for humanity. There is nothing even remotely engaging, good, or well done in this movie. Perhaps if you are under the influence of mind-altering substances, or are a pubescent male there might be something in it for you, but otherwise forget it. The acting is not just over-the-top, which may have been intentional, but it doesn't work because it is just plain bad. There is not a single actor in this movie that can do exaggeration in any convincing way, and so they all simply look nothing but stupidly ridiculous, and not in a humorous way. There are a few attempts at crafting a humorous-looking scene, but as soon as you spot it and your hopes increase for a comedic laugh, the direction and staging dive immediately downward and dash all hope for something truly amusing. The writing couldn't be less moronic, so when coupled with inept acting, makes for a disaster of a movie. So, as last resort, could this movie possibly be saved by well-crafted make-up and effects? Once again, all hope is lost, as the make-up and effects are notably cheesy and unconvincing. Oh, wait a minute...lest review of the so-called action sequences be unfairly omitted here, it is sufficient to say that they are poorly choreographed and edited, and the stunt work is consistent with being as unconvincing as everything else in the movie. This movie cant even qualify as being good as a guilty pleasure flick. It does, however, achieve top honors as being remarkably repugnant. "},{"Title":"typical Troma flick and a cult one","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" For many geeks loving the B-movie genre this is the ultimate flick to see and coming out of Troma you know what you can expect. Over 30 years nowadays it shows. The humour added to it or the effects used are outdated but let that be the charm of Toxic Avenger. It's a must see for all fans of the horror genre, it's the one that made Troma and it spawned a franchise. Even up to this writing there are fans out still adoring this flick.If you are into low budget flicks then it's a must see, it has it all, bad acting, overacting, gratuitous nudity, stupidity, clichés and of course the gore that made this the one of Troma to see. Not really my thing and to admit it Troma never really was even as I have a lot of Troma flicks it is one of a kind. Contains a lot of, again, stupid extra's. Be sure to see the unrated director's cut containing the head crush scene.Gore 1,5/5 Nudity 1/5 Effects 1/5 Story 1/5 Comedy 1/5 "},{"Title":"Simple Jacked","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Joe Ritter's script felt like the lines from Commando extras infused with a tinge of glamour and a Dante/Raimi darkness. The lead protagonist is a C.H.U.Dian built superhero version of Day of the Dead's Bud. (So, in essence, it's Bud the C.H.U.D...) Andree Miranda plays the attractive but flat testosterone absorbing female better than Roxanne Kernohan. The gore is cartoonish but satisfying for those who expect the entire movie to be like Emil's toxic demise in Robocop. Lloyd Kaufman's direction was perfectly lackluster, being sure to get plenty of gore and cheese without any substance to throw off the taste. While Mark Torgl's lead feels eerily similar to Simple Jack, in a good way. If anything, this movie shows that, in order to go full vengeance, sometimes you have to go full retard. "},{"Title":"One of the All-Time Cult Classics","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Tromaville has a monstrous new hero. The Toxic Avenger is born when mop boy Melvin Junko (Mark Torgl) falls into a vat of toxic waste. Now evildoers will have a lot to lose.The Toxic Avenger is the very definition of the so-bad-it's-good movie, and really, so is much of what Troma produced in the 1980s. Over-the-top acting and characters, but always done tongue-in-cheek, you cannot help but laugh at the film, even when it is utterly disturbing.Lloyd Kaufman and his crew were never afraid to pull the punches. Unfortunately for them, bad cinema has caught with them and their latest releases are not as edgy as their earlier endeavors. Running over a kid's head? Pointing a shotgun at a baby? Very edgy in 1984, but in 2015 it no longer is (no doubt due to independent filmmakers now trying to one-up Troma!). "},{"Title":"The Toxic Avenger is an absurd piece of filmmaking with just enough laughs and quirks to make it bearable.","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I have been informed that The Toxic Avenger is one of Troma's better films, so it was perhaps not the most appropriate introduction to their notorious catalogue that contains titles such as Nazi Surfers Must Die and Class of Nuke 'Em High.I was expecting gratuitous nudity and violence, and I was presented with it, but one thing I didn't expect was the pantomime acting. There's an array of absurd caricatures, including Bozo (Gary Schneider) a psychotic, gym frequenting idiot who enjoys running children over with his friends Slug (Robert Prichard) and Julie (Cindy Manion). Whilst at the gym, they antagonise the janitor Melvin (Mark Torgl), a ridiculously dorky moron who spends much of his screen presence squirming and baring his comedy-looking teeth. I thought there would be a good old fashioned revenge film to be found in The Toxic Avenger, and there is to a certain extent, however the relentlessly silly acting broke any modicum of investment I may have had in the characters to the point where it became almost unwatchable.Other characters include Mayor Belgoody (Pat Ryan Jr), the corpulent, corrupt mayor of 'Tromaville'; the German police chief (David Weiss), who accidentally exposes his closeted Nazism by compulsively performing the Nazi salute and referring to the mayor as his Fuhrer and Sara (Andree Maranda), the Toxic Avenger's attractive, blind girlfriend whose condition is often the subject of juvenile jokes, the most frequent one being her stick inadvertently making contact with Toxie's crotch.I'm sure most are familiar with the premise &#x96; during a particularly humiliating session of bullying, Melvin the janitor falls out of a window and into a barrel of toxic waste, transforming him into a super strong and super righteous mutant &#x96; The Toxic Avenger.Performed by Mitchell Cohen, the Toxic Avenger's, or Toxie's, screen presence is the film's chief merit. The prosthetics and makeup applied to Cohen's body are very good considering the budget and Troma's reputation. The scene in which Melvin transforms into Toxie is also appropriately painful looking and gruesome, reminding me of the transformation scene in An American Werewolf in London released three years prior.What I found particularly funny was the Toxic Avenger's voice. He initially only grunts and roars, I assumed he could no longer speak, however the toxic waste somehow provided him with a silky smooth mid-Atlantic accent (the voice acting provided by Kenneth Kessler). Kessler's diction is made for radio, it never gets old hearing it emanate from such a grotesque mouth. Amusingly, whenever Toxie speaks in this accent, his back is always facing the camera; this I thought was a reflection of the budget, so I was surprised when in the latter stages of the film you see Toxie speaking directly into the camera with no technical hitches at all &#x96; a sudden influx of money, perhaps?Like everything else in the film, the violence is amateurish. At times it reminded me of my friend and I's home movies. Using the 'DigitalBlue' camera, we created whole horror film franchises including the terrifying 'Oven Glove Man' series and homages to the infamous Jason Voorhees of Friday the 13th. Inevitably, the two characters eventually clashed in a Freddy vs. Jason fashion, my friend was the 'Oven Glove Man' and I, wearing a fancy dress hockey mask, was Jason Voorhees.If my memory is correct, the majority of the films followed the same format of a murder scene followed by a still shot of the victim covered in terrible blood and gore effects that I applied with relish using the software's paintbrush function. Now and again the film felt like this, there would be lengthy fight scenes with little in the way of tangible choreography and nothing in the way of viscera. The viewers' bloodlust is only given slight satiation when Toxie deals a finishing blow and the incapacitated victim's wounds are shown in often motionless close-up shots, some of which being very gory, particularly the scene in which Bozo runs over a teenager's head.With gore, scantily clad women and ridiculous campy humour, The Toxic Avenger has many earmarks of a Troma film, however, unlike most comparable films, there are enough laughs to make its 87 minutes bearable and at times somewhat entertaining.60%www.hawkensian.com "},{"Title":"Legendary","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I can't believe I waited so many years to watch this AWESOME movie. There's so much good stuff that I don't know where to start. First off, I haven't had this much fun watching a movie in years. It's a gross-out comedy that purposely violates all the Hollywood rules while basking in the 80s feel-good attitude.With most B-movies, I hardly expect more than a few exaggerated kill scenes punctuated by filler, not this one. The characters are exaggerated to the point of becoming a real-life cartoon. Mark Torgl's facial expressions alone will brand themselves into your permanent memory. But this over-the-top hilarity is balanced by their ability to really make you feel their inner pain. The director, Lloyd Kaufman, also creates moments of true desolation while somehow keeping it funny. Somehow he gets you to feel sorry while laughing at the misfortune of those poor bastards.What makes this movie great is that anything goes, but it doesn't toss out everything else expected original dialogue, competent actors, and cohesive story. The only thing this movie lacked was better film quality. The lack of funds are definitely apparent camera department. But, with an astronomically low budget 475,000$, these film makers should be commended for making Toxic Avenger cult classic. "},{"Title":"one of my most favorite movies","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Troma movies are what got me into acting. Horrible video quality, terrible sound, awful actors and visual effects that are made in a basement....and its an amazing movie.A nerd turned superhero that has no limits. If you want to see a mutated superhero kill hundreds of bad guys and still hook up with the hot blonde in a red dress with red shoes this is your movie.Toxie delivers in every way possible. Ypu feel sorry for him, you cheer him on to kill more and more and you fall in love with the ridiculous and eccentric villains from the heath club, yes the Tromaville health club, Toxies true origin!Considered by many the greatest Tromaa movie of all time, I cannot recommend The Toxic Avenger enough! It really is one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Just... Yes","Date":"29 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I've always loved this movie. I wanted to put in a short review here for why.I think most humans are basically horrifying savages, and that the only thing keeping us from living in a jungle of rapists, murderers, drug addiction, and diseased whores are the artificial constructs of civilization. Most movies try to lie about this in order to sell some kind of agenda. The Toxic Avenger not only sh*ts all over the myth that there aren't a lot of truly terrible sociopaths out there who cruelly exploit the weak. It shows these people's actions coming around to not just bite them in the ass, but literally CRUSH THEIR SKULLS. Young, old, ugly, beautiful, male, female, rich, poor, powerful, pathetic -- NO ONE escapes judgment. I don't know if it was the intention of the filmmakers, but to me that makes this a movie with a deeply moral message. It doesn't surprise me that people think it's politically incorrect to hold people unconditionally accountable for their actions, which is what I think people find offensive about this movie far more than the violence. Like the hot slut (Julie) who was an accomplice and a lover to a murderous child-killing psychopath (Bozo). Does she get merely intimidated, or shamed, because she's an attractive young woman? No, the seed gets gutted alive with a pair of scissors! =) =) =) The instinct to be in touch with one's personal divinity is every bit as savage - has to be - as the evil turds who want to turn the world into their sadistic playground. Finally a movie that gets it!This movie's a tongue-in-cheek primal scream for someone who hates evil. "}{"Title":"A Fun, Cheesy Flick","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" An absolutely pathetic young man is transformed into the Toxic Avenger, after falling into a vat of toxic waste. He becomes a highly Mutant Superhero, avenging the victims of bullies, wherever he can find them.Some of the Avenger's antics are Psychopathic...the violence and brutality is stunning, while at the same time comical. For comparison, think Return Of The Living Dead. Some of the settings include toxic waste dumps - horrible pollution, under a New Jersey skyline - which I found hilarious, having lived in that area in the 1960s and early 70s (and, the pollution back then WAS incredible). The Avenger has a romantic interest - a very shapely young blind woman, providing some comic relief. I don't care what anyone else says, about the high level of Cheesiness of this movie....I think it is an absolute Riot. Obviously, it's not a movie to be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"The archetypal Troma movie.","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Meek mop-handler Melvin (Mark Torgl) is transformed into a tutu wearing, muscle-bound, crime-busting mutant (played by Mitch Cohen) after a cruel prank results in him falling head first into a barrel of radioactive sludge. With his home town of Tromaville ruled by a crooked mayor (Pat Ryan) and his corrupt police-force, there's plenty for this hideous hero to do, but it's not 'all work and no play' Toxie also finds love with super sexy blind babe Sara (Andree Maranda), with whom he sets up home in the local industrial waste dump.Loaded with terrible dialogue, outrageous gore, puerile humour, and gross caricatures, this is pretty much the archetypal Troma movie&#x97;an extremely dumb trash classic designed for those days when thinking feels like too much of a chore. Topless bimbos, gratuitous violence against minors, dogs and a dwarf, some surprisingly good stunts (including an impressive full body burn), a few genuinely amusing moments, baddies with stupid names, baddies wearing silly outfits, car crashes, baddies doing inept kung fu for the select few for whom good taste and quality are of zero importance when it comes to their entertainment, The Toxic Avenger should prove to be a whole lot of demented fun. "},{"Title":"Over the top done right","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger is a classic B movie about a nerdy mop boy who is turned into a meathead by way of nuclear waste. It sounds over the top, which is a fair assumption. The violence is gory, brutal, and at times, despite its sometimes cartoonish nature, unsettling. That being said, I can't help but call this a grindhouse film because of that. It's a wacky, unorthodox premise that is carried out in an equally wacky way.One particular scene that was great, albeit disturbing, was the infamous head-crushing scene, which was cut from the original release. Just the couple of minutes before the crush is enough to make you squirm (and some may notice the throwback to Death Race 2000, another fine B movie), but the actual crush is nothing short of brutal, even by today's standards.This outlandish film is a hidden gem, a true grindhouse classic. If you can stomach the violence, it's definitely worth seeing. It has great humor, decent acting, and some of the most memorable violent scenes in cinema. "},{"Title":"Great! Just Great!","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Oh man, I freaking' LOVE this movie! When I fist saw it, the movie blew my freaking mind! This is the movie that made me obsess over Troma! So, anyways, let's get on with the review! Melvin Ferd III (played by Mark Torgl) is a socially awkward geeky mop boy who works at the Tromaville Health Club. He is a 90 LB. weakling who isn't liked by any of it's visitors, but there are a certain number of visitors that REALLY hate Melvin, they take it too far by making him dress up in a pink tutu in order to kiss Julie (who pretended to be in love with him), Melvin is tricked and is laughed at bye all of the health club visitors. He runs away, and they chase him, up until he falls out of a window and lands in a barrel of toxic waste, thus making him become... The Toxic Avenger! And so on, Toxie stomps out crime, corruption, and finds a blind girlfriend! The movie is great! Mark Torgl's acting as Melvin is great! I especially love the facial expression he makes when he walks in on Slug and Wanda making love, just priceless! The action scenes are REALLY great (if you dig gore, I know you'll love it!), and the way Toxie kills off the baddies are great! The one line I'll always remember is when Toxie is killing Slug and Bozo. Slug gets thrown out of the car and killed, thus leaving only Bozo, Toxie gets close up to Bozo and takes control of the wheel, Bozo demands the wheel and Toxie says You want the wheel?, rips out the wheel, and says Here! Take the wheel! Classic! It's great! I give the movie 7.7/10 stars! "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid fun","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film is undeniably a very stupid, not well put together film, but is it fun to watch? Absolutely. The Toxic Avenger is just another Troma film, my favorite one, considering all the other Troma films are horrid. This film has very bad effects, very bad acting and pretty bad writing, but it's without a doubt a funny movie and fun to watch.The Toxic Avenger is about a teenager named Melvin that works as a janitor at a local gym. He gets bullied, and one fatal prank by the bullies turns him into a toxic monster, after he jumps out of the window and lands in a bin of toxic waste. He then gets back at all the people that bullied him, and criminals, for the most part.This film is pretty graphic, you see a lot of peoples organs being torn out, and you hear a lot of crunching noises. This is one of the best B-movies ever made, aside from Maximum Overdrive. Overall, The Toxic Avenger is a poorly executed film that will be fun to watch, if you plan on seeing it. Would I recommend it? Not entirely, because it's very poorly made, but if you want to laugh a little bit, go for it. "},{"Title":"This movie falls in to that the movie is SO bad it's good for a Laugh","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Well you know what your going get when you head first in troma movie. As soon as the movie started, I could not stop laughing and these bunch of Adults in there early to mid 30's acting like teens in this, the acting in this movie was So bad it was laughable.The movies keep going on, I loved the plot the movie, was really clever, Horror fans never really had their own monster superhero Well that kind of original Idea in 80's, this movie as some decent amount of Bloody deaths. But I do think they spent bit to long death scenes just kill them already. Well acting didn't really bother movie after first 10 minutes, I think it's improved just tiny bit, with rest of the over the top movie. This movie falls in to that the movie is SO bad it's good for a Laugh. 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Toxie for President!","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie has that something special about this type of class-b movies. It doesn't have the best actors, scenarios or writing, but you can feel that all the people involved in here was having a great time and do it with real passion.The plot is a superhero spoof about a geek-loser boy that becomes The Toxic Avenger after an accident by a joke. The effect and music are great, because give you a combination of silly fun that non-stop all around the movie. The humor is really good indeed, with situations really stupid (in a good way) and one-liners that are so out of place that is awesome.Don't get me wrong. This movie is great ONLY if you don't take seriously, because is not. Is a very good trip about people with great imagination and sense of humor could do.In a negative way, maybe have some very gore and violent scenes, but is this type of movie is kinda work, and to be honest, the effects are so goofy that you will enjoy it and not be disgusting.If you like the types of movie that don't take seriously, with great humor, characters or gore, this is your movie. "},{"Title":"A fresh look at a cult classic!","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" NOTE This review is specifically for the Japanese Cut, released on region 1 DVD in 2012Anyone with any sort of familiarity with American independent cinema should know The Toxic Avenger, the gory 1984 cult masterpiece about a 98-pound weakling who falls into a vat of toxic waste, transforms into a superhuman monster hero, and makes it his one-man mission to clean up crime in Tromaville, NJ. In addition to preempting the modern craze of exciting, action-packed superhero movies, it also came with a unique style and sensibilities that created a perfect storm of a cult movie tons of blood, gore, boobs and oddball comedy, along with a handmade look and creative special effects, make it a treat to watch to this day, even twenty-nine years later. Many people know and love Toxie, but not many people in the United States are familiar with the extended Japanese Cut of the film. For years it went unreleased outside of Japan, but now that it's out on DVD, American fans of the Toxic Avenger can enjoy it too.How is it? Well, I was skeptical at first--after all, with a runtime difference of only four minutes, I was unsure of how different the films would actually be. Nonetheless, intrigued by the delightfully-campy DVD cover (Toxie atop a rising sun, and the title in giant Japanese writing reminiscent of a Japanese monster movie,) and some new special features, the collector in me decided it would be a shame if I didn't pull the trigger on it. Long story short I'm glad I did. I don't want to spoil the four minutes of extra footage, but they're well worth the watch--let's leave it at that. In addition, there are some alternate takes in the Japanese cut, and these alternate takes really add to the re-watch value. So, as a subtly different movie, it's worth watching for veteran fans wanting a breath of new life into an old favorite. For people uninitiated into the world of Toxie, though, this should be an obvious purchase. It's as fun as it's ever been, with plenty of goofy humor, raunchy imagery, blood and gore, and that midnight-movie style that's so unmistakable.The transfer, unfortunately, leaves something to be desired. I think it's understandable, considering that, word has it, they were working with an old tape dub for a master. That in mind, it's certainly watchable, and the fuzziness of the picture doesn't take away from the viewing experience at all. Overall, it's a fun look at an American cult classic, edited for Japanese audiences, and then unearthed, anew, for American audiences to finally see. It's worth a look. "},{"Title":"From Melvin to Superhero","Date":"10 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger (1984) *** (out of 4)Cult classic from Troma about a weak nerd who falls into some toxic waste and comes out as a giant superhero who goes up against the evil and crooked people in his town of Tromaville. THE TOXIC AVENGER is never going to be mistaken for the work of Orson Welles but there's no question that it's one of the most memorable films of its type and if you're a fan of trash and camp then this here offers enough of both. I've seen this film countless times over the years and it really never grows boring because of how over-the-top and politically incorrect it is. There's really no race, politics or person that isn't discriminated against but of course all of this is done in a rather charming but offensive way. The film pretty much features one wild scene after another but there are a few that really stand out. One of course is poor Melvin being picked up until he jumps into the toxic waste. Another involves a rather hilarious robbery at a taco store. We even get one of the most bizarre (and effective) hit and run sequences in film history. If one is easily offended then this here obviously isn't going to be for them. All sorts of crazy things are said and done but for fans of camp it's just downright irresistible. As you'd expect, pretty much everything on a technical level is pretty bad. The cinematography, editing, lighting and just about everything else isn't very memorable. The performances get the job done, although it's easy to say that no one here was going for an Oscar. Mitch Cohen is fun in his role as the Toxic Avenger and Mark Torgl is hilarious in his bit as Melvin. Gary Schneider is also memorable as the psycho Bozo and Pat Ryan really stands out as the crooked Mayor. THE TOXIC AVENGER is about as trashy as one can get without crossing the line of bad taste but it remains a cult classic and for good reason. "},{"Title":"Has to be seen to be believed.","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" One of the craziest, most over-the-top, and bizarre films I've ever seen. Still feels surprisingly fresh and puts the majority of today's superhero films to shame, including recent hits such as Avengers Assemble and The Dark Knight Rises (Coincidentally, the latter stole a line from this film). Why? Because not only does this not take itself even remotely seriously, it's hilarious to the point where the comedic timing rivals that of some of the most beloved comedies out there. The pacing is also practically perfect, ensuring there's not a single dull moment during the entire runtime. The only time where I started to feel the length was during the finale, but that's only because I was watching it late at night. Herz and Kaufman proved here that they knew exactly what it took to make an entertaining camp trash classic. It also has some rather well implemented social commentary, but never preaches to the viewer or makes them feel as if they're watching a message movie in disguise. The Toxic Avenger is certainly not for everyone, and the average person is likely to automatically label it as juvenile garbage with no redeeming values, but for those with an open mind and a strong stomach for pretty much anything, it's simply an absolute blast from start-to-finish, and if any of Troma's other films are even half as entertaining, I have a feeling I'm going to quickly become a huge fan. "}{"Title":"Great Flick! Rates high on the T&A scale","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I'll watch this movie anytime anywhere! Awesome film from Troma that glorifies gore and nudity. It doesn't pay to be a nerd living in Tromaville, the nuclear waste capitol of the world (in New Jersey no less). This movie was made before Hollywood women went silicone and is filled with natural beauties. It has great fight scenes and a sense of thrill by not showing the monsters face for so long into the movie. It's hard to take this movie too serious but it's still great, filled with great one liners and plenty of hot chicks. I need to get an I love the Monster T-shirt. All in all it's a pretty gory movie but also packed with some great T&A and a little kink, too! Pop some popcorn and grab some beer because you can watch this movie right now on Netflix streaming. I give it a 9 out of 10 on the T&A scale. "},{"Title":"Tired of Indie movies starring Elen Page? Here's some real independent art!","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" A down-trodden, 98-pound janitor at heath club falls into a barrel of toxic waste and becomes a hideously deformed creature of superhuman size and strength. He cleans up the city by tearing apart evil-doers in a variety of creatively gruesome ways and also finds the time to help old ladies cross the street and open stubborn jars of popcorn. He even finds himself in a steady relationship with his new blind girlfriend. Unfortunately, the corrupt mayor will have non of it and he orders the demise of the monster hero (easier said then done). This spoof of superhero films and creature-features is excessively violent, vulgar and gory; it is also hysterically funny, subversive and original. This became such a hit for the Indie film-studio, Troma that it spawned three sequels (with a fourth one on the way), a Saturday morning kid's show titled 'Toxic Crusaders' (no joke) and a novelization of the original movie written by Troma-president, Lloyd Kaufman. An edited R rated version is also available. "},{"Title":"Good trashy fun, but not Troma's best","Date":"3 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Everyone knows what a Superhero is and just about every country has them. They fight the bad guys so that the good citizens of their home city can be safe. They all come from different places and backgrounds, and each have their own special powers. However, what if a total outcast could somehow become a fighter for justice? Enter Lloyd Kaufman, founder of Troma Entertainment and maker of films that are not for everyone. 'The Toxic Avenger' was his idea and it really put the company on the map. Some say it's their best, others say not so, but one thing it can not be called is dull.Pros Though the acting is bad, the cast is enthusiastic and has fun with it. Cheesy and fun 80s soundtrack. Great job on the special and make-up effects. Never a dull moment. Plenty of humorous sequences and lines of dialogue. Oodles of camp value. Some cleverness. Lloyd Kaufman may not be one of the top directors of our time, but he handles this well.Cons No real plot to speak of. Really uneven pacing. Very dated. Choppy editing in places. Abrupt ending.Final thoughts A lot of people will look at a film like this and wish they hadn't. This will undoubtedly not be everyone's cup of tea, but that's all right. If you crave something out of the ordinary that pushes the envelope and that can make you laugh then look no further. Though it may not be the company's greatest achievement, or even the best of the series, the film is one you won't soon forget.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"Cheesy, sleazy, incredibly stupid but entertaining action, horror spoof.","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Melvin (Mark Torgl) is a nerdy janitor, who works at a health club in the fictional town of Tromaville, New York. When Melvin was tricked by Bozo (Gary Schnieder), Slug (Robert Prichard), Wanda (Jennifer Prichard) and Julie (Cindy Manion) by making out by a sheep. Melvin is quickly disgusted, he finds himself chased by the customers of the health club. He throws himself out of a second story widow and lands in the drum of the toxic waste. Sooner than later, Melvin suddenly transforms into a strong if hideously deformed creature. When Melvin saves a cop from a deranged gang, he violently kills the criminals by leaving an mop on their faces as a call sign. Melvin is becoming popular from the stories on news paper and civilians from Tromaville. While criminals are getting killed or arrested, an sleazy judge mayor known as Mayor Belgoody (Pat Ryan Jr.) will do anything to kill the heroic monster.Directed by Michael Herz and Samuel Weil made an amusing, action-hero spoof with elements of sleazy horror, comedy and being totally politically incorrect. The Toxic Avenger went on to be one of the biggest cult favorites of all time. Although an imaginative heroic creature for the B movie genre. But the premise is a mess with repetitive montage shots during one long so-called love making sequence. The acting is certainly one of the worst performances, you will get to see on film but at least, it was intentional. When Melvin turns into The Toxic Avenger, it is played by Mitch Cohen. The Toxic Avenger is still cheesy, sleazy fun for all this years. Probably the best Troma movie of all time. Watch for future Oscar-WinnerMarisa Tomei as a extra. Patrick Kilpatrick appears in a bit part as a bad guy during one of the more infamous sequence. Followed by three sequels. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This was the one movie my mother restricted from me. At the tender age of 8 yrs old, I was permitted to watch the Texas chainsaw massacre, any and all Friday the 13ths, and from dusk till dawn. Despite all the violence, sex, and drug use in the aforementioned films, this one drew the most heat. After 12 years locked away in a drawer, I returned to tromaville, more eager than ever. The movie is one of the all time classics. It surprisingly delivers in effects(toxies looks beast), cheese(that voice!), and being the first super hero from jersey!. If you've got a six pack, a bong, or a twisted sense of humor I highly recommend this film for you! "},{"Title":"The Three Stooges meets A Nightmare on Elm Street meets The Punisher meets Dead Alive?","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" After watching The Toxic Avenger I really don't know what to think about this movie. It's the only horror movie i've seen where the stalker is the good guy. There were parts of this movie that were amusing but there is just one scene I can't forgive this movie for. It's the scene where this punk named Bozo and his friends are playing a game of hit-and-run where hitting children gives you the most points. They end up running over a 12-year-old on a bicycle and kill him. They then all get out of there car and take pictures of the dead boy whose brains are splattered all over the pavement. I wish I were making this up but it's a real shame that they would put this in any movie. Lloyd Kaufman should be ashamed of himself for letting this scene slide. The rest of the movie is just The Toxic Avenger running around and killing or should I say avenging people in the most brutal way possible. The movie should have been called The Toxic Killer rather than The Toxic Avenger. I say watch this movie once if your real curious or if your a big cult movie fan. Other than that stay very far away from this cheese-ball splatter-fest. "},{"Title":"Good,gory fun.","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Melvin Fern is a 90 pound weakling in the little city of Tromaville.One day his tormentors play a joke on him that makes Melvin fall out of a window and into a barrel of toxic waste,turning him into THE TOXIC AVENGER!!!.He's the first superhero born from nuclear waste and has superhuman size and strength.He can bend steel around a bad persons neck,pluck out their eyes,choke them with their own intestines,strangle them with barbed wire,and so on.This is a fun,funny,gory,and clever movie with,like I just said,good gore effects that somehow manage to not be cut out.If you have a weak stomach,then I suggest you skip this movie,or you can watch it on TV where all of the gore is taken out,which ruins the movie.Don't be surprised if some of the acting is a little wacky,but besides that,this is a good old school action-comedy that just needs to be seen.B+ "},{"Title":"Truly A Cult Classic","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie truly is one of the best Cult Classic B-Movies of all time. The poster boy of Troma, The Toxic Avenger doesn't disappoint it has everything a great movie needs, sex violence and a compelling story that shows us just what is going on in the world, surprisingly the movie has a morale which few viewers understand I am not here to spoil the movie just to get you to watch it. Now some people may be disgusted by it but it truly is a great work of cinema considering the year and budget, the special effects can be compared to any movie that was made during the early to mid eighties, terminator comes to mind when I think of low budget 80's movies and the toxic avenger easily meets and in some area beats the terminator in the special effects department just do yourself a favor and watch this gem of a movie. "},{"Title":"And you can tell all your scum friends that things are going to change in this town","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Melvin is the nerdy janitor at the Tromaville Health Club who is bullied by the club members causing him to jump out a window into a vat of toxic waste, where he is horribly disfigured and mutated. In his mutated form, he becomes The Toxic Avenger, an usual type of superhero who seems to enjoy causing death to the baddies in various creative and gory ways.I don't know what to say about this film. The plot is ridiculous, the acting is way over the top, clichéd and exaggerated beyond any semblance of reality, it is full of corny juvenile sexual humor, the special effects are bad, the music is not only dated but cheesy, the dialog is terrible...I could go on and on and this is a very politically incorrect movie sure to offend almost everybody with language, nudity, sex, subject matter, gore and stereotypes.So, of course, I love it. Usually I'll rate a so bad it's good movie that I really like about a 3 or 4, but this is just so entertaining and stands up to repeated viewings so well that I've got to give this one at least a 6 out of 10. Don't try to analyze it or take it too seriously-just sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Lloyd Kaufman's official apology  for Stuck On You","Date":"16 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" What's the fuss? Squeeze Play doesn't do it for you? Does The First Turn-On make you want to cut out your own eyeballs? Well, try this one on for size, the most beloved icon of 80's B-cinema, and, not to mention, Lloyd Kaufman's first good idea. This is The Toxic Avenger.The Only super-hero, before, or since, that isn't completely ridiculous. This is exactly what Troma needed in the mid-80's, not necessarily a super-hero, but just edgier films, in general. Although, within a decade's time, for Troma, edgy would lead to seriously out of control, but, that's another story.This epic begins in a health club, in Tromaville, N.J. Melvin Ferd is a 98 pound mop boy, who appears to be slightly retarded, as opposed to just being a scrawny nerd, but, I suppose, retarded-looking was all Lloyd could find. Accident prone Melvin has recently got under the skin of the town bad boy, Bozo, and his posse, a foursome that takes great (drunken) pleasure in running over small children, and minorities, so, you know little Melvin is in for it. Bozo, Slug, Julie, and Wanda all put their heads together to concoct the most diabolical scheme in B-cinema history. Get this, Julie convinces Melvin that she has a crush on him, and will act on this, but, only if Melvin puts on a pink tutu, and meets her by the pool, where it happens to be dark. Once this happens, the lights are turned on, poor Melvin is mortified to find half of Tromaville pointing, and laughing at the fact that he is holding, and showing his affection for a sheep. The poor little guy is chased out of the building, out the window, into a barrel of Toxic Waste, that was only there because it was such a nice spot for using cocaine.Julie I think he's in trouble!.Bozo Julie, this guy, if he can't take a joke, he stinks!with Melvin's skin now sizzling, and gradually catching fire, the poor little fellow runs home, takes a hot bath after a long day at work, and transforms into The Toxic Avenger, the first, and (apparently) the last super-hero not targeted towards 5 year olds. And now, it's on. Now is the time to make them all pay!! Not only the tormentors, but, all of those in Tromaville, who are evil, and that's a lot of evil . Now is the time to restore peace in Tromaville!! Perhaps, the only reason our beloved Troma exists today. Toxie really put these guys on the map. The Toxic Avenger contains many scenes of extreme gore, and cruelty, which would, eventually, become Troma's trademark, that would set the standard for B-cinema in the coming years. Toxie has spawned three sequels (with one on the way), Beware of the first two, although, they really should be viewed, just so that you get your mind fully blown while viewing part four, but I'm just saying, beware. Like many Troma's after it, Toxie focuses, mainly, on entertaining us, and not on meaningless issues, like continuity, or passable acting. Forget about it, The Toxic Avenger is pure entertainment. As we all know, The 60's gave us Blood Feast, the 70's gave us Pink Flamingos, and in a decade where mainstream garbage like John Rambo, and Jason Vorheese were shoved down our throats, we, the Troma universe know who the real icon is. The most kick ass super hero in Exploitation Country, The Toxic Avenger!! Thanks, Lloyd, and consider yourself forgiven. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Well how would you like to have this hot tamale shoved down your throat?","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Now this would make a nice Disney film about a 92-pound weakling that suddenly develops into the muscle-man of the town and falls in love with a blind girl.But, this is Tromaville, and love stories by Lloyd Kaufman are a little twisted. Yes, there is a 98-pound weakling (Mark Torgl) who does develop into a muscle-man, but he develops after falling into a vat of toxic waste and becomes The Toxic Avenger (Mitch Cohen). He does fall in love with a blind girl (Andree Maranda) after he saves her from being raped. Along the way, he tears off arms, frys one bad guy in hot grease, shoves mops down the throats of several and , well, you get the picture. It is a little nastie for the children.Of course, there are the requisite boobies bouncing up and down (Cindy Manion). Can't have a Kaufman film without that. "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" My path down independent films led to some very interesting films. Some of the films coming from Troma one of the leading companies in the independent film industry. Troma has made many classic films over the years, but the one that sticks with me the most is one of their greatest hits the Toxic Avenger.The story is about a weakling janitor who works at a health club. After a freak accident he becomes the Toxic Avenger who seeks out evil and destroys it.What make this film a classic is everything that is about it. The acting is bad at times, the script is corny, but it's violent and that's what really sticks out in my mind.Overall this is easily one of Troma's greatest films and any fan of b-movies should watch this one for sure. "},{"Title":"Tromasterpiece!","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger is, without doubt the most famous film ever released by Troma Film Poductions, and, in many aspects also their most recommendable. This is a fast-paced and gory comedy full of moronically hilarious gags and immensely funny ultra-violent outbursts like it can only come from Troma. Directed by Troma-founders Lloyd Kaufman and Michael Herz, The Toxic Avenger is a film that could be described as one of the dumbest things ever, or as one of the funniest comedies ever, depending on your point of view. Personally, I am a Troma-fan, and I would recommend The Toxic Avenger to everybody with a sense of humor. It is probably THE Troma film that is most accessible to people who are not enthusiastic about this great production company of satirical gorefests. Though this is probably the most typically Troma-ish of all Troma films, I think that even many non-Troma fans should find this hilarious on a certain level. It is gory, but in a hilarious way, and even though the gore is sometimes disgusting, it is never shocking or disturbing as it is the case with some other Troma-highlights like Blood Sucking Freaks. The humor is silly and demented, but also in a very hilarious manner that many people might enjoy.After being humiliated by local bullies, Melvin, the dorky mop-boy at a Tromaville fitness club falls into a barrel of chemical waste, which turns him into a toxic monster/superhero on a mission to destroy evil... The performances are intentionally awful, which is quite usual for Troma. The gags are often intentionally idiotic, but therefore very funny and the film is full of amusing sleaze and hysterical gory outbursts. This may not be a masterpiece of subtlety, but it is a hilarious cult-classic that no lover of low-budget-gore cinema and demented humor should miss. For Troma-fans this is a must-see, but I think that even many other people could have great fun watching this! The Toxic Avenger should be seen by everybody except the humorless. "},{"Title":"He is not just another pretty face","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Melvin (Mark Torgi) is a social misfit who works in the Tromaville Health Club. He is always suffering the abuse of two bullies and their respective girlfriends and the four are also murderers. But all the abuse is going to end when Melvin accidentally falls into some barrels with toxic material. Now he is The Toxic Avenger and soon he will be the hero of Tromaville and a menace to the corrupt mayor.This is the main plot of this cool movie of Troma Films. Without a doubt the most representative film for Troma and an excellent example of a funny horror film parody. When Llyod Kaufman decided to make this film, was because everybody was saying that horror films weren't popular and he wanted to make his own horror film. The film have elements of a monster film, an slasher film but the result is an excellent and hilarious parody of an horror film.And well, my favourite thing of the film is The Toxic Avenger,first as Melvin who is just funny with his mouth always open and later as the hero of the film. I love this memorable character, specially because of his great voice.Conclusion i really like this film, is very original and very bizarre too, specially the edition with some pretty strange flashbacks. Anyway this is one of the best films of Troma with a big cult following, showing a lot of creativity and talent for the very low budget. A true lesson of independent film-making. 9 out of 10DVD this film has not been released yet in Mexico and is almost impossible to find it. I have it in a transfer from a VHS tape so the quality is very poor. So if you have the chance to get this film you won't be regretful. "},{"Title":"Nothing But Violence & Stupidity","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie one time when i was just ten years old and it seemed like just your average monster movie containing nothing but horror, action sequences and cheesy sex scenes. However it was enjoyable for an hour & a half, Lloyd Kaufmann created a film that attracted audiences and it followed with boring sequels, a TV series and more.People saw the Toxic Avenger as a new brand of hero who cleaned up the streets with his own brand of justice Mark Torgl was somewhat good as the main character . Welcome to Tromaville , New Jersey the toxic waste capital of the world in the center of the town is the Tromaville health club where all the sex crazed villains and other members go to work out. Meet Melvin Junko, (Torgl) a 98 pound nerd and janitor who is tormented and teased on a daily basis. two couples Wanda (Prichard), Slug (Prichard) Julie (Minion) and Bozo (Schneider) spend their nights running over kids on their bikes and taking pictures of their dead bodies.One day Julie begins flirting with Melvin as part of a cruel joke that's about to be played on him she tricks him into wearing a tutu to work so they can make out. However when the lights come on he's kissing a sheep much to his horror everyone is laughing at him and so he begins to run away with everybody close behind.Things take a nasty unexpected turn when he crashes through the third floor window and lands in a vat of toxic waste, after emerging from the vat Melvin 's on the ground in total agony as the waste burns away at his body later on at home he transforms into a hero of super strength and size.During that night a police officer is being beating up by local thugs when the toxic avenger arrives and wipes out the criminals in brutally violent fashion. on the ground in fear the officer soon sees that the creature was trying to save him, over the next while the hero goes around taking care of crime and helping old ladies across the street. During a Mexican restaurant robbery he saves Sara (Maranda) an innocent blind girl whose dog was killed. He brings her back to his home at the dump where they eventually fall in love, however Mayor Belgoody, (Ryan Jr.) a corrupt citizen is angry that all of his cronies are being killed including the people involved with the cruel plan that caused Melvin's accident. after killing an innocent older woman whose actually an underground slave trader the mayor uses this opportunity to call out the national guard.The Toxic Avenger may seem like your average monster film but it's loaded with tons of action right to the end. "},{"Title":"So bad, it's good.","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I let a friend of mine borrow the VHS copy I have and when he handed it back, he said, I've never seen such crap in my entire life. I would have to disagree. I'll be honest, though, the movie wasn't made with the best production and the acting is just short of overkill, but (and this is a good excuse), it's from Troma.The plot follows that of a mop-boy named Melvin who is constantly teased by the regulars at the health club where he works. One day a harmless prank makes Melvin run scared and he accidentally falls into a vat of toxic chemical waste. He then turns into THE TOXIC AVENGER, going around town killing off various punks and gangsters (now you're gonna know why they call me Cigar Face!).This movie was one of those so bad, it's good movies. The graphics are almost funny to watch and the acting is pure hilarity. However, knowing it was directed by Lloyd Kaufman and Michael Herz, I have no doubt this was intentional. I give this movie a 7 out of 10. It is worth renting. "},{"Title":"Toxie is my new favourite superhero!!!!","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This is undoubtedly the best B cult-flick I have ever seen. It was just so damn funny I was crying. The acting is unbelievably bad, it was truly and utterly awful. The special effects were great; really, really gross. It really is one of those movies that is definitely not meant to be taken seriously. Remember, it is Troma.The Toxic Avenger is about Melvin, a nerdy little janitor who is constantly picked on by a group of sadistic freaks. They play a prank on him that ends up with him in a barrel of toxic waste. Later that night he transforms into Toxie. Tromaville's new saviour.Now, one thing needs to be said, this film isn't for everyone. It's not a movie for the family or a movie for the easily offended. There is gratuitous gore, sex, nudity, drugs and plenty of language. If you enjoy seeing a little boy's head being crushed, a human milkshake, mutant and blind girl sex and a little old lady get stuffed into a washing machine.....than you will love this!!!! 3½/5. "},{"Title":"Troma's classic.","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Action? Horror? Comedy? Comic book style? You got it. The Toxic Avenger is Troma's classic and most praised movie.We have a simple plot about a nerd who becomes a mutant avenger in pro of society. He will fight crime and injustice. Join Toxie in this Horror/Action Comic Book style adventure that has the occasional gore, sex, and action.This is really a cheesy but entertaining movie. It's sui generis because of it's low budget but huge creativity. The hero is likable and his performance makes the whole movie watchable. At some points the movie gets grotesque but it fits perfect with the movie's cheesy, violent tone.This is truly Troma's classic and it serves perfectly as an introduction to Troma's film making. This movie has black humor a la Troma style.Give it a chance in order to understand Troma's standards for everything. Avoid the sequels. "},{"Title":"sleazy classic... Very funny","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Toxic avenger made a huge impression on me when i was younger and I recently watched it again. I expected to like it a lot less this time around, but it still holds a lot of charm.This is a super hero origin story with a Troma Team aesthetic. For those who don't know the films from troma team, they feature outrageous violence, over the top sleaze and campy humor. Toxic Avenger is almost as disturbing as it is funny. If you show it to someone who is easily offended they will probably make you turn it off.Troma has a knack for capturing a certain so bad it's good vibe... The unusual part is that they do it intentionally. Most great bad movies are happy accidents but troma's films are totally calculated. Usually intentional camp is tedious and annoying, but in troma's films it works, probably because the films feature genuine shocks. In a way, this film almost reminded me of something John Waters might direct.I'm pretty sure Toxic avenger was the film that made troma famous and it actually takes place in a fictional town called tromaville. It's very fast paced and consistently funny. Nothing here is meant to be taken seriously even though some of the violence is outrageously extreme. There's also plenty of nudity, Drug use played for comedy, and everything else you expect in a trashy drive in movie.It's certainly in bad taste, but that's the whole point. Leave your political correctness at the door and your'e guaranteed to have a great time. I think this film would be especially good if you had a few drinks first. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Ah, I remember being 11 years old again and finding this gem on VHS for $5 at Kmart, where my mom worked at the time as a manager. And again I get excited as I think of this movie and what it meant to me as both an aspiring animator/film-maker. Troma films are definitely some of the coolest! From The First Turn-on, to Kabuki-man, the movies are as said in other comments, a genre to themselves.The Toxic Avenger takes place around a small town known as Tromaville. At a local health club, a nerd named Melvin is tricked into wearing a tutu by some bullies, and in trying to kill himself (I think?) he jumps out of the building and into a waiting toxic waste truck outside. Upon landing in one of the barrels, he immediately began to transform into a monster hero known as The Toxic Avenger! Armed with tromatons (explained in later films), he has the ability to sense evil and stop it, through very humorous means. This movie is a non-stop riot from start to finish and I highly recommend it to anyone who wants a good time with plenty of gore, sex and violence.I give it a 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"The classic tale of life and toxic mutation in tiny little Tromaville","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I love most of Troma's stuff. This movie really set them out on the horror map where they had been doing low-budget sex comedies. The funny thing is that it's hard to tell if it's a horror flick, an action film, a comedy or a superhero movie. I guess it's all that and worse. The campy overacting and bad dialog are a credit to the B-movie.All of the characters are wearing the extremes of fashion for the mid-1980s. When I watch it now I realize just how ridiculous we must have all looked back then. I actually remember wearing some of that crap (the clothes, not Toxie's tutu). Narrow ties, parachute pants, sleeveless shirts. Tact with a capitol T.If you watch this and try to treat it like a serious film, you'll be disappointed. If you can suspend disbelief and let yourself in on the joke, then you'll appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Cult classic of 80's horror gore/comedy","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger (1985), this film is a true cult classic, it's about a 98 pound nerd called Melvin Junko, Melvin is a mop boy down the local health club in Tromaville and he gets terribly bullied by all the local jocks and sexy girls!!! After a prank goes horribly wrong, Melvin tragically falls out of a 2nd floor window and into a barrel of toxic waste and finds himself burning and melting in the street!!! But soon after his ordeal something weird happens to Melvin, he turns into the toxic avenger, a monster hero with big muscles and revenge in mind!! He then rids all evil in Tromaville, and meets a blind girl who he falls in love with, and together they continue to fight the evil in Tromaville and keep it a safe place for the locals.There's lots of really funny stuff in this film, but be warned if you get the UNCUT version, there's some strong gore and controversial stuff on show, keep vomit bags handy!!! But overall this movie is great fun, fast paced, loads of fun characters and it's TROMAS best movie by a long way, a low budget horror which deserves it's massive cult status. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Film Everyone Should See...","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Melvin is a dork who works at the Tromaville Health Club. He's the mop boy. The jocky, smart-ass, racist, child-killing, old-lady beating teens who work out there despise him, and set up a prank which ends in disaster for Melvin. He falls into a barrel of toxic waste and goes through a horrible meltdown, but thats okay because he returns as THE TOXIC AVENGER. Armed with a mop, he seeks revenge on the horrible jocks and their snob-ass girlfriends, as well as the local cretins, thugs and just all-around bad-guys who make up Tromaville. This is one of my favorite movies, right along with Troma's Terror Firmer, and if that sounds lame then keep reading. Troma made a couple of bad-taste teen comedies before this that basically ripped off Porky's, but were in a more Airplane/Naked Gun league with dirtier, piggish, arm-pitted humor. Here, they took those aspects, added a lot of gore (in a comic-book way) and added a Mad Magazine mentality and created one hell of a good movie. There is a lot of violence in this, but if you can take violence, then you will see the humor here. Like I said it's like Mad Magazine. Bad-taste, gratuitous nudity, and racial slurs run rampant, but it comes off as a slap in the face to all the types of people who glorify that type of thing. It's good gory fun. This is the movie that put Troma on the map. They have made some of the best B movies out there. Class Of Nuke'em High, Troma's War, Tromeo And Juliet are all worth a look. They have released films by other people that are good too. Blood Hook, Cannibal!The Musical, Dead Dudes In The House prove to be good views. See this if you like movies. The sequels to The Toxic Avenger are not bad. The fourth being the best, the third being the worst. I remember this used to play on the USA Network, with all the violence and gore intact (pretty much) and had deleted scenes that were never before seen (by me at least ) until this hit DVD. Three Stars. "},{"Title":"A legend is born","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Melvin Junko, is a weak nerd and a janitor at a local gym so this makes the jocks hate him and taunt him whenever they can. One day a practical joke goes to far and he ends jumping out the window into a barrel of nuclear waste, transforming poor weakling Melvin into a creature of superhuman size and strength. He's rechristened as the Toxic Avenger and goes on to battle the evildoers of Tromaville while falling in love with a blind girl that he saved from being raped. This low low budget movie single handedly put Troma and Llloyd Kaufman on the map around the world with it's blend of ultra-violence and cheap humor. One of my favorite films, it makes a great watch for keg parties .One of those films where people can practically quite the whole thing by heart.My Grade A Eye Candy Jennifer Prichard and Cindy Manion go topless. There's also rampant nudity in the DVD extras Director's Cut DVD Extras Intro, farewell and Commentary by director Lloyd Kaufman; 7 Deleted scenes; the same damn Radiation March that's on EVERY Troma DVD; Toxic Crusaders clip; Toxie 15 Years Later mockumentary; The Death of Toxie Tromaville Café TV sketch; Troma Intelligence Test; Troma Studio Building Tour; Mopboy secrets featurettes w/commentary by Mark Torgl; Aroma Du Troma clip montage; Photo gallery; Theatrical trailer; and Bonus trailers for Sgt. Kabukiman N.Y.P.D., Class of Nuke 'Em High, Tromeo & Juliet, The Toxic Avenger Part II, Def by Temptation, Surf Nazis Must Die, & Bloodsucking Freaks "},{"Title":"Troma's Definitive blood and gore splattering cult classic!","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Out of all the Troma films that Lloyd Kaufman has directed, The Toxic Avenger seems to be his most well known. It's a crude, gross and hilarious horror/sci-fi comedy with subversive messages about the environment and the dangers of nuclear waste. Little Melvin is a janitor. He is a scrawny, nerdy weakling who is constantly picked on by the popular snobs at the fitness club where he works. The beautiful but cruel Julie pretends to like Melivin. But this is only a prank to get him to wear a too-too and trick him into kissing a goat. The situation backfires and Melvin jumps out the window landing in a barrel of nuclear waste. He transforms into the Toxic Avenger, a hideously deformed creature of super human size and strength. He becomes an arm ripping, head smashing superhero who keeps the town of Tromaville safe from criminals. He still finds time to fall in love with a blind girl, Sara. This film is filled with sex and boobs; not to mention graphic Troma violence which includes a kid on a bike getting his head ran over by a car, and a dog getting shot. Wow, Tromaville really does need the Toxic Avenger to protect them from harm! And that he does, because he's a monster with heart. The Toxic Avenger is a fun splatter comedy that delivers plenty of gore and laughs. "},{"Title":"Cult classic of 80's horror gore/comedy","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger (1985), this film is a true cult classic, it's about a 98 pound geeky nerd called Melvin, Melvin is a mop boy down the local health club and he's terribly bullied by all the local jocks, and hot chicks!One day he falls out of a window in the health club into a barrel of toxic waste after being chased by the bad crowd, but soon after something weird happens, he turns into the toxic avenger a monster hero with big muscles and revenge in mind!!He then rids all evil in tromaville, and meets a blind girl who he falls in love with, and together they continue to fight the evil in tromaville and keep it a safe place for the locals. There's lots of really funny stuff in this film, but be warned if you get the UNCUT version, there's some heavy gore and controversial stuff on show, keep vomit bags handy!!!But overall this film is great fun, fast paced and it's TROMAS best movie by miles, an 80's cult classic and therefore it gets 10/10. "},{"Title":"This movie should offend just about everyone","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" For some reason, when I first heard about this movie, I made the blind assumption that it was a kids action movie. I mean, a nerdy guy gets turned into a crime fighting action hero, so I assumed it may be some kind of family friendly fun, good triumphing over bad, blah blah blah. After reading more about it, I heard Troma made it, plus it had plenty of blood, gore, and of course, nudity. To heck with a PG rating, this movie sounded great, I had to see it.POSSIBLE SPOILERS ***** Premise is basic enough, with the nerdy mop boy at the Tromaville health club getting picked on by everyone (honestly, I would have decked that guy), and when a prank goes haywire, he winds up tumbling out of a window and into a bucket of toxic waste (logical, no, entertaining, yes). He transforms into a serious butt kicking monster that fights bad and also comes after those that have personally done him wrong. Oh ya, he also falls in love with a blind chick along the way.I enjoyed this movie tremendously. While the running time was just under an hour and a half, I think music was playing for about an hour and ten minutes, it rarely stopped. About 1/75 of the music was good but the majority of it was synth laden 80s schlock that you would have heard in a Heather Locklear workout video. So this movie is obviously from the Reagan years, but the satanic acts that take place will still make you go oh my God, I can't believe they actually filmed that. Whether people are running over kids on bikes, beating up old ladies for their car, having their eyeballs gouged out or shooting a seeing eye dog, this movie has no respect for anyone.I can't competently explain the this movie's madness. It should anger people on the right, as it shows irreverence towards human life, as well as those on the left, as a dog gets killed by a firearm. Except for Peter Jacksons Bad Taste, I never witnessed anything that displays more excessive blood and guts. Even though the gore and blood are obviously fake, it's so graphic that it'll make you squirm. The movie should also offend anyone that enjoys quality film-making, I bet this film was budgeted around $10,000.Frantically paced throughout, this movie has tons of cheesy dialogue, horrible acting, 80s hair and attire, as well as characters that are so over the top that they're obviously ironic. Either way, the creators of this film were seriously sadistic, but that's what makes it so much fun. Not for the faint of heart, but highly recommend for fans of splattered brains and spilling guts. "},{"Title":"Classic Troma film","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Toxic Avenger is definitely Troma's most famous film. It spawned three sequels and a cartoon series called the Toxic Crusaders. It was actually really funny at times with some pretty damn good gore sequences. It is, however, marred by a horrible 80's soundtrack that made me cringe. It would have gotten a an 8/10 if it weren't for the horrible soundtrack. Must definitely get the unrated version though. Contains the classic head-crushing scene. It goes on for to long though in my opinion. Classic Troma, a must-see for Troma fans. The Toxic Avenger IV is far superior though. It contains much, much more gore and is much more funny and the soundtrack kicks ass. 7/10 "},{"Title":"An hilarious, gory & outlandish comedy/sci-fi/horror film, but beware - This is definitely not for everyone!","Date":"14 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" In this madcap spoof/cross between THE INCREDIBLE HULK & PORKY'S, a 98 pound weakling named MELVIN who works as the janitor at a Tromaville Health Club, suffers humiliation day in & day out, by the more muscular types who flaunt their perfectly chiseled bodies before him & winds up being ridiculed by his crush, the gorgeous Judie, that is when her short fused boyfriend & his friends aren't threatening him or beating him up. All that changes one day when Julie & her friends gather the whole health club together, to play a mean trick on Melvin, who horribly embarrassed, accidentally jumps out a window & lands in a can of chemical waste (that is for some unknown reason, despite being overly full, is not covered up to prevent it from spilling on everybody). Melvin soon catches fire after being horribly burned by the chemical & disappears, only to re-emerge as a hideously deformed, muscular, but good natured monster, with perfect dictation dubbed The Toxic Avenger & then sets out to eliminate the evil, plaguing his hometown, while at the same time taking out Julie & her friends, who he later finds out are responsible for a series of disturbing hit & run incidents involving children & then sets his sights on the evil Mayor of the town, who is really responsible for all the drugs & prostitution & robberies (not to mention hazardous chemicals) that keep popping up in Tromaville, while finding love with a blind girl whom he saves from a hostage taking. THE TOXIC AVENGER is far & away a highly enjoyable mix of outlandish humour, over the top gore effects, science fiction movies & spoofs of superhero movies. In fact it could be argued that all though well received at the time, could be said that it was far ahead of it's time. What works for THE TOXIC AVENGER is the films laugh out loud humour, it's jokes are always funny & on target, even if the acting borders on mediocre to bad. The films horror elements are also given a twist here, the monster in the film is not evil, but rather the superhero, with the people that are usually the good guys being the ones that are evil & the special effects are pretty realistic & at times down right disgusting. Still the film has suspense, POV shots & gruesome kills, all found in the horror genre. That said the film is awfully mean spirited, despite it's comedy roots, perhaps the most disturbing scenes of all is when a baby has a gun aimed at it's face during a hold up, while a terrified mother looks on. A dog shot on camera, attempted rapes & how Julie & her friends seem to get a sheer satisfaction at running over little kids with their car in order to gain points. In this area, it seems as though the filmmakers were spoofing DEATH RACE 2000 with these scenes, in that one, racers ran over pedestrians on the road to secure points. Therefore those easily offended or disturbed by scenes of over the top violence, are advised to stay away from the film. The film also tends to revel in far to much sleaze, even for a Troma movie & that's really saying something! with seemingly endless scenes of sex & nudity sprinkled throughout the film such as a girl being turned on by pictures of dead people, a blind girl having sex with the deformed hero etc. But it's not really made clear within the context of the film if the chemical that transformed the hero is experimental or not, who created it, why it was created, reason being is because it allows the monster to sense evil, it attracts the hero & forces him to brutally destroy it, it's played up to in the first half of the film, but the subplot is seemingly dropped about midway, almost as if the writers & directors forgot about it. And despite the heavy doses of violence the monster engages in when killing the criminals, it's not to tough to take as the criminals here are pretty vicious & unrelenting when they had the chance to hurt, maim or kill somebody. All in all though, I highly recommend this movie to fans of sex comedies, Superhero movies & even horror & science fiction from which this film is a mixed bag of. Followed by a cartoon series, THE TOXIC CRUSADERS & three sequels, starting with - THE TOXIC AVENGER PART II**** stars "},{"Title":"One of the all-time greats","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Definitely one of the best of its genres.The Toxic Avenger is up there with other great B movies like Death Race 2000, Night of the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead, and Beyond the Valley of the Dolls.It's a shame though that you really didn't hear a whole lot about some of the actors like Andree Maranda afterwards. It's the only movie she ever made putting her in a class with Alicia Rhett (India from Gone With the Wind).USA Network used to show the movie and its sequels quite frequently in the 90s, but I haven't seen it on tape or DVD in more than five years. But when it comes out, I'm buying it.Troma's best bar none in my opinion. "}{"Title":"Can you handle it?","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The Toxic Avenger is one of the greatest movies ever made. I don't think i would ever say that this movie is so bad it's funny. I thought this movie was very well made. I really don't care how much money people spend on a movie. I can't help but laugh when i read that people are actually offended by the blood and gore in this movie. I guess people just can't handle the greatness of this movie. I happen to think a young boy getting run over on his bike and then people getting out of their cars and taking pictures of his crushed head is hilarious! This movie is great! I Recommend it to anyone who likes good movies and can handle some blood but if you only like watered down movies like Halloween then maybe you shouldn't watch this. I myself, like to see real movies, like those movies from Troma! "},{"Title":"Toxie A Modern Hero we all can relate to","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I'll tell ya, Lloyd Kaufman is a guy who tells it like it is. After reading his latest book, Make Your Own Damn Movie, I gained a new appreciation for everything Kaufman and the Troma team does. It is the DIY attitude that I love- the concept of just get the movie  made.Toxic Avenger, along with the sequels is not only sleazy, twisted, hilarious entertainment, but it is a lesson in making your own feature film on a budget (for those who watch the DVD). Yes, it is obviously shot on a shoestring budget.There are no Oscar winning performances. And no, they did not hire Tom Savini to take on the special effects and gore. BUT...I was entertained.I am glad I own the Tox Box (Toxic Avenger I, II, III Box set), in fact, I have it signed by Lloyd Kaufman himself. Keep up the good (and bad) work Troma! Eric D. "},{"Title":"1st Superhero Of New Jersey!","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When I first saw Toxic Avenger I was only 10 years old. The gore enchanted me to the fullest. Sure some of the effects were cheesy but hey who the heck cares. Troma is the best independent movie company out there. Well let me get to the plot. Melvin Junko is a mop boy at Tromavilles Gym. He is a nerd and people dont really get along with him. Four gym members make a plan to basically make fun of him. One flash of a hot blondes boobs. Melvin follows her to a dark pool room. He gets so made fun of he jumps out the window into a barrel of toxic waste. He becomes the first superhero from New Jersey. The movie has boobs, gore, and out of control humor. I would rate it 5 stars.Rated R for Strong Gore, alot of nudity,and tons of language "},{"Title":"This is great stuff","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The Toxic Avenger is a great fun movie. It tells the story of Melvin Muntz a 90lb weakling who works in the Tromaville Health Centre and gets picked on by a group of youths he then gets tricked and is then forced to jump through a window and accidently into a barrel of toxic waste he then becomes THE TOXIC AVENGER. My favourite characters in this movie were the German Police Officer and Toxies Girlfriend Sara they were what made the move great. This is a great Cult film and if there was no Toxic Avenger well there would be no Troma well there would only it would be a company making crappy teen sex comedies. I think this movie made Lloyd Kaufman what he is today and Troma of course. A great cult film for true cult fans**** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Enjoyable trash.","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  THE TOXIC AVENGERRATING *** (OUT OF ****)A mop-boy is turned into a superhero who gruesomely kills bad guys.  Although repetetive and pointless, it's still enjoyable trash, with shamelessly gruesome violence and sick humor that only a huge B-movie fan will appreciate. "},{"Title":"the one that started it all folks","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Before I get into my actual review of this movie..I would like to share an excerpt from my childhood. My friends and myself were huge fans of the Toxic Crusader toys . I had it all , every action figure , every comic book ,pretty much anything at all associated with this series, but the one thing I never knew about was the actual movies. So I headed to my video store which at the time had a HUGE collection of older films especially a huge stock of horror titles to the sky but I could never rent any while it lasted cause my parents were really strict..which is also why I was never able to see this movie because it had an R rating so I left the video store really disapointed. But luckily later that month on TV the then awesome USA network which had a show USA Up All Night hosted by Gilbert Godfried which had been running alot of b budget trash films which I stayed up and constantly watched.. decided to run a marathon of all 3 Toxic Avenger movies..against the Superbowl I might add. Well I was stoked. I sat  and turned it on , but there was a problem..my aunt and uncle came down to visit and they were sitting in kitchen with my parents and 15 minutes in the film there was a sex scene on a workout bench  and then to a shock a little boys head is crushed by a car driven by insane jocks. Well after my uncles cries I'VE NEVER SEEN SUCH TRASH..I'VE NEVER SEEN SUCH A MOVIE! my mom forced me to cut it off but luckily my mom and aunt and uncle went to watch the emotionally pornographic borefest Gone With The Wind and my dad allowed me to watch the rest of the movie. The reason why I am going into this is because I got to thinking Why did they make a toy series and cartoon based on this extremely demented movie ..I personally think it was Lloyd Kaufman's  attempt to corrupt the youth of America by getting them to see this movie and become horribly scared for life...which is what happend to me..AND I THANK THEM EVERY MINUTE FOR IT!!. Because of being exposed to Troma at such an early age I began to aquire a taste for the demented..I began to love extreme gore and violent horror..all thanks to the Toxic Avenger*Possible Spoilers* Now on to this movie. This was Troma's first horror movie made after a film critic wrongully declared Horror Movies Are Dead...so Lloyd Kaufman and Michael Herz decided to make a horror movie which became the Toxic Avenger..loaded with Troma brand humor , bad acting , bad dialogue , and bad gory special effects fun this movie became an instant hit among cult fans spawning 3 sequels. The story is simple.Set in Tromaville,NJ.. 90 lb weaking Melvin played nerdishly enough by Mark Torgle a janitor at a health club is absolutly hated by the jock cock rock infested goons that have taken over the club. Since these oversexed steroids hate anything that seems to be weaker and less popular then themselves decide to pull a prank on Melvin resulting in him being dressed in a tu-tu and falling out a window landing in a barrel of Toxic Waste (why toxic waste..because Tromaville is the toxic waste dump capitol of the world..fool). He then transforms into the Toxic Avenger..A Hideously Deformed Creature Of Super Human Size and Strength. Toxie is going to clean up Tromaville of crime and corruption wiping out criminals in humorous ways resulting in torn limbs , head crushings , eye gougings , and even a death by a milkshake maker. After saving a blind blonde bimbo named Sara (Andree Maranda) Toxie finds love...awwww but still has to save the city from the fiending fatass Mayor Belgoody..although I never quite seem to pay attention to what exact corrupt plan Belgoody is doing (I have a short attention span for this sorta thing) it ends in him seeing what his insides look like I can tell you that. The Toxic Avenger is loaded with gore , nudity , and bad=good filmaking..a slap in the face against mainstream movies and a true symbol of independent cult movies..you cannot call yourself a horror movie or even a Troma fan if you havent seen the Toxic Avenger.  "},{"Title":"The First Superhero From New Jersey Super.. OOPS Sorry That's Someone Else","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  A friend of mine lent me six Troma movies the four Toxic Avenger movies, the Toxic Crusaders Cartoon movie and Terror Firmer and I have to say this is one of the better films. Taking place in the fictional New Jersey town Tromaville, a young man name Melvin Junko (Hargl) is humiliated out a second story window of a health spa. Outside the health spa is a group of canisters carrying around toxic waste chemicals; nice place to place in front of a health spa. Melvin than transforms into The Toxic Avenger, a hideously deformed creature of superhuman size and strength. Do to this he moves out of his mothers home and into a waste dump across from the New York Skyline. He eradicates evil in the most horrible ways and still finds time to get a beautiful girlfriend to screw around with (she's is blind). When I first got these films I remembered enjoying the cartoon on Saturday morning and hearing about a live action movie. I must say after watching this film and the other 3 sequels I am now an official Troma fan. I recommend this to anyone who loves to have a good time. This is the first superhero from New Jersey and he certainly represents. Followed by Toxic Avenger 2, Last Temptation of Toxie and Citizen Toxie. After viewing the four Toxic Avenger movies its a good idea to view Terror Firmer, as its a good companion film to the series. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Sorry, couldn't think of a summary. Anyway, I wasn't sure what this film was going to be like as i'd never seen it or the sequels until a recent Troma film season on Sky. I thought the film was great to cut a pointless story short. The jokes were really daft and the whole film was silly (for a lack of a better word). I think the version I saw was cut as there was no way that it was 18 certificate worthy.I'm not going to go into plot details as i'm sure the other reviews will do a better job than me, so all I will say is to anyone who's thinks this film will be too offensive, don't worry, it's not. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Toxic Avenger is a satirical movie that pokes fun at real life. Theacting is horrible, but it is bad on purpose, and makes the moviefunny. Also, the inclusion of unnecessary nudity made me happy.But the best part about this film is the graphic violence. I wasamazed at some of the things that happened. The violence in thismovie would not be allowed to be done in regular Hollywood films.I'd recommend this movie to people who enjoy cult films andpeople who don't take things seriously.  "},{"Title":"THE Best Troma movie EVER!","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"   I am a big troma fan and I have seen Tons of Troma films. But this beats all of them.  This was my first Troma film. When I first saw it, I thought its was stupid and offensive. But then I watched it again, boy did that changed! I loved it! The gore looks awesome! Such as the Kid on the bike. After this, I went for more and more troma movies. I love Troma! Troma is #1! I wouldn't recommend to people who like Titanic or Forrest Gump. TromaDude's Rating- ***** outta ***** stars  "}{"Title":"Troma's breakthrough film","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Historically speaking, The Toxic Avenger is the most important film in Troma's history as it represents the major turning point for the studio and it shows.  For it's time, this was one of the most unique films ever made as it was one of the first films to take horror to it's slapstick extreme.While it is true that the film starts a bit slow, it picks up quickly after Melvin turns into the Toxic Avenger.  For me, the best scene has to be the police examination of the aftermath that took place at the taco stand.Personally, while Troma has gone on to make bigger and better things, I will forever pay homage to this film for allowing it to be possible. "},{"Title":"Cut but still awesome","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Unfortuantly, i myself, living in australia, have the heavily cut version of toxic avenger, and until cannibal the musical dvd came to australia, i didn't realise what i was missing out on, even though it is heavily cut, it still rocks. Mayb 1 day i will see the the full thing. I myself enjoyed the cut scene of the man getting his head crushed by weights. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I can't see how anyone can slam this movie. It's absolutely the sickest, most funniest and deranged film of all time! I love the slow motion gore effects, and the corny 80's music, and just the sheer dementediness of it! If you like sick movies, like The Story of Ricky, or Salo or John Waters, you'll love this film! Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was one of the funniest movie's ive ever seen. A nerd who gets picked on his whole life gets a prank played on him that ends with him falling into a bucket of toxic waste. The waste has unusual effects on him, making him extremely strong and in the right place at the right time for crime. He becomes the towns hero. This movie was just great. The acting was horrible but that doesnt matter at all. Some scenes are extremely gorey but always end in a humurous way anyway. Funny in everyway, i recommend this movie to you. "},{"Title":"there is only one word to discribe this movie.........","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" .....AWSOME!  This movie is a great work of art.  I saw the unrated 82 min one, not the directors cut.  This movie had it all Horrible villians, and their HORRIBLE deaths(must watch to find out cause I'm not a spoiler guy), a rockin' hero, just the right ammount of gore, and the female figure in its full glory.Contains Strong Language, Strong Violence and Gore, and Nudity***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Troma Team at its all time best","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The Toxic Avenger is the definitive Troma release. A perfect blend of politically incorrect gross out comedy and over the top gore. The only flaw in the film is perhaps some of the fight scenes which tend to drag.The plot centres around Melvin the Mop Boy who works at the Tromaville Health Club and gets constantly picked on by a bunch of teens who get enjoyment from running over children in their cars. One day, one of their pranks goes too far and he falls into some toxic acid and mutates into an ugly monster with a sixth sense for detecting evil and stopping it. He becomes a superhero and cleans up the crime in Tromaville, but as you would expect, things go wrong.The laughs in The Toxic Avenger never stop as every scene is hilarious and reflects a period when film makers weren't concerned with political correctness. Jokes here come at the expense of the elderly, the blind, animal cruelty, killing children, and just about everything else that's wrong to laugh at. The sets in the film are also excellent and like with Class Of Nuke 'Em High, there are strong anti-nuclear messages.I'd highly recommend this to all fans of offbeat comedy, exploitation cinema and comedy/horror.  "},{"Title":"This movie was so sick that HBO had to censor it","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Very campy and funny.  I don't remember the excess nudity but I do remember the excess gore.  Imaginative use of Nautilis weights, and lots of head smashing (literally!).  How many points for the boy on the bike? "},{"Title":"all the things that make a great B-movie","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  TERRIBLE acting (most notably from the females in the movie)... constant use of classical, ie royalty free, music and very dated 80s pop... over-the-top cartoonish violence... and plenty of random breasts!! But it also commits the most tragic sin a B-movie can commit, and that is that it's just plain boring in parts. The beginning of the movie drags until the head-crushing scene brightens things up. But then it gets boring again for quite a while. It's good for Troma historical purposes but it was so not worth the $20 i paid for the DVD. And yes, I DO find little kids on bikes getting their heads crushed to be funny. "},{"Title":"The One That Started It All Folks!","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Hello this is Gweedo Tood talking to you about The Toxic Avenger one of the best movies in Troma's history. The film is about a 98 lbs. pound nerd named Melvin, he is a janiator at a Tromaville health club. After a visious prank he falls into a misplaced barrel on toxic waste. It transformes he in a hidious deformed creature of super human size and strenght. The Toxic Avenger the first super hero from New Jesery. Better know as Toxi he mops up the cruppet of Tromaville. Manly The Mayor of Tromaville, and all his street gang members. The best toxi of the of them all. Great action and good special effects for a low budget movie. be sure to check out this Troma classic.    "},{"Title":"my first Troma=funny!","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I found this was on on the Aussie cable TV station thecomedychannel.  Previously, Troma's movies had grabbed my interest but I had never seen a frame of any one of them.So I plonked down to watch Toxic Avenger.  And I was somewhat surprised.  I didn't expect a lot, knowing that this was going to be low-budget.  What I got was a very funny movie with about as much visual appeal as your typical 1980s documentary.  Contradicting the visual appeal was a really stupid plot.  Obviously, Lloyd Kaufmann didn't want his script to make sense.I think the unmasking mirrors that in the 1920s Lon Chaney silent The Phantom of the Opera(the scene where Christine pulls off the phantom's mask, one of the scariest sequences on celluloid).Oh, and the monster has a love interest.  And she HAS to be blind. "}{"Title":"a superhero comedy of sorts","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  THE TOXIC AVENGER is a semi spoof on super hero shows like THE HULK and combines horror special effects with comedy and action. Released theatrically and then on video, this film was a success and went on to have a few sequels. Imagine this movie as THE NAKED GUN meets REVENGE OF THE NERDS humor with smart send ups of everything from city government, to the health craze, movies like PORKY'S, ELM STREET, and multi media.  A innovative and funny film in it's own way, the this project was original and one of the bright points on the straight to video radar in the 1980's (I mean if there was a straight to video radar provided someone invented it.) For fans of movies that spoof others yet are original in their own right. The film may not be GODFATHER, yet it is for the discerning film viewer who likes this sort of thing from time to time.  "},{"Title":"Good, but may offend some people!","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I fondl recall watching the animated cartoon series of this when I was a kid. I found out there was a movie of it, and I saw it, and it was very different to what I expected. It takes on the primise of a comdey, and while it is funny, it also has lots of unnecessary vilence - but the film cover promises us we will love that! You will if you can handle that, but do not rent it for kids, thinking it will be like the cartoon.It has violence at every corner, with toxie murdering every bad crim in the book, and then some more! It also has lots of meaninglesss sex for the voyeurs! It is a good movie, and if you can handle it, you will love it! "},{"Title":"Probably the best review here","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  As I glance around the page, I see countless reviews misunderstanding this movie.It is NOT a parody of Pretty in Pink or Ferris Bueller (Those are '86, this '83)It is not as vile as some people thought;Originally I thought this flick was sick and really unpleasent.Allow me to tell you;I actually thought this was a mean movie (I know, I sound like a guidence councellor) but really it's a sincere comedy, mixed in with extreme violence. The story is a classic one- Man becomes hero and saves town. It's sincere about that, and it's sincere with it's message of anti-garbage. It doesn't really understand how you can't have it both ways, the violence being the main problem for some.Someone else said it was mean because we're supposed to laugh at a kid getting run over by a bike. Not so-In this movie, it's done to emphasize how evil those characters are. I know-It's uneven.But the movie is better once you've heard the Lloyd Kaufman commentery on the DVD-IT's a flaw, we should be able to see it anyway, but it's better then.AM "},{"Title":"Tromaville - A Nice Place to Live!","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" He was 98 lbs. of solid nerd until he became...The Toxic Avenger. The first superhero from New Jersey! There is a select group of movies that I only recommend to a special audience because it takes a special audience to appreciate these flicks. Along with Bad Taste and the Basketcase Trilogy, the Toxic Avenger is one of these movies. It is one of the most outrageously ridiculous movies ever made. But it's popularity is the bizarre part. Almost every one knows and loves the Toxic Avenger. It's unreal. Classic lines (It is our destiny to follow the orders!), retarded acting (Melvin), goofy characters (Cigar-face), and loads of gore (the head scene) make for an unbeatable cult classic. Who would have known? "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I agree with a comment I read earlier, if you think a young boy getting run over on his bike, and then back over, The people getting out of their cars and taking pictures of his crushed head is funny, then this is the movie for you. I think the whole chain of Toxic Avenger movies should be dragged out in the back of the studio's and burned. AVOID AT ALL COSTS. "},{"Title":"the superhero spoof classic","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  THE TOXIC AVENGER is a superhero spoof that hit it big on home video around 1985 after a theatrical release. The film was a comedy film which satirized vigilante movies, mob films, kung fu movies, super hero genre productions and films about youth decadence. The tale is of how a lowly mop boy becomes an avenging toxic superhero and rids the town of crime only to face the ire of a corrupt mayor. A classic in it's own right, the film was a money maker for TROMA FILMS which at the time of the release of this film was just starting out. The company went on later to do several sequels to this and films like THE CLASS OF NUKE EM HIGH. I found the sequel to be disappointing, yet, it made money. THE TOXIC AVENGER succeeds because it is not overly pretentious in it's modest budget and manages to have dark humor and comedy worthy of laughs in it. One of a plethera of movies that found a audience after release on the home video market. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"not bad...","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen this film today ( June 2001) for the first time because the Italian version is just now availabe. I think this is a very particular film where you can find horror and humor at the same time ( Troma style). Special and visual effects are very simple but there is some good scene ( in the uncut version) I suggest to see it if you want to see a different kind of horror and if you want to enjoy yourself with an original film. Keep out from children ( violence ).  "},{"Title":"u have 2 watch it","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  After watching my first Troma film which was Terror Firmer i set out with by napsack in search of some more Troma. i then saw Sgt. Kabukiman NYPD which was hilarious then Tromeo and julliet and the zombie one. but the one that i wanted to see was at the local video store and what did i see? Toxic Avenger. After watching the cartoon as a kid i thought great when i got home this movie was so troma it was unbelivable. i loved it the plot, the action, the adventure pure fun. you must watch it if you love troma and even if you dont just watch it. "},{"Title":"slapstick action horror spoof...a spoof on superheroes and ELM STREET/ kung fu movies","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  THE TOXIC AVENGER is one of theose B grade jewels that defies all odds. It is combination slapstick comedy, self pardoy, ELM STREET SPOOf, and superhero/small government corruption farce. The story centers around a mop boy who gets dunked into toxic waste and becomes an avenging superhero and sex titan with the ladies. The film pokes fun at such films as DOCTOR STRANGE LOVE and THE INCREDIBLE HULK. The films appeal is it's inventiveness and dry wit on a low budget. The film at times also has over the top humor, fight scenes and violence. the film is sort of a pardoy on the neon lighted 1980's action/teen horror genre. Those who liked this film will love THECLASS OF NUKEM HIGH and the beautifully cinema graphed film at times SURF NAZIS MUST DIE. "},{"Title":"This movie should be taken out back and shot!","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Low budget, rock bottom, raunchy, tasteless, inept(purposefully) classic about a nerd transformed into a mutant who fights crime...the dirty way! If you think it's funny when a group of teenagers run over a 12 year-old boy for points and then take pictures of his crushed head for kicks, then this may be your movie.  If it's cheap blood and gore effects you're looking for, enjoy; If it's also humor you're after...look elsewhere (cult classics Evil Dead trilogy and A Clockwork Orange...these movies are MUCH more tasteful). "}{"Title":"Less splatter than Braindead","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The only other film that I have seen, which can be compared with The Toxic Avenger is probably Braindead. The Toxic Avenger is in filming and quality like Braindead, but with far less splatter/horror. Instead, The Toxic Avenger is more comic (not in the sense of splatter) and has a slower tempo.I liked The Toxic Avenger for its total impression of low budget, bad humor and just overall c**p. However, if you like to see more splatter, see Braindead instead. "},{"Title":"So bad, it's good!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This was such a stupid movie, but for some reason, I utterly loved it! You can't help but like some of the cheap jokes and (somewhat) blah acting! The special effects were pretty good as well!  If you can find this movie anywhere, GET IT!  You will not be disappointed! "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest, Craziest, Sickest, Most Violent movies you will ever see!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is my favorite B movie of all time.  The best B Movies of all time are  Toxic Avenger, Frankenhooker, Bad Taste, and Killer Clowns From Outer Space. This movie has tons of sex and violence, and it is very funny. There are parts in this movie that you will laugh at, that are not supposed to be funny, but they make you laugh anyways because it is a movie. Bosco and his gang of crazies have a little game they play.  You get points for running people down in your car. It is not supposed to be funny, but you will laugh our ass off. There is a lot more that can be said about this movie, but I am not gonna write it all down. Make sure you see Toxic Avenger, Frankenhooker, Bad Taste, and Killer Clowns From Outer Space. Best B Movies ever "},{"Title":"The Best Horror B-Movie in Horror B-Movies History","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Watch out, I said B-Movie! So, don't get the wrong idea by seeing the high rate vote that you're gonna watch anything even loosely similar to serious horror movies like The Thing. But this is also, perhaps, the finest, most accomplished, most entertaining horror B-movie of all time! Don't expect any complex dialogue, any acting show-off or any directorial finesse, this one has nothing to do whit those things. Just enjoy The Toxic Avenger in all its cheap splatter glory and goofy lines, cause this is where the first and only superhero from New Jersey was born. And remember if you're in danger and you need help, maybe, just maybe... the Toxic Avenger will be there.A cult! "},{"Title":"This is a good start for people wanting to venture into the Troma world","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Toxic Avenger 21st Anniversary Ed. 2 Disc Set 2005 (Unrated), Original Release 1986 Bullies torment innocent Melvin Junko, the janitor at a Health Club. After he falls into toxic waste, he returns to kill the evildoers as the Toxic Avenger. Along the way, he falls in love with a blind girl, angers citizens, and has the Mayor try to kill him.The opening of the film has preachy narration about pollution and toxic waste, which would make an astute viewer think that Yale grad, Uncle Lloydy, was actually trying to say something here. The film has many scenes of violence and I can understand the controversy. But all of that is undercut by sheer lunacy and it is hard to take this seriously. No one is off limits here Blacks, Jews, Gays, children, the blind, obese people, the elderly, and midgets. There is even a gay gangster named Nipples. You will see a seeing eye dog shot, a blind girl almost raped, and an old lady beat to death by own her cane. Oh, and there was that young boy that was run over repeatedly while trying to crawl away for help. And that girl in the sauna? Yes, she is masturbating to pictures of the dead boy. Sadistic, enough?The comedy is plentiful though. The first scenes with goofy Melvin and the bimbos and lugheads are hilarious. The theme song Body Talk had me singing along. And then there is the Healthy Troma billboard prominently displayed throughout the movie featuring a portly Mayor.The one scene that was borderline difficult to watch was the restaurant hold up. The guy in the make-up looked like a scary clown and tormented the people innocently sitting there. He shoots the blind girl's seeing eye dog and his Black accomplice attempts to rape her. Of course, before things veer into really nasty territory, Toxie saves the day and lands himself a clumsy girlfriend that cooks with Draino.The special effects are awesome considering there was no budget. I heard they used watermelons and spaghetti to make some of the effects, but I couldn't tell. Toxie sounded incredibly weird though. I thought maybe this was voice-over work done later since the actor was in make-up and couldn't move his face. Or maybe it was intentional. Either way it added to my enjoyment.Favorite Quote A cop says to a young boy, Johnny, You can't just walk around doing what is right.DVD Extras Intro & Outro, Chapter Selection, Interviews with Director, 3 Actors, and Toxie, Deleted Scenes, and Where in the World is Toxie? showing clips from around the world including the Fantasia Film Fest.Bonus Disc Fan Submissions has testimonials from fans including wrestler Blade and films/ music videos by fans. Toxic Avenger the Musikill is a live stage play with the film in the background similar to the Rocky Horror Picture Show. The Extras include several Trailers, Troma Commercial, and Make Your Own Damn Movie info.Bottom Line A must own for Tromans. This is a good start for other people wanting to venture into the Troma world.Rating 7/10Molly Celaschi www.HorrorYearbook.com MySpace.com/HorrorYearbook "},{"Title":"My all time favorite film...","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Yes, I admit it This is my favorite film of all time. I know you think I am a crazy person for thinking this, but look at this film it is brilliantly done. FIrst of, this film is funny. Makes me laugh, the best scene is the Mexican restaurant scene. Alright everyone...Drop your tacos or I'll blow your brains out! Great right there. Film has many funny moments. Second, this film has some good kills/gore. The weight lifting head crush is one of the best kills in any film. May not look great but this IS an independent film, so it does not have the best special effects. Third, this has an excellent storyline. Toxie and Sara (or SARAH as it is spelled in Citizen Toxie) make the film more heartwarming to viewers. 4th, this actually has a message. Just because someone looks disfigured, or is a monster does not mean they are bad They could be good. Name another film that mixes comedy, horror, romance, and action together perfectly? Maybe others do, but not like this. This IS a good film, and I don't care who you are,I don't care if you hate Troma, I think everyone should see this film once in their life. This film always makes me happy when I am depressed or sad, because if a hideously deformed creature of superhuman size and strength can get a girlfriend, maybe I can. So see this film, it is wonderful. Recommended for EVERYONE! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Very, very poor.","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I was watching this at a friends place and I must say that it is terrible. Very poor acting, and this I'm stressed out thing is really, really lame. It seems that the main aim of the director was to cram as much violence and gore as possible into 87 minutes, and in the process the plot was abandoned and the movie descended into a terrible mess of poor acting and lame one-liners. I was kind of forced to watch the movie, as I was on a laptop editing my band's music, and it was one of the most painful movies I've ever had to sit through. There were maybe 1 or 2 funny parts, but it was mainly a sadistic mess, with an even crummier ending to go with the movie. "},{"Title":"A Super-Hero for Garbage Lovers.","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Ugly and mean-spirited garbage has an awkward teen (Mitch Cohen) becoming the titled character after a prank goes terribly wrong. Naturally Cohen comes back as a would-be superhero who has amazing powers and the ability to fight for the American way with his nauseating antics. Of course it becomes clear that he must stop the crime boss of the city and also get even with those bullies who have tormented him throughout his life. The Toxic Avenger is just not a good movie at all. It is bottom-basement level in terms of the money spent. We never really see Cohen after he becomes disfigured and we are left with whacked comedic situations and distressing action sequences that will likely sicken more than intrigue. Somehow a cult classic that spawned several equally disgusting installments. Do yourself a favor and treat the film like toxic waste. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).  "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Weak, wimpy nerd falls out a window as the result of some pranksters. He falls into a tub of toxic waste and is transformed into a mutant dubbed the Toxic Avenger. With new found strength he goes about the streets getting rid of all the crime. Undefendable trash on every level, but with a decent pace, some very funny moments, and a cast and crew that know not to be taking this serious. Very entertaining.Rated R; Strong Graphic Violence, Nudity, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"This is a pretty cool movie.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  It's a fun movie for yourself and I few friends to watch, if you just want to sit around and watch movies.  I wouldn't recommend it to watch with your parents or anyone like that.  I you like low budget movies, then this is what you want to see.  If you like those blockbusters from Hollywood, then you might want to skip this one. "}{"Title":"A much better movie than it first appears to be","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I can understand that many don't find the raw humour in this low-budget movie funny, but I do. And that is what I like about the movie. I think it is funny, and furthermore I like the stereotyped bad guys, who resemble those in the Police academy movies. The plot may not be the best, and neither is it supposed to be, but if you have a wide sense of humour then this movie is a must-see. And if you see beyond the surface you might even find some social criticism in this one. "},{"Title":"What is this crap?","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger doesn't exist. I don't care what your parents or Kevin Spacey have been telling you. This is a putrid movie and the strange thing about it is that it is supposed to be stupid and putrid. At least they got that right.Anyway, the Toxic Avenger starts out as a nerdy guy who works for a gym. Thrown out the window and into a conveniently placed toxic waste truck, he is turned into the Toxic Avenger. Together with cleaning out retro 80s criminals in a strange town, he comes home to nail his blind girlfriend.Very very strange. And very very bad. But at least it was supposed to be that way. F "},{"Title":"In a class all its own","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Rude, crude and not very good. Either this sounds like a fun time to you or it's a potential headache you see coming from a mile away. Whatever your stance you've now entered the world of really cheap bad movies. Champion or vilify them because Troma is king and the above description fits their product line to a tee with The Toxic Avenger undoubtedly being the jewel of their eye. Faring slightly better than Class Of Nukem High (a statement that truly isn't saying very much) the only other Troma movie I've ever seen, the Toxic Avenger is still very much more of the same.This romp comes with it's own parade of gross-out gags, corny dialogue, hokey special effects and rude bits. Between all the death, some T&A and the attitude spewing dialogue is a threadbare story holding it all together. Many times holding no purpose but to get us from scene to scene which goes a little something like this ... person's head being crushed ... guy runs over a kid on a bicycle ... a girl yanks off her bikini top. That there is the movie in a nutshell.Trust me when I say some people will try to put a spin on really bad movies like there is actually more going on than meets the eye. Don't listen to them. They are insane. Trust me. They're just in too deep to realize it. My advice? Just nod your head and slowly walk away. Otherwise risk being absorbed into their ranks. All joking aside, I've seen many bad films that turned out to be lots of fun, guilty pleasures and such, but movies that try to be this bad on purpose are lost on me. It's as if they've missed the point entirely. There is a market for this stuff that much is sure, but it ain't me. If you're going to start your journey down the path of all things cheap and bad, The Toxic Avenger is without a doubt ground zero. "},{"Title":"Toxic waste transforms nerd to superhero","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Toxic waste transforms nerd to superhero Is this a good movie? Heavens no. Is this a classic? Hell yes. The story of the Toxic Avenger is far too pale and insubstantial to bother writing a serious and worthwhile review. I mean, why should I write a real movie review if the movie makers didn't bother to make a real movie? The movie makers did however create a classic cult film with hilariously entertaining scenes of extreme violence. Who knew that using your car to run down a kid on a bike and then backing up over his head is worth 28 points? The Toxic Avenger is the definitive Troma Film. Whether or not you are a fan of other Troma productions, and I cannot imagine why you would be, I do strongly feel that everyone should experience this movie, preferably with several friends and healthy amounts of beer. "},{"Title":"Toxic Indeed","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" It's kind of amusing how some films seem immune to the typical critic's complaints. Plan 9 and Killer Klowns comes directly to mind, and yes Toxic Avenger also falls into that category. Critic says 'If the acting isn't awful, it's pushing the envelope for Over-The-Top performances.' Then everyone with common sense and even Lloyd Kaufman, himself, answers, 'This comes as a surprise how?'The characters go beyond the realm of sane extremes to reach an other-wordly level of stereotype, clichés, and ham acting. It's almost like being transported to another world where concepts such as normal, logic, and intelligence cease to exist; a world where the on screen elements are reminiscent of soft porn where the point is sex and everything in the plot bows to meet that (in Toxic Avenger they add gore into the formula and downplay the sex.) The funny thing is, Toxic Avenger's characters and performances are so far out there it almost succeeds in taking you to that corny world of b-horror where such crap is acceptable. A world where films like the North by NorthWests and Lost in Translations don't exist. Yes, Toxic Avenger almost succeeds . . . almost. Or perhaps I've seen too many bad low-budget films in the last few weeks that I'm just starting to accept it? Who knows. With the exception of the occasional punch lines, the only aspect of Toxic Avenger that held my interest and kept me watching was the violence (as sick as that sounds) - the fact that it does not back down and shy away from real possibilities of children or animals getting hurt impressed me immensely. I've seen too many studio horror/action flicks that are politically correct and does not offend the masses, studio films who are insultingly predictable because of testing with the wrong audience. Thank you, Troma for following through and having some backbone. Thank you for killing animals, children, and beating up old ladies. "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Hilarious,Over The Top Horror/Action/Comedy/Superhero Film And Cult Classic. Troma At Their Best.","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger is an excellent and hilarious Horror Action Comedy Superhero film that combines,wonderful direction,a fun cast,over the top Comedy,thrilling Action,a great soundtrack and terrific special effects. All of those elements make The Toxic Avenger not only one of my favorite movies but also one of the all time great Cult Classics and Troma Entertainment at their best.Set in the fictional town of Tromaville,New Jersey,The Toxic Avenger tells the story Melvin Junko(Mark Torgi),a 90-pound weakling that works as a Janitor at the Tromaville Gym and is always getting pushed around. When Melvin becomes the victim of a terrible prank,Melvin jumps out of a window into a barrel of Toxic waste turning Melvin into the most hideously deformed creature of Superhuman size and strength that protects the people becoming...The Toxic Avenger(Mitchell Cohen).Before The Toxic Avenger,Troma Studios was(and still is)an independent studio company that produced low budget Sex Comedies such as Squeeze Play(1979),Waitress(1981),Stuck On You(1982)and The First Turn On!(1983)to little success. Then along came The Toxic Avenger,an amazing and over the top Horror Comedy Action Superhero film that became a Cult Classic that put Troma entertainment on the map and also spawning three sequels,a children's Cartoon series,a stage musical and gave movie audiences one of the most beloved Superheros of all time in The Toxic Avenger. In other words,Troma was the studio The Toxic Avenger built. The Toxic Avenger is a classic Horror Comedy,a great film and one of the goriest,bloodiest and most politically incorrect films of all time and is so depraved and twisted that I don't a major studio then and now would have made The Toxic Avenger the way it is. Only s company like Troma entertainment would have the guts to make film this way. The Comedy in The Toxic Avenger is hilarious,wild and over the top thanks to the characters and situations that happen in the movie and you as a viewer will be in tears laughing while at the same time being disgusted at some of the things you see which I think adds to the appeal and so bad it's good style of The Toxic Avenger. What also makes TTA so funny and over the top is the way the film tackles subjects in a offbeat style such as violence,sex,corrupt politicians,Gym Clubs,toxic waste dumping,criminals,drug use and more. No subject in this film is left untouched. While TTA is a Horror film the Horror doesn't come from the movie being scary because it's not,the Horror comes from the amounts of violence and gore that happens in the film. The blood and gore while not very serious and at times funny the gore is not for the weak at heart because the blood and gore comes fast and quick. For a movie that was made on a small budget,TTA has some really great and exciting Action and fight scenes that are thrilling and well executed while being played for laughs. There is also a terrific car chase scene that will remind viewers viewers of The French Connection,Mad Max Films and car chase movies of the 1970s. It's a car chase that is funny and unforgettable. The Toxic Avenger(or Toxie as he was later called in the sequels)is one of the all time great Superhero characters in films and beyond because he is a mixture and combination of other great Superheros such as Batman,Superman,Spider-Man and The Incredible Hulk and like those four Superhero icons The Toxic Avenger is a crime fighter and wants to protect people from criminals and other bad things using his power and strength to get the bad guys. Also,like any other Superheros The Toxic Avenger is very complex having to deal with going from a 90 pound weakling to a Monster Hero of Superhuman size and strength,finding love with a blind girlfriend and trying to figure out what he's doing is right or wrong. The Toxic Avenger is a classic character you will never forget. The ending is amazing and memorable and adds to the legend of The Toxic Avenger and will have you smiling and cheering at the screen. A great conclusion.The whole cast is wonderful(in a so bad it's good way). Mitchell Cohen is excellent as The Toxic Avenger,with Cohen bringing depth and great body language to the performance. Andree Maranda is wonderful as Sexy as Sara,The Toxic Avenger's blind girlfriend. Mark Torgl is funny and over the top as Melvin,The Toxic Avenger's alter ego. Jennifer Prichard and Cindy Manion are terrific and sexy as Wanda and Julie Slug and Bozo's girlfriends. Robert Prichard and Gary Schneider are funny and memorable as Slug and Bozo,Gym bullies. Pat Ryan Jr. is great Mayor Peter Goody,a corrupt politician. Dick Martinsen(Officer O'Clancy),Dan Snow,(Cigar Face),David N. Weiss(Chief Of Police),Sarabel Levinson(Melvin's Mom),Pat Klipatrick(Leroy),Larry Sulton(Frank)and Mike Russo(Rico)give good performances as well. Also,lookout for an early appearance by from Marisa Tomei(Heath Club Girl).The direction by Lloyd Kaufman(as Samuel Weil)and Michael Herz is fantastic and memorable,with Kaufman and Herz bringing energy,style and keeping the film moving at a great pace. Fine direction by Kaufman and Hertz.The soundtrack has great songs such as Body Talk(Sandra Farina),Is This Love and Nothing At All(Mark Hoffman And Race). Good soundtrack.The special make-up effects by Jennifer Aspinall are fantastic,gory and realistic and truly add to the film. Wonderful make-up effects,Aspinall.In final word,if you love Troma films,Horror films,Action movies,Cult Films,B-Movies,Superhero films,Comedies or genre films in general,I highly suggest you see The Toxic Avenger,an excellent,hilarious and over the top Cult Classic that is Troma entertainment at it's very best. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Toxic Challenge","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I can say the most positive thing about The Toxic Avenger is that it knew what it was. Sure, it's a horrible, horrible, incredibly bad film, but at least unlike other top worst movies of all time, this one knew it was meant for B-Movie status. Or at least for some midnight views or drinking games.For someone who has not seen a singe Troma film ever, until last night, I was pretty shocked on the lengths these directors and writers went. From the extreme homophobia, to vehicular manslaughter while drinking and driving and actually shoving a shot gun into a toddler's face. I'm guessing this (1986) was far before the PC-movement or they simply wanted you to turn your brain off. Sure, you would have to turn off your senses while watching, but as much fun as some of the movie was, it was hard to ignore the blatant disregard for taste/humanity.Yeah, I mentioned some of the movie was fun. It was, only because it was so over-the-top in its bathroom humor and bad special effects/voice-overs. (Man, that Toxic voice-over was hilarious, though I never knew if it was one of the jokes.) I didn't, however, mention the deliberate misuse of transporting toxic waste because it was an obvious set-up and part of the overall camp of the movie.Nerdy, nerd, nerd Melvin's the janitor in charge of the mop at a gym and is getting picked on. Why? Because he's misunderstood? No, because he's such an exaggeratedly bad form of geek that makes Napoleon Dynamite look like the captain of the football team. And he should honestly never be let out of his house for his own safety.At any rate, he sort of works by mopping and goggling the bimbos until a plan is hatched to rid the gym of this eye sore by humiliation that turns into him leaping out of a window into, you guessed it, toxic waste. From there, this Frankenstein's Monster with a brand new voice and body seeks out justice for whatever reason you can think of. But, this is not a Batman vigilante. This one not only has no conscious of murder, he slaughters.I could say this is where the movie gets silly, but that was from frame one. No, this is where is where the movie gets sick and turns more horror. Sure, there are more comedic, intentional or not, moments, but they layered on the gore and violence and some of the oddest characters lifted right from Garbage Pail Kids cards, and no, I'm not talking about mutated characters. These were the humans.I honestly can't recommend this movie to anyone other than the midnight-movie, drinking (or other forms of controlled substance) or lovers of bad movie groups. I will say though this movie is obviously set up as a comedic fun-ride and not to be taken seriously for a second, the underling messages of homophobia and violence against kids still is very disturbing. "},{"Title":"Death Wish......Kauffman Style","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Toxic Avenger looks a lot like Death Wish,the vigilante classic.Although it is much more gory and hilarious,it doesn't even come close to the Bronson movie.The soundtrack makes me throw up,that 80's sound is so bad! Still,it is better than Bloodsucking Freaks. 5/10   "},{"Title":"For the 80's, this movie made some people flinch in yuppie horror!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Think back to 1985.  Reagan is president, the country is facing the best economy we've ever had in US history, every household has at least two televisions, and Micheal J. Fox hit the big screen in Back to the Future. Now see this movie and keep everything I just wrote down in your head. This film was a milestone in its day, and made Troma the famous movie company it is now.  Complete with a heroic underdog mutated by waste, cruel high school kids, and a hilarious dubbed voice for the avenger himself, this film most likely received an X rating in the 80's.  Not my favorite, but must be appreciated for its shock value. "},{"Title":"A Troma Classic","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Being a huge fan of Troma films myself, I would give this a 10, but the reason I gave this a 9, is because its a little boring in the middle.Anyways, this is about a nerd who works at a fitness center, that is always made fun of, accidently falls into a barrel of toxic waste.  And he becomes a sort of superhero.Above Average. "}{"Title":"My first Troma film.","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  I have to admit this was my first Troma movie experience. And I enjoyed every moment of it. What other movie can deliver such an incredible package of sex, violence and gore? I can't think of any. The Toxic Crusader is now in my top 5 favourite films of all time. Go Toxie Go! "},{"Title":"Troma's Best !","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Lloyd Kaufman's masterpiece, The Toxic Avenger is worth having in your video library. With everything an independent film should have, The Toxic Avenger stands only in a unique genre. With terrific acting and special effects, the Toxic Avenger holds universal horror elements. Like Phantom of the Opera, Toxie's face is revealed for the first time in the same fashion. Even the relationship with Toxie and his first love is right out of the original Frankenstien movie, with his first friend being without site. I highly recommend purchasing the Toxic Avenger on DVD which includes never before seen footage and the full unrated version of the film.  "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is about as offensive as a movie gets, if you take everything seriously all the time. For those of us with a somewhat warped perspective on life, this movie is a riot, filled with bad acting, over the top gore scenes (which are more comical than gross,)and revenge we wish we all could exact from time to time. As the Avenger states, I take bad guys and I mash them! In a tutu, no less. What more could you want??  "},{"Title":"A prime example of a movie so bad that it is good!","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  If you enjoy truly tasteless comedy, then kick back and enjoy this treat.Poor Melvin is a janitor at the local Health Club, until a practical joke ends with him falling into a barrel of toxic waste and turning into the Toxic Avenger!  Then it is time for the bad guys to watch out.  Toxie has a need to go out and stop bad guys, and boy does he! Limbs fly, and blood spurts!  The unrated version is truly over the top.  Filled with sex, nudity, gore and a ton of laughs!  "},{"Title":"A paradigm","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  Those of us who live for bad horror movies must consider this one a talisman.  The Toxic Avenger is one of the most influential films ever made in the bad horror category if Plan 9 from Outer Space is our Citizen Kane, The Toxic Avenger is our Godfather.  How can you argue with a film that has boobs and gore?  See?  You can't! "},{"Title":"Sick & Twisted","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The best of the Troma films.  At the time it was funny and really took gore to the next level. Good for college kids I guess. But these Troma films are so perverted (not really in a pornographic sense but rather as portraying sheer sadistic evil in people) that after you're done watching it, you'll want to take a shower and go to church. KBONE rating 7.5. I would not recommend letting the kids watch. "},{"Title":"New Jersey's first super-hero","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  When poor Melvin falls out a window into a barrel of toxic waste he becomes The Toxic Avenger, a violent crime fighter who grinds his enemies to a pulp.  Using various, bloody methods.  A gore classic not to be missed by anyone who loves this kind of s***.  In the same vein as Evil Dead 2 and Dead Alive, only better. "},{"Title":"One of the best in Troma's lot","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  The New Jersey-based studio, Troma, known for releasing bizarre (and often gross) films, comes through with this funny gross-out cult hit.  A 98-pound weakling works at a local gym as a janitor in Tromaville, New Jersey.  Just about every member at the club is always picking on him.  When a cruel joke backfires, he takes a dive into a vat of toxic waste and becomes The Toxic Avenger.  He goes on a rampage and fights crime.  He makes almost every criminal pay with their lives.  The hero also falls in love with a blind woman whom he rescues from a gang member who tried to rape her.  I'm sorry, I better stop now.  I told you half the movie.  Go watch for yourself.  My evaluation **1/2 out of ****.  "},{"Title":"JERSEY POWER!!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  As a Jerseyian, born and bred, I elevate this movie to epic stature, rivalling its significance to that of the Kevin Smith trilogy. Long live Hackensack! What the dilly-o, B? (Jersey speak) "},{"Title":"A Life Changing Epic","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  What can I say about THE TOXIC AVENGER that hasn't already been said?  I will say that when I was in the 7th grade when I first saw this movie, it provided me with a self esteem boost that has brought me to the point I am at now (9 years later).  It made me the man I am today and I think that it truly belongs in the anals . . . I mean annals of cinema history.  "}{"Title":"A kick ass review for a kick ass movie (DR. EEZ)","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the funniest, sickest, craziest pieces of shiz-at I have ever voluntarily seen. It has loose arms,(If you've seen it you'll no what I mean) flying rib cages, and bouncing tities.  I highly recommend it if you like Peter Jackson films.  "},{"Title":"Much more clever than I remembered","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This Troma film, a piece of symphatetic and not uninteresting trash by veterans Lloyd Kaufman and Michael Herz, THE TOXIC AVENGER (USA, 1985) turned out to be even funnier and genuinely more clever little film as I re-watched it last night on the wonderful Tox Box DVD set released by Troma (including all three films in director's cut versions!)First of all, I admire the speed the directors manage to maintain throughout the film, minutes just pass by without even thinking about it which is definitely not always the case with B films. The characters are very noisy and irritating most of the time, but that fits to the own world of the film, the Tromaville, and thus doesn't feel annoying anymore. I think this is something many other trash films have never achieved, for example the awful 2002 film THE HOUSE OF 1000 CORPSES by musician Rob Zombie, whose film tries to be funny (the characters laugh at their own jokes all the time etc.) but doesn't manage to create an interesting or original world of its own at all - and that's why the idiotic characters and neverending talking/screaming starts to feel very irritating. Unlike THE TOXIC AVENGER, Zombie's film leaves nothing to the viewer's brain.Especially like the German expressionist piece and cinematically breathtaking achievement DAS CABINET DES DR. CALIGARI by Robert Wiene, the Troma film has created a wild and wonderful world in which the unusually wild and excessively behaving and reacting (face expressions and other representations of one's feelings) characters fit perfectly. Also, THE TOXIC AVENGER has some satiric elements in it, mostly towards the youth in general with its desperate searches for a stronger identity, usually at the expense of the weaker and uglier. The actors are all great. The scene in which a mother of some brat is washed in a very unusual manner strenghtens the mentioned interpretation about the youth even more. The film manages to point out some errors and negative sides of the society with black humor and dares also to show the flag in a little different (and more realistic, as any other flag on Earth) light than, for example, Michael Bay which is great, too.Of course the film is also full of sex, women's breasts and ultra violence not to speak of awful editing and continuity errors but they kind of add to the unique and over-energetic world of the film. The best thing here is that the makers knew what they were doing - outrageous trash - they knew that the film won't be appreciated by the Academy, for example, but they also knew that despite those facts and authorities, their film can have many themes and ideas, even more than those that get golden statues.My greetings to the lunatics at Tromaville! "},{"Title":"The Most Retarded film ever made!","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" One day a bunch of retards got together and made a film, they called it Toxic Avenger. This Pathetic super hero film wannabee, has everything from a girl having an orgasm over a person in a car crash; which is downright weird and disgusting. You have a the Hero 'Melvin' who you just want to shoot for being such an idiot. You have a stupid fat mayor as the villain who couldn't go for a minute without eating junk food of some description. There are comedy moments which just aren't funny; (I will not mention them as I do not want this comment to contain a spoiler). The mobster 'Cigar face' who is a rubbish spoof of 'Scarface' just annoyed the hell out of me with his idiotic catchphrases and his 'trying to be funny but just not' style. Overall this movie was just a stupid p**s take. "},{"Title":"what were people thinking","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger... The idea of this movie is that a person that the common population would call this person a looser and then after being thrown into a barrel of toxic waste, mutated into a superhero that is completely disfigured sounded OK even for 1985. This movie is listed as a horror... I even have read of a cult following with this series.... Now this movie even given when it was made was so bad that I couldn't stop watching... the acting is horrible even for an independent film that I think was to be the horror part of this movie...Personally I am almost ready to write to the film company that made this and ask them for the 87mins or so of my life back.To me 1 out of 10 is too high it's too bad that there isn't a 0 (zero) or even negative integers to place on a movie here.In other words this movie is J-U-N-K...... "},{"Title":"moronic","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I thought this movie would be just bad enough to be good. Instead it was just plain bad and not even in a funny way. No redeeming value whatsoever. Do these guys only own one camera? Could the music have been any worse? Did they intentionally pick the worst actors they could find or was this all they could afford? Was the editing done blindfolded with a machete? While the premise was a doable if not predictable comic book theme, the writing could have been done better by a sixth grader. While I'm not a fan of the B movie cult classics, I have endured and even enjoyed a few. This was not one of them. Didn't even make it to the end. "},{"Title":"Great B Horror movie","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I guess I am cursed with a sick sense of what is good when it comes to B horror movies. You have to give credit to this movie with the budget and resources available to it. Compared to some of the horror movies coming out today this is a solid quality movie. Don't get your hopes up and I am sure you will love it. I own this movie in my collection and would recommend that every horror movie fan own this in their collection also. When I rate movies I base it on story, sound, lighting, budget and various other things. I may have rated it high because I am apart of the cult following, but I truly believe it is a good movie. "},{"Title":"70% great, 30% lame","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This movie is exciting. This movie is entertaining. But it is not the classic it is said to be, and it is certainly not Troma's best movie. In fact, it has way too much 80's influence, and not enough of the satirical, meanspirited hilarity of their 90s ventures.The opening parts in the health club and after with the irritating Melvin Furd(played in an irritating performance by Mark Torgol, who still must have been a real trooper to work under the conditions he had to) aren't that good. But as soon Melvin gets the Toxic Treatment, the action pumps up and things start to work. A few times, the movie seems borderline arty in its color scheme and lighting.So it's entertaining in it's second 2/3, and pretty creative, but don't buy ALL the hype. "},{"Title":"One of the most influential independent films","Date":"11 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger is one of the most important films in independent cinema, and without it there would have been no Lord Of The Rings as we know it. Peter Jackson (only one of Hollywood's major directors who admits to be influenced by Toxie, filmstudio Troma and director Lloyd Kaufman) would never have made his earlier horror-flicks which made him famous enough to be chosen to direct this much too expensive series. The Toxic Avenger may have influenced many directors, it has never quite been surpassed in its originality and brilliance, which is even more surprising if you take into account that it was made for the price of Christopher Lee's breakfast on the set of LotR.Lloyd Kaufman is a genius, and his films are trendsetting, innovative and completely original. The Toxic Avenger is the one that put his (and Michael Herz's) filmcompany Troma on the map and 30 years later they still survive as a truly independent studio, in spite of increasingly below-the-belt practices of the Major Conglomerates who don't really like to have any competition of someone who actually has ORIGINAL IDEAS. Besides Disney, Troma is the only filmcompany in the world that has a legion of fans who follow the Brand in itself. And such a thing can only happen if that brand has proved to be responsible for a continuous string of very special, innovating and high-quality products. The film is honored with a well deserved tribute to one of Horrorfilm's icons. The Toxic Avenger turns 21 in 2005, and with three sequels to his name he is still more alive than he has ever been. Get the 21st anniversary edition of this film NOW. It is the ultimate release of this very important film. A MUST BUY for those who haven't yet seen the film. A HAVE-TO-GET for anyone who is familiar with the film but still does not have the title in their collection, but also a GOTTA-GET-IT-TODAY for those who already have the film, as this presentation is much better than ever before, and it offers a load of highly entertaining, informative and not-to-be-missed extra's that is unheard-of, especially on such an affordable release. It's from Troma. Of Course! "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" This film is really good. It's full of action and it keeps you entertained all the way through it. Unlike part 2 and 3 this one is actually watchable. This film is just so good that I can't believe the sequels were that bad. They made Toxic avenger Part 2 like a Disney movie. Witch made if very difficult to watch. Toxic avenger Part 3 is just boring. So if your going to watch any of the Toxic avenger movies watch this one. It's way better than Part 2 and Part 3 by far. This one is actually watchable unlike the other 2 Toxic avenger films. The only problem that I can think of is some bad acting. Witch to my taste it makes it funner to watch. I recommend this film to just about anyone besides those with a week stomach. One of the best films coming from the independent film company. "},{"Title":"Bloody Great","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":"  This is a fantastic film, a perfect antidote to the usual pretentious sh**e America reels off. Although most Troma films are usually just crap, this is actually funny throughout; well I think so anyway.I mean, how can you fail to laugh at the fight in the alleyway with the transvestite gangster and his buddies? And the restaurant scene? With the ridiculous Kung Fu moves? And the running over the kid scene? Note this scene and others are cut from the normal UK version, get hold of the uncut version you can, it's a lot better.A classic Troma, but give the sequels a wide berth.  "}{"Title":"Damn...","Date":"11 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I have seen my share of bad movies... Battlefield Earth, Freddy Got Fingered, Bottom's Up, Pirates of the Caribbean At World's End, Garfield The Movie, Transformers Revenge of the Fallen, Aliens Vs. Predator 2 Requiem...But this is the worst movie I've ever seen... I can't bear talking more about it. It ruined my life and view on films... Don't watch it. Never.Well, I never expected anything, but the cover said that it inspired Peter Jackson and Quentin Tarantino, two of my favorite directors, in their youth and early film-making, so I thought it would be interesting.Not even in an Edward D. Wood Jr. movie did I see worse acting or special effects. If Warner Brothers gave their Batman Begins script to a three year old without money or friends, he could have made a better movie. I swear.I'm serious, it shouldn't have been made. It just left me with a bad bad feeling of wasting my life. I felt lonely after watching it. Thank God I got a discount at the video store... I even sold it back to their sorry asses - double the price! "},{"Title":"How much Troma-Trash can you handle?","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" Purely talking in terms & standards of Troma Film Productions, The Toxic Avenger is almost like a true masterpiece! It's a fast-paced and immensely entertaining smutfest, stuffed with grotesquely gooey make-up effects, politically incorrect situations and ridiculously absurd toilet-humor that somehow puts a giant smile on your face despite being unspeakably awful! The plot borrows the clichéd elements of average 80's teen-slashers, as a constantly bullied moron, working as a cleaner in the Tromaville's fitness center, is hurled in a barrel of radioactive toxic waste after one-too-many juvenile pranks. However, he emerges again as a horribly deformed and 7 ft. tall superhero still wielding his mop, only now to fight crime and wreak havoc on all those who mistreated him. The crime scenes Toxie encounters are extremely offensive, but at the same time irresistibly hilarious because they're so over the top! A clique of hyperactive teenagers randomly drive their car over the faces of children on bicycles (Death Race 2000-style), crazed robbers aim their guns at little babies and guide dogs for the blind and old ladies are beaten up with their own canes. The gore effects surely are nauseating, but never really unsettling or shocking. Naturally, there's also tons of rancid sleaze and embarrassingly bad jokes on display and witty dialogs are the last thing you should expect in a script written by Joe Ritter and Lloyd Kaufman. The last fifteen minutes are rather tame in comparison with the rest of the film, because the two had already run out of ideas. Overall, The Toxic Avenger, as well as the entire Troma-repertoire, represents the lowest form of horror film-making, but it can be fun when watched in the right mental state of mind. "},{"Title":"Probably the best film Troma have made to date, that ain't saying much though...","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The Toxic Avenger starts with a shot of the New York City skyline. A narration informs us that 'New York City, the worlds capital of culture & industry. Here, among the towering skyscraper's, civilisation is guided by men of progress & the wonders of technology. But for all this industrial advancement there is a price to pay. Pollution, the unavoidable byproduct of todays society, every year millions of gallons of poisonous wastes, garbage & radioactive chemicals are disposed of in nearby towns such as Tromaville the toxic waste dumping capital of the world. Our story takes place at the Tromaville health club where a young man named Melvin Furd (forget what the IMDb says, it's definitely Furd not Junko) works. Melvin's entire life, in fact entire being was changed by toxic chemical waste...' Melvin (Mark Torgl) is a real loser, nerd & all round wimp. Melvin is a mop boy at the the Tromaville health club & everyone makes fun of him, especially four local thugs named Bozo (Gary Schneider) his girlfriend Julie (Cindy Manion) plus Slug (Robert Prichard) & his girlfriend Wanda (Jennifer Prichard as Jennifer Babtist). One day the four decide to play a cruel practical joke on Melvin & humiliate him in front of as many people as possible. However things go wrong, or right depending on whichever way you look at it I suppose, & Melvin ends up head first in a barrel of hazardous toxic waste. As a consequence Melvin mutates into the Toxic Avenger (Mitch Cohen as Mitchell Cohen), wow. After saving an Irish cop named Officer O'Clancy (Dick Martinsen) from a gang of three thugs, Cigarface (Dan Snow), Knuckles (Doug Isbecque) & Nipples (Charles Lee Jr.) Toxie discovers that he enjoyed being a hero & so decides to clean Tromaville up by single-handedly wiping out the evil forces which contaminate the town. Mayor Belgoody (Pat Ryan as Pat Ryan Jr.) is as bent as they come & starts to notice a drop in his profit margins from his illegal activity, he puts pressure on the Chief of police (David N. Weiss as David Weiss) to find the Toxic Avenger & kill him before Toxie finds & kills them...Directed by Micheal Herz & Lloyd Kaufman as Samuel Weil I thought The Toxic Avenger was one seriously brain-dead film made for idiots by idiots, you can take that anyway you like considering that I actually quite liked it. The script by Joe Ritter is as stupid as you can imagine, this thing makes the Police Academy films (1984 - 94) look like the pinnacle of sophistication! The jokes are really dumb & moronic, furthermore it stretches the boundaries of acceptability & taste. The Toxic Avenger pokes fun at blind people, beating old ladies up, running children over & going back to crush their heads while later on in the film a woman masturbates over some photographs of the incident & putting a dwarf into a washing machine & turning it on. The sort of comedy you can expect in The Toxic Avenger isn't exactly classy either like someone putting a snake down a fitness instructors top & his class copying his silly movements as he tries to grab it or Toxie's blind girlfriend Sara (Andree Maranda) making him a sandwich filled with Draino. Subtle obviously isn't a word in director's Herz & Kaufman's vocabulary. There is some over-the-top violence & gore, a squashed head, ripped off arm, fried hands, shotgun blasted guide dogs, intestine ripping, beatings & a bit where a guy has his head crushed by some weights but it's all rather fake looking & presented in a slapstick sort of way. Tecnically The Toxic Avenger is awful, the acting is terrible as is the cinematography, editing as continuity obviously wasn't an important issue for the filmmakers & overall production values. There are some reasonable, if cheap looking, car stunts in a brief action sequence as well. Having said all that I did actually find some of it quite amusing (I'm not sure what that say's about me) & in a fun sort of way it, for the most part, works as a whole. It's very well paced, something is always happening whether it's an outrageous bad taste joke or just some good old fashioned violence & gore. I can't really recommend The Toxic Avenger as a good film but it did keep me entertained throughout & that's all I was hoping for, I mean I didn't expect high art, or an educational thought provoking study of modern society did I?! Fun, but an acquired taste & only for those with the stomach. "},{"Title":"The Toxic Avenger","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" When I was a teenager, the only available place to watch trash was on USA's Up All Night which showed their movies cut with just enough on screen to tease and tantalize. A trio of films appeared on USA which caught my attention, the Toxic Avenger series, and I was introduced to Troma. This was their flagship series, and it was rare that you'd find any other item as entertainingly zany, sick, and cheap as these films. Even close to these films were the Class of Nuke 'Em High movies which dealt with high school kids introduced to what toxic waste could do. But, in The Toxic Avenger, a geeky, buck-teethed janitor whose trusty mop was always by his side, ogling the bikini-clad aerobics gals who'd come to the gym he was employed to maintain their impressive bods, is the subject of what toxic waste can do to your anatomy when the skin and body are immersed in such chemicals..it can turn you into a grotesque superhero with amazing physique and martial arts skills, not to mention you can rip arms off and propel men in the air with ease. It all starts when four psychopaths, Slug(Robert Prichard), maniac Bozo(Gary Schneider), and their girlfriends, Wanda(Jennifer Prichard) and Julie(Cindy Manion)who frequent a gym wish to cause mop boy Melvin Junko(Mark Torgle)as much harm and humiliation as possible just for the hell of it. During their past time, these four enjoy driving over innocent people with Bozo's car, adding up points kind of like in the movie Death Race 2000. We see this when the four single out a kind little kid with a helmet riding his bike as they run him over before crushing his head under their back tire! They take Polaroids, for which gets the girls hot and bothered. Yep, this is not for the squeamish or those who demand films of good taste. Anyway, Julie prompts Melvin to slip on a pink tutu so that she can get all worked up for a little sex, setting the poor kid up for a cruel practical joke, concerning a lamb, with all the customers of the gym laughing their asses off at his expense. Tormented and crazed, Melvin throws himself through a window. What Melvin doesn't expect is to fall into a barrel of toxic waste placed inside a parked truck hauling the stuff to a nearby landfill. The toxic waste in turn transforms Melvin into a ghastly monster with a homing beacon towards evil. Anyone corrupt, gangsters, hoodlums, and crooked city officials, are targets of the Toxic Avenger. Three slimy thieves with weapons attempting to rob a taco store with an innocent bi-stander getting a shot-gun blast to the chest, a blind beauty's seeing-eye-dog also getting it right in the stomach, with our toxic superhero coming to save the day. He rips the leader's arm off before stuffing him into a stove, makes an ice-cream sundae out of another's face before driving a drill into his eye, and boiling the last criminal's hands in grease! A gang of mobster's thugs beating up a beat cop get their heads caved in by crushing blows while the third gets away momentarily before attempting to retaliate with more hoods carrying arsenal. This all takes place before Melvin can get his revenge against the four who ultimately wronged him the most. There's a loopy sub-plot featuring the love-affair between Toxie and a blind babe who talks with eyes WIDE open(..she's the one with the dog who got shot by the hoods in the taco store). And, the actual chief villain of the film is the corrupt mayor of Tromaville(..the humongous Pat Ryan)who works behind the scenes with the villainous scum behind the crime of the city. He wants Toxie dead for the heroic monster is bad for business.Obviously, this includes far more gratuitous material than was shown on USA many years ago, including boobs, gory violence, and ample profanity. There's a photo of the aftermath of the bicycle kid's brains all over the pavement, a crooked underling of the mayor gets his head smashed by a set of weights, and Toxie thrusts his fist into a stomach removing the guts. As you'd expect with a Troma film, the acting is(..intentionally) so rotten it's hostile to the eyes, the camera-work & editing are(..purposely)unprofessional, and the characters are(..obviously)written as farcical(..and dimwitted) as possible. Everything in the film is heightened to a great degree crying aloud..this is supposed to be as loud and warped and sophomoric as possible for the viewing enjoyment of those with an appreciation for trash. There's this little part of me that embraces a film like Toxic Avenger because I think it succeeds in what it sets out to do, and the crowd catered to get their money's worth. The film is basically a vehicle to shock and disgust and does so unabashedly. "},{"Title":"Oh...my...God...kill me now...","Date":"20 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" The tag-line was, He was 98 lbs of solid nerd until he became...THE TOXIC AVENGER... The tag-line SHOULD have been, Abandon hope, all ye who endeavor to watch this. (For those who have never read Dante's Divine Comedy, this is based on the inscription above the gateway to Hell.)The only reason I give this a 1 (awful) rating is because I can't go into negatives. Let us be brief.Plot line so-so, I suppose. To be honest, I could only stand the torture that is this film for about 15 minutes, give or take.Acting The little of it I saw was probably the WORST I HAVE EVER EXPERIENCED IN MY LIFE--AND THAT INCLUDES SNAKE EATER!Effects cheap even for the 80's, but that doesn't really make a difference; should you watch this (out of some masochistic sense that makes you feel that you need to be punished for some mortal sin), you will be far too distracted by the atrocious, horrendous, nauseating, mind-rotting, abominable, soul-sucking, make-you-doubt-the-existence-of- God, suicide-inducing, diabolically terrible acting to notice the effects.Conclusion upon your life...if you place any value whatsoever on your sanity...if there is even a shred of intelligence or taste within you...then DO NOT WATCH THIS! You may not live to warn others; the demons that live within it may drag you to Hell before you can escape!You have been warned... "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as I was expecting.","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Horror","Review":" I have to force myself not to give this movie anything lower than a 5/10, though I'm very tempted to. The reason I'm forcing myself not to be so pessimistic is because I respect this movie a lot more than I liked it. Why? Because there is absolutely nothing here that is more off-the-wall than serious (aka cheesy) horror films from the general time period, but The Toxic Avenger is a comedy rather than a serious horror film. And quite honestly, I've never seen very many horror-comedies that were actually funny, but The Toxic Avenger IS actually funny. Almost going hand-in-hand, the pure audacity this movie has makes every other horror release in its time look downright PG. The gore took the politically incorrect spin to a new level in the '80s, and without The Toxic Avenger I simply don't know if the uber-violent movies of today would even exist. It took things to a new level. It TRIED to offend people, for the first time since the birth of the horror film. Even today, I can't name very many movies that have this much audacity. For that I respect The Toxic Avenger.But, maybe it's just a matter of taste, I just didn't see this movie as very entertaining. I think it's one of those movies you had to grow up on as a kid to love as an adult, because I just didn't see a whole lot in it in 2008. I guess this is because I've seen countless imitators and rip-offs that I'm desensitized to what was a very original idea in '85. I don't know. I just didn't find as much entertainment value in it as I thought I would.On a technical level, the movie accomplishes the mess that it tries to accomplish. The music is catchy and sometimes funny. Some of the plot points are laugh-out-loud awesome. The gore effects and amount of gore are both nothing compared to those of today, but follow suit with the so-bad-it's-good feel. Everything reeks of '80s, and why shouldn't it? The Toxic Avenger isn't a timeless movie it was made for one generation, and other generations typically won't get it the way those in the '80s got it. It's like a car, it depreciates in value as soon as it's released. It's never the same as it was when it first came out to a modern mind, because we've seen the aftereffects of it's original release (such as rip-offs, sequels, etc.).With all of that said, I just have a hard time finding anything at all WRONG with The Toxic Avenger. I just didn't find it entertaining like I thought I would. It's a definitive watch for any horror buff, or any movie buff in general. Maybe you'll find something entertaining that I didn't.1/10 "}]