[{"Title":"Just as good as I remember....","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time 8-9 years ago when I accidently zapped into it on cable tv. I remember it made strong impression on me and that I liked it a lot. Now almost 10 years later I bought the DVD and I must say it makes just as strong impression now. The movie is great & shocking and really makes you think what some people are capable of. I recommend this to everyone that want something more then just the ordinary action movies, but be aware,the movie is very violent and probably not suitable for everyone... "},{"Title":"chilling!","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing this gritty drama, then you wonder why there are nuts in the world. The movie is more  ( in a weird kinda way), like a docudrama. It shows how 2 people can become alienated and rejected from society, to become heartless animals. Not to justify what they do, but if these two boys were somewhat loved, maybe they wouldn't be cold blooded killers. There's a scene where one of the teens father  ignores him totally. That is shocking. But watching it will disturb you.  "},{"Title":"A Realistic, Powerful, Hard Hitting Film That Shouldn't Be Missed","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  THE BOYS NEXT DOOR is one of the most intense and powerful movies I've ever seen. Charlie Sheen and Maxwell Caulfield are excellent and the film is very well written and directed. Sheen and Caulfield are two bored teens who decide after graduating, to take a little vacation where they become violent and go on a killing spree, killing whoever gets in their way. Everything feels real and it delivers a true, shocking message. I think this is an amazing movie and even though it didn't get a lot of attention when released, I think it deserves more attention now and shouldn't be missed by anyone.  "},{"Title":"disturbing and funny","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" First off, don't listen to the comments by the moron from Pleasant Valley, New Mexico. Maxwell Caulfield couldn't possibly be doing his version of Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer since The Boys Next Door came out BEFORE it. In fact, since The Boys Next Door came out in 1985, it's pretty safe to say that Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer (which came out in 1986) borrowed from it, not the other way around. Regardless, this movie has a great soundtrack and really funny dialogue (Two Blacks and a Mexican.) Scenes so outrageous that they're actually funny (gas station beating). Now, while it's not the greatest film in existence, the fact that the (life- like) violence in the movie could really happen (and sad to say, similarly HAS really happened before), make this movie better than a lot of movies out today. The acting is pretty good, especially Maxwell Caulfield (probably his best performance). I'd recommend this movie to anyone, especially if you grew up in the '80s. People who don't like it are usually over-analyzing it a bit too much. Too many people are looking for social commentary when watching movies. They usually end up not liking many films. They forget the simplest thing movies are made to entertain, bottom line. "},{"Title":"brutal; honest; sad; great","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Penelope Spheeris received kudos as director of Wayne's World. I know that flick was funny as hell and made gobs of green, but The Boys Next Door is one of her best. This film combines her earlier efforts, particularly The Decline of Western Civilization and Suburbia, into a nihilistic tale of two guys that ultimately realize that everything has its price. Sheen and Caulfield are very convincing as friends. When they first arrive in L.A. and stop at a gas station, Caulfield steals the show by brutally beating the gas station employee and justifying his actions to Sheen by basically saying it happened, you can turn me in, you can come with me; let's see what the night turns up? "},{"Title":"Teen angst at its worst.","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Boys Next Door is an ugly, but generally gripping film about two losers who decide on a whim to spend the weekend in Los Angeles after graduating from high school. Charlie Sheen (Bo) and Maxwell Caulfield (Roy) play these two punks pretty convincingly, and this low-budget film lets them flex their muscles while terrorizing anyone unlucky enough to get in their path.The film begins by showing us pictures of seemingly normal-looking serial killers while at the same time using audio commentary to detail the number of victims they had. The actions of the two in this film really don't seem to be patterned after any particular killer, but this early footage is just trying to tell us that virtually anyone we see might have violent tendencies.We see a little of their last day of school. Bo strikes out with a hot chick. Nobody wants them to come to a big party later that night. The boys crash it anyway. Roy pisses in the pool, and the boys steal the family dog and take it with them out to L.A.. Once the guys get to L.A., pure mayhem ensues. First of all, they beat an Iranian clerk at a gas station senseless, nearly killing him. Then, they go to the beach and hit an old lady in the head with a beer bottle. Later on that evening, these two hoodlums graduate to murder. They pick up a gay man at a gay bar and kill him at his place in West Hollywood. Then they murder a young couple just because they're jealous that they can't get a hot chick like the young woman. Things are capped off by the senseless killing of a new-age hippie woman while she's getting it on with Bo. Roy seems to get jealous, then he violently shakes her to death after dissing her new-age values. By then, the cops are hot on their trail, and they corner the two punks at a shopping mall. The conclusion may or may not surprise you.The acting is very good. Sheen is decent enough, but Caulfield is the guy you will remember. This in not the same Maxwell Caulfield we were rooting for in Grease 2. This guy is one seriously screwed-up individual who takes to murder like a fish to water. Penelope Spheeris does a very good job with the limited budget in one of her earliest efforts. When watching this film now, you can't help but be reminded of the Columbine tragedy of 1999. The kids that caused that bloodbath were probably a lot like Bo and Roy. For some reason, they just couldn't conform, and they saw no other alternative but to take out their frustration on society. There also seems to be a bit of social commentary with the final ten minutes of the film taking place in the mall. I think the film is trying to say that kids of the 1980s were a bankrupt generation who had nowhere else to turn from their problems except shopping malls or other consumer venues. Arcades, too, for that matter.Overall, this is an ugly film that will make you think about it for quite a while after it's over.7 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"A powerful, knockout movie that makes you think!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The boys next door is a superb movie. Bo and Ray, two mischevious best freinds, set out for a hightime weekend after graduation. They get spun out of control, and eventually, kill in cold blood for no apparent reason.  This movie will make you go away thinking. With a twist ending that is supremly unexpected, and altogether a deliberate ironic musing, this movie is a must see! It is one of those rare movie, where you go away saying, Hey, that movie was actually really good!    What I liked about this movie, is it is what I like to call a Sleeping Suprise. Its one of those movies that you casually pass by in the movie store, roll your thumb over in a tv guide, but when you finally do get around to watching this movie, you know you have witnessed something you should have seen earlier. I loved this movie, and you will too.    With great acting, a realistic story line, and superb script, The boys next door will leave you thinking about the minds of a serial killer, and the qualms of a deeply distubed mind.With inside information about real life serial killers, it will leave you looking over your shoulder for days to come! 8 out of 10... "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made! Excellent performances!!!!","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is definitely Charlie Sheen's best work! Maxwell Caulfield is another great underrated actor! Penelope Spheeris Directed this dark, disturbing film about two high school outcasts (Sheen & Caulfield) who take a road trip to L.A. and decide to snap and start killing people. It shows the minds of some disturbed teens who are tired of being put down by others.Seeing this movie again reminded me of the tragedy that happened at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado where two outcast students went on a bloody rampage and killed 15 people including themselves at their school.Maxwell Caulfield portrays the very psychotic Roy who does most of the killing. I'd recommend this film to anyone!  "},{"Title":"Disturbingly insightful and darkly prophetic!","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sometimes a film comes along, that will truly stick with you long after you've seen it. It will gnaw at your mind and make you look at life and people in a very different way, which you never did before. The Boys Next Door is just such a film for me.Director Penelope Spheeris is probably most well-known for her work on perennial comedic fare, such as Wayne's World and Black Sheep, but long before that she was a very edgy and somewhat visionary filmmaker. Some of her earliest works have a very deep social commentary to them, of which this film is one of her best (and most overlooked). This tale of two high school outcasts, who go to the big city and raise some murderous hell, almost has a modern ring to it. In the wake of real life events, like the massacres at Columbine and Virgina Tech, this film seems less the low-rent crime drama it probably was seen as when it first debuted and more like a prophecy of things to come.It is absolutely chilling in how it shows the casual use of violence by two supposed teenagers. Their lack of conscience and concern for anything or anyone, save themselves, feels like a mirror being held up to our so-called modern world. What really stuck out for me, though, was the moments of seemingly uncontainable rage expressed by the character of Roy (incredibly performed by Maxwell Caulfield). One scene that truly made my blood run cold, was after his first act of violence on a gas-station attendant, when he and his friend Bo (played by a very young Charlie Sheen, in one of his earliest leading roles) are talking about it in their hotel room, and Roy expresses that the beating wasn't good enough. That he should have killed him. The look of satisfaction on his face as he expresses these thoughts, brought out a dark symmetry to the character, which would dominate everything he does afterwards. It actually comes off like a blueprint to the mindset of such thrill-killers that we see in our real world today. I really enjoyed how the film almost plays like a docudrama in some instances, like this one.While some of the language and settings might be a bit dated, the emotion and societal insights into the mind of teenage rage are as powerful now as they ever were back in 1985 (when the film debuted). At the time, this film had a bit of controversy about it, due to the amounts of violence shown on screen, but I think that today, in our much more politically-correct minded world-view, it is the thoughts behind the violence which should be more disturbing. It is a film that has truly become MORE relevant as time has gone by, not less. If there is anything lacking in the film, it would be not enough information given on the characters life at home. We see the torment they have with not fitting in with their peers at school, as well as their fears of living out the rest of their lives at dead-end jobs, but there is little info on the role played by the family in helping these boys to be filled with such murderous contempt. There is one scene with Roy's father being shown as a neglectful parent, more interested in getting his next beer than the welfare of his son, but I felt this brief glimpse should have been expand on more. Still, even lacking in this one area, the film is still a very potent brew to behold.Make no mistake, this is not a feel good or party film. It is a shocking, and sometimes twisted, look into how society can mold a teenager into a raging killer and how easily that rage can be let loose on an unprepared society. And the fact these two characters are attractive looking, as well, only deepens the scary similarities of our current times. Despite that, however, it is certainly a very worthwhile film and is deserving of much more attention. If you are looking for a film that isn't just out to entertain you, but also make you think, this is one movie you need to seek out! But be warned... prepare to be unnerved by much of what you will see. I doubt many will walk away from this film totally unaffected, nor should they. "},{"Title":"Solid Underrated Movie","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is 80's gem as for as sheer cinema terror goes.  This is an extremely violent movie about two mean-spirited teens that some will discard as sick.  But the movie is much more than that.  It is a look at what people are truly capable of.  This film has captured the essence of violence because the frightening thing is that the two boys don't really have an excuse to do the things they do.  They're just plain evil.  You want to feel sorry for Charlie Sheen but you just can't.  And Maxwell Caulfield can't possibly be redeemed.  Their theory of Caveman Day where one just lets loose is taken to the extreme.  Caveman Day seems like a good idea until you see what the characters do to others, and the consequences they must face. "}{"Title":"If these ARE the boys next door, it's time to move!","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With THE BOYS NEXT DOOR, director Penelope Spheeris captures the alienated, frustrating world of teenagers that is often either missed or glossed over in most Hollywood teen pictures. Though released at the height of the brat pack movement, it's as far from SIXTEEN CANDLES as possible. It's about crime and more. It tunes into the same sexual aggression Spheeris focused on in her documentary DECLINE OF WESTERN CIVILIZATION. Maxwell Caulfield and Charlie Sheen play two bored kids from Northern California who, after being lectured to at school about the need for young people to be more humane when they get out into the real world, go on a weekend killing spree in Los Angeles. Although directed by a woman, it is not, as one might suspect, anti-male. Spheeris is careful to point out that these two boys are sociopaths who hate everyone. While they appear normal --- the wear t-shirts and jeans and are surprisingly clean-cut looking --- they aren't. They're unable to fit into society and are rejected by their peers. They turn to violence as a way to communicate their frustrations. The world these boys see is full of freaks and repellent characters, out to get THEM. After beating a gas station attendant to near death, they blame HIM...for trying to short-change them. Spheeris' direction is so frank, and the violence is so brutal, it's stunning. That said, the violence in THE BOYS NEXT DOOR is at times so over the top that is nearly operatic. "},{"Title":"A well made drama of youthful alienation","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" CHARLIE SHEEN & MAXWELL CAULFIELD are a pair of high school graduates in which nothing goes there way. They have no success in getting girls, their peers don't accept them, their parents ignore them etc. So both ROY & BO hit Los Angeles for the weekend, for some fun before they head into the work force the following Monday. But a trip to Los Angeles for some fun soon turns into a violent out burst, when they attack a gas station attendant, an old lady & eventually to killing a young couple, not to mention a gay person & last but not least a woman they pick up at a bar. Soon the Boys are being hunted by the police, but when they decide to change their ways soon they realize that it's too late, that there is no way out of what they have done. The Boys Next Door is a powerful drama of two misunderstood youths, from it's opening credits which shows clips of past serial killers like, The Son of Sam to Henry Lee Lucas, to the never seen it coming climax, The Boys Next Door is a violent, but must see film, that shows youthful alienation at it's most violent.**** (stars) "},{"Title":"The Decline of Western Civilization Part 1.5 The psycho years","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Roy and his hetero life-mate Bo are psychopaths who have a night of killing in LA. This movie, while not that great, is still good and MILES above the very over-rated crap fest that was Natural Born Killers. Penelope Spheeris does a pretty good job directing and Charlie Sheen plays Bo low-key to nice effect. This is also the only film I can stand Maxwell Caulfield in, so don't even mention Grease 2, Empire Records or any of his other less-then-stellar (to put them VERY mildly) movies to me. Plus I like pretty much everything that Glen Morgan and James Wong write, well they only have one bad film to their credit. Or rather their only bad film is The One. Thankfully this is not the One Look for Moon Unit Zappa in a small role.My Grade B- Anchor Bay DVD Extras Commentary with Penelope and Maxwell; Cast and crew info; and Theatrical Trailer "},{"Title":"A very chilling, disturbing and powerful knockout","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Shortly after graduating from high school, an aimless, alienated pair of scruffy blue collar California suburbanite misfit teens -- the moody, volatile, sexually repressed Roy and his more laid-back, passive partner Bo -- suddenly come to the grim realization that their post-high school lives hold precious little promise. Extremely upset about this glaring and undeniable bit of terrible truth, Bo and Roy decide to drive to Los Angeles for one last weekend of completely uninhibited partying. Things promptly turn sour when Bo and Roy beat a hapless gas station attendant within an inch of his life. The not so dynamic duo are just getting warmed up. They continue their blithely ferocious rampage with a vicious series of harsh random killings.Gut-wrenchingly tense and wholly believable, this gritty gem hits hard with its harrowing exploration of how adolescent angst and rage can easily erupt into terrifyingly destructive all-out brutality. Penelope Spheeris' direction is 100% on the money tight and effective the brisk pacing, a fairly intricate and involving narrative, the often almost unbearably stomach-turning suspense, an unflinchingly downbeat ending, and a vivid rendering of the flashy-trashy L.A. milieu all lend credibility to the bleak premise. Glen Morgan and James Wong's script presents a chillingly convincing mosaic of negligent and sometimes even absentee parents, earnest, but ineffectual cops, mean, disapproving peers, and angry, frustrated outcasts which seethes with a startling mix of despair and nihilism (Morgan and Wong went on to write many episodes of The X-Files, plus make the excellent and underrated Willard remake and the Final Destination pictures). Maxwell Caulfield and Charlie Sheen give superb performances as the apathetic leads. The equally stellar supporting cast includes Frank Zappa's daughter Moon Unit as a vapid Valley Girl Bo develops a crush on, Patti D'Arbanville as a flaky, lusty medium who picks up the pernicious pair in a bar, and Hank Garrett and Christopher McDonald as the diligent mismatched homicide detectives who are trying to find and arrest the boys. Tough, stark and exceedingly rough, this bitter sleeper rates as a nerve-rattling knockout with its still topical subject matter nowadays seeming even more timely and relevant in the wake of the atrocious Columbine incident. The first-rate Anchor Bay DVD offers a sterling widescreen presentation along with the theatrical trailer, bios on Spheeris, Sheen and Caulfield, and an enjoyably loose, informative and opinionated commentary by Spheeris and Caulfield. "},{"Title":"The Boys Next Door (Movie).","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A classic film that highlights the 'what the human psychy can become when there is no way out of the dead end job situation'.Originally commented on as being 'overtly homosexual' due to the faluire of Maxwell Caulfields character to apparently satisfy his latent sexual urges that eventually surface into violent actions is very thought provoking. "},{"Title":"Potent drama.","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The most shocking thing in this unsettling film is the way it accurately portrays the state of mind of the two heroes; murder seems to be just another inconsequential act of escapism for them, and  the (sincere) grief that Sheen's character feels for some of their victims is brief and quickly lost amid the thrill of it all. The movie handles the violence in an uncompromising but not exploitive way, and it may not have all the answers, but at least it isn't afraid to touch the subject. (***) "},{"Title":"Few people will ever understand this movie","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Pure genius this movie is one of the best ever. Mostly because of Maxwell Caulfield's outstanding performance words cant describe how good he captured the mind of a sociopath. I was totally blown away by this movie when I saw it for the first time about a year ago. This movie was never accepted by the mainstream mostly because they cant relate and they never will. But those who can will love this film there's no one like it and its mostly because of Caulfield's performance. I have never seen anyone play a sociopath more convincing.Roy-That motherf*cker... is the one who will keep us from going anywhere "},{"Title":"They gave them two seconds of pain when they themselves have had 18 years of pain","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The boys next door is about two angry psychotic teenagers called Roy Alston(Maxwell Caulfield) and Bo Richards (Charlie Sheen) that go on a killing spree in Los Angeles one weekend and killing anybody that comes their way. I admit this film in many ways is quite twisted, but I can't help liking it for its action scenes, good acting, great soundtrack, humours moments and witty one-liners made this film what it is. I found it somewhat odd that Roy Alston(Maxwell Caulfield) and Bo Richards (Charlie Sheen) were so despised by their school mates because to me they seemed like pretty cool guys, a lot cooler than that nerdy Joe Gonzales who everybody loved who had a party at his house. Does that make sense - I don't think so.There was a period when the film became quite stagnant; In between the scenes after Bo and Roy left Homosexual Chris' apartment after murdering him and when Bo and Roy met Angie outside the pub this film went completely downhill, but other than that this film was great. The scenes when Roy was urinating in Joes swimming pool, when Bo and Roy accidentally walked into the gay bar and when Bo and Roy tricked their school mates into thinking someone was killed at the high school by outlining Bo's body on the road with chalk, I found absolutely hilarious. Once more the funny one-liners when Bo and Roy looked at the woman in the billboard poster and Roy said to Bo 'Look at that bitch - I bet she doesn't even exist'. Another good one-liner I liked was when the girl at the beach called Bo and Roy queers and Roy said to her in response 'Queer - we'll see who the queer is bitch', which he said just before he knocked her friend off the bonnet of his car by screeching to a halt. Anyway, if you haven't seen this film - go see it! for if you like Maxwell Caulfield and Charlie Sheen, you'll definitely like this film. "},{"Title":"Too Direct And Predictable","Date":"30 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From their dull lives as high-school outcasts, two misfits, named Bo (Charlie Sheen) and Roy (Maxwell Caulfield), vamoose to L.A. seeking sex and excitement. The film's underlying concept is fine. But given the first three minutes, wherein viewers learn about well-publicized American serial killers, the script sets us up for a way too predictable plot.Even in small matters of business, like when the guys stop to get gasoline, we can see what's coming next. The plot offers very little in the way of surprises or depth. The script is too direct and too shallow. Dialogue lacks subtext. And characters are almost two-dimensional cardboard cutouts. They're stereotypes of losers, so too are the pretty faces of those who reject them.There's no real character development here. Roy especially is filled with anger. But we never learn why. They both are such simpletons, so clueless, that when they unintentionally walk into a gay bar, the result is almost comical. And the film is full of plot clichés, like the standard high-speed car chase along urban streets curiously devoid of traffic.Casting is unfortunate. Both Sheen and Caulfield look too old to be in high school. Yet both actors do a pretty good job in their roles. Cinematography is fairly standard. But given the outdoor scenes, the visuals make the film look dated. So too does the background music, which reeks of 1980s junk music.The main problem here is a script that plots a story that is too direct and too predictable. Casting doesn't help, and neither does the music. I could have wished for main characters with some complexity and whose journey had shades of gray. The Boys Next Door is a film of marginal interest. It's not terribly bad. But there are other films out there that tell a similar story better. "},{"Title":"A Half-Baked Vision","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Roy (Maxwell Caulfield) and Bo (Carlos Estevez) leave their small town the weekend after graduation for a short road trip to Los Angeles. Soon, they find themselves lashing out and leaving a trail of bodies behind them. The violence escalates throughout.I love that Nicolas Cage almost got a role in this film, and that Crispin Glover was turned down for being too psychotic at his audition. What a different film that would have been...As a whole, I like this film as presenting the idea of the sociopath next door, the concept that those who commit the most violent and heinous acts are those we often least suspect. Unfortunately, I feel like it never fully developed the idea. Cross-country murder tales (such as Badlands and Natural Born Killers, both inspired by Charles Starkweather) have been done better... this had its own unique vision, but never took it all the way. "}{"Title":"On Twisted Night","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just time and circumstances and possibly the unavailability of weapons prevented Charlie Sheen and Maxwell Caulfield from becoming a pair of Columbine style massacre makers in The Boys Next Door. Although the treatment of them is rather sensationalistic and exploitive the film does raise some issues. First and foremost is just how do you recognize a serial killer in your midst.There's nothing wrong with Caulfield and Sheen as actors, but they are terribly miscast. Quite frankly these two guys are way too good looking to be believable as social misfits. Try as a may, I couldn't turn over the fact in my mind that these two couldn't get any dates.Part of it is economics, these two are from the wrong side of the tracks in their small western town. But that sure doesn't explain it, some noted serial killers came from the upper strata.Right after graduation these two decide to go to the big city of Los Angeles where their penchant for violence, especially Caulfield's escalate until they've killed four people in one twisted night. As miscast as they are the two deliver good performances. Honorable mention should also go to Patti D'Arbanville as the bar girl they pick up, Paul Dancer as the gay man who becomes their first victim, and Dancer's boyfriend Kenneth Cortland.The Boys Next Door is not a bad film, but the subject has been covered better in the cinema. "},{"Title":"Brutal and very realistic","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Boys Next Door is everything that 80's teen movies are NOT - and that is why I loved it. It's very realistic and brutally honest in its portrayal of teens who are outcast from their peers, and the effects it has on them. Not to mention both characters come from broken homes where it appears no one pays attention to them - another major problem of kids growing up in the US from the 70's to the present. Charlie Sheen does a great job, but Maxwell Caulfield steals the show.This violence is extremely realistic and disturbing. But it has a point. The language is dead on too - this is the way kids talked in 1985.This movie touches on a side of American society that most would choose to ignore, and that's why it is so powerful. Don't believe the negative reviews. This is an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"this is good stuff","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ok, for the fans of quality entertainment, i recomend this movie. this one has superb quality action. plenty of beatings, punishment and domination to go around. since plent of other viewers have explained the basics of the film, i will spare the details. i cant recomend this movie if you are too uptight and take yourself too seriously- remember this is only a movie. folks who found movies like a clockwork orange and barfly disturbing will not be able to get any laughs out of this either. those movies are great too!. i will soon own this on dvd b ecause of the funny moments and the excellent violence. these two guys bo and roy, dish out some serious pain and suffering in l.a.you must see this movie. "},{"Title":"Nice one.","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I could have done without the introductory scene. Charlie Sheen is not exactly a great actor (sorry, fans!), even if he does an okay job here, but especially when Roy's 'darling' gets brutally killed, I had expected a more intense and appropriate reaction. Maxwell Caulfield did a better job, considering.What remains, is a fairly simplistic given of two rural bad boys deciding, out of the blue sky it seems, to have a wild, wild weekend in sunny Los Angeles. This results in a series of pretty memorable events, with a couple desperate detectives following in their wake.There's humour (the dog, the chick on the car hood, for example) as well as some pure expressions of cold and inconsiderate behaviour.Pretty much okay, altogether; a good 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as grim as it wants you to believe; in all honesty it's rather soulless","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm still scratching my head as to what the point of this movie was? I got what it was trying to sell. Life is very frustrating, and people can be downright callous around you, but that doesn't mean it wasn't pointless in the long run. After the chilling opening with a narrator giving us some info on past serial killers with a creepy musical score, I was ready to dig in and go along with the ride, but what followed was a depressing disappointment. What was the background of Roy & Bo? We get very little insight as to what has made these guys snap, other than a difficult few years in High School, and parents who have neglected them. Most of the movie forces you to follow Roy & Bo around Los Angeles with a pointless killing spree. Despite top billing, Charlie Sheen is not the main star. He shares top billing with Maxwell Caulfield. The main problem I had was with Roy (Maxwell Caulfield) He is a whiny, unsympathetic person who I was begging to see get his. The movie tried to portray him as a sociopath with a screw the world type attitude, but instead they made him into an annoying loser. I think the world sucks some days, but am I suddenly gonna turn into a killer? Get real. Charlie Sheen is a little more bearable. He's a miserable soul himself, but not quite as bad as Roy is. We also get slightly obsolete terms such as Fag the gay subtext can't be denied, and stuff you would never see in movies today. An old lady gets drilled in the head and cut open with a beer bottle. It tries way too hard to be offensive, and in the end I just didn't care. We also get some idiotic symbolism at the end that ties in with the beginning of the film, but I was just glad it was over. Final Thoughts It's one of Charlie Sheen's first movies. It's far from his worst, but still. It's not a very good movie. It tries to be something memorable, and instead becomes forgettable. Teenage agnst is tough, but I don't see why anyone would wanna spend time with these guys. Not really recommended4/10 "},{"Title":"It's not who you know,  but who you don't know in a too harsh slice of reality","Date":"27 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alienation is a terrible thing, it's consequences can sometimes be deadly, as this movie shows. Good looking teens, Caulfield and Sheen, each other's best friend, are shunned by their school peers, (Caulfield, not only his peers) for what reason, I don't know. Desperate for attention, as shown in one of the prior scenes, they're even excluded from a graduation party, they crash anyway. Yeeeeaah, power to them. Snobs. If you were one on the alienated, you'll identify perfectly with this movie, all too well. The repulsed and hostile looks they endure plus all the other crap they take. So they must vent, where they finally graduate to murder, as they take a trip to L.A, and start to kill people at random. That's after dognapping, and beating an Iranian gas station attendant half to death, who was trying to rip them off. You get as good as you give. Oh, and lobbing a beer bottle in the air, hitting an old woman in the head, that's succeeded by two bikini clad women chasing after them, one of who'm is thrown off of Caulfield's car, her friend yelling after them, Queers. Charlie Sheen, I don't think so. On it's first view you will find certain parts of this movie disturbing, but this is an engrossing one too. One teen drama with flavor, it's final scene of Sheen in slo-mo, haunting. Bits of it might cut too deep, if you're one of the ignored, as it is pretty much a reality movie. And remember this is from the director of the Wayne's World movies. What a change of pace. It starts off great, with photos of infamous serial killers, their real voices attached. This is a movie I urge teens to watch, if any movie. Sheen does well, handsome devil he is, playing to his father's Badlands, exuding just that really small amount of creepiness that he balances well. A real humanistic and quite scary performance, one that hooked me. But it's Caulfield who's the more dangerous of the two, a character who's past the point of no return, inundated with rage, hate, and bitterness, a chilling scene of him in close up at that party, parked down on the ground, chewing his nail, contemplating, watching a sole girl off, watching him. She averts his eyes, repulsed, and a little scared. That's just before he jumps in the pool and turns it pink. Movie's also known as No Apparent Motive. I thoroughly recommend this. "},{"Title":"Violence centred 80's thriller with sadly not much going for it but the violence","Date":"29 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From the start and most of the way through this movie kinda feels like one of those 80's buddy comedy/action flicks, and then thinks it can go back to that after nasty shocking violence. I mean, You've got the boys piggishly chanting Debbie does Greek! and a poodle named Boner, right next to some of the worst movie violence ever seen, and I don't think they at all got the balance right-this didn't strike me as a type of movie that should have had any humour in it at all. And the bit when the old lady gets hit with the beer bottle has got to be the cheapest laugh ever committed to celluloid! I felt that the pace was very straightforward and kinda dull, but then it would flare up, if you will, when the violent murders happened, then go back to being average. Accept at the end. After the final murder the film thankfully has an energy that carries it straight to the end. The movie's got a couple of really corny but funny lines, my favourite one is when a gal yells at the boys to eat her f**k! What the hell was that?! Awesome! Charlie Sheen. Too cool for school. But that's all he does, try to look cool, spout cheesy-ass lines, and throughout wear a stupid permanent thoughtful frown. And he looked so gay with that stupid Topgun haircut! I can't believe I used to think he looked cute! He looks and acts like the arrogant Hollywood brat I'm sure he was at that point. He had none of the presence that Caulfield did. I think that it would have been a very different and far better movie had someone else played Bo. Someone who wasn't Charlie Sheen. Because I feel that Chuck brought the movie down big time. In fact, for me he almost totally ruins it. The movie would have worked better if Chuckers had done a better job of appearing more shocked and traumatised by the killings. Because at the end, when Bo confronts Roy, it felt very sudden to me. Aside from a few half-arsed mutterings by Sheen, there really is no strong build up to that. Annoying! I don't like it when Bo says at the end that he thinks he's going to go home and move on. Like he has a right to. I lost any sympathy for the character when he joins in the murder of the unfortunate gay guy. It's kinda funny at the end crazy Charlie Sheen getting dragged downtown by the cops!!! The irony! It's eerie, isn't it? The way it echoes his modern times! There's an impressive intro sequence, with images of serial killers, and parts of speeches from serial killers, but I'm not sure if it's really them. It's kind of misleading, as it gives the impression that the movie is going to be one as shocking as, say, Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer. And although it is indeed shocking and violent, it comes nowhere near the bleak nightmarishness of that great film. To me the most sickening bit in the movie is when the poor hippie chick gets shaken to death for absolutely nothing. Truly horrific. I thought Maxwell Caulfield was brilliant as the deceptively handsome, blue-eyed mass murdering thug Roy. He's really terrifying as a brawny bully stuck in a rut. There's not much you can say about the character really. He's big, he's mean, he's bitter, he's twisted. That's about it. Always scowling, always trying to bring anything bigger than himself down to his level. There's nothing sympathetic about him. There's a creepy scene early on where he is eyeing a couple at a party with this evil cold glint in his eye. Again, all the more frightening because it's coming from a pair of strikingly beautiful blue eyes. There are two little scenes that are supposed to give insight into his bleak world. One is where it shows Roy's home, the other is way later when he tries miserably to read. They both felt a bit quick and stuck in there to me, but they are both really funny though. I believe that when he gets shot down like the mad dog he is, that just maybe, that was what he really wanted...Despite how brutal and foul Roy is, he's the dark heart and soul of this movie. Imagine if someone as bad as Sheen was had played Roy. Not a pretty picture. Very violent to say it was directed by a woman. Not to say women can't make violent movies,(why would they want to?) but I was surprised that a lady directed this one in particular. But reading about some of the things that have happened in the life of the director, I could see where the movie's dark intensity could have come from. Penelope Spheeris herself is shocked by the film, saying that she would never make such a violent picture today. I think they were trying to make a movie with some great social commentary about young killers, but for me when it's over it really feels like it just fails in that way. It's still a very gripping and disturbing thriller. however. Even if, perhaps, the only great about it is the violence itself. "},{"Title":"Confused exploitation flick (Some spoilers)","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film opens with a compendium of serial killers in a sort of rogue's gallery of their various crimes and so sees itself as a cut above your average exploitation flick in examining the phenomenon. Is society to blame? The film fumbles the ball by having the two lead characters perform a sort of 'greatest hits' of serial killers. You have the gay murder suggesting Jon Wayne Gacey, the courting couple in the car murder like Berkowitz, the sex rage murder like Edmund Kemper, the race murder like...well, you get the picture. As serial killers tend to stick to the one modus operandi, this movie ends up illuminating nothing about their motivations, merely exploiting the violence to a pounding score to create spurious excitement in the viewer. Although some serial killers did work in pairs, the film's protaganist's faces just don't fit. The film comes across more like one of those cautionary gang and teenage hoodlum pictures of the 50's, especially the scene in the mall where they beat up a security guard and elsewhere where they toss a bottle at a senior citizen and burn rubber.The film is not a dead loss though. The performances are solid and the young policeman's sense of helplessness poignant. It is also disquieting to see a film from the perspective of the criminal and a strange and compelling atmosphere developes. In real life when a murderer is caught and gives a puzzling or illogical reason for his actions we dismiss them as being either stupid or of unsound mind. The same thing happens in this film but as we have gone along the same path as the killers we understand the last line given by one of them, while the police are left bemused. That's probably the only interesting thing about this film although I wouldn't say it's a 'saving grace' or anything. The end title music is a stormer, see it for that. "},{"Title":"Another title","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In Australia the video release of this movie was titled 'No Apparent Motive'. Just thought you'd all like to know that. I'm really only trying to use up four lines so that I can leave this comment. the film was kinda cool, I guess. Spent more time wondering who the policeman was (Thelma and Louise, but I think I remember him from Outrageous Fortune) and wondering why we trust penelope Spheeris...is that enough lines now? "},{"Title":"Eat my what?","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This silly flick stars Charlie Sheen and Maxwell Caulfield. Sheen acts like he was in an innocuous John Hughes comedy, Caulfield acts like he's in Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer. They play two dim-witted and mean high school losers who, on their last day of school, decide to drive to L.A. for one last weekend of freedom before starting their factory jobs. What starts out as a fun time quickly devolves into a killing spree as Caulfield vents his anger on anyone who gets in their way. The duo's first crime is savagely beating a gas station attendant (Caulfield beats the crap out of him while Sheen steals gum. GUM.). Just like in the real world, the LAPD immediately put two detectives on the pretty minor case (one sensitive cop is played by Christopher McDonald, before he got type-cast in mean guy roles.). Later when a cop is drawing a chaulk outline around a body he nudges a gun out of the way.The movie veers wildly in tone from goofy scenes like Caulfield peeing in a pool to disturbing scenes like the brutal beating and killing of a friendly gay man. The whole movie has a schizo air about it, like no one knew what kind of movie they were making. Knowing that director Penelope Speeris later went on to make the Little Rascals and Beverly Hillbillies movies makes the killing scenes in this all the more bizarre. But is it entertaining? I guess. I was never bored, and there is a great scene where the guys toss a beer bottle and it hits an old lady in the head. I liked the climactic chase scene at an empty shopping mall (shades of Dawn of the Dead) and the soundtrack is eighties-licious (The Cramps are heard during a party scene). But the movie, like it's main characters, seems to have no soul and is ultimately an empty experience. There is a dog named Boner the Barbarian, though, so it's not all bad. "}{"Title":"Nothing more here than an expanded less than mature student film","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The fawning over this lesser Spheeris effort is incredible. The only reason for it is that this melodrama hits the spot for knee-jerk self-proclaimed progressive minds, this being that terrible angst is created in aimless young men by a mindless uncaring society, fomenting into no particularly understood (by them) rage against anyone stepping in the way. What a moronic, simplistic view. Everything here is boiled down to pop psychology and endless unrealistic stereotypes. Even to the point of stereotyping those with whom we are supposed to feel empathy. Along with this is the hinted latent homosexuality from where it appears much of one of the boy's anger stems, yet it's never confronted nor really developed as it should be. We are supposed to just guess then accept that homosexual tendencies are repressed and then erupt into violence, a LOAD OF BUNK and on par with the stupidity of the gay-baiting cop the film supposedly refutes. From the very beginning, where the supposed normalcy of various serial killers is trumpeted (point of fact the killer Kemper was nowhere near normal), to give credence to the jingoistic boys next door title, onward to the undeniable effort to show these boys next door as nothing like normal in the eyes of their peers, this is nothing more than an immature 90 minute student film. The simplistic and ignorant moments are so many that it's way too difficult to list them all, but if this isn't the worst thing Spheeris has done, then I have yet to see her worst. Better to watch Charlie Sheen and a buffed-up Chris MacDonald in TERMINAL VELOCITY instead of this pile of crap. "},{"Title":"If you ever wondered what a really bad movie was like...","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm happy to say I don't watch a lot of truly terrible movies. This one reminds me why.I'll admit upfront -- I was sucked into watching The Boys Next Door because it has early Maxwell Caufield and his amazing chest and abs. More incredibly to me... I don't think it was worth it.I can only assume that the several good reviews written here are meant to be sarcastic. The movie is bad is so very many ways, it seems unfair to single out just one or two. You name an element of movie-making, this film has mucked it up.Bad story, bad dialog, bad acting, bad editing, bad music. Well, I suppose the costumes were....nope, now that I think about it, those were bad too. This movie isn't even fun bad.I suppose that people who make movies need to learn how somewhere. But its kind of like with doctors -- you don't want them practicing on you. "}]