[{"Title":"Elementary Good Fun!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  What if Sir Arthur Conan Doyle created a story where Sherlock Holmes and Dr. John Watson met as adolescents?  What if he made it a very suspenseful mystery that explanied may of the great sleuth's character traits and stylistic characterisics?  What if...well, he did not, but screenwriter Chris Columbus, director Barry Levinson, and producer Steven Spielberg do bring us a fine film that does these things called Young Sherlock Holmes.  Young Sherlock Holmes is the meeting of fantasy film and classic literature, and it is a meeting that coexists very nicely.  The great detective meets his future colleague and friend Dr. Watson in a London prep school amidst the mystery of what six men did many years ago in Egypt.  Several of the men begin to die in horrible, inexplicable ways, and the young Holmes suspects mischief.  The film is a veritable treasure trove of Sherlock Holmes allusions.  The film is fast-paced, fun, fantastical, and creates insights into why Holmes developed emotionally the way he did.  Nicholas Rowe does a superb job playing Holmes, bringing to the role intelligence as well as compassion.  Alan Cox does an equally good job playing his young sidekick and doctor to be.  The special effects are first-rate, yet in no way detract from the Victorian world of Doyle and Holmes and Watson.  Start watching and it will not be long before you'll be saying, The game is afoot! "},{"Title":"An enjoyable non Doyle Holmes story","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  There are probably more Sherlock Holmes stories not written by Conan Doyle than were written by him. Some are quite bad but every now and then a good one comes along. Young Sherlock Holmesis one of the better ones and works on the premise that Holmes and Watson did not meet as adults in A Study In Scarlett but in boarding school. Of course they are in London where the young Holmes detects a link between a series of bizarre murders (depicted in some lively and imaginative special effects). The game is afoot and along the way (with a slight tongue in cheek) we learn where Holmes picked up some of his more famous trademarks and most infamous nemesis. A well written script, fine cast of actors and a physical production that recreates late 19th century London in grand fashion. A film to sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Young Sherlock Holmes was one of the best movies I saw when I was a kid and it amazes me up to this day.London was pictured perfectly by Barry Levinson with the help of course of Stephen Goldblatt (the cinematographer). The spcial effect by ILM was brilliant and they were the milestone of the special effects of today.The music of Bruce Broughton is one of the best of the 80's. The acting is good for this kind of film, not bad but not brilliant either. The script written by Chris Colombus (director of Harry Potter Films) is very good and it keeps you guessing up until the end. Watch this movie and you won't be dissapointed. (Wait after the end credits roll to see one last scene...) "},{"Title":"Stands the test of time...","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I feel one of the true tests of a good movie is how it holds up over time. Can't believe it has been 18 years since I first viewed this little gem, and it was as good today as in 1985!  Among other reasons, the Holmes and Watson characters were obviously cast for their youthful likeness to the characters in the old Basil Rathbone series of movies.  Take a good look!  This a wonderful penning of the proposed early days of the two and a very original concept.  Probably only true Holmes officiandos will see some obvious references to the adult Rathbone character, and these add to the cleverness of this version. Make certain to stay 'til the end of the credits; Sherlock Holmes fans will receive an ingenious clue to the his future. "},{"Title":"great for teens","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" My son turned 12 in August. We purchased this movie at a drugstore while on vacation because I remembered watching it a loving it when I was younger. My son has a love of mysteries and spies, so I thought that this would be a good movie for him to enjoy. He watched it twice the first day and has seen it several times over the last couple of weeks. It really appeals to younger mystery fans, even though it is rated PG-13, for violence. I would recommend any parent see this movie before they let their kids see it. Some of the violence is hallucinatory, and therefore quite scary. I think the way it begins Holmes's and Watson's friendship is fun and creative. I think the script and characterizations are well done (especially in light of more current movies, which are just to draw viewers to the theater and have no substance.) The casting was inspired, and I don't see how they could have improved upon it. The cinematography was great and the special effects very good for the time of this movie. Some people might find Holmes's character a bit smug, but that is accurate to the stories by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. I recommend this movie to mystery fans, fans of Sherlock Holmes (but NOT perfectionist fans), and anyone who enjoys a young fellow showing up his elders. "},{"Title":"Young Sherlock Holmes","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Intriguing story, not based on a Doyle idea, about the meeting of Sherlock Holmes and his good friend Watson. Even as youngsters, they unravel mysteries together and find themselves in constant mayhem and peril. Rowe is an outstanding young Sherlock, while Cox is an exceptional younger Watson. Barry Levinson directed this fun look at the master detective in his younger years.  "},{"Title":"Unusual and fairly entertaining.","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  In the mid 80s, audiences were hungry for heroes in the mould of Indiana Jones. Films featuring Sherlock Holmes were quite out-of-fashion. People expected a hero with a bit of dash and a penchant for action; not a meticulous, stuffy, ultra-intelligent sleuth. Young Sherlock Holmes and the Pyramid of Fear is an unusual hybrid, because it takes the period trappings of a Holmes mystery and dresses them up with Indy-style action and mysticism.The story has young student doctor John Watson arriving at a boarding school in Victorian London. He meets, for the very first time, a brilliant young student named Sherlock Holmes and they rapidly become friends. At the same time, a series of bizarre murders have been going on close to the school. In each case, people have had terrible hallucinations and in desperate states of panic have inadvertently killed themselves. Holmes and Watson investigate, and uncover an ancient cult which is responsible for the killings.The film has its share of problems. For one thing, purists will know that the very first meeting of Holmes and Watson was described at the start of the book A Study in Scarlet, and didn't take place in a school. Some of the performances are overly hammy, particularly Freddie Jones in yet another of his wild-eyed characterisations. The idea of a huge pyramid being ingeniously concealed beneath a London warehouse is hard to swallow (surely someone would have noticed them building a construction of this size in such a tightly-packed city). However, the problems can be forgiven because the film moves at a lively pace and is invested with lots of clever dialogue and stirring action. There's even a touch of humour (something lacking from the original Conan Doyle novels). One scene in particular is most amusing, when young Watson is shot with an hallucinatory dart and imagines an army of living cream buns jumping into his mouth! The climactic duel on the ice is very excitingly staged too. There's also a surprisingly downbeat event at the end which thankfully strips the film of the typical 80s sentimentality. This is agreeable and entertaining stuff. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I love this movie. The young actor to me was a young Sherlock Holmes. Nicholas Rowe as Sherlock.He is 6 ft 4 inches and is left handed when sword fighting. He was human, respectful, humble, polite, wise and treated Watson like a brother not like the combative relationship in Sherlock Holmes 2009 and 2010.This story took place at a school for boys called Brompton Academy.A dart with hallucinogenic drug made victims see scary things when hit by this dart.Things come alive that attack the victim. A cooked chicken, statues of bats or bird and more. One victim jumps out a window one runs out of church and gets killed by a stage coach and one stabs himself thinking creatures are in his shirt harming him. The special affects in it were amazing. Holmes could not attend the funeral of one of the victims because of his expulsion from Brompton Academy.Watson's experience after being shot with the drug was funny. A grave opened up at the cemetery that had all kinds of pastries on shelves. The pastries started jumping off the shelf,on to the ground & Watson talking to each other. They were all different sizes and shapes with big eyes and some pastries started shoving other pastries in to Watson mouth cherry cream and all. Really humorous.Earlier in the movie Watson finds a dart blowpipe which belongs to an Egyptian cult worshiping Osiris god of the underworld. This cult sacrifices live people in a hot substance. Sherlock finds this temple and stops the sacrifice and escapes. Later he realizes there is a cult operating in this city which is causing the deaths of men that knew each other.Sherlock was in love in this movie which at the end it said the writers did not know what young Sherlock would have been like and that they just respectably put some things in.This film was very violent and tense. It is about 145 minutes long.It was like one of the Indiana Jones movies with the cult members running for their life and the building falling down.This is one movie that did not disappoint me but scared the pastry out of me. "},{"Title":"What might have been if Holmes and Watson had met as school mates.","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The crime solving team of teenagers Sherlock Holmes (Rowe) and John H Watson (Cox), prep school students by day, but crime solving sleuths at night.When young John Watson starts mid term at a London Prep school, he is greeted first by a tall slender lad of about sixteen. Sherlock Holmes proceeds to tell Watson all about himself before they have exchanged hellos. The stunned Watson admires the older lad from that moment on.At first reluctant to involve himself in Holmes schemes, Watson finds himself up to his neck in a series of murders, as he trots beside the lanky Holmes. When they rescue a man from nearly killing himself to destroy an imagined attack, they are told a strange tale of betrayal and vengeance. When he attempts to get Sergeant Lestrade (Ashton-Griffiths) involved in solving the murders of several men, Lestrade calls them suicides and angrily orders Holmes out of his office.That is only the beginning of an adventure that takes the boys to the notorious Wapping district where a nefarious cult of murderous religious nuts, led by the cruel and mysterious Eh Tar (Higgins), is doing heinous things to young ladies, including - to his horror, Elizabeth Hardy (Ward) Sherlock's first love! The cast is excellent, the period London sets and costumes are great and the direction by Barry Levinson (The Natural, Rain Man) is commendable. All told, a satisfying entry into the Holmesian legend. Might be a bit intense for very young children but otherwise a fine family film. I Heartily recommend seeing this film. "},{"Title":"cool film","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is an awesome movie. The only drawback was the absurd dealing with the flying machine. Other than that, sit back and enjoy as Watson and Holmes embark on their alleged first adventure as Holmes tries to find the link between a rash of recent murders, hallucinations people have been having, and a cult. Not a bad way to spend a few hours of your time!** 1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"one of the best juvenile movies from the 1980s","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" With NAVIGATOR this is the BEST juvenile/escapist movie of the 1980s. What can I say, I just watched it once as it first aired decades ago, but still had positive memories and thus watched it again a few days ago. I bet the scenes inspired tripe like Harry Potter (juveniles chasing mysteries in old English school settings, eh?). Atmosphere is good, acting excellent, SFX very good (Era/genre wise ). Of course it is a bit of a salad bar mixing Indiana Jones, E.T. Gremlins and other 1980s motifs (the underground temple scene clearly imitates Conan the barbarian)...much as in the NEVERENDING STORY you get a funny man trying to fly... Plot contrivances abound and are well thought of. "},{"Title":"Reliving the memories","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I first this film on video in my young teenage years.  The main reason I remember this film to this very day, even though I have not seen it since today, is that I fell totally in love with Sophie Ward.  It was something about her beauty and innocence which I never forgot.  I just bought the movie recently and saw it again.  The film is classic 80's Spielberg. Even though he did not direct it, the film has his signature all over it.  I loved the way London was portrayed, as a gothic and beautiful winter setting.  The plot was a bit contrived, with the identity of the evil cult leader becoming increasingly obvious at mid-film.  It was heartbreaking to see Elizabeth die, and it would have been a better film if there was more of a focus on her character.   Nevertheless, this is a film best seen when you're young.  A fairly good film, and something worth keeping as a token of your teenage golden years. "},{"Title":"A likable fiction where Sherlock  Holmes along with  John Watson are involved in his first great case","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This amusing movie set in a perfect Victorian atmosphere (1870, England) speculates about what might have happened if Sherlock Holmes (Nicholas Rowe) and Doctor Watson (Alex Cox) had met during their student times in London . Holmes falls in love with a beautiful youngster (Sophie Ward) , living with her uncle , a retired professor named Waxflatter (Nigel Stock) . Then , it happens several murders and Holmes helps Inspector Lestrade (Roger Ashton-Griffiths) to resolve it . Later on , young Sherlock performing feats of derring-do in London , including a spectacular flight and dangerous duels . Although Sir Arthur Conan Doyle did not write about the youthful years of Sherlock Holmes , as he established the initial meeting between Holmes and Watson as adults . This affectionate speculation on what might have happened has been made with respect and admiration , knowing references to Sherlock's later existence and in tribute to the author in his enduring Works .This stirring , fast-paced film is packed with noisy action , adventures , thrills , tension and results to be quite entertaining . It's a genuine ripping yarn with much suspense , intrigue and outstanding surprises . Nicholas Rowe is nice as obstinate and intelligent young Holmes as well as Alex Cox as timid and easy frightened John Watson . Some images are very creepy and eerie and developed in ¨Indiana Jones and the temple of Doom¨ style , for that reason is rated PG-13 for violence and crude scenes . Spectacular special effects by Kit West and Pixar Animation Studios making 'the glass man sequence' and puppets by David Allen . Furthermore visual effects supervisor by Dennis Muren with some of the firsts , images made by means of computer generator . As this one is considered to be the first feature film to have a completely CGI (computer graphics image) character  the knight coming out of the stained glass window . And intervention by Industrial Light & Magic (company run by George Lucas) animated the scene , overseen by John Lasseter in a very early film credit for Pixar . As the Stained Glass Knight took Industrial Light & Magic artists 4 months to create . Atmospheric score fitting to action by Bruce Broughton and London symphonic Orchestra . Well written by Chris Columbus and lavishly produced by Steven Spielberg with his usual collaborators , Frank Marshall and Kathleen Kennedy . The picture was well directed by Barry Levinson . Youth and little boys are likely to enjoy this fun film. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film for the most part, until it moves into young Indiana Jones territory during the last 25 minutes","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" It was a cold, snowy day in early December. Lack of funds had forced my old school to close. I was being sent to a new one in the middle of term. I was accustomed to the opened, relaxed expanse of the country, and now, I was in the heart of London at the height of the Victorian Era. The streets were teeming with every activity imaginable. I was very taken by what I saw. As I stepped from my carriage, the sight of my new school filled me with fear and apprehension, yet, I was swept with a wave of curiosity. However, nothing could prepare me for the extraordinary adventure that lay ahead, or the extraordinary individual who would change my life. That's an old John Watson speaking in a narrative voice-over, and moments later at the Brompton School common we're going to see young Watson, played by Alan Cox at 15, meet Sherlock Holmes, played by Nicholas Rowe at 19. Watson has had his trunk delivered and Holmes is scratching away horribly at a violin. Holmes stops and nearly smashed the thing in frustration. I should've mastered the damn thing by now, he cries. How long have you been playing? Watson asks. Three days! The first three-quarters of the movie is a wonderful Holmsian adventure, full of deduction and growing friendship, as we see young Holmes exercise his slightly arrogant intelligence to put an insufferably superior student named Dudley in his place, assist an eccentric inventor, find tentative Victorian love with the inventor's niece, discover a pattern of assassination in the deaths of four elderly men, deal with a lazy Lestrade and a friendly fencing master, and establish a friendship with his young follower, Watson. The high-point is probably Holmes acceptance of a challenge from Dudley to locate where Dudley has hidden the school's fencing trophy...in no more than 60 minutes. The game is afoot as Holmes examines minute particles of...what?, locates snowy footprints in the school quadrangle, examines the school's kitchen...all with the clock ticking away and with the school's students racing after him, with Watson in the lead. It's clever and exiting. As the older Watson says in recollection when Holmes finds the trophy with seconds to spare, It was a wonderful, heroic moment for Holmes. But little did he know that his amazing powers and talents would soon be put to a much greater test, a test of terrifying and deadly proportions. And with that we're off into a case of murderous hallucinations with all sorts of scary special effects, of a deadly Egyptian cult in the heart of London, of young girls used for human sacrifices, of a cauldron of revenge...and we realize that we've moved from a young Sherlock Holmes to a young Indiana Jones. From a loving and clever imagining of Holmes and Watson meeting at school and solving a vicious, exotic series of killings, we're up to our necks in the calculated hokum of a boy's own adventure, courtesy of executive producer Steven Spielberg, assisted by George Lucas' special effects studio. We even have an E.T. moment when young Holmes and Watson take off on a pedal-powered flying device to soar over London at night in pursuit of the villain. The first part of the movie is so good that it just about disguises the calculated playing-with-the-audience build-up to the conclusion. Nicholas Rowe, tall and lean, and Alan Cox, round and quizzical, are first-rate as young Holmes and young Watson. They've continued to act but never had better roles. Michael Hordern, who gives us the narrative voice of the older Watson, provides much of the heart of the movie. We can imagine an elderly Watson looking back at this first case with affection and appreciation. At the end of the movie Holmes is leaving Brompton School while Watson will graduate and go on to medical studies. Watson says goodbye to his friend and stands near as Holmes enters the horse-drawn carriage. We hear the older Watson tell us, As I watched Holmes settle into his seat, a sudden feeling came over me -- that I would most certainly be seeing him again. So ended my first adventure with Mister Sherlock Holmes. As I watched his carriage disappear into the distance, I realized that I had forgotten to thank him. He had taken a weak, frightened boy and made him into a courageous, strong man. My heart soared. I was filled with confidence. I was ready for whatever mystery or danger lay ahead. I was ready to take on the greatest and most exciting adventure of them all, and I knew it was bound to involve Sherlock Holmes. "},{"Title":"Good until it tries to become an action movie","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The movie starts out as a promising Sherlock Holmes-ish adventure. Murders, suspects, clues no one would think of, etc. But then...oh, but then. About halfway through the movie, the movie veers on the course of action. A temple collapses, a swordesque fight on ice...it's just not Sherlock Holmes. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle always has a more mystique over the crimes, and it rarely turns into a fast paced, adrenaline pumping adventure. The hallucinations, while interesting, are also farfetched, such as Watsons hallucination in the graveyard.Though, if you make it through the credits, and know about Holmes' arch enemy, you will be pleasantly surprised.Many Holmes sayings and trademarks appear ('The game is afoot', The hat and pipe) and for a fan of the books, those will also be appreciated.It could have been so much better, but alas, it was not. 5/10 "},{"Title":"the knight steals the movie","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" For film buffs, there is only one reason to see Young Sherlock Holmes it has the first photo realistic CGI creature in film. A hallucinating priest sees a stained glass knight jump out of a church window and march towards him, sword raised and ready to swing. The knight only has about ten seconds of screen time but he is a major step forward in visual effects. I am certain that films geeks will appreciate this. For those who are not film geeks, Young Sherlock Holmes has some entertainment to offer, but not enough to make it a good movie.The first 30 minutes of Young Sherlock Holmes are fine. It gives us a charming and pleasant introduction to a teenage Holmes and how he meets John Watson. We are also introduced to Elisabeth, Holmes' love interest. There are some laughs to be and some shocks which are generated by an array fun-disgusting special effects. During this part of the movie, the filmmakers take time to set up the premise of the mystery that Holmes and his buddies must solve. When the journey gets underway however, Young Sherlock Holmes takes a nosedive. The story becomes silly and unrealistic, and it resort to clichés and badly choreographed action sequences. Holmes loses most of his charm and wit and he gets rather tiring. Watson ends up doing more complaining than he does thinking, and Elisabeth becomes almost literally brain dead. The climax is weak, and the ending is even weaker.A secondary problem with the movie, is how inaccurate its portrayal of Victorian England is. For the majority of people, this will probably go unnoticed, but for historians, Young Sherlock Holmes will be a pain to watch. The movie has a clever premise, as well as some quirky and charming moments, but it misses the mark in it's attempt to be what it tries to be, a enjoyable little adventure for a general audience. The only thing in Young Sherlock Holmes that cannot be found in any other movie is the knight. "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time perhaps, but so overcooked it self-destructs...","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Long before the Harry Potter books and movies arrived, this somewhat similar concoction from producer Steven Spielberg and director Barry Levinson came and went in theaters. The film, certainly full of imaginative talents, has the general core of a good idea, but the focus of the project apparently got away from Levinson--and everyone else with discernible judgment. It's an overcooked fantasy imagining a youthful friendship between a juvenile Sherlock Holmes and an equally green Dr. Watson. Effects-laden mess also echoes the Indiana Jones series, but without strong or charismatic performers and screen writing, the picture deflates rather early. The tag at the film's finish suggests there might have been a sequel had this installment been a hit--alas, it was not. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"good kids in roles","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" John Watson is the new kid in London's Brompton Academy. He befriends brilliant student Sherlock Holmes. Elizabeth Hardy is Holmes' girlfriend. Her uncle Rupert T. Waxflatter is the retired schoolmaster and a quirky inventor with a flying machine. Professor Rathe is Holmes' mentor. Dudley is Holmes' rival. Holmes suspects a connection between a couple of mysterious suicides from the newspapers but police Sgt. Lestrade dismisses the teens. The series of murders lead to hallucinogenic blow darts and an Egyptian cult in the middle of London.I like the kids playing the iconic roles. I like the young Sherlock solving little mystery around the school. I love the search for the trophy. It's a fun time. It goes overboard with a wild action adventure. It doesn't feel very Sherlock-like, especially for young Sherlock. It reminds me of Spielberg's Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. It's fine but the big, wild story overwhelms the story in the school. It would have been more interesting to solve a mystery inside the school. "},{"Title":"A hugely enjoyable mystery film","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Essentially an origin story for the most famous detective in all of literature, this is a hugely enjoyable mystery film. As it says in the film's closing credits, my fellow University of Edinburgh alumnus Sir Arthur Conan Doyle established that Holmes and Watson met as adults. However, the strong script by Chris Columbus nevertheless captures the spirit of his work, albeit with a dash of Indiana Jones-style adventure thrown in for good measure. The mystery storyline is clever and engaging and the film does not make the mistake of talking down to its audience. It is very well directed by Barry Levinson. The special effects, particularly the revolutionary use of CGI to create the stain glass knight, are first rate for the time and I loved the design of the Rame Tep temple. I also adored the music in those scenes.The film stars Nicholas Rowe in an excellent performance as the title character. Rowe was perfectly cast as he not only resembles most people's conception of what a teenage Holmes would look like but he very effectively conveys his immense intellect and deductive reasoning skills. Holmes possesses the same high (and completely justified) level of confidence in his own abilities as he would as an adult but he differs from many other, older versions of the character in that he is rather impetuous and occasionally allows his emotions to get the better of him. Alan Cox is very good as the initially timid John Watson (not James) who grows in both strength and confidence as the film progresses. As all actors playing the duo should, he and Rowe have great chemistry. Michael Hordern puts his considerable vocal talents to use as the older Watson who narrates the film, in line with Doyle's stories. Rowe was just shy of 19 while Cox was 15 when they made the film but it is not made clear how old their characters were. I would guess that Watson was likewise about 15 and that Holmes was a little older at about 16 or 17.The highly underrated Anthony Higgins is fantastic as Professor Rathe, otherwise known as Eh-Tar, who swears revenge against the six men whom he deems responsible for the deaths of his parents. Higgins has always had a great line in sophisticated villainy and he brings his considerable charisma and charm to the role of Rathe. The character works as well as he does as the audience grows to like and respect him as Holmes' mentor over the course of the film, at least until his true motives are revealed. The post-credits scene indicates that Holmes certainly has not seen the last of him in spite of his apparent death. Sophie Ward is great as Holmes' true love Elizabeth Hardy. For a light- hearted adventure film, it was an unusual move to kill off Elizabeth but it was a wise decision as her death has a major impact on Holmes and allows him to become the man that he was supposed to be. Rowe, Cox and Ward have all gone to have solid careers, predominantly on television, but it is a shame that this film did not lead to bigger things for any of them. In his final film before his death the following year, Nigel Stock - who previously played Watson opposite both Douglas Wilmer and Peter Cushing in the 1960s BBC series - has a great supporting role as Elizabeth's lovably eccentric uncle Professor Rupert Waxflatter. The film also features nice performances in role of varying size from Susan Fleetwood (whom I am only realised fairly recently was Mick's sister), Roger Ashton-Griffiths, Freddie Jones, Brian Oulton, Earl Rhodes, Nadim Sawalha and Lockwood West.Overall, this film is enormous fun from start to finish and a very good example of the way in which a reimagining of a classic story or series of stories should be done. A sequel would have been nice but, alas, it was not to be. "},{"Title":"Young Indiana Holmes.","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The Temple of Doom-flavoured UK title for this Steven Spielberg-produced adventure&#x97;Young Sherlock Holmes and the Pyramid of Fear&#x97;gives a pretty good idea of what can be expected Sherlock Holmes hasn't got a whip to crack, and a deerstalker replaces the Fedora, but underneath all of the film's Conan Doyle trappings, this is essentially another in a long line of Indiana Jones-inspired movies, complete with a Thuggee-style Egyptian cult murdering people with hallucinogenic blow-darts and performing human sacrifices in their underground pyramid.As such, Holmes' sleuthing abilities are more than matched by his derring-do, the young detective (ably played by Nicholas Rowe) swashbuckling his way through the film, accompanied by trusty sidekick Watson (Alan Cox) and love interest Elizabeth (Sophie Ward). This being a Spielberg production, Young Sherlock Holmes benefits from great production design (snowy Victorian London looks wonderful) and is heavy on the special effects, with impressive hallucinatory set-pieces involving stop-motion animation, animatronics, and even an early example of CGI (albeit very brief).If you're a fan of both Sherlock Homes and Indiana Jones, this 'Indiana Holmes' adventure should provide more than enough escapist fun for the duration. 7/10. "}{"Title":"Sherlock Holmes and John Watson in High School","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is a non-Walter Conan Doyle story about school-aged John Watson meeting Sherlock Holmes at Brompton Academy. He also mmeets Professor Rupert T. Waxlatter, a retired schoolmaster and Holmes' mentor, along with Waxflatter's niece and ward, Elizabeth Hardy. Waxflatter lives in an unused tower on school grounds, is an author of books on chemistry and physics, but is considered a little crazy due to his brazen experimentation with attempts at manned flight and eccentricity. Holmes is also close to Professor Rathe, the Brompton fencing master. Several murders are committed in London using a powerful hallucinogenic delivered through a thorn shot by a cloaked assassin with a blowgun. Dudley, a school rival, frames Holmes for cheating on an exam and Waxflatter becomes one of the murder victims. Holmes secretly stays on the school's grounds in Waxflatter's old tower, getting help from Watson and Elizabeth to find Waxflatter's murderers. Their investigation leads to the uncovering of an Egyptian cult and an old grudge against Waxflatter and the other victims from a ruined business deal.This movie had the Spielberg-Amblin Entertainment magic and feeling of an exciting 1980's adventure that seems to have been lost. It featured some cutting edge visual effects created by Lucasfilm and a script by Chris Columbus. Some of the action and violence is a bit intense for a family film but it's nothing you wouldn't see in Indiana Jones. "},{"Title":"Derivative Adventure.","Date":"26 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Way back in 1983, critics were disappointed in Something Wicked This Way Comes because they'd expected a lot of computer-generated images and, except for a brief shot of an incoming train, they didn't get any.They got their wish finally. My wish is that their wish hadn't been so fulsomely fulfilled.Not only are there multiple monsters hopping around but the plot is out of Raiders of the Lost Ark, except that instead of going to Egypt, Egypt is brought to the heroes -- young Holmes (Nicholas Rowe) and Watson (Alan Cox). The epilogue tells us that this is how the two might have first met, as fellow students in an English public school, but that's not true. We know from Conan-Doyle that they were strangers until they decided to share digs on Baker Street as adults.No sense explaining the plot. We can put it this way. If you liked Raiders of the Lost Ark and its many sequels and clones, you'll like this. If you like CGIs, you'll like this. If you like Karl Orff's Carmina Burana, you'll like this.If you -- well, nope. I guess that's about it. "},{"Title":"The plots afoot","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" A combination of writer Chris Columbus, director Barry Levinson and Executive Producer Steven Spielberg gives us Young Sherlock Holmes. A re-imagining of when Holmes and Watson met at boarding school.Columbus who went on to direct the first Harry Potter film very much had in his mind an almost prototype Harry Potter feel years before JK Rowling wrote the books!In dastardly Victorian London a young Watson arrives at boarding school and meets a brilliant student named Sherlock Holmes. However there are strange deaths going on near the school with people having frightening hallucinations before dying. Holmes sets about to investigate and uncovers a bizarre Egyptian cult and wrongdoings leading to the school itself.The film was known for some state of the art digital effects such as the stained glass knight. The plot does feel like an American take on a Sherlock Holmes story complete with a young but still bumbling and slightly chubby Watson. Its a light plot mixed with story lines from previous Spielberg films such as Indiana Jones The filmmakers want to have reverence to Conan Doyle but as the BBC series of the modern Sherlock has shown, it would had been possible to have a radical take of Young Sherlock Holmes if they had pushed the envelope a bit further and had gone for a slightly different and zippy characterisation of the two main characters. "},{"Title":"Sherlock Holmes meets Raiders of the Lost Ark","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Young Sherlock (Nicholas Rowe) and young Watson (Alan Cox) meet as young schoolmates in Young Sherlock Holmes, from 1985. Both of them immediately get into trouble.Holmes becomes intrigued as well as angry when several people die of apparent suicide or hysteria, including someone with whom he was very close, Professor Waxflatter. Waxflatter keeps repeating a word over and over before he dies, and Holmes decides to investigate. While doing so, he discovers a hallucinatory drug that is blown into the victim, causing them to see things that aren't there. He also discovers an Egyptian-type religious cult called Rametep, who make use of this drug.After observing one of the cult's rituals, Holmes, Watson, and another school friend, Elizabeth, are spotted and hit with the drug, each suffering horrific hallucinations.Holmes is unable to interest Inspector Lestrade in this case, and when a fellow student sets him up by forging test questions in his handwriting, Holmes is expelled. Though he's supposed to leave town, he stays in a room at Elizabeth's, helped by Elizabeth and Watson. He's found, and Watson is expelled as well. Can they solve the mystery, and can they get back into school? In the Conan Doyle stories, Holmes and Watson meet as adults, but it's stated up front that this is a speculative fiction. Those who know Holmes as an intellectual, probably asexual, with not much in the way of physical prowess, will see that here, he is an expert swordsman and also falls for Elizabeth. Watson here is a chubby young man (as stated in the script, though he really didn't look it), very bookish looking and not at all adventurous.The plot is reminiscent of Raiders of the Lost Ark in that there is a lot of action and adventure, as well as exploration of the cult, which has its meetings in a cavernous place with a replica of a pyramid, where its members wear costumes and practice mummification. There are lots of special effects during the hallucination sequences as well as in other sections.This is a marvelous film for kids, and I have to say as an adult, I enjoyed it as well. The final silhouette of Holmes is delightful, as we see the man he will become. "},{"Title":"A reasonably entertaining film but not one that Holmes traditionalists are likely to enjoy","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I am a great fan of the Sherlock Holmes stories by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. I have also enjoyed a number of the British TV adaptations of the Holmes stories over the years, with Jeremy Brett, Douglas Wilmer and Peter Cushing in the title role. I regret to say, however, that Young Sherlock Holmes is simply not my cup of tea. I like my Sherlock Holmes to be presented in a traditional fashion - with foggy streets peopled by urchins and beggars, smoke-filled sitting rooms and hansom cabs. We get little of that sort of thing in this film. What we do get are seemingly expensive special effects that are quite out of keeping with the world of Holmes and Watson in a film that reminded me in places of the Indiana Jones movies, The Goonies and even Back to the Future. I suppose that's the influence of Steven Spielberg for you (he's one of the executive producers of the film)!The plot centres on Holmes's adolescent years. Much of the action takes place at an English public school known as Brompton. The film suggests that it was, in fact, here where Holmes and Watson first met, when both were pupils together and shared the same dormitory. The story concerns the investigation by the teenage Holmes of a number of seemingly unrelated murders that involve a religious cult and the use of hallucinatory drugs. It's all enjoyable enough, I suppose, if you are happy to accept the use of special effects and, given what happens in the Conan Doyle stories, a somewhat unconvincing love interest for Holmes. There is no doubt that the special effects themselves are imaginative a roast pheasant on a restaurant diner's plate bites back; hat stands seemingly come to life; and Watson is attacked by cakes in a bizarre graveyard scene. But, as I say, they have no place in a film of this sort. The acting is good - the supporting cast is made up of a number of high quality British character actors such as Freddie Jones, Nigel Stock and Roger Ashton-Griffiths. And the direction is competent, if uninspiring. So, I give some marks to Young Sherlock Holmes for trying to do something slightly different. But the film just doesn't work for me. 5/10.I should add that it is important to keep watching right up to the end of the closing credits, when a nice little twist is delivered. I wonder how many of the people who saw Young Sherlock Holmes in the cinema missed it, given that, in my experience, many cinema-goers seem to rush for the exit almost as soon as the closing credits begin to roll! "},{"Title":"A riveting and imaginative mystery film from the producer of Jurassic Park and  the writer of Home Alone","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I've seen most mystery films that included Sherlock Holmes (the Robert Downey Jr. version and the Disney version) and I think that this is the best Sherlock Holmes film to date. It stays true to the spirit and imagination of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and I was surprised that this was being produced by the same guys who would later Home Alone (Chris Columbus) and Jurassic Park (Steven Spielberg) and directed by Barry Levinson (Diner and would later direct Disclosure).I should give those guys an award for capturing the tone and characters of Sir Arthur's work because this movie has everything that makes it worth watching. The sets/costume designs are well-done and the scenery is beautiful to look at. The special effects are particularly good and this was the first film to feature Industrial Light and Magic's CGI effects before some of them were used for Pixar's Toy Story.The strongest aspects goes to the riveting action sequences, the rousing music score from Bruce Broughton, and the top notch cast. Nicholas Rowe did a great job as the teenage Sherlock Holmes and the characterization/friendship with the teenage Watson played by Alan Cox was fun and creative. Some of the other actors including Freddie Jones and the beautiful Sophie Ward have done well with the other characters in this movie, but I think that the evil Professor Rathe (who later became Professor Moriarty after the ending credits of the film) played by Anthony Higgins steals the show and is the most diabolical villain in the history of cinema.The reason why I'm giving this a 9/10 is not because of the story (I thought it was very engaging), but since this had a PG-13 rating, it does have some intense and violent moments in some of the scenes and would frighten younger kids before the adults will let them see it.Despite that, this is an enjoyable and engaging Sherlock Holmes film to date and is Barry Levinson's incredible achievement and thanks to the help of Steven Spielberg, Chris Columbus, and Henry Winkler. "},{"Title":"Sherlock Holmes and the Temple of Doom","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Young Sherlock Holmes is an entertaining, smart and literary thriller that makes a few unfortunate choices, leading to an uneven tone. Still, what works easily wins over what doesn't, and makes for not one one of the better Holmes' pastiches, but one of the better Indiana Jones wannabes.The early section of the film is a fanciful, briskly entertaining imaganing of the meeting of a young Holmes and Watson in a British prep school. While this clearly contradicts the account in Doyle's A Study in Scarlet, crawls at the begining and end of the film apologize for this, and Levinson, Columbus and Spielberg clearly never try to pass it of as anything but a what if. Columbus' writing here is clever, witty and true to the characters. Nicholas Rowe not only has the hawk-like features of a young Holmes, he captures the essence of the character. It is easy to see how the events of Colmumbus story lead the emotional, impetuous young Holmes to become the rational, emotionally reserved Holmes we know. Alan Cox's Watson, as is typical of Hollywood Holmes adaptions, is played as something of a buffoon, but nearly to the absurd extreme of Nigel Bruce in the Basil Rathbone films. Cox adds nice support.The second half of the film leads in something of an odd direction, becoming an intense action thriller that is at times jaw-droppingly similar to Spielberg's own Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. Those that complain the mystery itself is unlinke Doyle's work must only be familiar with the later short stories. In fact, it is a brillaint recreation of the style of his early novels, such as A Study in Scarlet and The Sign of Four, where exotic foreign conspiracies, revenge, and dangerous cult groups were the order of the day. To be sure, the action is more Indiana Jones than it is Holmes, but that in and of itself is not a bad thing. It is jarring for what begins as a light story of two schoolboys to become so dark and violent, however.The real misstep in Young Sherlock Holmes is in the two cult temple human sacrfice sequences, which are so blatantly reminiscent of Temple of Doom as to make a viewer feel he has gotten lost and wandered into the wrong film. They follow exactly the same pattern Two heroes and a love interest stumble across and witness a human sacrifice. Then, after a further series of adventurs, the love interest is made the subject of a second sacrifice, and the heroes must rescue her and destory the temple. Someone at Amblin should have steered this in a slightly different direction. The cult and the action scenes are not a problem. The human sacrifice and temple scenes are.One last observation the ending establishing Anthony Higgin's Rathe as the once and future Professor Moriarty is a great stinger. But Rathe was a fencing master (and, in his alter ego of Eh Tar, a vicious killer and pseudo-Satanic High Priest), and Moriarty was a mathematical genius. It is a stretch to think his mathematical abilites were attainied later in life. Perhaps Colmumbus should have made Rathe an intstructor of fencing AND math.Overall, the mix works, and Young Sherlock Holmes is an extremely entertaining film which unfortunately never found it's audience. Be prepared to suspend a little disbelief and you'll have a great time. "},{"Title":"Good show Watson (Spoiler)","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I have just watched this movie again for the first time in a few years. I found it delightful. The play between the two young characters is delightful. Though they did not meet, according to Doyle, until the scarlet... the story was still sensible. The special effects were top-notch. Considering the day of age, the effects were marvelous. Not only does it contain one of the first digital effects, but its integration into the film rivals the digital crap of Attack of the Clones. Rowe is an excellent actor and I was pleased to see him again in Lock, Stock, ....  I wish there would be another Sherlock Holmes adventure by the makers of this film.Clearly the actors are now old enough to portray Holmes and Watson in an actual Doyle mystery. Not only that but the audience has always been left hanging with the emergence of Moriarty. I reccomend this film to anyone with a light heart and a sense of adventure.  The game is afoot! "},{"Title":"REFRESHING PERSPECTIVE OF SHERLOCK HOLMES!!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I own the VHS copy of this movie and would like to see it released to DVD perhaps with  some commentary and bonus features. I own all the Basil Rathbone movies on VHS (he  is still the epitome of S.H. as far as I'm concerned) but I must admit that the first time I  saw this view of the character I was a fan right away.Told from the perspective of a young Dr. Watson who meets S.H. for the first time at the  boarding school where both are students was a great idea. The plot has the two  discovering each other and working together to solve a series of murders that are  occurring - great special effects - did not overwhelm the story as many current movies do.  You may remember Earl Rhodes in a previous role of (the Chief) an obnoxiousprepubescent psycho in THE SAILOR WHO FELL FROM GRACE WITH THE SEA and he was  cast perfectly in the role of Dudley - the antagonist to young Sherlock.A great film to watch with a big bowl of popcorn and a soda.  "},{"Title":"Shows the pairing of Holmes and Watson in their time at a boarding school for boys.","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This film takes its roots from the stories of the legendary detective Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.It shows Holmes and Watson as young boys. The plot of the movie is based on a mysterious sect of Rame Tep, an ancient Egyptian cult of Osiris worshippers, which Holmes and Watson discover.Full Plot Teenagers John Watson and Sherlock Holmes meet at the prestigious Brompton Academy. The reticent Watson and intellectual Holmes quickly become good friends as they begin their studies together. Watson also meets Holmes's mentor Rupert T. Waxflatter, a retired schoolmaster and inventor working on a complete self-propelled, heavier-than-air aircraft. His niece, Elizabeth, is also Holmes's close friend and love interest; Holmes competes for her affections with fellow student Dudley (although she shows a marked preference for Holmes).At the same time, two prominent men, Mr. Bobster and Rev. Nesbitt fall victim to a hallucinogen which drives them to their deaths. Noticing newspaper clippings of their deaths in Waxflatter's office, Holmes starts to notice a connection between them. He takes his suspicions to investigator Mr. Lestrade, only to be rebuffed. Later, Holmes is expelled from the Academy due to Dudley's machinations. Before he leaves, Holmes has one last match with his fencing instructor Professor Rathe; he loses due to being distracted by Rathe's ring. Meanwhile, the mysterious hooded figure responsible for the deaths poisons Waxflatter, driving him to suicide as he fends off imaginary gargoyles. His last words to Holmes are Eh-Tar.Having been barred from attending Waxflatter's funeral after being expelled from the school in a frame-up by Dudley, Holmes secretly meets with Watson and Elizabeth to discuss the deaths that he determines to be murders. Piecing together the first clues - a jingling sound, a piece of cloth, and a blowpipe -, the three of them discover the existence of Rame Tep, an ancient Egyptian cult of Osiris worshippers. The cult's main weapons were blowpipes, which shot thorns dipped into a solution which caused the victim to experience realistic, nightmare-like hallucinations, driving him to death. Their investigation then leads to a warehouse of Froggit and Froggit, a Wapping-area manufacturer, where they discover a modern-day revival of the Rame Tep cult conducting their service inside a wooden pyramid reconstruction hidden in the warehouse. When they interrupt the ceremonial sacrifice of a young girl, the three are attacked by the worshippers. Only through Holmes's endurance and the intervention of a graveyard caretaker are the three able to survive the hallucinations.The following morning, after being lectured by an angry Mr. LeStrade, Holmes, Elizabeth and Watson continue their investigation. At Waxflatter's loft, Holmes and Watson discover a picture of the three victims and a fourth man, Chester Cragwitch. Unfortunately, Rathe and school nurse Mrs. Dribb catch and separate them, preparing to expel them in the morning. But the three soon escape, and while Elizabeth returns to the loft to salvage her uncle's work, the other two locate Mr. Cragwitch. He explains to them that in his youth, he and the other men discovered a underground pyramid of Rame Tep while planning to build a hotel in Egypt. Their find led to an angry uprising by the local populace which was violently put down by the British Army; one boy, Eh Tar, who along with his sister lost their parents in the uprising, swore revenge. Having been poisoned by the hooded figure, Cragwitch suddenly attacks Holmes, who is saved by Mr. LeStrade.As they are returning to campus, Holmes realizes that Rathe is Eh-Tar. He and Watson return just as Rathe and Dribb leaves with Elizabeth. Using Waxflatter's flying machine, they arrive at the warehouse just in time to prevent Rathe from sacrificing Elizabeth, setting the cult's pyramid temple afire. As Rathe escapes with Elizabeth, Holmes battles Dribb, which results in her death. Meanwhile, Watson successfully thwarts Rathe's escape by stopping his carriage. Rathe then tries to shoot Holmes, but Elizabeth takes the shot instead. Enraged, Holmes duels Rathe and manages to get the better of him when Rathe falls through the frozen Thames. Holmes returns to Elizabeth's side before she dies.Later, as he exchanges goodbyes with Watson, Holmes explains how he figured the identity of Rathe and Dribb, who are actually Eh Tar and his sister, with Watson pointing out that Rathe is Eh-Tar spelled backwards - a clue that Holmes had failed to notice. As Holmes leaves, Watson expresses per voice-over (by his older, adult self reminiscing) that he would long for yet more adventures at Holmes' side.After the closing credits, Rathe is revealed to be alive; he checks himself in an inn as Moriarty, making him Holmes' arch-nemesis.Written by Chris Columbus (Gremlins, Goonies, Home Alone, Mrs. Doubtfire) and directed by Barry Levinson (Sphere, Rain Man, Sleepers, Disclosure). The cast includes Nicholas Rowe (as young Sherlock Holmes), Alan Cox (as Watson), Sophie Ward (as Elizabeth Hardy) and Anthony Higgins (as Professor Rathe/Eh-Tar).10/10 points. Very good film that will appeal to even people who have not yet read any of Arthur Conan Doyle Sherlock Holmes Stories.Excellent family film and a must have for all Sherlock Holmes Fans. A great buy either on DVD or Blu-ray. "}{"Title":"Made to look more cheesy than it actually is","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Don't be fooled by the cheesy title and looks of this it's actually a very amusing movie. When I decided to watch this I was basing my choice on, Oh, look. This looks stupid. I have time. Why not watch a stupid movie? While I didn't get the stupid movie I'd hoped for, I got something better a sheer awesome movie.Sherlock Holmes is supposed to be a (to say the least) snobby, witty, genius who knows he's a genius. Easy enough to depict an egotistical person, just watch any episode of House. But how do you depict that in a kid? Give him a violin, a possy of adoring school boys and a rival with a funny name. Ah, yes. except for the occasional slip-up (I only counted 2), this was well-scripted and well-acted.I general, I was surprised and amused. My only complaint is a small one Sherlock Holmes is supposed to have brown eyes and the Sherlock Holmes in this movie has blue eyes. But that's a small, nit-picky complaint. I really truly enjoyed this. If you're ever flipping through movies like I was on a Saturday night, stumbling across this isn't such a bad thing. "},{"Title":"Happy 60th, Steven!","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Since today is Steven Spielberg's 60th birthday, I wanted to comment on one of his movies. He only produced Young Sherlock Holmes - Barry Levinson directed it - but it's a pretty cool movie. Portraying Sherlock (Nicholas Rowe) and Watson (Alan Cox) meeting in a boarding school while some strange murders are occurring in London, they do pretty much anything that they want. The whole movie has the definite feel of a Spielberg movie, what with the burning of a giant set and all. Even if the movie doesn't have the most impressive plot, the hallucinations make up for everything (it's not often that we get to see cream puffs and chocolate éclairs attack someone; serves him right for eating junk food!). I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant! Brilliant! Brilliant! I love this movie!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great movie! I am a Sherlockian and this is my favorite. Nicholas Rowe is the best Sherlock! He has him right down to the inward laugh and the distant lost- in- thought eyes. I loved all the little additions for those who know Holmes well from Doyle's masterpieces. Taken from 'The Final Problem' it would take it's place as the most brilliant bit of thrust-and-parry work (referring to Holmes' on going battle with his arch enemy)This goes along quite well with the sword fights put in the movie. The hat, the pipe, the memorable lines like Elementary and  the game is afoot  are all quite enjoyable.The love between Holmes and Elizabeth is wonderful. She is exactly the perfect girl for him. Quick to think of another reason and right there in the action, not falling or tripping or shrieking at the rats. The lines from Holmes saying that he never wants to be alone are heartbreaking knowing his future. Again I cannot recommend this movie enough. All the actors do a great job especially Rowe.To Nicholas Rowe You are my Sherlock Holmes.Anna "},{"Title":"Fun entertaining movie.","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is a great fun, adventurous, mystery movie, with also supernatural elements in it, which focuses on a very young Sherlock Holmes, solving his very first crime.It never has been a big secret that director Barry Levison is a Steven Spielberg admirer. Spielberg's hand as a producer is definitely notable in this movie. It features the same adventurous elements and humor, that were also always featured in his earlier movies. For instance some of the sequences and moments in this movie really reminded me mostly of the first two Indiana Jones movies, which he already had made before this movie. I also liked the use of shadows within the movie, most likely also touch from Spielberg, who is a Michael Curtiz fan. Some of the sequences within this movie are an obvious reference to the work of Curtiz. Also quite fun to notice that the touch of writer Chris Colombus was notable. Some elements show some remarkable similarities to the earliest Harry Potter movies, on which Colombus worked as a director.But I also have to admit that the movie its story, written by Chris Columbus, was rather simplistic. It doesn't take away the fact that this is still a fun movie to watch, but it at the same time also prevents the movie from being a truly great one. As the movie progresses it's pretty obvious to where the movie is heading. So there are no real surprises and it's pretty clear from the beginning on who are the true good and bad guys of the movie. It's also true that in the end the movie is just a bit too supernatural, which goes at the expenses of the credibility of the movie and story.The movie is good looking, with a nice pleasant and historic atmosphere all over it and good looking sets and costumes. The movie further more also features the very first to have a completely CGI character. How is that for movie history? The effects were already great looking, which also goes for most of the other effects in this movie.The musical score by Bruce Broughton is truly great! It's amazing how this guy has never gotten more big projects. He's even an one time Oscar-nominee after all! His last big 'project' was the movie Lost in Space, from 1998.The acting of the movie isn't much special. No wonder non of the young actors ever quite made it in the movie world. There are some good and interesting secondary characters, but those get mostly pushed toward the background. So, the movie is perhaps focusing a bit too much on just the main character, which is also understandable, considering the icon that Sherlock Holmes is.It's a great fun, simplistic little movie to watch, as long as your expectations for it aren't too big.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Never credible, but most enjoyable!","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Today, Chris Columbus is (what Harry Knowles astutely calls) an almost director. He has never made a truly good movie, (what has he been doing since Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets?). But back in the mid 1980's, Columbus wrote 3 very entertaining (if unbelievable) movies, all for Steven Spielberg's Amblin company Gremlins (1984), The Goonies (1985) and this film, Young Sherlock Holmes (1985). I don't blame Doyle followers for hating this movie, it isn't for them. This film is for those of us who know nothing of Sherlock Holmes franchise, but just love an fun movie.Young Sherlock Holmes is well-produced across the board, fun, fast and perfectly cast. Some other posters here have slammed both Rowe (Holmes) and Cox (Watson), but I found them just fine. The flagrant 80's effects (from the Spielberg/Lucas teams) are a distraction and the Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984) style plot is absolutely wrong, but those are my only real complaints. Director Barry Levinson, has of course, go on to much greater things, but this may be his most underrated film. Personally, I would have enjoyed this film even more had the three leads been even younger (say 11-14 years old). But then, there couldn't be a big sword duel between Holmes and Rathe.If your a fan of the Amblin Entertainment empire, and don't know anything about Sherlock Holmes I think you'll enjoy this film. It's a great shame (even tragedy) Young Sherlock Holmes was a complete box-office bomb and that the DVD has no special features whatsoever!Final rating 7/10 An enjoyable, entertaining movie. Not a classic, but it's not supposed to be. "},{"Title":"Weaknesses are in the Screenplay","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Young Sherlock Holmes could have been the first installment in a very entertaining series of films for young people, if not for one particularly crippling weakness in the screenplay.The basic story is fine, for a kid-oriented, Spielburg-influenced adventure. In this alternate version of the Sherlock legend, the great detective and his sidekick (future doctor)Watson meet as young teens in boarding school. Here they solve their first mystery, concerning a mysterious figure who causes several deaths by shooting his (her?) victims with darts filled wit a powerful hallucinogenic. Eventually, they are led to a mysteriously powerful cult. And of course, there's a bit of romance (no, not between Holmes and Watson).Sounds pretty good for a kid's adventure, huh?Well, as I mentioned earlier, the screenplay by Chris Columbus (director of the new Harry Potter movie)is seriously flawed. Obviously, some research into Holmes' fictional history went into the creation of the movie's revisionist story. But, beyond a couple of clever revelations foreshadowing the adult Holmes canon, Columbus' screenplay completely ignores the most important element of the Holmes character, the element that has made the character one of the genre's most enduring Holmes' uncanny observational and deductive abilities. The payoff of every Holmes story comes when he explains how he has deduced what seemed, up until that point in the story, impossible for him to know. He basically goes through the entire process and we marvel at is abilities as a detective.Well, Young Sherlock Holmes has none of that. Columbus' version of Holmes and Watson simply fall effortlessly from one clue after another, moved not by Holme's deductive abilities, but by the machinations of teh screenplay alone. In other words, the great Sherlock Holmes doesn't really figure much out.If a second screenwriter had been hired to create an actual mystery to lay over Columbus' adolecent adventure--perhaps puzzlemaster Anthony Peter Shaffer (Sleuth)--the movie would have been much more involving. As it stands, it's The Goonies with posh London accents.Then I'm sure we would have had Young Sherlock Holmes 2 Moriarty Returns and on and on. Perhaps its time for a remake.  "},{"Title":"Mildly diverting","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  A young Watson attends a London public school and befriends a young Sherlock Holmes.  When prominent Londoners are murdered by a mysterious hallucinogenic drug, Holmes and Watson investigate, uncovering an Egyptian cult operating under the guidance of a shadowy boss.This was an attempt to bring the cult of Holmes to a young audience, not to the pleasure of the Holmes estate judging by the number of disclaimers at the start and end of the film.  The main bit of plot revolves around the use of the drug which allows the film to have a series of effects scenes to keep the children happy.  The plot is full of holes and even some of Holmes logic that he explains doesn't make any sense (check out how he finds the trophy near the start to see how lazy the script is).  The identity of the secret boss can be easily guessed an hour before he is revealed.The leads are mixed.  Alan Cox's Watson is very good - believable and likeable.  Rowe, however is a terrible Holmes.  Most of his dialogue sounds like he's reading an autocue, and the rest is delivered with a terrible air of arrogance that makes him totally unlikeable.  He looks down on everyone else and reminded me of a spoilt public school brat - nothing like the gentleman sleuth that is Holmes.  I think that Rowe is the reason that we had several disclaimers pointing out that this Holmes is not based on any of Arthur Conan Doyle's work.Overall this is too scary for children and too illogical for adults, but may entertain 8-15 year olds.  For the rest of us it is mildly diverting. "},{"Title":"Woeful and childish supposition","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Woeful, childish supposition of the early years of Arthur Conan Doyle's celebrated sleuth Sherlock Holmes, which finds the school boy detective and his new fond chum Watson hot on the heels of a sadistic Egyptian cult who have been kidnapping young girls for sacrifice, and killing off a group of elderly gentlemen against whom they hold a terrible grudge.Chris Columbus' story (writer of A Night on the Town and Home Alone - which were both much more fun) is naive, silly and borrows far too much from other Spielberg productions, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom being one of them. The cast are unable to lift proceedings also, and one has to wonder how a director of Barry Levinson's class ever became involved in this.The only thing left to do is shake one's head and hope that Mr. Doyle isn't watching.Friday, August 12, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"Rame Tep","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie as a youth back in the 80ies and all but forgot about it, except for the music. The Rame Tep chant is a haunting piece of music and over the years it kept popping back into my head, so today I decided to watch the whole movie again. The plot and the acting are O.K., not great, the special effects are pretty good considering when the film was made - of course you can't compare it to high-budget productions that were made more than 2 decades later as some other user did. All in all good entertainment for teenagers (and those who were teenagers back then when the film was made). 6 stars, plus another 2 for the music. "},{"Title":"Rather young Indy in Hogwart (tv)","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" It's really surprising to see that such a rather unknown movie can list such big names  Sherlock Holmes, Spielberg, Columbus, Levinson, Pixar (then, a Lucasfilm (!) property). And all this with an anonymous but cool cast that stays indeed anonymous after the release ! So, is this movie a stinker ? well, not exactly  the production is really beautiful between British architecture and Egyptian folklore. The depicting of Sherlock and Watson is truthful as it sticks on the basics (deduction) unlike Downey's eccentricities and plays with the mythology of the character. But, this is also my limit of expertise as Sherlock is still a mystery (no pun wanted !) for me  I haven't read yet Doyle's adventures so i can't say how this detective usually wraps his cases ? In Downey's movies, he acts like a James Bond. Here, it's more Indiana Jones as when the team follows the Egyptian clues, they stumble onto a ceremony that looks exactly like the « temple of doom » ! The beginning of the movie is interesting as it focuses on living in the school  the writer is the future director of « Harry Potter » so the parallels are evident ! So yesterday, Indy, today, Harry Potter, that's maybe the problem with the movie  It can't be enjoyed as a simple Sherlock story in spite of what its title said ! "}{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This film was very entertaining when I watched it. It shows an imagined meeting of Holmes and Watson, as teens, at a boarding school. Holmes also meets his love at the school, no not another boy, the daughter of a retired professor who lives upstairs. Sophie Ward plays this love interest but is killed in the end. Someone looking for a reason Holmes never married?? The only sticking points I had was with the Egyptian cult that the sole survivor of an Egyptian village destroyed from a bad dig sets up in England. Usually villagers had little if any book learning, could neither read or write. How could a village peasant get the money, education, and followers to set up the cult? Then, how come every cultist appears to be a white, Englishman, no Egyptian's wanted in? Outside of that though I thought this was a very well written and acted movie. Fun to watch "},{"Title":"A Teen-Age  Sherlock Holmes Meets the Temple of Doom","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" There is a lot to like and dislike in this ambitious effort by Steven Spielberg and Chris Columbus. What I most dislike are the overly vivid hallucinations that the victims of the blow-gun attacks experience. They have a nightmarish quality that borders on that of a horror film, which a Sherlock Holmes movie should never be. I do not object to the blow-gun poison as a plot device, as it is used in the early Fox-Universal films as well--more than once. I must confess that I have seen more than have read most of the Sherlock Holmes stories, and most Sherlock movies are not at all true to A. Conan Doyle's written pages.However, the introduction of characters in this film is brilliant, showing both Holmes and Watson as adolescents. Introducing the headmaster who later assumes the identity of Moriarity is beyond belief, yet somehow credible here. In this film, Sherlock loses his first love, Elizabeth, and, at least in the movies, it appears that having Holmes as a love interest leads to a short life-span, just like with the James Bond Girls. Sophie Ward plays Elizabeth, and she is amazingly beautiful, young, and innocent. (This tradition continues even in the new Robert Downey Jr. series.) Note also that this Moriarity is not the Napoleon of Crime but rather a tall, aristocratic-looking individual. (Anthony Higgins)A most enjoyable film in spite of its excesses, it is more entertaining than it should be. There is a great enthusiasm to the direction, and never a dull moment. My other complaint While watching the human sacrifice temple scenes, it seems more like an Indiana Jones action movie than a Sherlock Holmes film. Be sure to watch the film, to it's entire conclusion through the ending titles, for a surprise twist.DVD review The 2010-reissued DVD has no special features at all! Not even a trailer! A sloppy Paramount-DVD transfer with negative scratches and film dust. "},{"Title":"The Early Years Of the Baker Street duo","Date":"4 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The youngest screen version of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. John Watson is in this winning film directed by Barry Levinson for Paramount back in 1985. Watching Nicholas Rowe as a teenage Holmes develop both detective's wits and style I don't think he would have grown up to be Basil Rathbone or Arthur Wontner. But I could sure see a young Jeremy Brett in his interpretation of the role.Long before they lived at 221B Baker Street and long before Dr. Watson did his army service in the Afghan War, Holmes and Watson met at your typical English public school, the kind of place that Tom Brown and Flashman went to back in the day.Some strange things are happening as a series of unexplained deaths of some fairly prominent people. No one is calling them homicides, but young Rowe is suspicious. And he becomes truly involved when his mentor at the school Nigel Stock is killed.It all traces back sadly to an ancient Egyptian cult and a drug that they induce by blowgun which causes hallucinations. And the source of it is very close to home. We also learn why Sherlock Holmes became a confirmed bachelor. In his youth he had the typical teenage hormones and they went in the direction of Sarah Ward, niece of the man who was his mentor. More I won't say.Young Sherlock Holmes received an Oscar nomination for Visual Effects and it's a delightful movie for the family and offers yet another interpretation of the character of the most famous sleuth of all. "},{"Title":"Elementary School, My Dear Watson","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Not quite, maybe more like middle or high school. Either way, according to Doyle's writings, these events never happened. The 2 mates met as men following Watson's release from military service. blah blah, your right who cares? I think this is an absolute gem of a picture. I consider myself somewhat of a Holmes geek, as such I'm both very discriminating but very willing to soak up anything related to the stories. A lot of what is attempted is crap, sad to say. The bomb with Roger Moore is a good example. Oddly enough, as Sherlock motion pictures go, there arent many to surpass this one. Its magically filmed. Its a collaboration of columbus, levinson and spielberg, and that aint too shabby. Im puzzled as to why this film did not receive higher acclaim than it did. For me its one of my watch a million times and still not get tired of movies. One thing, did London ever really have a climate like Minneapolis? It certainly doesnt now, but all these blasted Victorian pieces sure lead one to believe it once did. "},{"Title":"An underrated gem, -intellectual and imaginative.","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Young Sherlock Holmes is an underrated masterpiece of imagination.  The film is almost impossible to find now, even though it was produced by Spielberg, directed by Barry Levinson, and written by Chris Columbus!  The film should be on DVD, but instead it is nearly non-existent.  The special effects are still amazing, and much more convincing then most of the cartoonish CGI effects used today.  It was actually the first film to use a three dimensional computer effect in film, courtesy of Industrial Light & Magic, and was given an academy award for it.  Columbus later copied his own film and basically remade it as Harry Potter, which undeservedly took all the credit for creativity.  This film is highly recommended if you can find a copy.  Be sure to wait until after the credits are finished, for the surprise ending, which is jaw dropping!  The characters are rich with personality and the story is imaginative to the max.  Don't be fooled by the lack of stars in the cast.  The film surpases most blockbusters with no difficulty. There should have been a sequel, and it should definitely be released widescreen on DVD.   "},{"Title":"The adventure of a lifetime","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I must admit that I rather enjoyed this Sherlock Holmes fantasy story. Nicholas Rowe is, in my mind, the perfect Holmes physically. His acting was also spot on, perfectly capturing Holmes' enormous ego. The only negative about this story is that it falls back on some of the Holmes film clichés. For example, the bumbling Dr. Watson, which I think is an insult to the well-written, intelligent character of the novels. I'd like to see Watson used as something more than just comic relief. Another bad cliché is the action-hero side of Holmes. It doesn't work for his character, I find. Although it sometimes relies on the fact that the viewer hasn't read the novels and thus doesn't understand the real characters, I loved this story. While a bit violent, it perfectly captures the brilliant feel of the novels. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommended; Brilliant Introduction for Non-Holmesian Purists","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This film lists as one of my top 15 all-time favorites, as it was my first introduction to the rich complexity of the world of Sherlock Holmes. We went to see this film quite by accident when we arrived too late for the film we had originally intended to see. I was totally spellbound from the first frame to the last, and after viewing the film, I pledged to absorb as much of the true Holmesian canon as I could, and even wrote a few short stories about him myself. This film is NOT Holmes canon... It is not meant to be. But it succeeded brilliantly by presenting a ripping yarn filled with mystery, suspense, action, and a pair of likable heroes who unravel the incredible twist ending. Let the Holmes purists rant about the inconsistencies with the true Holmes lore, the special effects, and the Indiana Jones-inspired sequences. To those of us that truly enjoyed this film for its own merit, there is no greater introduction to the world of Sherlock Holmes. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of that decade","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This film was targeted towards fans of the Spielberg productions of that time, such as Gremlins and Goonies, considering it was written by the same guy who wrote those two films. And it was very similar too, with young people as the leads and a lot of special effects. This was my favorite movie of that year. For some reason, it didn't do well. Some critics complained the action sequences and special effects were not appropriate for a Sherlock Holmes story but I thought the whole film in general worked well, and the characters were very well portrayed. I am really disappointed the dvd had absolutely no special features though. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Adventure/Mystery/Fantasy Detective Story","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a well-done film greatly made by 3 brilliant filmmakers Steven Spielberg (Producer), Barry Levinson (Director), and Chris Columbus (Writer). After watching this, it's obvious to see what parts belong to each of them.  Spielberg Fun and imaginative, as he did as a producer with Gremlins (1984), Back To The Future trilogy (1985-90) and as a director with Hook (1991), which is a childhood favourite of mine.  Levinson A soul, a human feel, fantastic acting and direction, which definitely shows in his other (and better) films Good Morning Vietnam (1987) and Rain Man (1988).  Columbus A harsh British school, everyone loves the main character, has a rival, both bumbling male and a smart female as his best friends, and a mystery concerning the main characters.Sherlock Holmes (Nicholas Rowe) and Dr. Watson (Alan Cox) meet as teenage boys in an English Boarding school. Holmes is known for his detective abilities (even as a teenager), impressing his classmates with his abilities. When they discover a plot to murder a series of British businessmen by an Egyptian cult, they move to stop it.You can see a lot of this was used in Columbus' excellent Harry Potter films and Spielberg obviously let them copy the murdering cult from his film Indiana Jones & The Temple Of Doom (1984), but they're done so well, who cares?. Levinson gives the film a very human feel. And the performances were great. Levinson's work and the acting work very well together, especially in at least one scene, where the boys at eating dinner and are talking about their futures, when a boy asks Holmes `What do you want to be when you grow up?', Holmes is looking out the window at his girlfriend and only love (ever) Elizabeth (Sophie Ward) and replies `I don't want to be alone.' That is the most human part of the story, which shows that even though Holmes is a complicated person, he does have a heart and that Elizabeth is the most important thing in his life. The film itself is exciting and the `four teams' (Spielberg, Levinson, Columbus and the actors) work brilliantly together. They should make more films together. The Harry Potter films show that Columbus is also a great director as well as a writer. Not the greatest film I've ever seen, but still very good. It's pure fun and brilliance in one, which is fun for both kids and adults.Rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"If you like your adventure films with more brains than brawn, this is the one for you!","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  As someone who found all but the 3rd Indiana Jones film a bit of a yawn (Indiana was the dog.), this was a breath of fresh air. Jolly good mystery set in pea soup London, mix in a bit of Boarding School rivalry, a mad professor, a tragic love interest and a big dollop of  Egyptian spectacle. It doesn't get much better.Yes, there were some adventurous special effects that fell a bit flat (early days for ILM).Yes, Holmes is a less than sympathetic character, but I thought, very much in keeping with a teenage version of the well known, adult Holmes (who had a few weaknesses himself, as I recall).Yes, there's some Harry Potter here, but I think Harry was a couple of years after and Cinderella (for that matter) was a couple of years before, if you're going to get into who ripped off whom.However, the characters are delicious, the mystery excellent and the spectacle completely over the top - frankly, if you like your adventure films with more brains than brawn, this is the one for you! "}{"Title":"Nickolas Rowe gives well rounded performance","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw the movie Young Sherlock Holmes several years ago and totally enjoyed it. I have faced great power struggles within the school administrations here in the United States and it sort of reminded me of it. Sherlock (Nick Rowe) demonstrated great courage, stamina, intellect, and athletic ability to overcome the evil forces that surrounded him.I was disappointed to find that Nicholas Rowe has not been featured in other adventure movies.  It is a shame for such talent to go to waste.  I hope to see more of him in the future what ever role he is offered to act.What do you think? Kevin Kazakevich "},{"Title":"Faithful to Arthur Conan Doyle Guidelines","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  An excellent mystery, written as if by Conan Doyle himself. Directed by a true master Barry Levinson, who doesn't get enough credit for his excellent work. Can anyone pretend they've never seen a Sherlock Holmes film? If this was the first, wouldn't you be intrigued to watch further Sherlock Holmes mysteries? The story is extremely well constructed. It maintains a high level of suspenseful urgency throughout, thanks to Levinson. For a fictional character that has endured a century or so, it never contradicts any of Doyle's writings. "},{"Title":"Judge this movie by the previews, you will miss a classic.","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The marketing on this film was terrible causing many to pass it by when first released. The previews were completely misleading as to what the film was really about. But for those of us lucky enough to stumble upon it one way or another, we few were rewarded with what should be considered a classic. It is beyond me how this film has been rated so poorly. I can only imagine that many of those voting have not actually seen it. That is a true shame. I personally consider it a solid 9 and easily deserving of being ranked among the top films of all time. If it had been promoted more accurately in its original release, or if those voting would actually take the time to view it, I believe it's rank would reflect this. I had to vote 10 in an attempt to compensate for the error of others. "},{"Title":"When I was fourteen...","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie came out when I was fourteen years old.  Quite simply, it blew my mind.  By today's standards, the special effects (have no doubt, this is an effects-showcase-film) are merely passable, but in the mid-eighties, they were astounding.  The stained-glass knight, the pastry army, the little flying gargoyles, even the bizarre flying machine -- this was the pinnacle of what movies were capable of.  I recently watched it again with the benefit of hindsight, and marveled at how manipulative it was and how weak the screenplay was.  Then I remembered how amazed I was as a kid, and tried to recapture that feeling.  I almost did.  And the movie was awesome. "},{"Title":"A decent mix of films","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Young Sherlock Holmes is a decent mix of films and genres in general and for the most part it works. I picked it up after learing the movie had one of the first computer-generated scenes in filmmaking. I was indeed impressed by the visual effects, even though they had little plot importance. The rest of the film is carried out like a big-budget BBC production, replete with the Victorian sets and the snooty British actors. This is suprising because of the Hollywood names backing the film, such as the producer Steven Spielberg, and Barry Levinson, who does a good job directing here. The cast of British unknowns do a decent job, but nothing spectacular. I noticed the film kept a very good pace until Holmes and Watson stumble upon a London-based Egyptian temple, in a scene blatantly mirroring The Temple of Doom. From there, the Egyptian thing goes until the end of the film, souring what could have been a great story. Overall, the film seems to borrow too much from the Indiana Jones series, and this is due to Spielberg's involvement in the film. The strong points are the keen directing by Levinson and the visual effects, but the whole movie shouldn't disappoint anyone except die-hard Doyle fans.  1-10 Overall--6.5  Direction--7 Photography--6 Acting--5 Visuals--8  "},{"Title":"A very good speculation of what could've happened.....","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I have thought of Young Sherlock Holmes as being a very good and fun movie.  I even like it a bit better than The Goonies.  The special effects are actually not bad, and the glassman sequence is actually one of the film's best sequences, and is still excellent by today's standards, considering that this film came from 1985-1986.  (The glassman sequence was done by Pixar, using computers.  Check the end credits if you don't believe me.)  Equally good is the music score, by Bruce Broughton and performed by the London Symfonia.  Acting is nicely done, the plot not too bad, and the direction very good.  Also great is how the film indicates that it is a speculation of what could've happened at the end, which helps to build interest in the original works written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.  One more thing, even though Steven Spielberg executive produced the film, he did not direct it.  Barry Levinson directed it, so it is Mr. Levinson's film, and not Spielberg's.  Same goes to Goonies.  Richard Donner directed that film and not Steven Spielberg.  - Reinhart "},{"Title":"Quite the underrated film....","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Of all of Spielberg's films, Young Sherlock Holmes most certainly is one of his most underrated.  From beginning to end, the movie carries with it a highly developed plot and most amazingly, a storyline that thrills the young viewers and intrigues the older ones.It has all the classic elements of any Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's literary works; all richly and elaborately brought to life.  The scenes of late 19th century London are remarkable!  But more importantly, the film offers us a chance to understand how many of the character traits we read about in Sherlock Holmes mystery books came to be developed within the character's own formative years.I do wish they would come out with this movie on DVD...One can only imagine how good this movie would sound if they remastered the sound.By far and away, a richly rewarding film experience that will delight both literary and celluloid fans of Sherlock Holmes. "},{"Title":"Brilliant...Doyle would of been proud.","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I think me and my father are two of about twenty people who actually went and saw this in the theatres. I know we were about the only ones in the theatre at the time. This was during Spielberg's 1980's producing phase.The two leads are incredible. Nicolas Rowe is the perfect Holmes. They do justice to one of literature's most famous duos.This movie gets better on multiple viewings. It's one of those rare movies you can watch over and over. It never loses it's appeal.Great fun. I wish they would put this out on DVD.Rent or buy this movie you won't be disappointed. If you are, then you weren't a Sherlock Holmes fan. "},{"Title":"Rich with detail, not insulting to intelligence","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  For those of us who can't get enough of Holmes and Watson, this film fits the bill.  The young actors successfully imply their adult characters; the mystery is adequate if not overambitious; and its fun to see the development of some of Holmes' better known affectations-- such as hat and pipe.  We are also presented with at least one theory to explain holmes' adult life of celebacy.One of Barry Levinson's (Wag the Dog, Rain Man) first directorial efforts. "},{"Title":"watch it for rowe","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" There have been so many films made about Sherlock Holmes that it is difficult to pick a definitive one, but this one is unique in that it attempts an approach only attempted two other times -- an early 80's British television show of the same name, and a much later TNT presentation with James D'Arcy as the hapless, young, and overly promiscuous Sherlock Holmes.When Watson comes to the elite boarding school where many of his peers have been sent in the hopes of furthering their careers, he soon discovers that he is to room with the eccentric and brilliant young Sherlock Holmes (Rowe, whose performance is beyond brilliant). The two become fast friends but in-between school pranks (one of the local boys is determined to get Holmes expelled) they stumble upon a string of murders in the district that ultimately lead them to a cult, and form the foundation not only of their lingering friendship in much later years, but also hint at Holmes' notorious enemy, Professor Moriarty.I am naturally less inclined to like versions of Holmes in which he has some attachment to a woman, but this one does it better than most in the presence of the sweetly innocent Elizabeth, who has captured the soon-to-be great detective's heart. Her involvement in the tale is what hints at Holmes' later insistence that he will never become emotionally involved with another woman. All in all, it is quite an imaginative feat by a decent set of writers, although the grotesque, nightmarish hallucination sequences leave much to be desired. I normally skip the first scene and go straight to the opening credits, so I am not forced to shake my head at the cooked turkey that comes to life, or the snake-like light fixtures that drive a man mad enough to throw himself out the nearest window.Also, it must be admitted that Nicholas Rowe was one of my first crushes as a child. His lanky form and ideal Holmes-like features set a standard that peculiarly enough, have caused me to be drawn to similar physiques ever since. Who says that movies cannot change your life? "}{"Title":"Just a Fun Little Adventure","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw Young Sherlock Holmes when it came out about fifteen years ago, and the film holds up even now.  Along with The Seven Percent Solution, it's one of the more credible non-Conan Doyle Holmes stories, that pays attention to the details in the original writings, while playing the speculation game.The physical details of the production are impeccable, but on top of that, we have Nick Rowe's performance as the title character -- amazing on two fronts; one, that he gave such a nuanced rendition at only age nineteen, two, that he doesn't seem to have had that blatant a film career since. (Fans can catch him in Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, oddly enough.) Still, Rowe is the center of the film, plausible as a person who, because of the experiences seen here, would have grown up to be a loveless, coke-addled supersleuth.In strange retrospect, Young Sherlock Holmes would actually be a good double feature with Shakespeare in Love.  Both are alternate history films that pay attention to what is known (or was created) and so are much richer for it.BTW -- it's interesting that this film was a Barry Levinson/Chris Columbus project, because elements of later works of both pop up herein.  I won't tell you what; that's up for the viewer to discover... but, even if you don't notice, there're plenty of other things going on here to make Young Sherlock Holmes worth a spin on the VCR.  "},{"Title":"One of those children's films they don't make anymore.......","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Young Sherlock Holmes is one of those films you tend to catch on TV a lot, and I think this was how I probably first came across it. Being produced by Spielberg of course meant that you were in for an Indiana Jones-roller-coaster-ride of a movie. (it even looks like Indiana Jones in parts, with the Egyptian temple!) The two leads, Nicholas Rowe and Alan Cox as Holmes and Watson are superb, and the foggy atmosphere of Victorian London is excellently captured. One of those films to watch on a Sunday afternoon, or a cold winters night with a cup of cocoa. Sit back, relax and let yourself slip into a frankly damn brilliant piece of escapism! "},{"Title":"Young Sherlock Potter","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is a wonderful film, completely entertaining and edge-of-the-seat exciting. I find it nearly impossible to believe that this movie was not the inspiration(if not worse) for all the Harry Potter books and films, even to the Chris Columbus connection. Here we have a school not unlike Harry's, a close friend (Watson) who happens to wear the round glasses, a girlfriend Elizabeth (think Hermione), the same kind of dining room, effete young blond student tormentor,, dark hallways, reptilian monsters, a flying machine, mysteries to solve, exotic villains, crusty old professors, etc. Oh, well. To my mind this film is far more entertaining than any in the Harry Potter series and wish it were more recognized for the superb entertainment it is. "},{"Title":"A Little something for Everyone..","Date":"24 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" According to TV host John Burke, what happened in this movie almost never happens... The main actors in the film were unknowns, who remained unknowns, while those behind the scenes became household names. This movie is directed by Barry Levenson, written by screenwriter Chris Columbus, and executive produced by Henry Winkler (remember the Fonz?). Now, here are the actors Nicolas Rowe, Alan Cox and Sophie Ward? Ever heard of them? (Each of their careers flourished in the UK, but not in the states). This film, while it does take great liberties with Doyle's writings, is highly entertaining. For the ladies, there's a touching love story set in the Victorian Era, for the guys, there's sword fighting and awesome special affects. For the kids, there's a mystery figure cloaked in black, as well as the screens' first completely computer generated character (If they tell you he looks fake, just say it was only 1985). Recently, near a London school for boys, several men have experienced violent, and unexplained deaths. Ther appears to be no connection between them, but a teen aged Sherlock Homes thinks differently. (Parents, don't worry, there's no gore in this one). This is an imaginative tale depicting how the infamous pair (Homes and Watson) might've met. Have fun pretending as you watch; if you're looking for accuracy and detail relating to Doyle's writings, you won't find it here. This movie follows the phrase Lets just suppose... A terrific family film, though specific scenes could be frightening for very young children. There is no sex (literal, or implied), and very little language (I think I counted 2 words). Have fun! "},{"Title":"one of the best mysteries made","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  If you have not seen this movie go right now and rent this masterpiece about the teenage years of Sherlock Holmes, Watson, and Sherlock's girlfriend Elizabeth. Excellent direction acting and good music also. Nicholas Roeg, Alan Cox and Sophie Ward all do an excellant job. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"10 to get this rating up","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This movie isn't a 10 it's more like a 7.5,but I feel the wannabe's(film students,amateur critics and movie snobs)have judged this too harshly.Certainly not the most memorable movie you will ever see but a lot of fun. First the pro's. 1 set design for essentially a children's movie the sets are beautiful you get a real feel for Victorian London.2 the acting, again for a children's movie above par the two main characters really get the feel for the legends they are playing.3 effects although dated you get to see the first real fully realized cg character and the traditional stop motion is done well as well.Now the cons.1 the score is uninspired.2 slipping of accents I felt the high English was a little forced.3 plot although not completely horrid it could have been better as it was a little predictable but the movie has what I call the Road Runner effect, you know the coyote is going to fall off the cliff it happens and you laugh anyway. "},{"Title":"The start of a great franchise?","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Originally planned as the first of a series, Young Sherlock Holmes was a bit of a misfire at the box office. It cost $18 million and only grossed about 20 per cent of its budget back. In the years since its release it has become a cult film for those who can appreciate it for the blockbuster it never was. I personally discovered it on a Christmas Eve showing on BBC in the late 80s. Even then, I thought it was great despite it being a darker Christmas film than we're used to.In a snowy and sinister December at the height of the Victorian Era, Watson, as a teenager, is sent to Brompton, a private school in a fogbound London, when his old one is shut down due to lack of funding. Upon arrival, he meets a violin-playing smart-Alec who deducts his character from his mere appearance. It's the beginning of a life-long friendship.Holmes' life on campus is rather cosy. He has a pretty girlfriend Elizabeth (Sophie Ward) and her uncle, Professor Waxflatter, is a crackpot inventor of the Doc Brown variety who lives in the school attic with all of his crazy inventions. At first, Watson and Holmes have fun getting up to mischief on campus but a series of bizarre suicides soon distracts them.The local Inspector Lestrade is too lazy to do anything about it, leaving them free to investigate. Apparently the victims are all sane, happy men who seem to go suddenly mad with fear and hurl themselves to the nearest oncoming death. Things get personal when Waxflatter suffers the same fate and stabs himself in fit of madness.Why are ordinary men going crazy? Who is the mysterious black robed person hiding in the shadows? What dark secret was Waxflatter hiding? All questions to which Holmes demands answers and he drags along the nervous Watson and Elizabeth as he scours all the dodgy areas of Wapping talking to loads of cockneys and people who call you 'Govna'. What they discover is an ancient blood oath and a huge conspiracy brewing in the spooky alleyways.In the 80s, Chris Columbus penned a string of imaginative movies from Gremlins to The Goonies and later he directed the Home Alone films as well as Bicentennial Man (yes, I like it) and the first two Harry Potters. He's one of those writers who can hide a surprising amount of darkness in a kid's film and Young Sherlock is a fine example of his most sophisticated writing.With strong direction from Barry Levinson and enchanting production values from Steven Spielberg there's no denying that this movie looks absolutely great. But it's how it sounds that'll really impress you. Bruce Broughton - a tragically under-rated composer who has talent equal to John Williams - has been unfairly slumming most of his career in TV movies. Here, he delivers one of the most spellbinding and Gothic scores you have ever heard. There are dozens of themes, moments of real magic, evil menace and breathtaking action. If this film had been a hit it really would have become as famous as themes for Jaws, Indiana Jones and Harry Potter.And speaking of Harry Potter, one cannot deny that JK Rowling was inspired by this film in many ways when creating her Potter universe. I'm not crude enough to list all the similarities in this review but let me just say that while there may not be anywhere near enough to call it plagiarism there sure is more than enough to call it a coincidence. Watch the film and you'll know what I mean.Originally the critics dismissed Young Sherlock Holmes as another effects-filled Spielberg fantasy, but that's an unfair judgement. The visual effects (really quite something for its time) are essential to the story as well as being pioneering. You may not believe it but YSH was actually the first ever film to feature a fully CGI character (a stained-glass knight who comes alive), created by Pixar. Future Toy Story director John Lasseter was even one of the computer wizards who helped bring it to life. Unfortunately it lost its well-deserved Academy Award to the inferior effects of Cocoon.Even 20 years on a sequel definitely needed. Chris Columbus has stated he was upset that a sequel never got off the ground and that the series never took off. He shouldn't sell himself short. Of course it would need new actors but so many have put on the hat and coat of Sherlock Holmes that the role doesn't belong to just one man. There is still life in this spin-off franchise. All it needs is the right story and some of the magic that is missing from most kids' films these days.And when I say kids' films I should really play-down the negative connotations of such a label. As one of the first PG-13 rated films, YSH has a bit of a savage edge, a hardness unfamiliar the condescending kids' films of today.Sir Arthur would be proud. He may have felt indifferent towards his most famous creation, but if he were alive today he would have loved this film. And it well and truly deserves 10/10. This surely one DVD you must get. The 1.781 anamorphic picture looks great and the Dolby 5.1 soundtrack sounds good considering it has been remastered from plain old stereo. The only extra is a trailer. "},{"Title":"A Supreme Dud...","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  It's a real arrogance that this bomb ever got made--somebody assumed that the correct mixture of stock ingredients, i.e., slick Hollywood production techniques, a few million dollars, plus some obvious special effects, would yield acceptable results.  They couldn't have been more wrong.Within the first 20 minutes or so, there's a definite impression that the special effects are the real star, and that the whole bit with hallucinations was created solely to cram as many of them in as possible. When a movie's not about believable people, there's no way it can be more more than a cartoon.The actors here--given that they're mainly younger--don't have much of a chance in competing with the effects or working with the bad writing. The cardboard Sherlock Holmes character lacks the wit and cleverness of the real Holmes, and considering the original's inerrant sense of applied logic, the new version is a under-developed, bumbling sub-amateur. The Young Sherlock just isn't INTELLIGENT.With weak performances and an unhealthy  over-reliance on effects, only a strong thread of logical storyline could hold it all together, but there's not one.  Not much that happens is really believable in any way. Being a fantasy shouldn't be a license to make everything totally ridiculous, but that's exactly what happens here. The script couldn't have looked good on paper, and someone should've noticed that early on.There's a scene early on where Young Sherlock's wits are tested to discover a hidden object somewhere on a huge school campus within one hour; it's utterly unbelievable that A. He'd bother accepting such a ridiculous and impossible challenge, or B. that he'd solve it at all, given nothing whatsoever to work with.  When it's explained exactly HOW it's solved, it's so patently absurd that even young children will start asking questions.CAUTION--SPOILER AHEAD! SPOILER AHEAD!So why is the girl killed at the end, so she can't ride off into the sunset with Sherlock, or is Young Holmes not supposed to like girls? If viewers care at all about her character (which probably isn't likely), then they should wonder why she was shot for no good reason at all. Then we get a closeup of Holmes' single, solitary tear...CHOKE!This movie embodies the adage Never mind the quality, feel the width--or in this case just look at the obvious and overdone special effects and the heck with the people. There's plenty of action--things moving around--and gobs of noise, but no substance here at all. There are better ways to spend two hours of one's life than willingly undergoing this sort of torture masquerading as entertainment. "},{"Title":"Sherlock Holmes first case.","Date":"14 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Young Sherlock Holmes is set in London, England during the height of the Victorian age where the young John Watson (Alan Cox) has just arrived at his new boarding school, Watson is placed in a dormitory next to a teenage Sherlock Holmes (Nicholas Rowe) who both quickly become friends. Holmes is a remarkable individual with amazing intelligence & suspects that two apparent suicides elsewhere in London may in fact be murder although Lt. Lestrade (Roger Aston-Griffiths) of Scotland Yard dismisses Holmes theory. Then Holmes close friend & mentor Professor Waxflatter (Nigel Stock) also dies in an apparent suicide, again Lestrade & Scotland Yard see no crime so Holmes teams up with Watson & Waxflatter's daughter Elizabeth (Sophie Ward) to discover the truth behind the killings & various mysterious goings-on at a warehouse in a dodgy part of London...Directed by Barry Levison & based on the world's most famous detective created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle this was a typical Steven Spielberg action adventure from the 80's (it was in fact retitled over her on VHS to Young Sherlock Holmes and the Pyramid of Fear which is an obvious nod to Spielberg's Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984)) that maybe didn't quite find an audience at the time due to a lack of stars but isn't a bad film in it's own right for what it is. Being a Spielberg produced effort the film tends to leans towards action & adventure with some nice set-pieces including living pastry cakes, zombies, sword-fights, rickety flying machines, chases & a fiery climax set in a wooden Egyptian Pyramid that isn't too dissimilar to & reminds of Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom while the detective elements are downplayed with Holmes doing very little sleuthing & he doesn't really solve the case by any clever deduction with only an early scene showing Holmes find a hidden trophy showcasing his clue solving skills. At just over 100 minutes the film doesn't outstay it's welcome although Holmes doesn't start to investigate the murders until the fortieth minute which is too long really. There's the initial meeting between Watson & Holmes which Conan Doyle never specifically wrote about & the script gives Holmes a romantic subplot. The plot is a little silly & the main villains motives are a little unclear like what he intends to do once his plan for revenge is complete? Why does he try to escape with Elizabeth at the end? Why not just leave her & escape? Also stick around for the end credits as there's a nod towards Holmes greatest enemy & maybe an attempt to start a franchise.To Young Sherlock Holmes credit it looks fantastic from the boarding school to the wintry snow covered back streets of Victorian London to a frozen river Thames to a spooky graveyard to a recreation of an Egyptian Pyramid the production values, sets, Victorian period design & props are top notch. There are various special effects scenes too that are firmly rooted in fantasy with living cooked birds & an impressive stained glass window Knight coming to life & attacking someone which is actually the first time a fully animated character had been done for a film. Young Sherlock Holmes was nominated for an Oscar for Best Visual Effects but lost out to Cocoon (1985). The film has an action adventure vibe although there are a few mildly scary & violent scenes too.With a supposed budget of about $18,000,000 it's obvious most of that went on sets & effects, this flopped at the box-office taking only just over $4,000,000 in it's total run. Shot in London, Oxfordshire, Leicestershire & Elstree Studios here in England. The acting is alright with Rowe & Cox both quite well cast.Young Sherlock Holmes is a fun 80's action adventure with a touch of mystery but not that much, it entertains & the central character's are well loved & they are done justice here. A good time waster that is great to look at too. "},{"Title":"Fun small mix of effects and young English Actors","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Here's a light-hearted frolic of a movie made over 20 yrs ago with the creative blessings of Spielberg. It is an enjoyable and fun movie by no means in the realm of excellence, but a mix of English actors doing a decent job as well as some early ILM and Pixar effects sequences at the time that were pretty high-end. The narration and the boy who played Watson always remind me of Peter Billingsly and A Christmas Story in appearance. Young Sherlock played here pretty well by Nicholas Rowe stands out amongst the others by some degree. The story however seems like a rehashed Indian Jones sort of caper/hybrid. There are some good set pieces, backgrounds, and costumes of late 19th/ early 20th century London. The music is perhaps a bit above average as well. Purchased it cheaply for occasional watching. Worth at least one look, but don't expect a thinking-person's movie. Enjoy it for what it is. "}{"Title":"Now playing on AMC...","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"         'Young Sherlock Holmes' is a movie that tried to bring together all of Steven Spielburg's best ideas and blend it into a Sherlock Holmes story. While there is nothing particularly wrong with this flick, it falters when people realize which scenes belong to which Spielburg movie (could the time Watson and Sherlock flew over the clock tower be slightly reminiscent to 'ET'.) By the way, guess who is involved in the picture.        The movie can be entertaining to some and it even has a few scenes that all will enjoy. Check out a moment when Watson has an illusion that pastries are going to force feed him. Rookie cast does an adequate job in the flick and I am a fan of Freddie Jones. Overall this movie was average.  "},{"Title":"It was ok","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen better, I've seen worse. It was all right. Though how Rathe got to be Moriarty is beyond me. Especially since Moriarty died as he fell over a waterfall in Switzerland. Sorry, I'm a stickler to The Canon. Oh, well. Like I always say, It was all right for me, but you should form your own opinion. After all, one man's trash... "},{"Title":"2 young detectives take on an Egyptian cult","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  A teen-age Sherlock Holmes gets on the trail of a murderous cult with the help of his dorm buddy, John Watson. After several locals get killed mysteriously, the pair are drawn into trying to solve the crime with the help of one of the victims grand daughter. A good mystery with some excellent sleuthing by the young detectives. Good props added a lot of flavor to the film, making the era look more realistic. 3 stars. "},{"Title":"A worthy prequel to the Holmes series of Conan Doyle capturing the sense of  mystery and the fantastic of the original stories","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Screenwriter Chris Columbus did a good job of explaining the character of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's fictional hero. Why did he become a professional private detective? He was a great student and loved to solve mysteries even while in school. Why did he never get married? Because he lost great first love, killed by his arch-enemy. Why did he always wear that ridiculous cloak and hat? They were trophies taken from his arch-enemy, Professor Moriarty. Well, this is certainly more exciting and fun than that other ride-on movie on the great detective, The Seven Percent Solution - a dour and put down treatment of Holmes. This one is more to my taste - with a handsome and crafty villain, a murderous secret organization with bloody rites, a pretty love interest and a climactic fencing duel. As with all prequels written by another author,however, some of the details of the new story do not always fit seamlessly with the old. In Conan Doyle's original, Dr. Watson makes it clear that he was meeting Holmes in London for the first time after retiring from service as a surgeon in the Indian Army (Imperial British military during the Raj). But in this movie, it is alleged that they were boyhood chums in grammar school. "},{"Title":"An underrated adventure!","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" A series of bizarre murders conducted by a secret Egyptian cult in London are happening using blowdarts with chemicals to give people freaky hallucinations including suicide. A young Harry Potter-lookalike pre-teen named Watson has just enrolled in a special boarding school where he meets a young adult named  Sherlock Holmes whom definitely wants to become a detective yet Sherlock is baffled by these murders and wants to investigate with the help of his new friend Watson.A very entertaining yet underrated adventure from Steven Spielburg ( whom was the executive producer) and Chris Columbus ( Writer of Harry Potter and Gremlins)with tons of great ideas, good special effects on the hallucination scenes including the scene where Watson is attacked by pasteries, the first ever computer animated character on film designed by Pixar and ILM, great acting, nice music score and stick around after the credits for a surprise. Also recommended Big Trouble in Little China, Indiana Jones and The Temple of Doom, Return to Oz, Making Contact ( a.k.a. Joey), Indiana Jones and The Last Crusade, The Great Mouse Detective, Poltergeist, Ghostbusters, The Mummy ( 1999), Van Helsing, Vampire Hunter D and Vampire Hunter D Bloodlust.8/10. "},{"Title":"DVD Availability","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Finally!Will be released on DVDon Dec. 2nd, 2003Check Amazon.com for pre-order "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Realistic, deep characters, fast-paced storyline that grabbed me right from the very beginning, great special effects, and amazing acting! I saw this for the first time when I was 13, and have been watching it ever since. I love how Holmes gets all of his trademarks throughout the movie, and Watson is hilarious (perhaps there's something we've learned in school we can apply to this!). A note to those who haven't seen it yet watch all the way past the end credits. There's something important after the credits. "},{"Title":"More like Young Schlock Holmes","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  A very disappointing effort from Stephen Spielberg.  While the premise for Young Sherlock Holmes is interesting, the film fails to live up to its potential.  It seems like too much time and effort was spent on the special effects and costumes rather than on developing characterization and plot. The acting was pretty good but I found Elizabeth's death near the end of the film to be over-the-top and rather pointless.Overall, this movie was better than Spielberg's Always (a truly horrendous film) but definitely not one of his most memorable. "},{"Title":"Shoot yourself before you think about watching it...","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  A bland rendering of a Sherlock Holmes story... Picture this... We are in Victorian London, in a time where everyone was always calling everyone else old chap and being told how dashed bally wonderful everything is. We begin by following the young Holmes on his way to a new school in London. There he meets the young Watson, apparently bent on entering medical school (I guess we know he never got there), addicted to cream cakes and totally devoid of any acting skills. The actor who plays him is reminiscent of Harry Potter, that is, if Daniel Radcliffe was fatter, mentally retarded and had the acting capabilities of a bag of flour.The plot thickens (along with Watson) as we meet Holmes' new schoolmaster, Master Wraith. Wraith comes across as a decent sort, keen to advise Holmes and give him a helping hand here and there. Though there's something about his good looks that suggests he must have some darker ulterior motive (otherwise he'd be the hero of the story seeing as he's far more sophisticated and intelligent than that whelk Holmes)Soon we also meet Professor Waxflatter, mad inventor and would-be mentor to the young Holmes.Even though Professor Waxflatter is mad as a bicycle, it seems not to run in the family. His niece Elizabeth, not only is in total possession of her mental faculties and common sense, but is -as far as Holmes is concerned- the tastiest thing since peaches and cream. The feeling turns out to be mutual (amazing what some people will settle for isn't it?) and a heart warming love story blooms that leaves you with a lump in your throat and a desperate need to find the nearest sick bucket.Meanwhile, the evil Dudley, Holmes' rival at school is doing his damndest to get Holmes expelled. Before long, a series of deaths have occurred and Holmes is ready to camply leap into action. So, he installs himself in Elizabeth's attic flat (though we're all led to believe its in the interests of solving the murder -sneaky little devil that Holmes) and so the dynamic young Holmes and his bloated sidekick embark on their adventure, armed only with the power to look at things through a magnifying glass and saying hmmn and otherwise severely limited powers of deduction.Before long, we're led into a web of intrigue, involving an ancient Egyptian cult that largely busies itself with doing unspeakable things to people and dressing up in silly clothing.At the heart of this mystery is the evil Aytah, the leader of the cult, who came to England as a boy with his grandfather. Before long, the young Holmes has solved most of this puzzle with the air of one who has just discovered that the square peg wasn't meant to go in the round hole anyway.Soon, we discover the identity of the mysterious Aytah (*yawn* can you guess?) as well as his fraternally wicked sister. Before you can say dastardly duo Aytah and co have spirited Elizabeth off for their evil purposes and its up to Batman and Robin to get her back -after all, Holmes hasn't had so much as a goodnight kiss from her yet.Holmes and Watson give chase in a bicycle powered airplane (Orville Wright eat your heart out) and the score shifts to Lassie Come Home mode with a sound that reeks of boisterous young adventure the Famous Five would be envious of. Sadly, Holmes and Watson aren't killed in the crash landing,Before long, the scene changes to an underground temple full of itinerant Londoners dressed in silly robes singing some sort of opera in some dubious attempt at the dead tongue of the Egyptians. Aytah comes down the stairs looking the belle of the ball in his dress and jewelry, a silly mask is ceremoniously placed on his head to complete a look straight off the cover of Vogue.Predictably, there's a Tom & Jerry style death trap for Elizabeth that gives the rusty wheels in Holmes' head just enough time to revolve and hatch a plan Jerry mouse would be proud of...Tell you what though, if it were up to me, I'd pick Watson for a sidekick too. He takes a thumping every five minutes in the film, but is never knocked out for more than 10 seconds and never shows any signs of bruising. Not only that, every villain that takes a swing at him is covered by a shower of rocks and rubble. Honestly, its like he's got divine protection.On with the plot *sigh*... Aytah makes off with Elizabeth, ostensibly I assume for the purpose of a bit of hows-your-father. Holmes, filled with indignation at being beaten to the punch, is after the devil in a flash. The last bit worth mentioning (or not) is the final battle between Aytah and Holmes. In a curious version of sword play that involves attempting to hit your enemy's sword instead of lopping his arm off, the two battle for their lives, with various crate throwing and other dirty tricks mixed in. The ending's nothing to write home about, a good laugh by all accounts and a lesson in how not to act if you expect anyone to actually watch your film. To cut a long story short, everyone doesn't live happily ever after, but close enough.And there you go, a pathetic end to a trash film. Spielberg really should have been shot for producing this one... "},{"Title":"This bomb would make Doyle roll over in his grave.","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Young Sherlock Holmes has the potential to be an interesting film but unfortunately seems to be marred in contrived cliches.  I did not find any of the characters to be particularly interesting, nor did I appreciate its stereotypical and racist demonizing of middle Eastern culture - as if Egyptian women really behave or look like that!  At times, I thought I was watching a series of bad Monty Python sketches.All in all, the acting was reasonably good (except for the scenery chewing villains) and the costumes were great, but I had a hard time staying awake while watching this film.  The ending was particularly inane...obviously designed to lead into a sequel, which thankfully never came about. Strictly a movie for little kids or for people who like watching dated special effects. "}{"Title":"Sherlock Holmes with some Indiana Jones thrown in...","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  A fun, but altogether stupid film about Sherlock Holmes' early years. Basically Indiana Jones meets Sherlock Holmes, this is something a bit too scary for children and too dumb for adults. It's not a bad movie, it's quite fun to watch, but it isn't one that the kids should stay up to watch.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Not for Spoiled Kids","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  If you have a child that is only dazzled by special effects, don't let them watch this movie. They will probably find this boring. Let them watch only Harry Potter or some other new movie loaded with special effects. We wouldn't want them to expand their mentality with movies that try to imagine something beyond the books. Since no book was ever written about a young Sherlock Holmes, it takes imagination to think beyond that square little box and create a story that you think Sir Arthur Conan Doyle might have written had he wanted to show us his beginnings. Adults will probably like this, and anyone that enjoys movies like the Young Indiana Jones movies. "},{"Title":"Don't bother hunting for this one","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I caught this film on TV tonight and decided to watch it since I had seen Without a Clue before and greatly enjoyed it.  However, Young Sherlock Holmes is definitely not as good as the other film.  It did not seem very well researched.  (I know it's a bit of a what if story, but it relied on the image of Hollywood Holmes rather than the one presented in canon). On the whole, I was very disappointed, especially since I noticed Spielberg's name during the opening credits.*Beware!  There be spoilers ahead!*So the whole plot is based around an Egyptian cult that likes to shoot people with hallucinaginic darts.  I'm sure that happened all the time in Victorian London.  But we're not looking for realism here, are we?  This is the action movie version of Sherlock Holmes that doesn't allow any room for good old-fashioned logic.Something I caught on to early on was the fact that Holmes' lady love Elizabeth was destined to meet a sad end before the film ended. Obviously, her death would explain why the older Holmes was never enticed by any woman. His heart had long ago been taken.  That thought alone made me want to puke.  And by the way, what was that stuff about Holmes staying with her after he got kicked out of school?  I really wanted to see how Mycroft and Sherlock got on together, but I guess Elizabeth offered far more than Mycroft ever could ;-)Did anybody else think Watson looked a bit like a plumper version of Harry Potter?  (Speaking of which, Chris Columbus actually wrote this thing!  I hope he doesn't claim to be a real Holmes fan.)  Watson was definitely the Hollywood version of his character.  He was an idiot whose greatest joy was overeating.  Although, he did get his shining moment when he saved Elizabeth and Holmes by using a single rope with hook at the end.  That's the only time I thought he had any brains at all.  Oh, and there are tons of references to his wanting to go to medical school.  Hmmm...I wonder what he'll grow up to be.The special effects are pretty...special.  Let's just say that the opening bit (where the man thinks his dinner is attacking him) made me laugh out loud.  In fact, the memory of it still makes me chuckle.  The effects are dated and, in my opinion, pretty cheesy.  But I must admit I liked the knight that came out of the stained glass window.  The reversed picture of his face on his back was a cute touch.  (Again, not the reaction the film was going for.)The villian was a definite letdown.  He was quite obviously a bad guy from the beginning since he was nice to Holmes and did not have his life threatened because of it.  But the touch at the end of the film where he changes his name to Moriarty was nice.  Almost makes you think they actually care about the canon Holmes.  Almost.But the thing that really took the cake was the horrible battle between Holmes and Moriarty/Rathe/Ethar/Who Cares What His Real Name Is Anyway. It was clear that the bad guy was going to end up breaking through the ice of the Thames since they had bothered to show us that the ice was quite precarious by crashing that stupid flying device in to it.I would definitely recommend missing this movie.  If you're dying to see a different interpretation of Sherlock Holmes, then rent Without a Clue. It's very funny and well researched and has good acting.  Of course, you could always read some of Doyle's stories.  A Study in Scarlet will tell you the proper way Holmes and Watson first met. "},{"Title":"Lighthearted addition to the Holmes canon","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" YOUNG SHERLOCK HOLMES Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format 6-track Dolby Stereo(35mm and 70mm release prints)In Victorian London, the teenage Sherlock Holmes (Nicholas Rowe) and John Watson (Alan Cox) are intrigued by a series of apparently unrelated 'suicides' which lead them to a murderous Egyptian cult operating in the bowels of the city...Enjoyable - though inconsequential - reimagining of Holmes' teenage years, which blends old-fashioned British melodrama with the demands of a US summer blockbuster. Design and cinematography are sumptuous, and the supporting cast (including Freddie Jones, Anthony Higgins, Susan Fleetwood and Roger Ashton-Griffiths) is excellent. Parents of small children are advised that some of the early scenes, in which characters are killed whilst experiencing vivid hallucinations, are genuinely frightening in places. "}]