[{"Title":"To enjoy many times","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very funny film, in my opinion the best Cleese available. Cleese himself always ignores this film when talking about his cinema-work and the title is never mentioned when Cleese's films are named by the critics. It seems, for some vague reason, that there is nothing between Monty Python and 'A Fish called Wanda'. Rubbish, see this one. I also liked 'Fish' the first time around but got bored very soon by repeats. Not this one. Like 'Mr Hulot's Holiday' and 'Gregory's Girl' and film to watch many times. Script scores high in the family's  'citation index'. Nine-twenty Linda... "},{"Title":"Right!  Left?  Right!  No, left!","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A scrupulously punctual headmaster in an English comprehensive school sets off for the Headmaster's Conference to deliver a keynote speech.  One little slip sees him boarding the wrong train, which leads to a chain of consequences conspiring to keep him from his goal.  This is one of the finest farces I've ever seen brought to the screen, written naturally enough by theatre farce-meister Michael Frayn.  The frenetic energy of John Cleese in his prime really lifts this above the norm, as he hitches a ride with a student, bumps into and kidnaps an ex-girlfriend and winds up naked in a monastery.  The climactic scenes at the HMC amount to perhaps the finest pay-off seen in farce.  This is, indeed, a historic moment. "},{"Title":"The Master at Work","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I recall a review in the Washington Post when this film was in theater release. It said something like, If you want to see the master at work, go see this film. I thought that was very fitting. If you like John Cleese's brand of comedy, it's on good display here.In its way, the movie is a simple comedy of errors. Murphy's Law dogs Cleese everywhere he goes. Yet despite the great John Cleese reactions to the never-ending stream of challenges, his character never loses sight of his goals or his integrity. I think that juxtaposition is part of what makes the movie work. Despite all the humiliations and frustrations, the character never forgets that he's doing it all for the sake of his students and his school.  "},{"Title":"One of the most under-rated comedies of all time","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Cleese was at his harried best in this little gem of a movie. Certainly one of the most under-rated films in this genre of all time. Intelligent, (maybe too clever and too British for the Americans at the time of release) extremely funny and a film one can watch over and over without it becoming stale. Cleese's timing is superb and as for his wife and daughter.. an absolute pleasure to observe! "},{"Title":"Impeccably executed British Comedy classic. Timeless.","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are a great many films which are painful in their bland mainstreaminess. And a very few which manage to pull it off, and remain funny to virtually everyone, over a period of several years.This John Cleese vehicle from the mid 1980s manages to fit into the latter category - it is simply such a very well crafted traditional comedy, that it is impossible not to be touched.Here we see Cleese very much in Basil Fawlty mode, as an aspiring head-teacher for whom things just don't run smooth when it really matters.The other classic elements of British Farce are there - major misunderstandings, people getting undresses, well-intentioned old ladies who say the wrong things at the wrong times, and of course Geoffrey Palmer as a straight man.And just a touch of poignant surrealism in the way the final minute leading into the credits is played out, to offset the traditional production values.It's straightforward, and unchallenging, and probably the best film about lateness ever made. High praise indeed, for something so mainstream. "},{"Title":"The secret to knowing who you are is WHERE you are, and WHEN you are","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw this film on its cinema release and thought it a gentle, slightly dated but amusing English comedy. Watching it again last night (it was given out free on DVD with a Sunday newspaper) I realised what a greatly underrated, highly intelligent film it is. In fact I suspect it is a little TOO intelligent for mainstream audiences, which perhaps is why it has never been a blockbuster.What impressed me was the highly philosophical nature of the plot which deals with the artificial nature of timekeeping in modern society.Stimpson suffers from the modern disease of believing that all the problems of life can be solved by the imposition of obsessive man made order and regulation (something our present Government appears to suffer from also) in particular with regards to timekeeping. His whole identity is based on timekeeping and he is unable to relate to anything outside his own worldview. Stimpson is the classic tragic overreacher who doesn't realise that his attempts at control are actually having the opposite effect.The sense of dislocated identity is a recurrent motif in the film. The senile old ladies are not merely there for comic relief - they act as a mirror to Stimpson's own disintegrating sense of self. One of the ladies (the late great Joan Hickson) is stuck in a 'loop' of consciousness relating to sherry glasses, and the other is convinced that she is in the place she has already left, but the third lady, 'aren't we lucky people!' represents the childlike happiness of those who are literally outside time - her polite bewilderment and contented singing at the end of the film as Stimpson is led away underscore this neatly.Other motifs of dislocated identity and location abound. Stimpson drives a car which does not belong to him, and which does not belong to the girl he takes it from, who is also not licensed to use it. It is then driven in a completely random, directionless way across fields ('we don't need the track!')until it has to be rescued by a tractor which Stimpson refuses to see even though he's standing right next to it. (This particular sequence, with the Morris 1100 driving over the fields, has an almost lyrical quality to it, especially to someone who spent most of his childhood holidays in a similar car).Stimpson then spends some time in a monastery, where the characters, like the senile ladies, are outside of time in the conventional sense - almost stuck in the middle ages - again the innocent happiness of those outside time is shown by the monk cheering on Cleese in his chase after the car.Finally Stimpson makes his last ditch attempt to reach the conference in a car stolen from someone who again, does not own it himself, and in a stolen suit which does not fit him which, in a hilarious counterpoint to his own crumbling identity, falls to pieces while he is wearing it.The only thing the film lacks is perhaps a little more background on what changed Stimpson from being a hopeless timekeeper to an obsessive one, and what happened to him after he was caught. "},{"Title":"Minor Classic","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The most surprising things about this minor classic from the mid 80's are that it was director Christopher Morahan's first film since 1969, and Cleese's character is based on a real-life headmaster! John Cleese based the character on the head of his daughter's school, and I can tell you the real life head is just as delightfully nutty as Stimpson.Time obsessed Mr Stimpton, head of an ordinary British state school finds himself chairman of the Headmasters Conference and has to get to Norwich to address their meeting. Everything goes wrong on the way, despite Stimpson's meticulous planning, and due to his obsessive nature he gets more and more frayed at the edges as things go wrong.There are some great observations on human nature in a film which moves quick enough to keep you laughing but not so quick that you miss anything.Not perhaps Cleese's very best work, but a minor classic nevertheless. Generally under-rated as most have already said. Chris Morahan went onto continue his film directors career with the excellent thriller Paper Tiger in 1990, among others. "},{"Title":"Underrated Comedy","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A much underrated comedy detailing the collapse of a stern, disciplinarian headmaster during a chaotic journey to deliver a speech at a convention of snobbish educationists.Cleese begins in a very restrained way and is watchable and funny as he gradually descends into anarchic despondency.  The pathos as he finally delivers his speech, in an ill-fitting (stolen) tasteless outfit, surrounded by the detritus of his dreadful day, is  genuinely moving as well as funny.Best line, from Cleese, as yet another possible means of reaching his goal emerges 'It's not the despair I can cope with the despair.  It's the HOPE - that's what's killing me.'  Almost the perfect motto for Scotland football supporters, you might say.Probably alone in the world, I rate this movie superior to the overly foul-mouthed and Americanised Fish Called Wanda.  A host of grizzled British character actors, including the magnificent Alison Steadman, keep things going.I wonder what happened to the sherry glasses? "},{"Title":"See this Ealing comedy for the '80s if you ever get the chance","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The secret of this comedy is its pacing. It shows the events of one working day in the lives of a range of people from schoolchildren to pensioners, whose course is hilariously skewed for them all by the obsession of the film's central character.  It uses a traditional obsessive tunnel vision strategy of comedy - a character's failure to see the chaos he is causing in the lives of those who are unlucky enough to lie in the path between him and his goal.Alison Steadman plays the sassy schoolgirl who does everything she can to help her headteacher achieve this obsession, tearing him between his drive for the peak of respectability orthodoxy and her less than respectable means to achieve this goal. The comic tension between the unlikely pair seems a hilarious pastiche of the sexual tension in most hero + heroine situations.Americans may not immediately recognise the small-town England setting, which gives it a tone of Ealing comedy, but the film should greatly amuse viewers from any background. "},{"Title":"I Can Take the Despair. It's the Hope I Can't Stand.","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In Clockwise John Cleese plays a character who has much in common with Basil Fawlty from the television series Fawlty Towers. Like the manic Torquay hotelier, Brian Stimpson is a control-freak who finds his own life going out of control. The headmaster of a small-town comprehensive school, he is a stickler for discipline, with a particular obsession with punctuality. He is the sort of man who knows the school timetable off by heart; upon seeing a pupil idling about the school he can instantly tell that pupil exactly what lesson he or she should be attending at that precise moment. (The school is, in an in-joke, named after the famous English clockmaker Thomas Tompion).Stimpson is disliked by his pupils and staff, who see him as authoritarian and patronising, but he is evidently held in high regard by the wider teaching profession, because he has been elected Chairman of the prestigious Headmasters' Conference. The film tells the story of what occurs on the day on which Stimpson is due to address the annual meeting of the Conference in Norwich. Things start to go wrong when, due to his misunderstanding what he is told by a ticket-collector at the station, he finds himself on the wrong train and ends up missing the train he should have caught. Told that there will not be another train to Norwich for several hours, he decides to make the journey by road and returns home, only to find that his wife has taken the car. He meets Laura, one of his sixth-form pupils, and in desperation persuades her to drive him on the 163-mile journey to Norwich. A further chain of misunderstandings leads to them being pursued across the English countryside by the police, by Laura's parents (who suspect that their daughter is having an affair with her headmaster) and by his wife (who suspects the same thing). On the way they kidnap a former girlfriend of Stimpson's whom they meet by accident, drive the car into a field and get stuck, find themselves in a monastery and, in their desperation to get to Norwich on time, end up holding up a passing motorist in order to steal his clothes, his money and his car.The film's central joke is that a man who is so obsessed with punctuality should find himself running very late in his attempts to get to the most important meeting of his life. Although Stimpson is the sort of man that most people would automatically dislike if we were to meet him in real life, Cleese manages to arouse a certain sympathy for his character, whose sense of panic arises from a sense that he is the victim of circumstances, that the entire universe is united in a vast conspiracy to prevent him from fulfilling what should have been a relatively simple task. His desperation is increased by the remote possibility that he might just be able to get to Norwich on time. (It's not the despair, Laura. I can take the despair. It's the hope I can't stand). There can be few of us who have not had, at some time or other, a similar feeling.Although the film is sometimes described as a farce, that word should not be taken as implying that it is a purely mechanical comedy; character also plays an important part. Fortunately, Cleese is not only a very good technical comedian- his timing in this film is superb- but also a very good character actor. (A gift shared by another ex-Python, Michael Palin). Cleese also receives good support from the rest of the cast, particularly from Alison Steadman as his long-suffering wife Gwenda and Sharon Maiden as the wild and headstrong Laura, for whom driving her headmaster cross-country is a much more interesting way of spending her day than a few hours of boring lessons.The film is not quite in the same class as Palin's two great post-Python comedies, The Missionary and A Private Function. For most of the time it is very funny indeed; for most of the first hour and a bit I was laughing out loud. (Remarkably, my wife was too- normally she loathes the Pythons and all their works). Unfortunately, the scriptwriter Michael Frayn was unable to maintain this sense of comic invention to the end. The story needed some dazzling twist to finish on, but instead it fizzles out rather tamely and the last quarter of an hour or so, after Stimpson finally arrives at the Conference, is rather disappointing after what has gone before. Nevertheless, this is still one of the better British comedies of the eighties; I certainly prefer it to the overrated A Fish Called Wanda. 7/10 "}{"Title":"one of the best comedies ever","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think Clockwise has been underrated. This movie is certainly not less funny than the much more famous Fish called Wanda.  John Cleese plays an outstanding role as the extremely time conscious headmaster. Very good are also Alison Steadman, as the headmaster's wife, and Sharon Maiden as Laura, his travel companion. "},{"Title":"Fun bit of fluff","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The next time that you're in the mood for some undemanding fun, this might be a good film to watch.  This movie was certainly no laugh riot, but it did consistently keep a smile on my face.  Probably the largest reason for me liking this film was John Cleese, who once again shows what a gifted comedic actor he is.  Without him, I have little doubt that the film would have been somewhat less charming, because it really is little more than a one joke movie.  But when the joke is on John Cleese, you know he'll give you a reason to smile.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious John Cleese farce","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Anything featuring the immense talents of John Cleese is automatically worth seeing, and this eighties comedy is certainly no exception. Aside from the great john Cleese, this film benefits from a great number of other positives, including a finely worked script; that manages to stay realistic and down to Earth despite the highly unlikely nature of much of the plot, and the highly farcical nature of many of the events; which bode extremely well with the lead star, as Cleese finds himself in his element in the role of the strict headmaster. Indeed, the major reason why this film works so well is down to the former Monty Python star, as he blunders his way through the film and somehow manages to retain and air of authority while doing so. The comedy styling is one of it can't get any worse!, and it continually does; as constantly punctual headteacher, Brian Stimpson, finds himself in a world of trouble after missing the train to Norwich, where he is set to make a speech to a meeting of the best headmasters in the country. After acquiring the services of one of his sixth form pupils, he gets back on track to Norwich; but not without a number of problems.The comedy comes by way of both gags, and the plot itself, which always manages to garner a laugh or two due to its superbly silly nature. Cleese is joined by a number of British stars, who all do well in their respective roles. Sharon Maiden stands out as Cleese's travel companion for much of the film; and somehow manages to look cute despite a truly awful hairstyle. Smaller British stars such as Pete Walker's muse, Sheila Keith, Alison Steadman and Eastenders' John Bardon, who would go on to star as Jim Branning in said soap opera help to liven up the supporting cast. The film does feel typically eighties, but stays away from the more silly side of the decade's cinema and many of the jokes bend more towards the intellectual side. The film is in very good humour throughout, and therefore offers an enjoyable time for its audience. Seeing John Cleese deliver an assembly towards the start will no doubt remind anyone that was schooled in England of that time, and Clockwise does a very good job of presenting it's plot and setting. Overall, this film comes highly recommended to anyone that enjoys fun films. "},{"Title":"Minor Classic Indeed","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Glad to see this film is building up a fan-base. Any references I've come across in film guides have been pretty dismissive, and it seems to have been rubbished on its release. I think minor classic is the perfect description for it it's so pleasantly low-key, restrained and, well, English. It respects the tradition of farce and, despite the frenetic pace and the subject matter, retains a kind of gentle, even staid appeal. The race to get to the conference might be nail-biting but the sleepy English countryside, the apple-eating farmer, the scene of John Cleese soaking in a bath-tub, evoke a world of endearing laziness. A film for bank holidays, and perhaps more suited to TV than the cinema. A Fish Called Wanda has funnier moments but, on the whole, I think I prefer this.Interesting that so many people have said they can watch it again and again. I've seen it four or five times and I'm planning on buying it on my way home from work today, then watching it over dinner. Don't know what made me think of it and look it up. Actually I saw it being given away free with a newspaper last week, that must be it. I wasn't going to add to a tabloid's circulation, though. "},{"Title":"Murphy was right, don't try to deny it!","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Murphy, whoever he was, said in his eponymous law that whatever can go wrong will go wrong. Clockwise proves that to be true. Brian Stimpson (John Cleese) is a headmaster on his way to a meeting, but one thing goes wrong after another. Quite literally any bad thing that you can come up with, that is happening to him. I wanted to pity him, but I preferred to laugh. You can't not laugh while watching Clockwise. It's not exactly Monty Python-style humor, but it's still a hoot. It's the sort of situation where you think Oh no...oh yes. I think that it's safe to say that John Cleese will never get stale. As long as you're not religious, you'll really like the scene at the church. "},{"Title":"Cleesey","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked this film but in my opinion not the best Cleese film ever. But nevertheless a good film. At first set in a normal british school, that most of us Brits will remember. John Cleese plays a headmaster and everything goes perfect and correct until everything goes wrong.Rating Three Stars out of Five "},{"Title":"This...is a historic moment.","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Having known my share of stuffed shirts, I was howling at the torture of John Cleese in this film.  You know who all those stuffed shirts are, too  those who insist on a spotless, shiny, tidy room; who balance out their finances every day, it seems; who have carved a nice manageable life for themselves. What makes the comedy work, though, is that in spite of all the setbacks Cleese suffers, the movie doesn't take any sadistic delight in them.  When the car, and Cleese, gets stuck in the mud, we all cringe at his predicament, and laugh along with him, since we'd probably be going through the same thing ourselves, but for the grace of God. No toilet humor, no toilet language.  Just a madcap comedy of errors fit for all. Right! "},{"Title":"Amiable fun.","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Clockwise is no classic comedy; make no mistake there. But it is a very watchable one, largely thanks to a fair plot and script often greatly elevated by the marvellous John Cleese. It never really loses as much steam as I thought it might, and contains a fine scene where Cleese attempts to deliver his speech - Expatiate over weighty balls of matter! Apart from that speech, nothing raised a huge guffaw; but much was gently amusing. Certainly worth watching, if lacking in real wit. There are just too many hapless onlookers' reactions shown to generate laughs, that is a mark of a less-than-inspired comedy, but Cleese gives a fine, Fawlty-esque performance, that will impress all. Rating- *** 1/2 (out of *****) "},{"Title":"A film for dutiful Englishmen and Swedes","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I read  comment from John Cleese where he said that the only countries where this film was successful were Sweden and England. Countries with many dutiful people and where the time is very important. 15 minutes late arrival to a meeting is a catastrophe in Sweden. If you are late to a movie you will be sure to here some annoying comments. This film is about a headmaster who is a timefreak. On his way to a important meeting in Norwich, he takes the wrong train and the catastrophe is a fact. Or...? Very funny, one of my favourite comedies of all time. "},{"Title":"Cleese at his best","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you're a fan of John Cleese and good old-fashioned British comedy then there's a good chance you will like Clockwise. It's an endearing film with a simple premise and witty script. I liked the fact it was filmed on location as it opens a little window into life in 1985. Check out the old red telephone boxes that were symbolic of Britain at the time! Cleese is excellent as is the supporting cast including three actors who starred in Fawlty Towers. I didn't enjoy Clockwise around the time it was released but now as I have got older and started to appreciate old British comedy more it ranks as one of my all time favourite comedies of all time. "}{"Title":"Brilliant, subtle and complex period piece","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This came on TV whilst I was ill, and I found myself laughing uncontrollably at points. It's probably the best ever analysis of the finer points of the tight-arse institutionalised anxiety that so many of us grew up with in the UK in the 50's/60's. That makes it very subtle and complex It may not travel well, but if you get one half of the richness of the references and cultural idioms being spoofed here, you'll appreciate what a glorious, authentic, intelligent, finely nuanced romp it is. Encapsulate all this in a Monsieur Hulot's Greek Tragedy high paced idiom, and it's a classic. Wanda is Chardonnay. This is fine burgundy. If you want a lot of fun getting to know why anybody would be silly enough to call a private school a public school, dive in, because this one is right on the button! "},{"Title":"Better then a fish called wanda","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Clockwise has got to be the most underrated film in movie history i watched it last night and i was laughing so hard till red in the face. John Cleese is Mr stimpson who has to leave for norwich to a teachers school conference but ends up geting on the wrong train and from there it gets bad to worse but i don't want to tell the whole film in case no one watched this film. Do love the telephone box when he is smashing it up but anyway thats about it for me. Clockwise is sure a classic and i thought its better then A Fish Called Wanda giving this film 10/10  "},{"Title":"Parochial, but nonetheless funny British farce","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A road movie in which the bloated pomposity of an English headteacher is systematically punctured by a series of unforeseen events. It's essentially a one-trick concept film for the talents of Cleese it might even be said that it's Fawlty Towers, The Movie, complete as it is with ill-matched wife and with the same car as driven by Basil Fawlty. It's a well-weighted film and it's little surprise to find that the script is by Michael Frayn (whose most famous film adaptation to date is the farce Noises Off with Michael Caine). It's a great film for 'where are they now' (or perhaps 'what they were there, then!?') spotting. Naturally though the film is Cleese's property and although the shtick is familiar he does seem to put it on the big screen unselfconsciousnessly. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Classic Cleese.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A wonderful snowball of a comedy featuring misdirection, mismanagement, misunderstandings, missed opportunities, missing persons; but don't miss a minute of it.Find out how the right word, wrongly placed can change a man's life and lead to a wonderful series of 'Cleesic' catastrophies. "},{"Title":"ENJOYABLE, HECTIC COMEDY!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    I've never really been a big fan of John Cleese as I haven't seen much of the stuff he's done in the past, but I liked him in this movie. Basically, headmaster Brian Stimpson (Cleese) has to get to Norwich for a very important and historical teachers' conference and, because of one silly mistake of getting on the wrong train because he misheared an instruction, he's left up the creek without a paddle! Throughout the movie we see John Cleese hurling from one disaster to another and taking drastic measures to not be late for this important event. The film is very 'slapsticky' in places and also damn funny in places too. As for the storyline (it's not so good), but the scripts work well with plenty of gags and funny, lighthearted moments. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Laugh a minute stuff","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  John Cleese is his usual mad-cap self in this great little comedy. I suppose you could describe it as Britain's answer to Planes, Trains and Automobiles with a dash of 'Basil Fawlty's' stupidity thrown in for good measure. I must have seen this film over 10 times and it loses none of its humour. An under rated film which deserves more recognition.  "},{"Title":"Charmingly effective and winning British comedy.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I imagine I saw this first on cable, because I have never been a fan of John Cleese, Monty Python, or Fawlty Towers (not one of the better Britcoms, in my opinion).  But I had to buy it because I like it so much.  It is charming in the understated British manner of films such as Only Two Can Play and so many others of that genre.  I only wish the average Brit could know how very much so many Americans love their movies, whether it's a John Cleese comedy or Dirk Bogarde in The Servant.  I have been making a point of seeing British (and other foreign) films since I first discovered them in my early teens with Doctor in the House, which I was introduced to on a group date, followed by Doctor at Sea and Carry on Nurse and on and on and on.  If only Hollywood was producing similar films today.  Good, clean comedies with great scripts seem to have petered out since the '70s and '80s, when Hollywood managed to produce such quality comedies as Into the Night, American Dreamer, Making Mr. Right, Just Tell Me What You Want, etc.  Now it's all scatological, adolescent-level, unfunny smut.  (Not to mention the entertainment industry trend all Hollywood and American TV seems to have adopted lately  gratuitously simulating the killing or maiming of animals in a sick attempt at humor.  I do not watch movies that abuse animals in this way and turn off the TV if it starts to happen while I'm watching.  There is nothing funny in promoting the injury or deaths of innocent animals because writers lack imagination.  Sorry for the editorial, but this is a very sore point with me.)  Anyway, Clockwise is subtle, charming, pastoral, and funny and I highly recommend it.     "},{"Title":"The Fawltys' long-lost cousin of a film","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Somewhere between the success of Fawlty Towers and A Fish Called Wanda, came Clockwise - a film about a Basil Fawlty-esque headmaster who is obsessed with time-keeping, yet finds himself increasing late for an important meeting in Norwich.Seeing as it was released between the two masterpieces, it's fitting that it sits between the two in terms of enjoyment. It sort of leans in and out of the other two, borrowing a little of each's style, but never quite matching either. Cleese is now called Brian Stimpson, but is basically Basil doing a different job, so you have him performing as Basil, yet on the big screen. Plus it's possibly the most bleak of all Cleese's projects.It's easy to see why Clockwise was never as much of a global hit as the other two. Fawlty Towers delighted in showing up English eccentricity, whereas A Fish Called Wanda was designed to appeal to an Anglo-American audience. Clockwise has a distinctly British feel to it, therefore, only people of a certain age will truly get it (my young daughter watched it and simply said 'Why don't they just use their mobile phones?' - ahh, to grow up in the 21st Century!).If you're a fan of Fawlty Towers and possibly the much under-rated Fierce Creatures, then you should definitely give this a go. You probably won't like it as much as all Cleese's other projects, but it should raise a few chuckles here and there (plus watch out for the many Fawlty Towers cameos!). "},{"Title":"Great little farce","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" CLOCKWISE is an all-but-forgotten movie, a low budget and extremely British-feeling farce in which John Cleese, a man who's a stickler for being on time, struggles to get to an appointment. Set over the course of a single day, it has an extremely simplistic narrative, and yet it's still one of my favourite comedies ever.Whether you like this film or not really depends on your sense of humour, as this is very British-feeling throughout (unlike A FISH CALLED WANDA, which ably mixed American and British tastes). Given that he's virtually in every scene, whether you like this or not depends on whether you're a fan of Cleese. Personally, I think he's a comic genius, and his character here - a riff on Basil from FAWLTY TOWERS - is sheer brilliance.To say too much more would be to spoil things, suffice to say that the story is so well crafted that there's nary a slow moment and the laughs come thick and fast, mixing good old-fashioned slapstick comedy with character humour and repeated tropes which build up to a mantra come the climax. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"#He who would valiant be# *personal top 100*","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" No other movie reminds me more that we need to laugh at life from time to time (maybe 'most' of the time). It's a farce, based on the premise that a normally rigidly time-keeping Headmaster struggles to get to a conference on time when thing after thing goes wrong. It is more than this, though it now stands as a beautifully nostalgic and comical look at the 80s, including an average British secondary school in the 80s. Anybody who has taught in one of those would say they were often far from 'comical', but when viewed from afar we see that life indeed is a comedy. The script alone would be amusing, but here we see how character drives it the talents of John Cleese make it positively hilarious.You probably need to be British - and a Cleese fan - to enjoy it fully. There are so many set-pieces unique to this eccentric, at times ridiculous but just about lovable nation (then, at least). From the hymn sung in school assembly, to the mannered police officers, to the dysfunctional red telephone boxes, to the countryside itself - even a monastery (In a monastery??). On a serious note I have to ask if, today, we would laugh so easily at the concept of a 6th-former being in a relationship with a teacher? Perhaps now 'Laura' is one of those who are bringing criminal charges in hindsight, 25 years later? Okay, not funny. No, wait, come on - it is! "}{"Title":"Solid and very funny farce","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A very fun film, despite the flaws, that is great fun to watch on multiple viewings. While I did find the film's structure occasionally episodic, the pacing sometimes a little too fast and the direction a tad on the leisurely side, it is a hugely enjoyable farce. The chief element that makes it so is the performance of John Cleese, his comic timing assures yet another really funny performance. He has been better but he is still the John Cleese I know and love. Sharon Maiden assists him well too, she really stands out among the cast who all do more than acceptably. The script is inspired and the sight gags are even better, the soundtrack is good and the camera work is fine. The film is typically 1980s, and that is not a bad thing, quite the contrary. While flawed, it is solid and very funny as a farce. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A car?  Was it a Cortina or an 1100?","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is an absolutely underrated, classic British comedy. I've always had a soft spot for this movie and am glad that others seem to share this sentiment. It also doubles as a showcase for John Cleese, whom you will see here in an, as I think, far more complex and likable role than as Basil Fawlty in Fawlty Towers.In the DVD extra you can see Cleese wondering why this movie didn't fly in the USA, when several years later other typically British movies such as The Full Monty were roaring successes there. Good question. For one I think that US audiences simply don't care for the perils of an English headmaster, whereas a bunch of good-natured social dropouts doing something outrageous has much more universal appeal. I think that Clockwise's main problem in this department is however that it lacks international star power -- maybe if they had given the part of Laura to Julia Roberts or Michelle Pfeiffer, things might have turned out differently. As it is I think the producers made an excellent choice in Sharon Maiden, who is playing her very difficult role excellently. Too bad we didn't see more of her afterwards.I think this was an 8-pointer but I'm giving it 9 points just because it's such a darn likable movie. "},{"Title":"I liked the movie","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you like angry John Cleese and frustrated John Cleese then you will like the movie, I did. There are some scenes-- like the mix-up at the train station involving the word right, the mangling of the phone, and the stealing of the clothes--that are very funny. Overall, very watchable.  "},{"Title":"Clockwise","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After watching bits and pieces of this film on a number of occasions, I finally sat down and watched this movie, and I have to say it was wonderful. As someone who was born in the early-80s, much of the decade remains a blur to me, but the mix of a Grange Hill-style school and a typically active Cleese performance for me, makes this a classic British comedy and helps to illustrate the world I grew up in. From the moment go, pupils and passers-by appear to hate Cleese and when finally some love comes his way in the form of Pat, he is quick to throw it back in her face and drive her (literally!) to insanity inside a typically drab car! The plot - which sees Cleese race against time to get to Norwich - is very on edge in a British kind of way. It 's not on edge in terms of a film like Speed or Lethal Weapon, but its on edge in a format that only a British film could be - the fact that a silly meeting appears to mean the world to this man. A great production, which should receive the same recognition as A Fish Called Wanda. "},{"Title":"Go Left, Right? Go Right? No go left, right?","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i watched this on TV back when i was in P7, one Sunday evening, and i loved it, it was a real funny comedy and you'll never guess what, i found the DVD in my brothers room and i'm gonna watch it tonight, can't wait!The film is basically about a man whose is on a journey to a meeting but is continuously stopped by various things that occur (going in the wrong direction, going through a field e.t.c....) but he eventually gets there in the end.Overall i enjoyed this film when i was 11, lets see if tonight i will still enjoy it as much... "},{"Title":"Sporadically funny and very much carried by Cleese","Date":"31 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Brian Stimpson (John Cleese)is an uptight headmaster who likes everything and everyone to run like clockwork. He is due to attend a conference in Norwich, but unfortunately this seemingly straight forward trip proves to be anything but this and Stimpson finds himself facing setback after setback.Whilst watching Clockwise, I couldn't help but feel that I was basically watching a feature-length episode of Fawlty Towers. This, in part, is down to Cleese's portrayal of Stimpson which he plays in a very similar manner to Basil Fawlty in Fawlty Towers. If you think about it the plot elements and scenarios that Stimpson faces aren't too dissimilar to Fawlty Towers - Stimpson, like Fawlty, is generally well-meaning, but ends up finding himself in fairly precarious situations more often not through basic misunderstandings. There's nothing wrong with any of this per se, but if you draw comparisons with Fawlty Towers (which it's almost impossible not to do if you've watched that series) then this film comes off as not being as well written or as funny. That's not to say that it isn't funny because it is, but it's only sporadically funny and isn't a laugh riot or ROFL funny.Cleese is excellent in this film - whether he's playing it straight as the uptight head master or resorting to blind panic in the latter parts of the film it generally works and I found him to be funny in both respects. I also thought that the late John Bardon was great fun in a minor role as a train station guard. There were other performances that weren't so great; I thought that Sharon Maiden was rather bland and wooden (It's no surprise that she didn't have a great career after this film was made). Steadman has become reliable in later years, but I didn't think she was great in this film (although in fairness she wasn't given much to work with).Clockwise is a film that I would recommend watching, but it isn't a laugh riot and is only sporadically funny. To be honest, I thought it started to run out of steam towards the end. As I've mentioned, Cleese is excellent and really carries the film and it's worth watching for his performance alone. "},{"Title":"Cleese makes it worth the while so, if you like him you'll be OK but if not this isn't worth bothering with","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Headmaster Brian Stimpson has built his reputation on being organised and running his school on a tight schedule organised right down to the minute. Such is the success of this approach that he has been elected the chairman of the Headmaster's Association and is due to give a speech to the association in Norwich. A simple mix up over right and left sees him miss his train and also miss a lift from his wife. A chance encounter with one of his sixth form in a car sees him able to beg a lift from her but that only causes more panic and confusion with his wife and the girl's parents assuming that he is in a relationship with her. Meanwhile on the road how eventful can a simple drive of less than 200 miles be?With John Cleese playing the sort of character he is well known for you pretty much know what you're going to get here in this precursor to Planes, Trains & Automobiles. The narrative arch sees us establishing the strictly organised Stimpson before then spending the rest of the film gradually putting him through increasingly comic blunders and delays as he tries to get to his destination on time. It is nothing that special or clever and the events are never that unexpected or imaginative. Personally I rarely laughed out loud but was reasonably amused by it throughout. Morahan's direction is pretty by-the-numbers and his touch is too obvious to be of much help.Cleese is the whole show and it is down to his playing that the film is worth even looking at. Sure his performance is not a million miles from characters he has played before but he is still good. His timing and awareness of his own absurdity helps the material. The rest fall in behind him but mostly the film is all about him and he is rarely offscreen. Overall then an average comedy that is more or less what you expect but should do enough to amuse if not have you roaring with laughter. Cleese makes it worth the while so, if you like him you'll be OK but if not this isn't worth bothering with. "},{"Title":"Lateness is a discourtesy to  others.......","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you are ever late or have got to be there for a certain time, and yes you are organised, (Brain Stimpson) Then this is the film for you. At the school where he is the headmaster, you cannot do anything wrong, or bully anyone, as he can see everything! This is the ideal school for all children, place the headmaster very high up, give him some powerful binoculars, and a good p.a. System glass windows all around his office, and you have got yourself, a very good surveillance system. Right, or is it left? the train is for 1025 for Norwich, he asks a very famous ticket collector (John Bardon) now Jim Branning in Eastenders,  Are we on time today? the ticket collector says to him, Norwich on the left Mr Stimpson then gets on the wrong train the 1027 to Plymouth! then it all starts to go wrong. he leaves his speech paper, on the train, he hijacks Laura just as she is pulling out of her parent's driveway, in a Morris 1100 car, They go to a hospital to find his wife, they then fill the car up with petrol and he does not pay for it, and so on, But he arrives on time 1700 for his funny, but different speech! All in All a very good Brirish all round film, Some of this film, was filmed in Grimsby, I also like the Music! in the film. I also like his right, you over there, 920!! when you misbehave in the playground! for example, he says, Don't run Sharon Seeds, 920 by the end of the morning, at 915, there is a long Que to see him in his office! I really enjoy this good British Film, by Thorn E.M.I. John Cleese is a very good actor and a funny man. Remember Fawlty Towers ? in this film he does behave very Basil like in the scenes with the phones. when the money runs out. "},{"Title":"Pretty nice but certainly not as hilarious as I expected","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The basic idea of Clockwise was very promising. John Cleese playing a wacky principal with senseless obsession of being always right on time sounded good. Nightmare begins when he accidentally misses his train and suddenly all of his schedules are worthless. Knowing how spectacular comedian John Cleese is, plot indicated that movie could provide lots of fun. When I started to watch Clockwise I was looking for either highly anarchistic humor in the spirit of Monty Python or John Cleese's some kind of a second coming as Basil Fawlty. Clockwise turned out be much more tranquil comedy. It didn't contain that crazy Python-type of a humor I was after and Brian Stimpson isn't quite the good-old Basil Fawlty. If John Cleese is your thing, you should still definitely watch Clockwise because it's far from being bad but just don't expect too much from it. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cleese is at his best.","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Pleasant and funny, if not uproarious, comedy is an ideal vehicle for the legendary John Cleese. He plays Brian Stimpson, the strict, demanding headmaster of a private school. His big character detail is that he lives life by the clock. Everything must be done when it is scheduled to be done. Therefore, it becomes an unending headache for him when everything goes wrong while he is on his way to speak at a headmasters' conference. Before the day is over, he'll have the cops after him, he'll enjoy some R & R at a monastery, he'll hitch a ride with Laura Wisely (Sharon Maiden), one of his students, and he'll hook up with an old acquaintance, Pat (Penelope Wilton).This enjoyable little effort seems somewhat forgotten when one looks at Cleeses' career. Therefore it could use some more exposure. Seeing that it takes place over the course of one day, it's paced pretty well, and everybody in the cast gets into the spirit of the thing. Young Maiden is appealing as Laura, and the top notch British cast also includes Stephen Moore, Alison Steadman, Joan Hickson, Pat Keen, Sheila Keith, Tony Haygarth, and Geoffrey Palmer. Cleese is perfect as the anal retentive, somewhat uptight person who gradually loosens up, a la Steve Martin in Planes, Trains & Automobiles. And just like that other film, there is a certain lunacy in what can only be described as a comic nightmare. Things just keep getting worse for Stimpson, and you can't help but feel bad for him while also chuckling at these misadventures.The ending is not all that satisfying, but getting there is still fun.Seven out of 10. "}{"Title":"What's Wrong With Watching Clocks?","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Cleese plays Brian Stimpson, an efficient headmaster at an English school who, while on his way to a conference where he is to deliver a speech, misses his train, which launches him into an escalating series of misadventures as he desperately tries to reach the conference, no matter what...John Cleese is quite funny as the clock watching schoolmaster, and features a good cast of familiar British actors, but film is not all that funny really, being a one-joke premise stretched out to feature-length. Also, unlike Cleese's more famous character(Basil Fawlty from Fawlty Towers) Stimpson isn't really that bad, and doesn't deserve these calamities, which seem mean-spirited. "},{"Title":"Anti-Clockwise","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Brian Stimpson, a stern and (newly) punctual headmaster of a comprehensive school in England is chosen as chairman of the Headmaster's Conference in Norwich. He misses his 1025 train however and, thus, a manic dash ensues so that the 5 o'clock start begins on schedule.Let me please continue by saying that I am from Great Britain, I am a big fan of Ealing comedies of the 40's and 50's ('The Titfield Thunderbolt' being my personal favourite) and I also love Monty Python. But my problem with 'Clockwise' is, while it isn't a bad movie, it doesn't give possibly our greatest physical comedian, John Cleese, good enough material to make us laugh hard enough. When compared to the Ealing comedies I simply don't think this movie is nowhere near up to the standard of those movies.It irritated me quite badly, during the second half especially, when our leading man appears in a monastery quite inexplicably, in which the laughs seem to fall off the radar and the viewer possibly begins to lose interest.Cleese is a brilliant comedian... check out 'Fawlty Towers', or 'Monty Python's Flying Circus' but the lamentable material he is given here isn't up to scratch and does not show him at his full potential.Like I said, not a bad movie (in my opinion), but a disappointing one. "},{"Title":"Even Cleese can't make this movie a memorable one.","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Clockwise is a very forgettable movie with only one plus and that one plus is comical genius John Cleese. Even though Cleese makes this movie definitely a watchable one, he can't help to make this movie to be a memorable one. This is not Cleese's fault but the fault of director Christopher Morahan, who obviously isn't the director with the most talent in the business.The movie is very simply made and relies too much on the presence of Cleese. The rest of the characters, who definitely had some comical potential are ignored at too many points in the movie and therefore become completely unnecessary, distracting and perhaps even annoying, especially the three old ladies.Also the technical aspects of the movie are disappointing. The camera work is awfully simple and the camera positions are just plain bad at times.The story really isn't that bad and had quite some potential, however director Christopher Morahan didn't used the nice comical script to the maximum. The end result is a still watchable but certainly not memorable or recommendable comedy-movie. The movie has some laughs and it does has it moments but still it is a somewhat disappointing movie. Perhaps only true Cleese fans will find some joy in watching this movie but I'm sure that even they will be disappointed with this movie. As a Cleese fan you are of course way better of watching Fawlty Towers or the movie A Fish Called Wanda.You are better of watching another comical movie, still the movie is a watchable one for on a rainy afternoon.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"comment","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" John Cleese mentions a teacher during the the first few minutes of the movie, it is the line when the teacher is confused regard which class room she is in, the a male teacher walks in John punches something in on a BBC Computer (these where computers used in most Sandwell schools during the 80's) and mentions the name Peter Styles and the gives the teacher the correct room. This names is real teacher in Sandwell. Mr Styles worked a Manor High School know Manor High foundation school in Wednesbury in the information technology department, which is a 1mile away from Menzies high school where clockwise was filmed. The road John took when leave Menzies was Marsh lane in West Bromwich. "},{"Title":"Poorly executed and excruciatingly slow.","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Before I start I just want to say that I'm a *massive* fan of Cleese and virtually all of his work, from his acting performances to his work behind the camera. I'm very fond of so much of his filmography, from the Python series and films, to A Fish Called Wanda to Fierce Creatures and of course, the near perfect Fawlty Towers.Because of this, I was recommended Clockwise.I was expecting a feature-length symphony of chaos and Cleese-humour; Fawlty Towers, but given a budget and a 100 minute run time to wreak havoc for Cleese's character.However, Clockwise is anything but.The biggest problem with the film is its pacing. It is almost unbelievably slow. Of course, a slow buildup is often a benefit in such comedies; the story and circumstances slowly burn towards a riotous explosion of comedy, like Fawlty Towers has so often done. But in those instances, the slowness worked because we were always aware of the threat, of the tension, of the promise of what trouble is bubbling below the surface. In the case of this film however, I was bored almost to the point of turning off the movie.Clockwise features entire scenes where characters do essentially nothing, or engage in so-called 'antics' that are virtually free of tension, suspense or humour. The scenes in the monastery, in the country fields, in the phone box or by the side of the road completely drain the film's energy. The very point of the movie is for us to feel the importance of every second tick by, to race against time, to be terrified of the prospect of being late--of missing the engagement. However, although Cleese's character is set up to be bordering on near obsession with these things, by the midway point he has seemingly abandoned these qualities and drifts through the film, even remarking that he doesn't care anymore. This character trait change is completely unprecedented, and makes no sense, to say nothing of how it drains the film of drama and comedy. I won't even touch on the bizarre and absurd sequence in which Cleese and his student take another man into the woods to steal his clothes by offering sex. It's barely usable in theory, and in execution, the scene is utterly groan-inducing.The second major problem refers to the characters themselves and the way the film handles them. An entire slew of supporting characters are introduced (badly and uninterestingly), each of them supposedly being set up to antagonise and confound Cleese when he finally arrives. After we spend the whole film slowly and numbingly reaching Cleese's engagement, these characters are virtually forgotten, merely wandering into his speech session to distract him for a moment before being seated. The explosion of comedy and awkward confrontation, as was done so marvelously in A Fish Called Wanda, Fierce Creatures and Fawlty Towers, never occurs at all. The film's climax barely even occurs, and when it does, it's merely signposted by Cleese giving a bizarrely disjointed speech; a scene which doesn't seem to know whether it's suggesting that Cleese has lost his mind, or is merely winging it. Frankly, at this point, I didn't care. The subplots and ultimate conclusion of the story are never resolved. The film simply stops. Having Cleese's character no longer caring is fine, but this fact is never properly established.Finally, the performances are either painful or boring. Everyone but Cleese seems to have turned their 'annoying-stereotype' meter up to eleven, screeching, whining and giggling in the most absurd ways. Meanwhile, Cleese himself plays the film surprisingly straight and subdued, barely every reaching his trademark levels of Basil Fawlty hysteria. This, despite the fact that he finds himself in situations that would make Fawlty collapse in agony. Naturally, I understand that we are dealing with different characters here, but since the film which to such arduous lengths in the first act to set up Cleese's neurosis, the fact that he sleepwalks through the rest of the film is genuinely bizarre.Ultimately, Clockwise is incredibly disappointing, and, despite the apparent love of it in certain circles, I feel should be avoided at all costs.It's begging for a remake to inject some tension, suspense and genuine comedy into this simple concept. "},{"Title":"Not so funny comedy, yet with morals, oh what a a shame","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Sadly this comedy misfires, although still makes for a quite watchable film, where we really get a kick of seeing Cleese's day get worse, all for being a stickler for time, where there are a few underlying messages under it's premise. As a comedy the film fatally suffers, coming at a few dead stop of laughs. It's really fails here, a real fatal blow, considering the fine cast, yet still as I said, it is quite an adventure to say the least. When I say John Cleese is a stickler for time, I mean it. In one of what I consider his best performances, among others, like in A Fish Called Wanda, he plays headmaster, Brian Stimpson, who's been invited to a headmaster's conference, regarding getting special funding to improve his not so special college, or something like that as I can recall. Mistake is he gets on the wrong train for misinterpreting a direction, which now comes as an old joke, again used at the end of the film, resulting in a car smash. Driven to extremes, Cleese, is forced to borrow a student's car, as well as steal one. He loses it with a payphone, accidentally backs into another vehicle, while also bathing and getting scrubbed up in a monastery, after his suit gets caked with mud. The free spirited tractor guy, I'll never forget. By the end of the film, Clockwise becomes quite serious and not so a comedy, which it was only a half comedy to begin with. It's really a shame here, but I still like the movie, where I know John Cleese plays a heavy part, in my liking for it. It's just so great, to see him lose it. "},{"Title":"Whats Down Doc","Date":"26 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A typical one joke scene movie where the audience (whether they be British or American) will find empty laughs. Unlike A fish Called Wanda, a true classic with real characters, Clockwise has empty people who are never developed throughout the story. Like a rolling stone, the story drags more and more characters towards the film's conclusion. However, there is no climax as none of the characters evolve or have any resolution. The plot falls short with no moral or closure. With that said, if this was just a roller coaster ride for just laughs, where were the jokes? Clockwise has moments of a story and comedy, but it is not a comical story. The bulk of the movie falls on the shoulders of John Cleese, who does a good job, but has nothing to work with. If the movie was shot in only a few days with a limited budget, then I would say this was a fine attempt of a British comedy. However, when it is compared to anything decent in the last 20 years, you can in no way consider this a masterpiece, a classic, or even a good comedy. "},{"Title":"lukewarm comedy of errors","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Few comedians are more adept at demonstrating flustered composure than Monty Python alumnus John Cleese, starring here as a meticulously punctual headmaster whose dignity and schedule are thrown out of whack when he misses the train to an important conference. The escalating absurdity of his efforts to arrive on time may lack the momentum and manic edge of classic screwball comedy, but the film ambles politely along, working up a fair amount of laughter as it leads the unfortunate Cleese into one increasingly desperate predicament after another. The result, ignoring the mediocre TV sit-com music score, is an entirely superficial but still enjoyable comedy of errors. "},{"Title":"This is an historic moment...","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A cleverly written bit of likable farce - very English and very good, though not you may think a classic. Were you to arrange a film marathon for yourself and 60% of your pals with each movie slotted into a 'quality' slot so that you started at 8.00am with Weak at Denise with Craig Fairbrass and ended the following morning with a screening of Network then Clockwise would go on at about 7.30pm but listen, thats not a bad time for this sort of thing. John Cleese is the perfect choice for Brian Stimpson because said character is essentially Basil Fawlty and the setup wouldn't be out of place in that series, though it lacks the tightness that Cleese might have brought to a Towers script. It follows the familiar route of such things with mishap piled upon misunderstanding helped along by Cleese's enjoyably manic shtick. He's the headmaster who's invite to a headmasters conference goes 'breasts vertical' when he gets on the wrong train (the first misunderstanding) and the rest of the flick is his increasingly desperate efforts to get to the venue on time to deliver the crowning speech. Along the way he manages to accidentally steal petrol, convince a teenage girl's family that they're back-room grunting, bunce a Porsche, kidnap his old girlfriend and steal 2,000. Plenty to enjoy then. Its all very good natured stuff with occasional flashes you might call inspired. 9.20 always raises a smile, his constant recitation of his speech (having to be memorised as the text is on its way to Plymouth) permeated by the occasional random thought, but what people don't realise is that ...its nine into one hundred and forty seven and the climax in which the assembled headmasters are broad-beaten like kids in an assembly, all hint at the brains behind the sayins'(sorry). You can say its not sophisticated per say, it sort of straddles the two worlds of carry on and Wanda but listen, this stuff isn't easy to write you know - if it was you'd be doing it yourself wouldn't you, not reading this from the computer in your young offenders institution. Cleese and the supporting cast make it all look like a stroll in the park of course but it has the added bonus of gaining future resonance when the lead pegs it and becomes 'the late John Cleese'. What do you mean, bilge? 9.20! "},{"Title":"Fun, but the end was an oucher.","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just acquired this film, after some significant effort, and watched it. I was very excited to see a vintage John Cleese just before his work in the famous A Fish Called Wanda.I thought that the story was well constructed and I thought that the tension was properly built as things went increasingly bad as our hero was trying to get to his career-defining address.  I had a great time watching the preposterous situations and Cleese's painful attempts to make things work out.Just the same SPOILERS the whole point of a road-trip film is to have one of two things happen.  Either (1) the people on the trip together take a journey in the sense of their relationship and there is something special at the end, or (2) the events during the trip twirl and build and coalesce into an exciting blowout in the end, usually bringing together a bunch of subplots and characters into something special.  This film did neither, and I could hardly believe my eyes when Cleese simply surrendered and the credits rolled.  As much as I love John Cleese, and as much as I had fun watching this film (particularly because of it rarity), I was left gasping at the end at the opportunity that was waisted to let subplots collide and our hero to prevail.Fun stuff, but the end to this film puts the D in deflation. "}{"Title":"Clockwise","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I guess the reason I thought it was rubbish the first time I saw it was because I didn't find it as funny, and too similar, to an episode of Fawlty Towers, but I gave it a second chance. Basically uptight school headmaster of Thomas Tompion Comprehensive School, Brian Stimpson (John Cleese), seems to follow a very strict schedule and always checks everything is running like clockwork. He is ready to set off to a Headmasters' Conference where he has been chosen to be speaker, but he misses both his train and his wife Gwenda (Alison Steadman) taking him all the way to Norwich. So he has to improvise a way to get there, with student Laura Wisely (Sharon Maiden) and old friend Pat (Penelope Wilton) joining him. Along the way he is almost arrested, stuck in the mud, goes into a monastery of monks, steals a man's clothes, until he eventually reaches the meeting. Of course when trying to give his speech, he goes back into his old headmaster guise when people are not staying in their seats and entering the room late, so it is obvious he was going to be driven away by the police. Also starring Stephen Moore as Mr. Jolly, Constance Chapman as Mrs. Wheel, Joan Hickson as Mrs. Trellis, Ann Way as Mrs. Way, Pat Keen as Mrs. Wisely, Geoffrey Hutchings as Mr. Wisely, Tony Haygarth as Ivan with the Tractor and Michael Aldridge as Prior. Cleese manages to capture nearly the same incompetence as Basil Fawlty for his character, it is not your typical road movie comedy, it might not hilarious, but it is pretty funny stuff, so it's worth trying, at least once. Okay! "},{"Title":"Dead boring and rather stupid","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Clockwise is a dead boring, mostly silly and rather stupid story about an extremely efficient, amazingly punctual headmaster who finds his whole world coming apart at the seams when his strictly organised schedule goes awry. Director Christopher Morahan is unable to do anything with Michael Frayn's terribly bland plot, which is full of unfunny antics and awfully ridiculous situations. Some mildly effective humour is not enough to save the picture.Even ingenious British comic John Cleese is not able to transform the mirthless goings on, and being typically typecast doesn't help his cause. Luckily for the lanky comedian he was able to bury the memory of this disaster, and thus resurrect his career, with A Fish Called Wanda.The support cast are totally uninspired, and George Fenton's music is not much better. Put plainly, Clockwise is never wacky enough or straight enough. This disappointment tends to sit on the comical fence, which inevitably backfires.Sunday, December 17, 1995 - Video "},{"Title":"*YAWN*","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I know some people in the US that say to me You must not really appreciate British Comedy if you don't like this movie. Considering I have over 100 tapes of British Comedy that you can't get in the US, I think I know more about British Comedy than average in the US.That said, I found this movie, slow, boring, uninspired, and rather predictable. I would rather watch John Cleese as Basil Fawlty or in A Fish Called Wanda. There is nothing new or unique about this movie. It falls far short of what I would call good comedy, let alone good British comedy. It was a huge disappointment for me. Still, it left an impression on me (It's been 10 years since I saw it). Sadly, it was that of being bad.Maybe if I watch it again today I would change my mind, but I want to be clockwise and not risk wasting the time again. Once was enough. "},{"Title":"Nothing funny about this movie","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think that I will never understand parts of British comedy.  I found that movie to be extremely boring, and did not even smile once.  I found the comedic style to be pathetic, and I was feeling bad for the actors throughout the whole film.I think that the sense of humor is very cultural and can hardly be compatible between cultures.  To me, the best comedy comes from France and from Qubec, and seeing how many people loved this poorly written movie is far from convincing me otherwise.That said, Peter Sellers is one of my best actors.  The movie The Party is amazing and I must have watched it over 20 times.  I can't possibly understand how John Cleese can be considered a comic actor in comparison to Sellers, the greatest master of comedy.cheers, melkiades  "}]