[{"Title":"Beautiful and Touching","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"28 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hollywood is full of overly wrought love stories in which the conflict seems contrived merely to create drama or comedy or both.  In Children of a Lesser God the love is so simple, and the conflict so believable, that it feels less like watching a movie, and more like watching friends walk through their own personal story.  The attraction between Matlin and Hurt is obvious, but genuine, and is filled with the kind of touches that make it feel real. It is also a visually beautiful film.  Each shot is set like a still photographer capturing an image.  The overwhelming beauty of the New Brunswick coast creates a background for the film that leaves one with the feeling of watching a moving painting. Matlin has unfortunately not since been offered anything near this piece in which to display her amazing talent.  It is a shame that a woman who could stand alongside Katherine Hepburn and Jodie Foster as all time great actresses is not having the opportunity to display that talent because of her hearing disability. "},{"Title":"Powerful Commentary on Unconditionality, Love, Acceptance, Growth","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is perhaps the most moving and thought-provoking film about love and being in a relationship that I have ever seen. Matlin takes your breath away as you fall in love with her and she breaks your heart. Randa Haines documents, meticulously, the real effort and struggle that must go into negotiating a romantic relationship between any two individuals, and also the priceless dividends we reap by doing so- namely, love, home, friendship, acceptance, family life.Children of a Lesser god allows you to think, feel, and experience the things all good movies should. I highly recommend it...Matlin gives an awe-inspiring performance, 100% deserving of the Oscar she won for it. William Hurt balances the entire film, a feat which perhaps made him even more deserving of an Academy Award. All-in-all, if you want to watch a movie that tackles the timeless and immortal themes of love, communication, our relationship to the world, our relationship to our significant other, and most importantly our relationship to ourselves, I highly recommend this film. It will move you to tears. "},{"Title":"What Movies Were Meant To Be","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one my favorite movies of all time.  The quality of the acting leaves me breathless.  The scene where Sarah is dancing slowly to a song by the Staples Singers says so much - the tempo is fast and most people were disco dancing or stepping to I'll Take You There.  Sarah feels the real underlying slow beat of the music and responds to that.  It was a very moving scene.Piper Laurie as her mother was phenomenol.  Her expressions and body language said so much more than her words.  You could tell she really loved Sarah and was frustrated that she didn't really understand her.  She also had a little bit of the bury your head in the sand approach to Sarah's deafness.Sarah was determined to have the world accept her on HER own terms and simply turned her back on it when it did not.  Sarah was intelligent, beautiful and fun.  She couldn't understand why people seemed to define and categorize her by her deafness.  She was so much more than that and William Hurt's (I don't remember his name in the movie) character was sensitive enough to recognize that.  His character was a little condescending and pushy, and I can see where he would get on any girl's nerves because he was not a good listener.   He wanted Sarah to be the person he though she should be and justified it under his guise of helping her to cope in a hearing world.  She was smart enough to figure him out and reject his attempt to mold her.You could feel Sarah's loneliness in her silent world and you knew that she wanted love, friends and happiness just like the rest of us, but didn't know if she would ever get them.I really loved the character and the whole movie.  It gave us a brief glimpse into a deaf person's world through some extraordinary scenes Sarah swimming and describing to William Hurt exactly how she imagined waves sounded, and getting it right; Marian Lesser communicating only in sign language at the party which gave William Hurt's character a chance to see things from another perspective.  I think he learned that there is more than one standard way to live and enjoy life and being unable to hear isn't the worst thing that could happen to a person. "},{"Title":"Great, Convincing, Authentic","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, this is a love story about two unusually attractive people but its power comes from Hurt and Matlin's ability to increasingly convey vulnerability and authenticity as they fight to become completely real to each other. Marlee in particular is remarkable in her expressiveness. There is a scene where she watches Hurt while she's in an indoor swimming pool and you only see her eyes over the edge of the pool -- but the depth and variety of what just those eyes express!Because all of us intuitively know what they are going through as they strip away layer after layer -- who of us hasn't feared exposure of the person we feel the world shouldn't see? -- we are drawn into their revealing their secret selves because we wish we knew who OUR OWN secret self is. And the film is funny, engaging, touching, crazy and human! "},{"Title":"Phenomenal Acting","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hurt is excellent, Laurie and Bosco are outstanding, but Matlin gives one of the most amazing cinematic performances of all time.  She is scintillating. The play is even more forceful with her gritty performance that it was with Phyllis Frielich on broadway.  The direction makes up what it lacks in imagination with conviction and sincerity.  I recommend it highly.  "},{"Title":"Shouting without a sound.","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I first saw this movie I knew only the hand alphabet, but this movie made me want to learn more. After years of picking up bits here and there I am amazed at how well William Hurt used signs. Personally I think basic sign language should be taught in all schools. This is a very touching love story and I never get tired of seeing it. James is not perfect as the teacher trying to deaf students to speak. He makes many mistakes, but you can see how he cares very much. The love he has for Sarah is very real. I felt so sorry for Sarah but I also knew that she was a survivor. I would love to have that kind of strength. I have seen Marlee Matlin in lots of things since this and she is definitely a great actor. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are certain minorities that are not often represented in films, and the deaf is one of these groups. It is fascinating to watch this film, as it provides an insight into working with the deaf, and trying to make it so they can cope in a world full of noises. William Hurt gives off a very naturalistic performance, managing to add eccentricity to his role without overdoing it, and his acting also includes having to sign naturally. Even though it seems like an audience pleaser to have him translate out loud everything that Marlee Matlin is saying, it is still a credible performance. Matlin is also very good, deaf in real life, and she won an Oscar for her role. The film is let down however by the choice of a generic plot structure. The impending character relationships and storyline are very predictable, although the screenplay has some interesting ideas to keep it afloat. A lot of the film is concerned with being able to accept a person for who he or she is, and whether one should adjust one's ways or having others adjust for them. It is a good film, and has careful sound mixing work too. Matlin's constant anger is perhaps not realistic, and it is very easy to see where the film is going, but these points do not stop it from being effective viewing and good film-making in general. "},{"Title":"Love is what gives the struggle of life its value","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie because I understood, at least in part, the need for isolation as a defence against the world. I also believe that one can find someone to share the silence and it is that that makes being vulnerable worth it. Life can have a harmony of two together if you are willing to give it your all.  "},{"Title":"A film about hearing oppression of Deafness","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  William Hurt plays a speech therapist, James Leeds, a gifted teacher. His success in his field has not prevented him from being an egotist, anddisrespecting other cultures.Marlee Matlin plays a Deaf woman, Sarah Lee, who's damaging family experience has caused her to become so angry that even though she is an intelligent, sassy, sensual, independent woman, she prefers to mop floors in her old school.Sarah is contrasted with the other Deaf people who are working on their speech. Although he signs, James is highly dogmatic about the primary necessity of speech. The other Deaf people come across as disabled in comparison, their speech flawed compared to Sarah's eloquent and expressive signing. Their vocabulary is basic; in one scene their attempt at signing delights the hearing audience as they imagine the Deaf kids getting closer to being normal.James falls in love with Sarah's strong and commanding personality, but paradoxically still treats her in a patronising way, aiming to improve her by working on her speech. It becomes a battle of wills between them as Sarah seeks to have autonomy over her preferred medium of communication.Even so, the dynamic of the relationship spurs Sarah on beyond the narrow horizons of her menial job. "},{"Title":"A Different Love Story","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Children of a Lesser God is a sensitive love story about James, a speech teacher who moves to a new deaf school and falls for introverted Sarah, a former student who decided to stay in the school because she can't relate with people.This movie is basically a story about overcoming the difficulties of communication between two people, but it's never that simple since Sarah has one of the strongest and most defensive personalities ever seen in a movie.As a deaf person, Sarah decided to rely on sex to gain men's affections and so can't commit to a meaningful relationship. She also fears James will treat her like everyone else always has. It's up to him to prove her wrong.William Hurt and Marlee Matlin are both perfect in this movie. The '80s were a great decade for Hurt, and he was already riding on the success of his previous Oscar victory. One could only expect a great performance from him. It's Matlin who's the revelation here, conveying her personality through body language and sign language. She proved that acting has nothing to do with words and deserve the Oscar for this performance.This movie is slow, sometimes dull, but for those with patience, it'll be quite rewarding on an emotional level. "}{"Title":"Behind a wall of silence","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The worst thing about Children of a Lesser God is its title, which sounds impressive but has no real meaning and is never explained in the film itself. I presume that the implication is that because handicapped people are often discriminated against in society they must be the creations of a lesser god rather than of a greater one. (Some very odd theology involved there). I preferred the German title, Gottes Vergessene Kinder (God's Forgotten Children).In form the film is a simple love story; boy meets girl, boy and girl (after an initial period of dislike) fall in love, girl leaves boy, boy and girl get back together again. The setting is a specialist school for the deaf in New Brunswick, Canada. The boy and girl involved are James Leeds, one of the teachers, and Sarah Norman, a former pupil who now works as a janitor at the school. Unlike some of the other pupils, who have some residual hearing, Sarah is profoundly deaf; she has never learnt to speak or to read lips, and relies on sign language as her only method of communication.Sarah is obviously intelligent, and James cannot understand why she chooses to remain in such a humble job. He believes that if he can teach her to speak and to lip-read she will be able to compete in the hearing world. Sarah, however, does not want to be a part of that world, from which she feels isolated behind a wall of silence. The hearing world will not deal with her on her terms, so she will not deal with it on its terms. She knows she will never be able to speak as well as a hearing person, and her pride will not allow her to attempt anything unless she knows she will be able to do it well. The story tells of James's attempts to break through that wall of silence into Sarah's world, and also to overcome his own preconceptions about deaf people.William Hurt- who had to learn sign language for his role- is very good as James, but the real star of the film, and the reason why I have given it such a high mark, is the beautiful Marlee Matlin. Marlee is herself deaf, and speaks only very briefly in the film. Virtually the whole of her performance is delivered in American Sign Language. Sign languages are sometimes wrongly thought of as being codes for spoken languages, with every sign corresponding to a spoken word, but this is not the case. According to those linguists who have studied them, they are fully-fledged languages in their own right, with their own vocabulary and complex rules of grammar. American Sign Language, for example, is quite different from, and not mutually intelligible with, British Sign Language, even though the two countries share a single spoken language.The film does not use subtitles to translate Sarah's signs; instead, James provides a spoken interpretation for her and for some of the other students. I cannot understand American Sign Language, but it was obvious from watching Marlee's wonderfully fluent gestures that it is a language capable of conveying not only basic meanings but also feelings and emotions. Her performance is something unique in the history of the cinema; the only thing I can compare it to is Jodie Foster's equally remarkable performance in Nell from a few years later, in which she plays a young woman who is unable to speak English and can only speak an unknown, private, language. Marlee won an Oscar for this, her first film; she was, and remains, the youngest-ever winner of the Best Actress award.The film itself was nominated for Best Film but did not win; 1986 was a good year in the cinema, and it was up against some very strong opposition. (Platoon, which did win, is probably my least favourite of the five films that were nominated). It is, however, an excellent film; I have always been surprised that Randa Haines made so few films subsequently. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Matlin's Tour de Force","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite its apparent incursion into the groundbreaking and the unusual, CHILDREN OF A LESSER GOD (and its God-awful title) is just another way of telling a story that is as perfunctory as the oldest love story you would find in any category romance section. The addition of a disability and the doctor's verve in introducing a New Way into a stagnant school is really no more than salad dressing -- by avoiding the real situation, Marlee Matlin's disability, and having William Hurt verbalize her emotions and her needs, we get only a fifty per cent of the picture and the story loses all of its punch. A much different picture, BABEL, presented a girl, Chieko, who was also a deaf-mute and needed to connect with Someone. With limited screen time, her story was the most memorable of the quartet, her lone cry as she let loose her pent-up feelings in front of a young detective who seemed to understand her loneliness as he recoiled in horror at the fact that she was a girl, plain and simple, and he couldn't take advantage of her, was something that has haunted me since. In CHILDREN OF A LESSER GOD, Matlin also screams in rage, but by then, her emotions, her language -- everything about her -- has been spelled out to the public by Hurt's condescending manner that it muddles her own suffering. Yes, she goes through a lot; yes, she's so bottled up in her own baggage that any letting go, any real trust, becomes a litmus test. I think that the main problem with this badly titled movie is the time when it was made. Had it been done today, with today's production values, it would have been a much more rewarding experience, and the love story, as nearly impossible and daunting, would have really resonated. However, it's an okay movie that even with the large amount of faults within its fabric, should be seen. "},{"Title":"Don't be afraid to use subtitles","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everyone agrees that the acting, directing and photography In Children of a Lesser God was superb. One fatal flaw prevented it from being one of the best big-screen love stories ever it is that we understand Sarah's signing through James' convenient habit of repeating aloud everything she says.This may work (and is, of course, absolutely necessary on the stage) but in the film it is often awkward and strained. More importantly, the dynamic between Sarah's silence and James' sound is the central element of the story. The screen being a visual medium, this could have been developed powerfully through subtitles. The interplay between Matlin's eloquent signing and Hurt's resonant voice would have been a stunning cinematic effect. The silver screen could have told the story better than the stage because it allows the artists to tell the story of two characters with different modes of communication, without having to restrict itself to one mode only.The main disadvantage of this strategy would have been commercial. American audiences don't like subtitles. Thus it would have gotten bad reviews and performed poorly at the box office--but would have been spectacular as art, and possibly cleaned up at the Academy Awards.From an artistic perspective, the disadvantage would have been our need to glance at subtitles, which would distract us somewhat from the fluent signing and facial histrionics that earned Matlin an Academy Award. But this deficit would be minimized by the fact that in many exchanges, subtitles were not necessary, and Hurt's vocal translation would have been acceptable in others.I think the story would have been far more convincing if Sarah had been allowed to speak for herself. "},{"Title":"Character stage piece takes the big screen with addition of a broken Aesop","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So, this movie has been hailed, glorified, and carried to incredible heights. But in the end what is it really? Many of the ways in which it has been made to work for a hearing audience on the screen do not work. The fairly academic camera work keeps the signing obfuscated, and scenes that are in ASL are hard to follow as a result even for someone who is relatively fluent. The voice interpretation of Matlin's dialogue, under the excuse that Hurt's character likes the sound of his voice, turns her more and more into a weird distant object as the film goes on. Matlin does shine in the few scenes where her signing is not partially hidden from view. But nonetheless, most of the movie, when this is a love story, is only showed from a single point of view, that of the man. As Ebert said, If a story is about the battle of two people over the common ground on which they will communicate, it's not fair to make the whole movie on the terms of only one of them.The idea that an oralist teacher who uses methods that have been imposed in many deaf schools for decades would be presented as revolutionary is fairly insulting in itself. His character becomes weakened as a credible teacher as the movie goes on. Drawing comedy from a deaf accent is, quite honestly, rather low. And his attitude towards the male students of his class is pretty symptomatic of how he seems to act with women as an entitled man. A party scene involving a number of deaf people including a few academics meeting together leaves him seemingly isolated, in a way that's fairly inconsistent with his credentials I have seen interpreters spontaneously switch to asl between each other even when they weren't aware of a deaf person being in the area, and yet somehow he feels like a fish out of the water in an environment his education should have made him perfectly used to. As a lover, he seems like a typical dogged nice guy, including his tendency to act possessively afterwards. And yet the movie is, indeed, only really seen through him, as everything his lover says is filtered through his voice. The scenes involving the other deaf kids are, in general, wallbangers. The broken symbolism fails, the dance scene, the pool scene, even the initial sleep scene which is supposed to carry some of it - all these scenes that try to hint at the isolation of the deaf main character are broken metaphors, at best many hearing people I know do dance on the bass beats that deaf people feel (instead of squirming like copulating chihuahuas), and going to take an evening dive for a hearing person is rarely an excuse to make a deep statement on the isolation of deafness (no, seriously, when I go swim, I go swim)...It also fails at carrying the end of the play, instead making it a story of a deaf woman who submits to a strong man. Even though the original play ended with a more equal ground, where both have to accept each other as they are, and where he has to finally recognize her real voice is the movement of her hands, not the vibrations in her throat.And for all the breakthrough that it may have seemed to be, Marlee Matlin remains Hollywood's token deaf woman to this day. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and romantic movie!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Oh, I loved this movie! What a wonderful romance through the barriers of language! Marlee Matlin is wonderful, and William's singing is really good. Watch with someone you love and appreciate your relationship even more, also pay attention to the words and ways that Hurt looks at her, so romantic! "},{"Title":"DEAF WORLD","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this movie; Children of a Lesser God in 1986. I didn't watch in 1986, I watch later, like in the early 1990's to 2000. The movie itself has produced when I was not born. Naturally, u know obviously I'm a teenage. It is really unbelievable of how the first deaf female actor has won the awards, whom named Marlee Matlin. Myself, I already met Marlee Matlin in one of the deaf school in the United States.So when I watched the movie the actress, Marlee Matlin has struck me very hard, because it is hard to believe that Marlee has the led of opens to deaf world that kind of opportunity for all deaf people to access to turn to an actor or actress. Her acting in the Children of a Lesser God were surely very excellent and beautiful sign language. As all of people know that Sign Language is the most beautiful language of all language. Marlee Matlin has really show me that she work hard into the movie, it would be definitely hard to communication other actors. But she made it, that really show how courage she is. It was shocking that she took place for movies at one of the deaf school in the United States, probably in Chicago, Illinois. I could see other deaf actors and actress really involved in the movie and they act really outstanding. It is unbelievable explanation into the movie. I can tell that William Hurt; the actor who was interpreted the sign language from Marlee Matlin is a lot of work. He has to understand sign language and talk all the signs that Marlee has signed. I am sure that William Hurt would lost his mouth, when he talk a lot, I can't talk that long. I think it is wonderful that he does the work, it seems like he has a lot of respect to deaf community. It is really struck, when William Hurt tried to force Marlee Matlin to speak. I can understand of how deaf people, who has no idea how to talk, they will get forced to speak, they will be definitely like Marlee Matlin, they will be like speechless. I have that kind of feeling sometimes.Myself, I have watch it again and again, the movie really hits me bad, it is too good movie. I will say to this movie an rate between 1 to 10. I will give this movie an 10. I would like to watch it again, yo u all too..the movie really show how deaf people are like. Deaf people can do anything, except hear.  "},{"Title":"An Offbeat Love Story","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" James (William Hurt) is a new speech teacher at a school for the deaf. He falls for Sarah (Marlee Matlin), a pupil who decided to stay on at the school rather than venture into the big bad world. She shuns him at first, refusing to read his lips and only using signs. Will her feelings change over time? Every so often a different sort of love story comes along. This is one of those, featuring a deaf woman and a man who wants to be her teacher (and more). It is interesting, and one has to wonder how deaf people react to it. Is this a compassionate and understanding film, or is it exploiting the deaf community? Certainly it seems that the intentions were good.Marlee Matlin is excellent, and it's nice to see she was honored for her role. I mean, I guess it's not a huge stretch to play a deaf woman, but it was probably an emotional role for her, knowing she was representing a great many people. "},{"Title":"An Authentic Love Story!","Date":"20 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Children of the Lesser God is a love story, but before the grumbling begins, it is not your typical love story. The film has the pleasure of it's main female lead actress and character being deaf, though that does not impair her ability to fall in love. I love how the movie is very warm and funny, as well as the ability to engage the audience. The film is about courage and the strength to not lot anything stand in the way of happiness. I can actually relate to the movie because I have hearing problems myself, though not nearly as bad. This is a beautiful, well- written film that displays a vast amount of authenticity. This film is about a young speech teacher named James who falls in love with one of his pupils, Sarah. But she shuns him at first because she feels he is making fun of her disability. But as they spend more time together, Sarah begins to have feelings for James whom reopens her eyes to the world. William Hurt does a very strong job as James as he made another 80's movie that featured a strong performance of his. However, the award of best performance has to go to Marlee Matlin who played Sarah. Her powerful performance, which gave her the Oscar, shows that strong performances can be given without words. It's all about the heart.Overall, Children of a Lesser God is a fantastic movie and is one of those hidden 80's movies that you should check out. The movie starts a little slow, but the acting and the screenplay are excellent. The movie always keep things light, which is good for this kind of subject matter. The film may be a love story, but it's a different kind of love story. My Grade A "},{"Title":"A moving (and hard-fought) romance","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marlee Matlin may have taken home Oscar gold for Children of a Lesser God (and she deserved it) but I really do have a newfound respect for William Hurt after watching this. Using Matlin's singing as a comparison, you can tell that he really put in the time to learn sign language for the role. And he has the largely thankless role of interpreting both characters during dialogue scenes. I dunno, I just liked him very much here; he was a great teacher, very sympathetic, and integral in the film's sincerity.And if you can get past that oppressive sore, this is overall a great romantic drama.7/10 "},{"Title":"revelation of a new language","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" James Leeds (William Hurt) is the new speech therapist at a school for the deaf. He has limited signing skills and is intrigued by Sarah Norman (Marlee Matlin). She was the school's most promising student but she is now the school's janitor. He tries to teach her to speak but she rejects him. She is filled with anger but eventually she allows him into her world.It's the acting debut for Marlee Matlin and it's the first time I watched deaf acting. It was a revelation because she gives it so much emotions. She's doing acting like the old silent stars. It's amazing how visceral the fights become. It's a relatively simple romance but it's the signing that is so important. It broke down barriers at the time and literally gave cinema a new visual language. "}{"Title":"A beautiful film with outstanding performances from Hurt & Matlin","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is far from a perfect movie, but it's a really beautiful movie that manages evoke a lot of emotion out of you. My main advice for you is to be patient. It's deliberately slow-paced, but if you stick with it, you'll be rewarded with a great experience. I've never encountered a deaf person before, and I'm not really that knowledgeable about them. I'm even ashamed to admit that I don't know any sign language. I do know that they are difficult to handle, but they are still people, and you should treat them as such. The incredible performances are one of the main reasons why I liked this movie. Marlee Matlin deserved her Oscar. She's deaf in real life, but it was still an extremely impressive performance. She had some very intense scenes with William Hurt. Speaking of Hurt, he was phenomenal as well. His brash and ambitious methods were fun to watch. Piper Laurie is really good. I usually hate her method style of acting, but she was thankfully restrained here. Good stuff!This is a moving film. It has its flaws, but it will leave you thinking for a while after it's over. See it if you can!7.8/10 "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie about love","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Children of lesser god is an unique movie. It was the first film directed by a woman (Randa Haines) to be Oscar nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture. Marlee Matlin is the youngest ever winner of a Best Actress Oscar. Matlin is also one of only four actresses to win the Best Actress Oscar for a debut film performance. The movie is one if the few movies about people with hearing problems and deafness. The film was the first major motion picture since the 1926 silent film You'd Be Surprised to cast a deaf / hearing impaired actor in a major role. Marlee Matlin has only one spoken line in English during the entire film. The rest of her performance is in American Sign Language.The movie is based on critically acclaimed Broadway stage play that was very popular. The playwright Mark Medoff also wrote the screenplay for this movie. The film and source play's Children of a Lesser God title is derived from the twelfth chapter of Alfred Lord Tennysons Idylls of the King cycle of twelve narrative poems.The screenplay is both simple and complex. Hollywood is full of love stories where there isn't really no humor and the drama feels forced. Here it all feels real. It feels like real life. The characters are well written and the conflicts the face are completely natural and believable. It's interesting that the movie starts like one of those movies about inspiring teacher , but slowly turns into wonderful melodrama. There are many scenes involving Hurt's work with the deaf children and they are good , but it's the love story that counts the most. The screenplay rightfully deserved the Oscar nominee.The chemistry between Hurt and Matlin is brilliant. It's not strange , because they really felt in love with each other while making COLG. They even lived together for few months after movie was finished and it's a sad thing that it didn't last. When you watch the movie you can see perhaps the most authentic romance I've ever seen in cinema.Marlee Matlin is spectacular in here. You could say it's a kind of cheat for deaf person to play def person. It doesn't change the fact that she is wonderful . I've never thought that a sound of hand clapping other hand might be chilling (watch the movie &#x96; you will know what scene I'm talking about). Matlin is able to say so much with her hands or face . The only time she speaks it's truly heartbreaking.William Hurt is in the shadow of Matlin , since he got the less interesting role. Still , he is great. He always was a master of subtlety and this movie is no exception. His character also changes and suffers during the movie. His also one of the best inspirational teachers in history of cinema.Piper Laurie has not too much screen time , but beautifully makes a complex character of Sarah's mother. In hands of less skilled actress it would be a cliché character and trivial performance . Laurie gives the audience a character who isn't black or white and quite possible the one they could relate to the most.The movie is very well directed by Randa Haines , which is surprising since it's her movie debut. Yet she never allows the movie to be too sentimental or manipulative with the viewer's emotions. The mix of humor and drama is perfect. The movie is also quite well photographed, the beauty of New Brunswick coast makes you wanna go there.Some people are complaining that the movie is too noisy for a film about deafness , that there aren't any scenes that use silence. I don't really see a need for that. The use of sign language feels natural here. The subtitles would be distracting in my opinion. The movie does justice to deaf people portraying them as real people with ambitions , passions and desires , not like poor cripples.This is a beautiful movie about acceptance , finding yourself and emotional growth. This is what love should be. Find out if the world of sound and world of silence can meet. I give it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Sympathy in Decay","Date":"25 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For its first hour, the cleverly titled Children of a Lesser God is a strong drama. It stars William Hurt as a maverick teacher at a school for the hearing impaired. He falls in love with a character played by Marlee Matlin, a young woman with a severe inferiority complex wrought by abuses faced as a deaf child. Hurt tries to teach Matlin sign language, but she's stubborn and refuses; she associates sign, and the world of speech itself, with all those who've wronged her.This is where the film becomes most interesting. Hurt and Matlin essentially engage in a sadomasochistic language game, both attempting to have their subjectivity, and language, affirmed as universal truth. You want to talk to me, then you learn my language! Hurt demands, but Matlin refuses. She will not let anyone define or force themselves upon her. Talk to me! Hurt insists, but Matlin remains mute. Eventually she learns that her language of silence is, or can be, equally a form of hate. The two then reconcile and find a common middle ground between sound and silence, though ultimately alienation, solitude and an inability to fully communicate are presented as being intrinsic to the love experience.Wonderfully acted, and filled with lovely autumnal shots of New England, Children of a Lesser God works well until its last hour. Here things get increasingly formulaic, and director Randa Haines rolls out a series of clichéd, heavy-handed domestic disputes.In addition to being the first female-directed film nominated for Best Picture, Children featured the first significant use of ASL (American Sign Language) in a mainstream Hollywood film, as well as a supporting cast of young actors and actresses who were actually deaf. Star Marlee Matlin became the youngest ever actress (and the first deaf person) to win a Best Actress Oscar.8/10 &#x96; Interesting material turns cloying. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A Good Watch...","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Randa Haines 'Children of a Lesser God' is a Complex story, told in a mature manner. What also stands tall in this rather unique love-story, are it's performances by it's lead stars.'Children Of A Lesser God' tells the story of a speech teacher at a school for deaf students, who falls in love with a deaf woman who also works there.Though a love-story without any response half the time, this romantic-drama packs in some truly heartfelt moments. The writing in the first hour is superb. But dips in the second hour for a while, but a mature & real culmination makes up for it. Randa Haines understands this human story with maturity and her direction is perfect. Cinematography is good, so is the Editing.Now to the performances! 'Children Of A Lesser God' would've been soul-less if not for it's performances. Marlee Matlin is Stunning in her Oscar & Golden-Globe-Winning Performance. She speaks through her eyes, and conveys all the emotions inside her. William Hurt is restrained all through. Piper Laurie is first-rate and leaves a strong impression. Philip Bosco is good.On the whole, 'Children Of A Lesser God' is A Good Watch, without a shed of doubt. If it had a better second hour, I would have given this story a proper 9 on 10, nonetheless, I had an experience worth reviewing. "},{"Title":"deaf, but not dumb","Date":"10 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Boy meets girl; boy (unfairly) loses girl; and after assorted trials and tribulations the two are blissfully reunited. The standard romantic formula hasn't changed, but here it benefits from a unique perspective he can hear, she can't. William Hurt is the overconfident teacher of deaf students trying to convince Marlee Matlin (against her better judgment) that silence isn't golden, and the tensions of attraction between them make for an often absorbing romantic drama. Oddly enough the film, so otherwise sympathetic to the needs of the hearing impaired, is top heavy with verbal rather than visual expression. Notable exceptions (disregarding the obvious aquatic sex sequence only in a movie can people undress with such ease and grace underwater) include the scene in which Hurt becomes the odd man out at a party conducted in sign language, and a later moment when he unwinds to the music of Bach while Matlin site alone and oblivious in the background. Considering the logistical problems of the scenario (for example how to communicate to an uneducated audience a conversation held entirely in sign language) the film is nevertheless an uncomplicated tearjerker that hides its stage origins well. The partially deaf Matlin is impressive in her debut, while Hurt performs like an actor self-consciously aware of the camera's presence, affecting an artificial naturalness which he drops only during the more fiery lover's quarrels, when the couple shows just how passionate and expressive hands and faces can be. "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Knowing the art of signing is a big challenge. The skill and grace of signing interested me when I was only three. This movie gives out a strong message that will last a lifetime. Children of a Lesser God is very forward and very emotional all at once. Here you have a teacher James Leeds(William Hurt) who helps deaf people speak. There is where he meets Sarah Norman(Marlee Matlin, the fine Oscar Winner) a proud, hot-headed student who decides to go back. I like the scene where he and another student work on a song, and they had a blast with the song. Then in one scene, he helped a guy learn how to say a curse word. Sarah and James are total opposites, the chemistry between the two are unbelievable. They had sex, and he tutored her at the same time. That's a start. Then when the school had the show, I liked the scene well. The chemistry between Hurt and Matlin were spectacular, until the Oscars came. Matlin is considered a hero to me, when she made some shows closed-captioned, and she really speaks her mind either in sign, or spoken. Don't make fun of her! She's got my two thumbs up! "},{"Title":"A good love story","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Children of a Lesser God by Will February 11, 2006.1986 was a great year in a not-so-great decade of cinema. Some of the best include Aliens, Amadeus, Platoon, and the most overlooked Randa Haines' Children of a Lesser God. The film was nominated for five Academy Awards, and won Marlee Matlin a Best Actress in a Leading Role Award&#151;it's easy to see why.Academy Award nominee William Hurt stars as James, who is starting a new job as a Professor at a school for the deaf; he specializes in teaching deaf children how to speak properly. One day at lunch, he meets an angry employee of the school, Sarah (Marlee Matlin), who despite being deaf, does not speak and as is revealed has no desire. James is intrigued and decides to try and 'help' Sarah. Pretty simple.As the movie progresses, the story gets more complex--and better. James starts to fall for Sarah and visa-versa. Their relationship however, does not play in Peoria. Sarah continues to refuse to speak and grows depressed. The middle forty-five minutes of the film is basically this James talks to Sarah, Sarah gets upset and walks out of the room and then they make up. This cycle happens about four times and does not get more interesting, which is one of the few negatives this film has. The other is the music, since Sarah doesn't talk, the conversations are mostly silent (except for James' narration of Sarah's words) so the filmmakers decided to blast the audience with a heavy soundtrack made for a worse film; which, at times ruins the drama of silence.The audience finds out that Sarah is angry and resents talking, because she is fed up with 'talking' folks who expect her to speak, when they don't even know how to sign. At the height of drama, James is frustrated that Sarah will not speak and forces her into a near mental breakdown. She then runs away to her estranged mother's home for an undisclosed amount of weeks.The Screenwriters of the film had a challenge ahead of them How can we display our message if Sarah doesn't talk? They chose to display the message through actions and emotions rather than words. A strategy that worked well. Kudos to the writers. The theme of the film seems to be that love breaks through barriers and cannot be contained. Which is a good lesson; the film has a competent, valid message.In the end, as the same with all romantic dramas, the couple gets back together, and James decides that he is glad to have her, and that he doesn't care that she doesn't speak.Sarah decides to remain true to her individuality and does not learn to talk. Why should she? She may be deaf, but she definitely isn't blind and dumb! Words are overrated anyways. Children of a Lesser God is a good love story, and despite its flaws a very good movie "},{"Title":"A Realistic Movie","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We watched this film at school with our English teacher. The movie deals with a love story between a deaf woman and a teacher who tries to teach her to speak. This man reminds me of the character of professor Keating in the movie Dead poet society. All the plot focuses on his attempt to enter her inscrutable world. The story is pervaded by an atmosphere which is tangibly tense, that goes on stretching till the end. James, an idealistic speech therapist, is hired to teach at a school for the deaf. He uses innovative methods to inspire his eleventh grade class to read lips and speak. Children of a lesser God, a very proper title for this movie that deals with the close and silent deaf world and the world of the hearing. I like the movie because the actors play very well their difficult roles and the people watching the film can understand the problems of deaf people. The film is silent, noisy, moving and real! Tania, Pamela and Federica, 3 Italian pupils "},{"Title":"A movie that will make you cry.","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I considered William Hurt as one of the greatest actors in the 80s.  This is, I believe, his best performance since Kiss of the Spider Woman. I would havegiven the Oscar to him for this movie and not to Marlee Matlin. Marlee is excellent, you can actually see words through her facial expressions. But we have to be honest, William Hurt does an amazing job on the sign language.  A good movie with a beautiful message. The music was not that good, unfortunately.  "},{"Title":"William is a pimp!","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first seen this movie just after I met my girlfriend. I was the most brilliant movie I ever seen. I wasn't a fan of romantic movies but after I seen it, I got quite fond of them. William, how great was he in that flick? This was his second of four Oscar nominations. I gotta say that was his best role in his career so far. I haven't seen A History of Violence or Kiss of the Spider Woman yet. With those two it just might change. All in all, he did a great job in that movie. It just solidified me as a William Hurt fan. Marlee Matlin was unbelievable. To me, she is tied with Kathleen Turner for the best Oscar nominated performance of 1986. Piper Laurie was insane in there also. It was awesome to see her trying to be the good mother she never was to her daughter. Overall, this movies changed my perception about romance movies. "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie.","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've had this movie for a few years now and finally thought up the perfect comment. It's excellent, 10 out of 10 stars. Marlee Matlin and William Hurt are excellent. Iam taking an American Sign Language class. I also have a deaf friend who also goes to my school. Not only was it cool watching deaf people lead normal lives but also the romance between Sara and James. I think they made a really great couple. I felt really bad for Sara, that people took advantage of her. Also, that it hurt her to see other deaf people talk. I really liked the part at the end when they really fall in love.Kudos to the cast, crew and filmmakers. Two Thumbs Way Up! Hoorah. "},{"Title":"great movie.","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was reading some reviews and why do people think this was a boring movie? This was a big time love story and had wonderful moments. William Hurt gave the performance of his career. And this movie won in the best actress category. Need to watch a slow paced love movie see this one. "},{"Title":"The Pain Will Not Destroy You","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film that really needed to be made, giving the hearing population a glimpse into not only the physical world of deaf and hard-of-hearing persons, but their emotional world, as well. This is not to imply that all hearing-impaired persons react identically nor even similarly to their limitation, but, as we see in the film, the conditions of the person's life, both inner and outer, are significantly altered by the deprivation of this sense.An important aspect of deafness is addressed in Children of a Lesser God That of the psychological/emotional impact of those who verbally and physically abuse and neglect hearing-impaired persons. We see Sarah (and some current students) locked int their own world, to varying extents, refusing to communicate or even try. Sarah explains her avoidance and hostility at one point, describing childhood scenes when she was mocked and derided by her hearing peers.Her courage (and the very fire that breeds her hostility) enables and impels her to communicate (in no uncertain terms). Other, current students of the school are no so brave nor lucky Some refuse to communicate even by sign language, and we can easily assume that this avoidant behavior was the direct result of not the disability, but the resultant, abuse and neglect from family, friends and other members of society.Marlee Martin does an incredible job of acting, communicating her thoughts and feelings with just a look. If only the director had given John Leeds the responsiveness to be able to interpret Sarah's messages in her eyes, body language, etc., then the film could have been even better.Instead, Leeds often stands dumbfounded, not particularly intuitive nor deep of complex. It is this deeper engagement that is missing from Hurt's acting, and from the script, in-general.When Leeds asks Sarah, Who are you?, after having known her for quite some time, it is his own failure and shallowness that is illuminated. Sarah makes every effort to reveal as much of herself as she can. I am not certain that William Hurt had the chops for this role. One scene I wish had been done differently That scene when John and Sarah are at his home, and he lays down to listen to some classical music. His relentless tension and seriousness prevent him from allowing him to enjoy both Sarah's company, and the music, at the same time. He is completely at a loss of how to communicate anything of the music to her. He should have shown her the sheet music, and somehow illustrated the music, pointing to the notes and rests, revealing the flow (tempo) of it to her as it plays. This man seems frozen in some sort of selfishness and convention (even though he's been to all of the best schools).I commend the acting of the students of the school. If these persons are, in-fact, hearing-impaired, then it took great courage to break past the fears and antipathies that separate the hearing persons from those who have a hearing impairment. The direction was done in a manner that the dignity of all was maintained. Even the principal was shown to not be a monster of rigidity. I appreciate the director's vision.Children of a Lesser God is an important movie. The movies I consider important, I can count on both hands. If you want to broaden your world, watch it. "},{"Title":"More than watchable, thanks to a fine performance by Marlee Matlin","Date":"23 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" CHILDREN OF A LESSER GOD seemed like it would feel right at home on the Lifetime Network. There's nothing wrong with that, per se, except that those types of films tend to go for the easy emotional hook rather than dealing with harsher realities that might be more true to life. However, this film rises above that, to a degree, thanks to some good work by the reliable William Hurt and an eye-opening performance by deaf actress Marlee Matlin. Her presence was critical to making it work, and its success mostly rests on her shoulders.The story concerns a teacher, James Leeds (William Hurt), who is a new addition to the faculty at Kittredge School for the Deaf. He is an idealistic person with unconventional teaching methods who quickly earns the trust and admiration of his students. However an employee, Sarah (Marlee Matlin), and also a former student, proves more of a challenge. Despite her resistance to him trying to help, a romance blossoms between the two and sets the stage for a clash of wills.Aside from the outstanding performances (including a small, but affecting turn by Piper Laurie as Sarah's mother), one thing I thought was really well-done was the intimate moments of conflict between James and Sarah after the point in the story where they fall in love. Those dialogue exchanges were key to what I felt was the central struggle in the film. Nominally, it was about a man in love trying to get through to a deaf woman, but it can also be generalized to any relationship where communication can be difficult. Men and women often enter a relationship hoping that the other person will meet them on their own terms, but the reality is that it's best if they meet each other halfway. This is something I thought was beautifully explored in the film. I also enjoyed the many scenes where James interacts with his students, as these provided some comic relief.Still, not everything was so admirable. For one, I thought that the film took a rather patriarchal attitude towards women. Marlee Matlin, strong as her performance may have been, is still playing a strong-willed woman who finds herself in being with a man, just shy of being domesticated. At one point during the obligatory separation part of any romantic drama, she moves back in with her mother and gets a job, but doesn't find fulfillment in it. I understand that this film was made close to 30 years ago (and the play it was based on) so it's a product of its time, but things like that have a detrimental effect on how well a film ages. And with respect to its attitudes towards women, this film has not aged well in my opinion. They also took a rather pedestrian and cliché approach to the typical romantic elements of the story.Overall, this was a well-acted and (seemingly) well-meaning look at love in a unique relationship/circumstance. Some of the music was a little too on-the-nose, but generally was fitting. I also enjoyed the 80's pop songs they included in the soundtrack. What the film does best is explore the difficulties inherent in a relationship between a hearing and deaf person, which can be generalized to the difficulty in any relationship. Still, it's retrograde (at least, now) attitude towards women makes it a little lesser of a film than it could have been. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie that still holds up","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The four main characters of Children of a Lesser God include James Leeds, Sarah Norman, Dr. Franklin, and Sarah's mother. The main characters of the film represent competing viewpoints of how Deafness is viewed by the public.James, portrayed by actor William Hurt, is an impassioned speech teacher at the school for the Deaf. He is creative in the classroom, a visionary, and an innovator who thinks outside the box. James has had a long string of short-term jobs which suggest to me that his head-in-the- clouds idealism clashed with the more pragmatic views held by previous administrators. To me, James represents my Deaf ed cohorts and me who maybe sometimes romanticize the field of education and our students and risk falling into the trap of appearing to be paternalistic towards our students despite our best intentions. Our hearts are in the right place, but sometimes we need to have our bubbles burst and brought back to reality.Sarah Norman, portrayed by Marlee Matlin (who is Deaf in real life), is a former student of the school where she now works as a custodian, despite her intellectual gifts. To me, Sarah represents the Deaf culture at large in that they're sometimes misunderstood by the hearing world. Sarah comes across as rebellious and angry, yet in actuality, she is hurt by the humiliation and isolation she has suffered at the hands of a few ignorant hearing people.Dr. Franklin, played by Philip Bosco, is the administrator of the school. He represents the old-school mentality of a practical and realistic education for the Deaf. In his eyes, Sarah is successful in that she has a job and is paying taxes. This is not to say that Dr. Franklin is a villain. He obviously cares about his students; he just doesn't see them as equals to hearing people. To give an example of his mindset, note how he contrasts his philosophy to that of James'. Dr. Frankin talking to James I'm sure you do have a lot of energy and a lot of new ideas. I did too when...But nobody's trying to change the world around here. Just trying to help a few deaf kids get along a little better. But that's all. Everything else is razzle-dazzle. Am I making myself clear? Actress Piper Laurie plays Sarah's mother. She represents the families of Deaf children who struggle to put away their feelings of loss and disappointment after having a disabled child. Since Sarah's mother never learned to sign fluently, the miscommunication and misunderstandings between mother and child were inevitable.Four scenes come to mind when considering cultural and social dynamics of the movie Children of a Lesser God. One scene that points to the isolation sometimes felt by Deaf people in a hearing world was the dinner party where James is in the minority because the party goers are all Deaf or hearing people heavily involved in the Deaf community. Even though James is a user of sign language, his fluency is an issue and the participants are employing American Sign Language. His discomfort and feelings of exclusion are palpable. What is telling is that I don't believe James realized that the emotions he was feeling were the same feelings that kept Sarah from venturing into the world outside the school for the Deaf.Another scene that struck me was when James and Sarah were at a restaurant dancing as they communicated through sign language. There was another couple dancing nearby who couldn't keep their eyes off James and Sarah. The look on the couple's faces wasn't that of curiosity or fascination, but of morbid curiosity. It reminded me of people who rudely stare at amputees or those with physical deformities.A third scene that pointed to the cultural and social dynamics between the hearing and Deaf worlds is when James brought Sarah to a poker party hosted by his hearing colleagues. Sarah had taken it upon herself to learn the rules of poker in order to fit in. Among his friends, James got all the credit for training her. Sarah caught on at the end of the party and was understandably hurt and annoyed by being likened to a trained dog.The fourth scene that called attention to the gulf between the hearing and Deaf worlds was when Sarah asked James to explain what music sounded like. He tried, but couldn't find the signs or even the words to explain the emotional power of music to a Deaf person. James' frustration at Sarah for not being able to hear the sounds he loved and Sarah's frustration for not being able to share in James' love of music created a fissure in the burgeoning relationship of the Deaf-Hearing couple.The main theme of the movie Children of a Lesser God is that love, good intentions, or government regulations can't easily bridge the abyss separating two cultures divided by history, maltreatment, and exploitation of the minority culture by the majority. You notice I said intervention can't easily bridge the gap. All of these things &#x96; love, good intentions, government involvement &#x96; can and have improved the lives of Deaf people and other disadvantaged groups, but it has taken time. The movie is about two ordinary people trying to overcome suspicion, bitterness, misunderstanding, and cultural missteps in order to find a common ground to explore their love. As James asked Sarah Do you think there's someplace where we can meet that's not in silence and not in sound? This film remains one of my favorite movies and was the inspiration for my choice of avocation. Although some conventions that the movie uses, such as William Hurt orally interpreting Marlee Matlin's signs during private conversations, are sometimes grating, it is better than using subtitles. The movie is a good starting point for hearing individuals to develop an understanding of the complex hurdles that Deaf people must overcome. "},{"Title":"Children Of A Lesser God","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marlee Matlin has been fending for the record of being the youngest BEST ACTRESS winner in Oscar's history for 26 years now (at the age of 21), which is rehashed by this year's Jennifer Lawrence's winning (at the age of 22), a closest challenger ever. What intrigues me is how Academy would grant its top honor to such a youngster? I reckon she must play a role older than her real age (as Lawrence did in SILVER LININGS PLAYBOOK 2012, 7/10) apart from her differing ability. And my guess is right, it is a meaty role would elicit an actress' all-out capacity to catch the attention and empathy from beholders, plus Matlin is gorgeously beautiful in person, from an anger-ridden minimal-wager earner to a feisty woman yearning for independence and not pandering for her lover's conventional salvation, a deaf woman's own silent world is her own powerhouse, arms her with determination and self-confidence. The film is directed by female director Randa Haines and adapted from Mark Medoff's Broadway play, a touch of sentimentality is abiding throughout, goes with the saccharine score by Michael Convertino. The other half of the film is William Hurt, the sensual leading man of 1980s' Hollywoodland, he is a speech teacher for deaf children and is besotted with Matlin's eccentricities, he is not a flawless romantic prince, he can rescue her from mundane chores but his insistence of her to speak (in spite of her deafness) denotes a generalized point of view of patronizing the impaired, trying to change them to cater for the life the society designs while being blind to their real needs, aka, he can never enter into her silence, a message being clearly disseminated during their altercation. Hurt is also admirable in learning all the sign languages in the film (by comparison, Piper Laurie as Matlin's mother, is barely trying to do so for communication, not Laurie's fault though since it reflects pitch perfect how their relationship is, and Laurie earned a surprising third Oscar nomination despite of her character's sparing screen time), and the chemistry between him and Matlin makes wonder, how one can forget the aesthetically stunning underwater shots when they accept each other in the swimming pool for the very first time. One distinguished feature is there is no dubbing of sign languages in the films, instead they are all interpreted by the recipients by words, so for the majority who don't learn sign languages, what we are able to understand is the secondary information reiterated by another person (mainly Hurt in this case), which in a way bars our immediate perception and we also feel frustrated inasmuch as the language barrier is too obvious to overcome. The happy ending may not be an overused cliché as that time, but watching it in the year of 2013, it alleviates the gravitas of the kernel, it is more like a mismatched pair than a happy-ever-after fairytale, one can imagine their future would still be choppy because independence takes no middle ground in its process, in any rate, the film could only be referred as in its half way of being great. "},{"Title":"A passionate romance involving one voice, four hands and two hearts ...","Date":"7 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Children of a Lesser God reveals a little from its title and the word 'God' is quite misleading. So there are chances that Randa Haines' film doesn't meet your expectations, and I mean that in a positive way. I, myself, didn't know exactly what the film was about; it could be as much about a priest, or a missionary working in an orphan, but the story surprised me, in a very pleasant way.For all I knew, the film starred William Hurt and his then-girlfriend, the actress Marlee Matlin. As a good movie geek, I knew she won the Best Actress Oscar for her performance, but it didn't leave many indications about the role she played, except the most crucial one being a deaf actress, she could only play a character suffering from this handicap. Given that, while I was watching the opening sequence, William Hurt as James Leeds, a newly hired speech teacher for the deaf and his first class, I could see coming the inspirational film about the teacher with unconventional methods. Leeds was teaching a group of young teenagers not to rely too much on signing, but instead to learn about lip-reading and the pronunciation of basic sounds in order to face some real-life situations. Some of them are very receptive and seem to learn quickly, maybe too quickly, but in a way, it states that there are various degrees of deafness, there are two other pupils suffering from severer cases who don't participate.Later, Leeds encounters Sarah Norman, a young woman who preferred to stay at the school. She was there since the age of seven, when her parents put her, thinking she was retarded. Sarah is not just beautiful, looking at the way she signs; it's obvious that she has quite a temper, a personality that doesn't leave Leeds indifferent. He'll learn that she never talked and doesn't intend to. At that moment, we're left with the perfect ingredients of a teacher movie and the story of someone who overcomes a handicap to face the adversity of life and all that stuff. Leeds would teach Sarah to speak, to communicate like the other pupils. She refuses, he insists, but when she refuses again, he gives up, and that's a clever twist. The film uses predictable material but magnificently transcends it by delivering something deeper and more emotionally challenging. Leeds is not interested in Sarah because he wants to help her, but because he is in love with her, and Children of a Lesser God unveils its core it's a romance, and quite a beautiful one. Yet the film never exploits the romance to ignore Sarah's deafness, which would be unrealistic but also impossible because the sign language is omnipresent. However, it can be debated whether it's fitting or realistic that Leeds translates into words everything she says. The script provides a reasonable answer during a restaurant sequence when Leeds says he likes to hear himself talk. I take it as a satisfying answer because I can believe a man who'd deal with deaf people on a daily basis would love to inhabit his place with his own voice, it might also reveal a sort of egoistical side behind his altruistic nature, but I think it fits the character, slightly pompous at times. But I also accept the criticism about the film being sometimes too noisy for a story about the deaf, while it could have been an opportunity to plunge in this world of silence. The film can be criticized for only adapting usual romantic situations to one handicap, but that criticism, in my opinion, is invalidated by the basis of Leeds and Sarah's relationship.Yes, the film was more about Leeds helping Sarah to penetrate his world, while Sarah's anger and torment, and this was magnificently portrayed by Marlee Matlin, was to convince people, much more the man she loves, to stop seeing her as a case to study or someone to help. As long as she's perceived as a deaf woman, she stops being herself in the sense that she's only seen through the perceptions of other people, not her perception. But what I love about Leeds' character is the way he reacts, he's not moved by this speech, he doesn't fall into the convenient trap of sentimentality and pretend that Sarah doesn't have a handicap. In the pivotal scene, when she's invited to a reunion of deaf people, Leeds is uncomfortable, and so are we. He's not denying the positive and cathartic aspect of such reunions, but he'd never adopt silence as a referential state because he loves Sarah. On the contrary, it's because he loves her that he tells her the truth, and refuses to let her drown in her existential torment.Sarah is far from the noble victim and Leeds is not the good Samaritan either, here is a stubborn woman who refuses to play Leeds' game and here's a man who can't lie to himself, he considers deafness as a handicap for communication, for confrontation and for such trivial things as listening to music. One of his biggest goals is to make his pupils enjoy and feel the music, and his incapability to 'show the music' to Sarah betrays a huge desperation is his heart. Children of a Lesser God centers on a remarkable couple, full of anger and passion, challenging every single cinematic stereotype. At one crucial scene, they have an argument and suddenly, Sarah is so turned she wants to make love. The script remarkably challenges all the expectations even in the smallest details, dealing with deafness with less condescending sentimentality than other movies would.Some would say that subtitles would have been more useful than words. Maybe it would have made the climactic moment more impacting, but I guess the film could grab more audience this way, I wouldn't blame it for that, especially when it has such a thought-provoking script and profound romance to give us. "},{"Title":"Children of a Lesser God","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I read the title in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die I assumed it was going to be some sort of foreign film, I had no idea it was going to involve what I actually watched, but thank goodness I chose to watch it. Basically James Leeds (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated William Hurt) is the new speech teacher at a New England school for the deaf, and he has an energetic approach during his lessons, and has somewhat unusual skills to teach his new students to communicate, especially verbally despite lack of hearing. Soon enough he sees the woman who seems out of reach to anyone, school cleaner Sarah Norman (Oscar and Golden Globe winning Marlee Matlin) who is completely deaf, she does not like to communicate or spend time with anyone, and he is no exception as she shuns him, refusing to read his lips or signs. Eventually though she does pay some attention to James, communicates with sign language, and even accepts an invitation to dinner, and that is when the romantic feelings develop between the two of them, until they soon move in together. As they spend more time together however it is obvious that their communication is very limited because Sarah is stubborn not to try and learn better skills. James does try to get used to the fact that Sarah will not speak, and he succeeds in a stage performance with his deaf class students who dance and mime in time with some music, but he finds his home life very hard. They have a big argument and their relationship goes to breaking point when he demands she try to speak, so she leaves him to spend time with the only person she can, her mother Mrs. Norman (Oscar nominated Piper Laurie). In this time Sarah and her mother reconcile their own relationship, and thankfully in the end James resolves the love he has for her when they happen to meet each other again, and he agrees that they should maintain their love in whatever communication suits her. Also starring Philip Bosco as Dr. Curtis Franklin, Allison Gompf as Lydia, John F. Cleary as Johnny, Philip Holmes as Glen, Georgia Ann Cline as Cheryl, William D. Byrd as Danny, Frank Carter Jr. as Tony, John Limnidis as William and Bob Hiltermann as Orin. Hurt gives a great performance as the likable teacher with interesting methods to teach and a good heart despite his pressures, but Matlin obviously steals the show because she is completely natural, being deaf in real life she makes her character very sympathetic and emotional, her powerful performance beat Sigourney Weaver in Aliens to the Oscar, and she is a deserved winner. The story works both as a love story with a great poignancy and many emotional moments, and as a wonderful articulation of how any condition cannot stop people finding love, there are funny moments, happy moments, and many sad moments, all sorts of moments to get all emotions going, and all adds up to a must see romantic drama. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Adapted Screenplay, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture &#x96; Drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Seeing the movie without sound","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The stage play Children of a Lesser God, performed 1980 at Longacre Theater, New York, became 1986 a movie. Inspired by Roger Ebert (Making a sound movie about the deaf is a little like making a silent movie about the blind.) I saw the movie without sound. The focus is deafness but the issue can easily be translated for disability in general. The usual approach by normality towards disability is the teaching of 'lip-reading'. The experts goal and task, encouraged by society as normal as possible. William/James is applauded for his effort by his students and their parents. Excluded is the student Danny's silence and the screaming Sarahs refuse. Both see themselves as different and not an object in need to be rescued and cured, the reason for Williams/James salary. Williams/James and Marlee/Sarahs love-waterfall puts a special urge to the movies reason. It starts with Williams/James curiosity for the case of the deaf and furious cleaning woman Sarah. Soon it changes to his genuine interest and believe whatever he believes is good for her. She is satisfied to sweep the floor and clean the toilet.Changed to their love affair, she moving to his house. Fueled by their stubborn idea to help and fight against this help - leading to the scream ( Here you go! Hear my words! Hear my voice! Ah, you want more than that? I'm gonna scream!) She runs away , runs to her mother, reconnecting with her. But their castled prison has crackled. In one scene we see her lip-reading in front of the mirror. And James/William everybody in the room communicates soundless, him the outsider. One of the 'children of a lesser god', in love with a 'child of a better God'. How can this polarity come near. Meet. For a future together. Their first step is James/Williams questioning his experts and Marlee/Sarahs step towards the will for university. How will it be after the open-ending? The Swedish title Beyond All Words hints at a possibility. When everything is said and everything done and nothing left of the protecting 'armor'. Beyond the mirroring of false reality is a empty space of where truth is to be used. "},{"Title":"It didn't keep my interest.","Date":"1 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched the movie based on good reviews of it. It was a disappointment. After watching it a short while, I was surprised it was rated so highly. I couldn't disagree more. I found the story to be very slow and not well directed. For example, when the class bell rang, it lite up, since some of the students couldn't hear. But when class was over and students began to leave, no one had looked at the bell to see that it was blinking. I feel William Hurt was overacting because his script was so elementary. I also felt the female lead's acting was overdone at times. After seeing half of the movie, I couldn't watch the remainder. I was too bored by the slowness and predictability of the story. Therefore, I could not recommend it. "}{"Title":"I'm sorry for hurting you","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by Randa Haines,Children Of A Lesser God is based on the stage play by Mark Medoff.Medoff along with Hesper Anderson wrote the screenplay resulting in one of the most beautiful films of the 1980's.It deals frankly with the complexities and frustrations associated with deafness and looks at how some deaf people are happy as they are and don't want to use their voices to speak.Sign language teacher James Leeds(William Hurt)travels to a fishing town in America,to take up a teaching position at their school for deaf youngsters.He encounters opposition with some students,because he encourages them to use their voices as well as just signing.He meets the school cleaner,Sarah Norman(Marlee Matlin who is hearing impaired herself)who used to be one of the schools brightest and most promising students.Trying to figure out why she didn't go on to better things,James realises he is falling in love with her.At first resistant and hostile towards him,Sarah soon shares his feelings.So begins an emotional journey,as they try to find a way to live together unhindered by both speech and deafness.Highlights include James teaching his students to speak and sing(they eventually put on a musical show),James and Sarah dancing in a restaurant and the famous swimming pool scene,which allows James to get a feel of what the world is like for Sarah on a daily basis.Marlee won(and completely deserved it)the best actress Oscar for her breathtaking performance as Sarah.At times Hurts translation of her ferocious signing is not needed,because we clearly understand her meaning as it's conveyed with so much emotion in her face.Hurt who I find to be a very subtle actor,is simply brilliant.His love and desperation conveyed perfectly without ever going over the top.There's also fine support from Philip Bosco as Sarah's former teacher and Piper Laurie as Sarah's mother.An uplifting and beautiful love story with a highly spirited main character who is unforgettable.Powerful performances and a haunting score by Michael Convertino all add to the power of the film.This is an experience that can't be easily explained,it's a film you have to see for yourself and become wrapped up in,you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Well-Acted Drama Carries the Faint Aroma of After School Special","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Solid if unremarkable screen version of the Broadway play, starring Marlee Matlin before anyone knew who she was and William Hurt at the height of his mid-1980s popularity.The film is sensitive and well-acted, but it never completely sheds its stage origins, and it has that faint whiff of school assembly lecture that many movies preaching tolerance for minority groups have. Matlin delivers a brave performance in her screen debut as a deaf student who falls in love with a professor; Hurt is said professor and delivers what he's asked to.Also with Piper Laurie as Matlin's over-protective mother.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"A great film for adults","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Those who have read my reviews before know that I very seldom watch R rated movies, but this is a real gem. I caught Children of a Lesser God on late-night TV last night (well, it was late for me) and loved every minute of it. I had seen an edited TV version before, but did not appreciate the humor, beauty and complexity of the film at that time. I laughed out loud, not chuckles but real laughs, in many places. This, and the Bach violin concertos featured, actually caused my long-suffering husband to leave our bed and try to sleep in the living room until the movie was over. Jim Leeds, portrayed by William Hurt, begins teaching speech and language at a residential facility for deaf children. Jim's teaching methods are effective, but unorthodox. I have to admire any teacher who allows an older teen student to call him disgusting names to his face, as long as the words are pronounced correctly. He is immediately intrigued by beautiful Sarah, played by Marlee Matlin, a witty and prickly alumnus who works as a cleaning woman at the school. They become lovers, but their relationship is marred by expectations on both sides. Jim really is all about sound. The posters in his tiny home all feature musicians or musical instruments. He loves the music of Bach passionately. His career is about bringing speech to non-speakers. Sarah is totally deaf and revels in her silence. She rejects any effort to get her to speak, and the viewer is shown the reasons for this. In the only scene where she makes sound, the result is devastating. Piper Laurie portrays Sarah's mother in a brilliantly understated performance that quietly brings out all the pain of their relationship. William Hurt translates most of the signed language by speaking out loud when he signs or is signed to. This causes the scenes when he does not do this to give the viewer a sense of being shut out, and is very effective. The scenes in the school pool are beautifully sensual. As a hearing speaker in love with a deaf non-speaker, Jim makes promises he can't keep. Sarah, in spite of her tough demeanor, is actually very fragile. My only regret about this movie is that I tuned in five minutes too late to record it, and that I saw it with the volume low in a dark bedroom on a TV without the capacity for closed-captioning. If I had been more alert I could have recorded it anyway and watched it on the closed-captioned TV later, but I don't think things through very well after 1000 p.m. I highly recommend this film for any adult that will not be offended by the frank, earthy language and nudity, which are essential to the film. "},{"Title":"..negative comments aside, a brilliant movie..","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...this movie deserves a 20......I had heard the title, but nothing about its story. I actually had just written a comment for The Mriacle Worker and ran across the title of Children of a Lesser God. I'm not sure what is meant by that; a catchy title, I guess. Although both films are about deafness, they are entirely different stories. I write as a brother to a deaf-mute. I never learned to sign; he could hear with aids, but preferred not to. I felt he was totally happy with his wife and normal child; he was very intelligent and worked steadily at high-skilled jobs. So, I viewed Children in a different light.I forgot that Marlee Matlin (Sarah Norman) was deaf-mute, until the end of the picture. I thought she was stellar in her role, deaf or not. I DO recall the sensation created when she won her Oscar. To me, she portrayed the disillusionment and anger of being pampered by some and rejected by others. I also understood she used sex as a way to explain to men that she was a real woman. Director Randa Haines was very clever to show that deaf-mutes work at regular jobs, and support themselves very well.William Hurt (James Leeds) certainly deserved an Oscar, too. His role as a teacher in a school for deaf-mutes was brilliant. His putting Sarah's signing into words seemed to be completely natural. This role is another jewel in a wonderful career.Some comments posted here reveal how uncaring and cynical some people can be. I agree it was clear where this touching-but-difficult love-story was going; it is a lesson in compassion, showing a realization we are ALL different in many ways, learning to cope the best we can. The school's students certainly showed their joy for life.I thought there were far too many sex-scenes in this movie, but that's how life really is. Congratulations to all who anything to do with this film - I agree that it should be seen by everyone. Double bravo ! "},{"Title":"Hurt and Matlin as teacher and student","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  William Hurt stars as a teacher in a school for the deaf who falls for a troublesome student (matlin in her debut). A very well done drama, beautifully written and photographed.  Nominated for best picture On a scale of one to ten.. 8 "},{"Title":"Truly, a match made in... Hell","Date":"9 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If I'm watching a film about two unlikable people that the script is desperate to put together, you can forgive me for not being too enthusiastic. In Children Of A Lesser God there's a teacher called James with an 'unconventional' style of doing things (When are we going to see a NORMAL educator doing NORMAL things?) That 'SURPRISE SURPRISE' work on his unruly class. He's just started at a school for the deaf you see, and in true Dead Poet's Society style, is the only live wire in a sea of formality. This part of the movie, as derivative as it is, is at least interesting.Then we meet the love interest Sarah, played by Oscar winner Marlee Matlin. She's 25, a former student there who's stayed on as a cleaner. For some reason, James starts to unabashedly stalk her and won't take NO for an answer when propositioning her for a date. She eventually gives in (Perhaps to just shut him up) and 'SHOCK HORROR' her emotions turn from dislike to l'amour almost in the space of one dinner.Another thing to note about her is her DARK AND TROUBLED PAST which shows itself in random screaming fits that arise for no particular reason. Yeah, she's had it bad... But flying off the handle at the slightest indiscretion didn't endear her to me one bit. So, you have the creepy stalker teacher who's OH SO WILD & WACKY on one hand, and the unstable deaf girl who takes offense at virtually everything on the other. Am I supposed to root for these irritating boors? No dice.I'll say one thing for them, though... They TRULY belong together. 5/10 "},{"Title":"It's the screenwriters, not God","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Two is more than one. Three is more than two ; etc., ad lib. Such is the mathematics of director Haines' dramaturgical use of clichés in Children of a Lesser God, an agreeable but insignificant romantic dramedy that pretends to be more grave than it is. Marlee Matlin - looking beautiful and acting convincingly - presents one of the strongest elements here ; others are Canada in autumn and Bach's strings. Yet the director with her screenwriters and cast (especially John Hurt in the lead) seem to be concerned more about (American mainstream) audience than about the deaf. That's why they often confuse realism and sentimentality ; their urge to translate every single sign language speech, too, results in a disputable compromise with reality. More discerning viewers would likely prefer some tougher, enduring bite, for example the documentary Land des Schweigens und der Dunkelheit, in which the German director Werner Herzog makes (almost) no compromises at all. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but very flawed","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Children of a Lesser God is worth watching, if for nothing else, for Marlee Matlin's star-making, Oscar-winning performance. She's really so good that she managed to draw me into the movie and enjoy it without noticing all the flaws and problems - those came rushing at me a couple of hours after finishing it.To be fair, even when Matlin isn't on screen, it's a beautiful movie, well-shot, well-made and very enjoyable, and very effective emotionally. But it uses every trick in the Hollywood book to manipulate the audience, while undermining its own flawed message at every turn.Front and center to all these problems is William Hurt's character. Despite Hurt's best efforts, James comes off as weak and inconsistent. When he's working as a speech teacher, he's shown to be charismatic and talented, playing up the full Dead Poets' Society prototype of the teacher with unorthodox methods who is disliked by the administration but loved by his students. And yet, whenever he's with Sarah (Matlin), he's weak-minded, babbling and insensitive.That serves to present him as condescending and irrational and make the viewer take Sarah's side on every argument, despite the fact that James, well, makes some pretty good points, and Sarah does her best to make things as complicated and melodramatic as possible at every turn, pick fights when there's no need for one, then back off at the last minute for no apparent reason. The whole thing feels like a rather cheap ploy to manipulate and guilt the viewer into taking he side he normally wouldn't; it also makes the romance between the two feel unconvincing and shallow from the very start. It's made worse by a sloppy ending, which makes us feel all warm inside while completely avoiding every issue raised throughout the movie.The only reason I'm ranting so much about the movie is that I enjoyed it. A movie that should have been good but has some very basic but major flaws is more annoying than a bad movie. Keeping all that in mind, though, I still recommend Children of a Lesser God as a beautiful, enjoyable drama, that tells an interesting story and is intriguing enough to actually provoke discussion. "},{"Title":"All the Lord's Children ***1/2","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Marlee Matlin's Oscar winning performance highlights this very good 1986 film.As a deaf mute, angry and frustrated with her life in silence, Matlin takes a job as a janitor in the School for the Deaf that she attended.The school is run by Philip Bosco, a savvy educator who really doesn't want to rock the boat. The latter could have been rocked by the coming of idealistic speech teacher William Hurt. Hurt gives a knockout Oscar nominated performance as he battles with Matlin along the way as the two fall in love with each other.As her estranged mother, Piper Laurie is convincing in a frustrated role that earned her a second best supporting actress nomination.The haunting musical score sets the tone for a marvelous film. It is interesting to see how Hurt works with deaf youngsters. The AFT should have considered giving him their teacher of the year award.The Motion Picture Academy seems to have a fetish for people with disabilities. Jane Wyman and John Mills joined Matlin in winning Oscars as deaf mutes. It is Matlin's performance though that deals with the subject of deafness itself without other incidentals. "},{"Title":"A nice film that touches the surface but not the core","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This could have been a fine film if it didn't have such a predictable plot and touches issues on its surface instead of dealing with them firmly. The movie starts out with Hurts entry into the school for deaf, as expected the students aren't going to accept him so easily. But with his jokes and rather un-orthodox way of teaching, he wins over the 'ever-so reluctant to give in' students right away. That done, he encouters Martin, the grumpy deaf girl, who has secluded herself from the hearing world by choice. He knows he has to help her out right away. So they meet and as expected the first meeting is a tango between the 2. And the movie races on with its frantic pace, without intending to pause for a while to develop the sub-plots, to explore the world of deaf people and delve more into the relationship between a hearing man and a deaf woman. The relationship between Hurt and Martin is more specific, as Martin is not just a deaf girl trying to lead a normal life. Her past traumas, her painful experiences with hearing men has made her so in-penetratable. This could have happened to any girl. Its just a coincidence that she's deaf.  The relationship has been shown through the eyes of Hurt, so its more about his struggle to penetrate through the shell that Martin has created to to protect herself from the cruel hearing world. Even Martin's words are spoken by Hurt, though this was more of a tehcnical issue as you don't expect the audience to learn sign language before watching the film, I felt there were opportunities where her eyes, her gestures could have spoken the words more dynamically than Hurt's words.  Someone suggested the use of subtitles but I think we didn't need subtitles either. I think her eyes and Hurt's reaction could have told a more stunning tale. But all said, both Hurt and Martin give memorable preformances. Hurt has this ability to look genuine and sincere in whatever he does, and in this movie it helps him a lot. I didn't know that Martin is a deaf in real life, that would have made her task even more challenging. I feel she deserves the Oscar she got for this role of hers.  "}{"Title":"Melodramatic","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Children of a Lesser God is one of the most melodramatic and sappy films I have personally ever seen. But it also has two of the greatest performances I have ever seen so I really have to recommend it. The plot is very flawed and has it's little holes but works in a way mostly because of the actors. The screenplay is also helped enormously by the actors who make the wooden dialog seem almost good. The direction is flawed in a very similar way, but he at least has some idea of where to put the camera and the actors. The Art Direction is amazing as is the score but now I will get to the really good part of the movie. The performances. William Hurt is one of the greatest actors to live and although this is not his greatest performance it is very, very close and still truly amazing. Marlee Matlin is also amazing as the deaf woman he falls in love with. Her character is disabled in tow big ways. Being deaf of course but also the worse of the two. Her disability to care for herself and think life is worth it and all that jazz, the usual cliché. But she does it perfectly. "},{"Title":"Intriguing Yet Overrated.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Children of a Lesser God (1986) Dir Randa Haines / Cast William Hurt, Marlee Matlin, Piper Laurie, Philip Bosco, Allison Gompf Insightful yet overrated film about the physically limited and how God uses these limitation to make bigger things happen. It stars William Hurt who arrives to teach at a school for the deaf but is intrigued by a socially isolated female janitor. Directing debut for Randa Haines who explores the physical defects element as well as developing communication skills. Predictable narrative with Marlee Matlin giving a flawless performance in her frustration of being deaf and reluctance to communicate. Hurt is fantastic as a teacher struggling to communicate with her and obvious romance blooms. Piper Laurie plays Matlin's mother whom her daughter doesn't contact. Laurie's performance is the only supporting role worth the vision. Philip Bosco is given the standard role of principal whose job is to tell other teachers what to do then appear only when plot convenient. The students are written into useless subplots that present them as doing little more than occupying space. The strongest element regards the fascination with which these limitations become achievers with a chance future. The film isn't overly big on production and strives on its strong theme. The film's ambition is to aware everyone to the limitations and gifts of others. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Well-acted fluff.","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Children of a Lesser God is the kind of thing that the Academy Awards go for in spades; uplifting story about a socially relevant issue with the typical rise-fall-rise structure all built around a romance between two attractive leads. It's fluff (he's a school teacher for deaf kids) that only occasionally dips into the wealth of importance that it's themes consist of, but with all of that being said I still didn't mind it too much. It panders a lot, the whole structure of having William Hurt verbally speak every piece of dialogue that him and Marlee Matlin were signing to each other in order for the audience to understand got pretty distracting, but it was still a relatively easy viewing with some fine acting.Matlin won an Oscar for her role, which makes sense, but the character was too much of a type for me and rigidly stayed in that location of I'm a deaf girl and I hate you because you pity me even though you don't but I hate the world for pretty much the entire thing and I always have a problem with characters like that. She was impressive in her breakdown scene, but otherwise I wasn't too high on the performance. Piper Laurie got a Supporting Actress nomination for her performance as Matlin's mother, which makes absolutely no sense since she didn't do anything.The only one who left much of an impression on me was Hurt, which isn't very surprising since I think he's one of the best actors we've ever had. His portrayal is instantly likable and the film is at it's most engaging whenever he's on screen, but the real treat is the later scenes where he's able to bring much more depth and humanity to his character. This is a role that could have easily been the charming and morally righteous savior for the deaf janitor and kids, but instead Hurt is able to turn him (along with the script) into a fleshed-out character with his own share of flaws. I can't say that I hated the movie, despite it's several shortcomings, but it's definitely not something I'm going to remember at all. "},{"Title":"Not so much a do-gooder drama as it is an exasperating actors' showpiece...","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" William Hurt, lean and handsome and focused, is forced to rely heavily on his frustrated good guy persona here, playing teacher at a school for the deaf who is appalled that a brilliant young deaf woman is also working at the school--but as a janitor. She's rebellious (and won't speak because of childhood traumas), he argues with her in sign language while speaking for himself and for her (for the audience's benefit), and they go around and around. It's like a deaf variation on Two For the Seesaw. Marlee Matlin has a plum role here, and won a Best Actress Oscar, yet the arch of her character is rather dull--she's much more amazing at the beginning than at the end (she's softened, necessarily, by the film's built-in sentiment, but how far has she come? She still won't speak at the finale). The kids in Hurt's classroom are a fun, colorful bunch, and the picture has many romantic-but-edgy passages that keep it interesting, yet it's still quite tiring by the end. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A film addressing private isolation and the struggle to overcome this.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When James Leeds first cruised, ( or is it barged?) into the School for the Deaf, on my television, I lapped up every minute of his encounters from then on. I am not deaf, but I believe it appeals to anyone out there who has found themselves lonely when thinking of trying to get along in a world of sounds or silence. Needless to say, few are likely to view these events as unusual; but therein lies the beauty. If a love story needs to be fantastic to be documented, then most of us may just lie down now and raise the white flag. The Lesser God story, for me at least, highlights the conflict between the person and the couple. This is the oldest story ever told but, it should not be left only for the fantastic-type variations, or indeed, to the realm of the Greater Gods.A film about loneliness, some of it voluntary some of it imposed, the Lesser God of the title implies a feeling of inequality about the characters isolation. And in the end, the universal cure for their loneliness, i.e., friendship and love, is portrayed in the embrace of James and Sarah. But did this work? Did the school actually help a  few deaf kids get along a little better? Does anyone out there believe in a celluloid (digital probably) reincarnation for the characters?Children of a Lesser God Part Two? Or maybe not.  "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie itself is so pathetic.  It portrayed deaf people as cynical toward hearing people.  True, some deaf people are wary of dating hearing people, but they are not necessarily angry like of Marlee Matlin's character was throughout the story.  Deaf people do not go to the bar and dance the way Matlin did.  All in all, the movie itself is more boring than pathetic. It is so boring that I'd like to believe that it is an insomnia-cured movie. If I have a problem sleeping, I can simply pop in  Children of a Lesser God and watch. It will put me to sleep.Keep in mind, this is a deaf guy talking.   "},{"Title":"Title, version 1.10","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The review by James Hitchcock of 22 August 2008, and some others that mention the question of the aptness of the title. This is an unusual feature for me as I also saw the big screen version in the mid eighties, it felt okay. I also saw Dune, which felt empty. Now I assume that serendipity led to these cinema trips. This story can be interpreted in a number of different ways. Indirectly or directly, some of those ways feel like parallels to my reality at different times. The serendipity issue. However the title used to feel inappropriate. * I now tend to consider the obvious side of the feature, the deafness, as a place setting rather than the main reality of the story. Also symbolic, not meaning literal biological deafness. I interpret the characters of the two main roles as central. These as the children. The young woman, Sarah, as the central symbolic child? In this way, the title feels scary but real and raising a relevant question re how they need to face reality in order to do better in relating to reality. The woman comes from a potentially crippling past and she is learning to stand on her own two feet. Amazon feels a good tag for her. Except that her earlier ways are blatantly hurt, messed up by her past. Then the new teacher comes to the island town and a new world opens up for her. * Sarah was living in a hard knock life reality? In many ways she was like an orphan. She has basic education needs that need to be faced if she is to deal with reality better. She works at a quality education establishment that used to be blind to her needs? From experience, hard knock life can easily get a lot worse than in her case, she managed to find ways to stand on her own feet, even though they were hurt ways, it could have been a lot worse. I find the title to be relevant, but scary. Faith. The word Lesser will be used for a reason. It will not be an inept title once one notices the story in the right sort of way. There will be reasons hidden in the storyline and I am not so sure that deafness is a helpful word. These actually need helpful words, what they get instead is a real word. They need a different reality. I experience the UK, etc, as having faith in Hard Knock Life. Why do I personally consider that it typically just brings trouble? "},{"Title":"Possibly the most boring film I have ever seen","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sorry. Someone has to say it. This really is/was a dull movie. Worthy perhaps, but dull nonetheless. I nearly cried with boredom when watching it. The acting is pretty dire, the story drawn out and predictable, the score and camera-work totally standard and unexciting. It's one of those movies you are not allowed to hate (becase it is about disabled people) but hate it I suspect nearly everyone does. It is interesting that critics have been so kind to this movie. I suppose they too are not allowed to be objective. This was made to win awards - which I remember it duly did. But it was neither interesting nor entertaining. I haven't seen the play so cannot compare. "},{"Title":"Touching scenes and boring moments","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw Children of a Lesser God, about ten years ago, I was impressed. So when I had the chance to see it again, I was really looking forward to it. But this time, it disappointed me somewhat. The movie wasn't as good as I remembered it. That doesn't mean I didn't like it, there were several funny scenes (with the deaf children) and touching scenes (with William Hurt, Marlee Matlin and Piper Laurie). The acting was very good. Marlee Matlin expressed both stubbornness and vulnerability in a very natural way. William Hurt's role was impressive as well.But there were too many scenes that just didn't work for me. Teaching the deaf children to speak looked too easy. I would have liked to see a bit more about the efforts it takes to teach a deaf person how to speak.And as for the relationship between William Hurt and Marlee Matlin there were several scenes that were a bit boring, were the things on the screen just didn't manage to keep me interested.My vote 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Insomnia-Cured Movie","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is like what the title of this thread say.  Only impression I got from that movie is that Marlee Matlin's character was always angry, so cynical, and so pathetic.  Her character's first date with William Hurt's character where they were dancing were dumb.  All in all, I've tried to finish watching the movie four times, and of all four times I fell asleep.  I would keep watching that movie with one intention... to beat my problem with insomnia, because all it do is to put me to sleep.  Sweet dream. "}{"Title":"A boring love story","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is not a comedy by any means even though the plot, which has to do with a speech teacher (William Hurt) for deaf students falling for one of his former students (Marlee Matlin) may sound a little hokey and contrived. The film is pure drama and actually is hokey and contrived as well as extremely boring and overlong. Avoid it. "}]