[{"Title":"Once Bitten...Somewhat Smitten","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Although there are many reasons why this film is a far cry from excellence, Silver Bullet is, at the very least, very entertaining.  The film chronicles how a werewolf has been killing off various people in a small town.  A young boy in a wheelchair discovers who the werewolf is, and then must prepare with his sister and crazy, dead-beat uncle to meet the wolfman when the moon is full on a Halloween evening.  The film's plot really tests your suspension of disbelief, but the characters, the acting, and the direction are all done in a very likable style with a generous dose of humour.  Corey Haim plays the youth very nicely, as he rides up and down the streets in a souped-up wheelchair(?).  Gary Busey gives a fine performance as his uncle.  The killings are fairly brutal, and the special effects are not too bad.  The film is a lot of fun, and even though you will know who is the wolfman long before you should know....the film zips along with an energetic, entertaining pace. "},{"Title":"A fun horror film","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm not sure why, but it seems like the rating for Silver Bullet is somewhat low on IMDb in my opinion. Silver Bullet is a great horror movie by the master of scares Stephen King. I did read his novella Cycle of the werewolf which was OK, not my favorite book but had a very great idea. Silver Bullet took the idea and made it into a really terrifying story that was also a great update to the werewolf monster story. It made you think that what if there was someone in your town who was hiding a secret that they were a monster who could judge you and feel the need to just kill at their own will, and what if they knew that you knew what they were? It makes it a whole lot worse. Silver Bullet is a great movie to watch in the dark that I'm sure will give you goosebumps and make the hair on your arms stand up.The good residents of Tarker's Mill are dense enough to ignore or explain away a series of violent deaths until a little boy is torn to pieces while flying his kite after dark. At that point, the men gang up and go into the fog-shrouded woods to hunt down whatever slasher is out there. The most they achieve is the sighting of one hairy arm and a few more sacrificial victims. But life goes on, and when the summer fireworks show is canceled because people have deduced it might be fatal to stay out after dark, the family's wheelchair-bound son Marty goes coasting off to the bridge to shoot his own fireworks. Needless to say, the hairy killer beast that is certain to be lurking there gets shot in the eyeball by one of Marty's rockets and is now an unhappy hairy killer beast.The acting is decent enough, we have a baby Corey Haim who delivers a very strong performance as Marty. It's sad to think that with the success he had with Lucas, Silver Bullet and The Lost boys that he led the life he did, he could have been something great when you watch this performance. His relationship with Megan Follows who plays Jane his sister was so touching and very believable. We also have a young Gary Busey with those same teeth, lol, but he pulls in a decent performance as well playing the alcoholic uncle who is cool in his nephew's eyes but always lets everyone down. He's sick of doing that so really pulls through for his niece and nephew when they need him most. Everett McGill as the reverend/werewolf was chilling, you felt a certain sympathy for him at one point as you know he feels some guilt but then he turns very cocky trying to justify his killings and you hate him. He was a great choice for this despicable villain. I love Silver Bullet, it may be dated and the effects are not the greatest, but I think it's a great horror movie that still gives me chills.7/10 "},{"Title":"An example of a master's touch","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I was about to turn off the TV as opening titles rolled for Silver Bullet and I saw the Cycle of the Werewolf reference, as I really don't care much for fantasy monsters at all. This being a Stephen King, though, I thought I'd give it a look. I'm glad I did.The difference between this and the standard, cookie-cutter, grade-B monster/werewolf/e-mail-spammer horror flick could be a tutorial for playwrights, screenwriters and cinematographers. Instead of the tired horror-flick plot - monster terrorizes small town after killing some folks (usually with heavy-handed special-effects gore, repeated frequently throughout); populace panics and does a lot of stupid things; standard-issue hero arrives; standard-issue sexy young heroine falls in love with him and the movie ends with the standard-issue hero dispatching the monster moments before monster is about to make standard-issue heroine his/her/its next victim - this one deftly draws on strong theatrical principles and creativity to make the viewing real entertainment.The young protagonist, who could be a paraplegic edition of ELL-LEE-YUHHT from E.T., his mid-teenage sister, which character, as an adult, opens the story with off-camera narrative (by Tovah Feldshuh), and an equally-charming third kid, who happens to be the boy's uncle and is chronologically but in no other respect an adult, endearingly played by Gary Busey, are developed skilfully as characters in their own right, entirely apart from the werewolf theme. By making us know and care about them, as well as the lesser characters, King creates a warm and personal relationship between them and the audience, something rarely achieved in standard horror/suspense fare. Busey is just right as the uncle who finds responsibility to be rather an impediment to enjoying life.Injecting just the right touch of comedy where you'd least expect it and making it work - to avoid spoiling, I'll just say something about the woods at night and a bunch of people who don't belong there - a few red herrings to keep you guessing, and one broad clue to the identity of the werewolf that the sharp-eyed and -eared might catch but is otherwise not at all tipping a hand, all combine to hold the interest and attention of the viewer. The knitting-together of various threads - the significance of the monster's attack on the suicidal woman, for one - creates a certain intricacy that typical monster-flick shows rarely have.Some blood and gore is unavoidable in a story like this; but again, it's handled with skill and delicacy instead of blunt force. The attack scenes are crafted to use the viewer's imagination much more than the special-effects department to create the impression. Watch carefully and you'll notice that the illusion is created by alternating very brief flashes of action streaking by the lens, almost too fast to discern, with establishing shots of the victim's accumulating injuries, with the audio gluing it all together. A few frames of the monster's snout or eyes moving past, a claw (or later on, a club or baseball bat) streaking by, but not not visibly headed for any particular target, horrified looks and increasing amounts of blood from the victim who may get tossed across the room or otherwise propelled violently but you never see the propelling directly, and your imagination does the rest.It's not the masterpiece of the ages; but it's a film to enjoy once, and then, if you're into the theatrical arts at all, see again - for study. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites...","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was ten years old, my uncle, a horror fanatic, showed this to me and my brother and it scared the living soul out of me.Ten years later it still remains as one of my favorite horror films of all time and I consider it one of the best of King's work.When a small town is being ravaged by horrible mutilations, townsfolks begin to think it may be a monster doing the killings. A small crippled boy comes in contact with the werewolf and confides in his older sister and uncle and they all set out on a search for the monster. What they discover will be shocking.The film is very well directed and relies a lot on tension and atmosphere and solely on the acting which is performed well by Corey Haim, Megan Follows and Garey Busey who is immensely likable and memorable as the uncle.The film itself as a horror movie is excellent with a lot of sheer tension and some great horror scenes in which we never see the werewolf until the end. That's an aspect that makes this film truly horrifying and the murders are gruesome and never pulls its punches. The mysterious identity of the werewolf is shocking and it leaves us on pins and needles until the exciting end of the film.I highly suggest this among horror fans and think it's worth a look.***half out of **** stars. "},{"Title":"BANG! This movie was no misfire","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Though based on a Stephen King novel, this movie is just as good as the book. The characters in the movie was well played, the suspense was just right, and the results were touching. Corey Haim playing the wheel-chair bound brother was just amazing. Knowing he really loves his sister was easy for him, but his sister was really the one who need to grow up. His friend who put the snake in the tree, wasn't really a bad kid, he just needed to be taught a little lesson. Just not being torn to shreds by a lycanthrope(Werewolf). The three characters Red(Gary Busey), Jane(Megan Follows), and Marty(Haim) proved themselves to be the heroes, and the love bond had strengthened everyone, including the sister. Stephen King has received a lot of credit for making this movie, and I think it wasn't too bad at all. "},{"Title":"A fun, low-key horror","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet is my favorite of Steven King's horror adaptations (yes, I do like this better than The Shining) . King even penned the screenplay himself (from his short story 'The Cycle of the Werewolf'), but since he was also responsible for the awful Maximum Overdrive, that's no solid proof of quality. But it a damn cool movie.What makes it so different and unique is that it's horror movie told from a child's perspective (though I admit that the retrospective narration seems out of place) and has a brother/sister dynamic that's quite cute and makes you really care for the characters.Corey Haim plays Marty Coslaw, a young boy who is confined to a wheelchair for reasons unknown. His older sister Jane is forced to take care of him and throws tantrums whenever the mum and dad take Marty's side (which is always). But the chair doesn't stop Marty from being mischievous. Especially when his manic, reckless Uncle Red (a fat Gary Busey-absolutely brilliant, as always) builds him a motorized wheelchair/bike called the Silver Bullet.There is killer in their small town who strikes every month when the moon is full. The townsfolk gradually become more and more weary as autumn rolls on and Marty takes a personal offence when his best friend is murdered, his best girl is run out of town and a fireworks display is cancelled. Then he witnesses what the killer really is. But who is going to believe a kid's story of a werewolf? Despite the red-herrings, it's easy to figure out who it is before the main revelation. But it's still a fun mystery.Filmed with the little-used JDC-Scope process, Silver Bullet has brilliant cinematography by Armando Nannuzzi and a wonderful score by Jay Chattaway. There's not much horror to it, but I don't think it was ever the intention to dwell on the violence. Even though I would call this film suitable for kids (despite the 18/R-rating) it's still way better than the PG-13 junk we get these days.The film is also notable for Everett McGill (so evil as the baddie in Under Siege 2), an under-rated and under-used actor in a typically eccentric role as a charismatic Reverend. Doesn't he look like a cross between Christopher Reeve and David Hasselhoff? A perfect Halloween movie or any night with the curtains drawn and lights off. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Werewolf Movie","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" In the spring of 1976, in the former peaceful town Tarker's Mills, the inhabitants are scared with violent murders and press Sheriff Joe Haller (Terry O'Quinn) to investigate further and find the responsible. Meanwhile, the crippled boy Marty (Corey Haim) is very happy with the new motorized wheelchair that his dear Uncle Red (Gary Busey) gave to him. During the night, Marty sneaks out to use the fireworks Red gave to him in a bridge. However he is attacked by a haired creature but Marty shots a rocket in the left eye of the attacker and escapes. Marty tells his sister Jane (Megan Follows) that he was attacked by a werewolf and convinces her to seek out who in town could have an injured eye. Jane discovers that the local Reverend Lowe (Everett McGill) is the creature but now the siblings have to convince Uncle Red to help them to disclose the truth about the reverend.In the 80's, Silver Bullet was a successful werewolf film on VHS in the rentals. I might have watched this entertaining movie at least twice in those years. Today I have just seen it again and I really liked it, specially the chance to see Corey Haim two years before Lost Boys and Terry O'Quinn decades before Lost. But maybe the most important is the excellent transformation of the werewolf without the use of computers. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Hora do Lobisomem (The Hour of the Werewolf) "},{"Title":"Good  rendition about  King's  notorious novella , being stunningly narrated , well performed  and professionally directed","Date":"29 November 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is a superior Stephen King terror , including the classic horror elements of intrigue , along with gore and grisly killing at the claws of a werewolf . It started in May in a small town Tarker's Mills , it was a place that was very peaceful , where nothing extraordinary ever happened until one night when murders began and every month after that whenever the moon is full , there a railroad worker (James Gammon) meets his gruesome demise at the attacks of a werewolf . As a werewolf terrorizes a small city where lives Marty Coslaw, (Corey Haim) - a paralytic boy , parents (Robin Groves , Leon Russom) his uncle (Gary Busey) and his sister (Megan Fellows) - the narrator of the tale . Our folks take a long time to figure out cues upon werewolf .This werewolf movie contains chills , thrills, action , suspense and results to be pretty entertaining . From the opening scene to ending terror and intrigue is continued . ¨Silver bullet¨ has everything , ever spooky scene you've ever seen , every horror movie cliché that's ever been overspoken , adding the novelty about a wheel-cheer bounded protagonist . Enjoyable and sympathetic relationship between two brothers nicely played by Corey Haim , as a young handicapped boy, and Megan Fellows as attractive girl as well as the narrator of the story . Special mention to Uncle Red gloriously performed by that underrated actor called Gary Busey as a grumpy but likable person . According director Daniel Attias, Gary Busey ad libbed a great deal, for instance when Uncle Red is in the gun shop , as Attias checked with Stephen King, who said OK for these ad libs to be included . Exciting and eerie final confrontation between our heroes and the hairy werewolf .This film was rightly based on King's ¨The cycle of werewolf¨ . Stephen King movies adaptations are converting as prolific as his novelettes , from ¨Creepshow¨ along with ¨Cats's eye¨, ¨Silver bullet¨, ¨Maximum overdrive¨ unique directed by King and various TV take on as ¨Rose red¨ , ¨The storm of the century¨ , ¨The stand¨ , ¨Golden years¨ and ¨Langoliers¨ have been numerous his adaptations . The motion picture was well financed by Italian producer Dino De Laurentiis , but he was very unhappy with the werewolf used in the film . The film was compellingly directed by Daniel Attias , though Don Coscarelli was scheduled to direct but left over creative differences with Dino De Laurentiis. Filming lasted in October 1984 and finished slightly before Christmas of the same year . This was Daniel Attias's first and only feature film he directed For the rest of the 1980s to today he mostly directed TV episodes for some famous shows (such as Ray Donovan , The Americans , Crossbones , The Killing , Resurrection , True Blood) and hasn't made another theatrical film. Rating  6,5/10 . Well worth watching for terror cinema fans and Stephen King buffs . It's an edge-of-your seat winner . "},{"Title":"Come on Rebel! We gunna bust'em up good tonite!","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Playing like an after school werewolf special, Silver Bullet is a more than tolerable King adaptation. It does lack in the effects department and maybe some of the acting is phased by some over the top melodrama but something about this movie is charming. That something is The Buse, oh yeah your favorite big screen nut-job Gary Busey steals this one entirely playing the caring, wise cracking, souped up wheel chair building and oft skunk drunk Uncle Red. He's the comic relief, the voice of reason and the unwilling hero all in one. This guy should make a point to do more horror in the immediate future. It works for him because the guys a fright show in his own right. He could easily become the next Tom Atkins. Now if your'e asking yourself who Tom Atkins is take a look at the Fog or Night of the Creeps and you'll immediately find yourself saying, oohhh that guy? Yeah he's cool as *BEEP*! Silver Bullet is worth the watch for scary Gary's performance alone but other highlights include, white trash wrestling fan yelling at TV set ooh that hurts ma'parts,car vS. wheel chair high speed chase, genre vet George Buck Flower having his block knocked off in the first reel, the ole'$1.47 rocket in the werewolf eye trick, and everybody's favorite stepfather Terry O'Quinn as the wimpiest sheriff in cinema. My biggest knock against this movie other then the rather cheese-tastic werewolf (guy in a bear suit) is that it's the second horror movie I've seen were the cast reknown Hollywood madman Lawrence Tierney and totally waste him. They should of had him go head to head with the werewolf. He would have neutered that son of a sheepdog. "},{"Title":"One of Steven King's better movies","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" 'Steven King's Silver Bullet' is one of the better adaptations of King's works.**SPOILERS**The town of Larker's Mill is threatening with a lot of strange missing person cases. As the town celebrates it founding day, one of the townspeople is killed. Sheriff Joe Haller (Terry O'Quinn) is under pressure from the town to solve it, and he sets out to investigate. An eccentric builder, Uncle Red (Gary Busey) arrives in town to visit his nephew, Marty, (Corey Haim) a crippled teenager who is confined to a wheelchair. A third animal attack reels the town, forcing Haller to put in a curfew. That still doesn't stop the killer, only this time it is Marty's best friend, Brady (Joe Wright). His father (Kent Broadhurst) organizes a town search party to go into the woods to find the killer, but they mostly end up being killed. Only a few survive, which cancels the rest of the town's celebrations for Independence Day. Uncle Red announces that he has to go back, leaving Marty by himself. That night, he sneaks out and shoots off some fireworks and finds out that the killer is a werewolf. Wounding the werewolf, he asks his sister Jane (Megan Follows) to go around town looking for people with an eye-patch. Only one person has one, Reverend Lowe (Everett McGill). Convinced that he is right, Jane agrees to help him solve the mystery in the town and find the real killer werewolf. The Good News I really like this werewolf movie. It does have a lot more suspense than most werewolf movies. To me, the part that really made me jump was the hunting party in the woods. There is a few people wandering around with flashlights in a fog-covered forest, with the fog coming up to their waist. They start to hear very low growling, which is the growling werewolf, then each one is killed by a very cleverly placed jumps to signal their ends. It is spread out for several minutes, making the scene pretty long scene with ample jumps and kills. It does have a creepy atmosphere to it, as does the rest of the movie after the discovery that the killer is a werewolf. The attacks are all carried out in a scene that provides at least a good, cheap scare. Normally, films aren't necessarily content to doing the thoughtful scare and the cheap one, but this film walks a very fine line between the two and includes the both of them together in a very entertaining way. The two do go hand-in-hand together and the creepy effect they have is almost irreplaceable. I believe that this may be King's second best adoption. Keep in mind that by this I mean that of all the movies that have been made based on his books, I think only 'The Shining' eclipses this one. That is not to say that this is the best story, but is in fact one of the better films made from his ideas. Even the identity of the werewolf was a bit of a shock the first. It does take a while before it becomes very easy to guess who it really is. His attacks are very brutal. The film has some great-looking gore and some pretty bloody leftovers from the attacks. They were really bad and messed up, leaving nothing to be desired and a treat in itself for the bloodhounds.The Bad News The werewolf itself is not in the least frightening or all that scary. The wolf is a badly made-up version of the one from 'The Howling' and comes off not in the least bit threatening. Even worse for it is that the werewolf is one the screen for so little time that it looks like it does have a very cheap design. It's nothing a few more snipes and cuts could've cure, but the result on film is a terrible looking werewolf. Another strike against it is that there was no reason for the film to be around. There was no storyline for the wolf's existence. It simply was, that was it. There was no territory invasion that he was trying to repel, no acting out to understand why the curse was in him, almost real motive for the werewolf was given. All werewolf films have a motive for the werewolves, and in King's novella, he had a really great motive. It was a shame that it was never transported over into the film.The Final Verdict If the werewolf were given a motive of some sort, this would be among the top werewolf films of all time. As it stands, this is still a really great film and is one of the better films made from Steven King. Definitely worth a look for werewolf fans as well.Rated R Graphic Violence, violence on children, Graphic Language, and mild alcohol abuse. "}{"Title":"Great werewolf movie.","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Wheelchair-bound teenager Cory Haim,his sister and his alcoholic uncle(Gary Busey)uncover a werewolf who has terrorized a small New England town of Tarker Mills for years.One night a drunken railroad engineer looses his head and the town think he just fell asleep on the tracks,until more murders begin to happen,each one more gruesome than the next.Soon the townsfolk believe its some maniac killer on the loose and intend to hunt the man down.Marty Coslaw,a young wheelchair bound boy,believes that the killer is no man at all,but a werewolf...Silver Bullet is an adaptation of Stephen King's short story.The film itself is quite enjoyable and has a special place in my heart,mainly because I saw it for the first time when I was a kid.The story is gripping and surprisingly atmospheric and there are some gory deaths.The acting is fine and the action is never dull.Overall,if you haven't seen this one yet give it a try.Fans of werewolf horror movies won't be disappointed. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good little Fim","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Based on the book by Stephen King,Silver Bullet is the story about A young cripple Boy named Marty(Corey Haim) who suspects that the killer in town is a werewolf.With the help of his sister Jane(Megan Follows) And Uncle Red(Gary Busey),They try to discover who the werewolf is and try to kill it...This is not a perfect movie,But it is a fun movie.The acting was pretty good,The kills were gory and cool,The werewolf affects were pretty cool,And it played out like a good mystery.The end was pretty cool and the car chasing scene was cool.If your a fan of werewolf movies or Stephen King,You should cheek it out.The werewolf beating the guys with the bat was kind of funny to.  "},{"Title":"Best Movie of king's","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet is completely different from all other werewolf movies in Box Office. Locations and Camera work are great. I like Stephen King movies and stories. Many of King's novels and short stories have been made into major motion pictures or TV movies and miniseries. Unlike some authors, King is workers are completely different.Silver Bullet is my favorite of Steven King's horror adaptations (yes, I do like this better than The Shining) . King even penned the screenplay himself (from his short story 'The Cycle of the Werewolf'), but since he was also responsible for the awful Maximum Overdrive, that's no solid proof of quality. But it a damn cool movie.What makes it so different and unique is that it's horror movie told from a child's perspective (though I admit that the retrospective narration seems out of place) and has a brother/sister dynamic that's quite cute and makes you really care for the characters.Corey Haim plays Marty Coslaw, a young boy who is confined to a wheelchair for reasons unknown. His older sister Jane is forced to take care of him and throws tantrums whenever the mum and dad take Marty's side (which is always). But the chair doesn't stop Marty from being mischievous. Especially when his manic, reckless Uncle Red (a fat Gary Busey-absolutely brilliant, as always) builds him a motorized wheelchair/bike called the Silver Bullet. "},{"Title":"I Love Werewolf Movies - And This Is My Favourite Of Them All","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Werewolf movies (excepet An American Werewolf In Paris) never disappoint me and this is my ultimate film in two ways. It's my favourite werewolf movie and it's my favourite Stephen King movie.Marty is a young teenage boy who is disabled and is in a wheelchair. The fact that a lot of their parents attention is directed towards Marty caused resentment in his older sister, Jane. Marty himself is frustrated with being treated as a child and relies on his Uncle Red to make him laugh. Red, who spends most of his time getting married, then divorced and then drunk loves his nephew and the two are close. Red makes petrol powered wheelchairs so that his nephew can go anywhere he likes. Then one day a young pregnant woman is mauled to death in her bedroom. As more and more of the townsfolk are killed by an unknown assassin Marty works out that it could be, according to the date of the murders, a werewolf. He confides in his Uncle Red that that's what he thinks it is. But is laughed off. Then, as a firework display is cancelled due to the murders, Red gives Marty some fireworks and the boy creeps out of the house in the middle of the night to set them off, and finally Marty see's the werewolf. Setting off a firework it hits the werewolf in the eye. His sister Jane notices that Marty is unnaturally quiet and asks him what is wrong. Marty tells her and Jane and Marty convince Uncle Red what is going on in their little town. He doesn't believe them but soon has no choice but to! And the biggest surprise is who the werewolf is! I love this movie as I love the relationship between Marty and Uncle Red. YOu get a sense that both of them pretty much live for one another and give each other a sense of meaning. Red pretty much has nothing but drink and Marty loves Red for the sense of confidence he gives him. It's great to see their relationship.This film is a must see Stephen King movie. It took me a while to track down the DVD. It's not that readily available on DVD in the UK and you have to find it online but it's well worth the wait. I'd highly recommend it. I gave it 10/10.For UK Readers This film is most regularly aired on Sci-Fi though it hasn't been aired for some time. "},{"Title":"Full Moon Frightfest","Date":"3 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A cycle of terror ...Every month, when the moon is at its fullest, the usually quiet town of Tarker's Mills is visited by what the townspeople think is a homicidal maniac. Mutilated corpses begin to turn up and a curfew is administered upon the residents of Tarker's Mills. One crippled boy nevertheless decides to ignore the curfew - which led to the cancellation of the Fourth of July Fireworks - and meets the mysterious murderer face-to-face one night. So begins a quest to discover the true identity of this monster.Daniel Attias has produced one of the creepiest Stephen King films ever with 'Silver Bullet'. The screenplay (written by King) is an adaptation of his novella, 'Cycle of the Werewolf', about a lycanthrope who hunts down the townspeople of Tarker's Mills. The film is well paced and has a 'whodunnit' feel, as well as plenty of extremely scary moments that will ensure you do not head for the 'eject' button, feeling you have wasted your hard earned dollars.Moreover, there is a great cast here, headed by veteran actor Gary 'Point Break' Busey, Corey 'The Lost Boys' Haim, and Terry 'The Stepfather' O'Quinn.I first watched this film when it came out for rental in the mid-eighties and it scared the Hell out of me. So, take the nightmare ride of your life through the fog shrouded woods of Tarker's Mills, but beware the moon.'Silver Bullet' also stars Everett McGill of 'Twin Peaks' and 'The People Under The Stairs', and Megan Follows, star of 'Anne of Green Gables'.Matthew J Lee-Williams, Review. "},{"Title":"One of The Best Werewolf Films!!!!!!","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"      The master of horror Stephen King,brings to life one of the best werewolf film ever made.A boy bound to a wheelchair,knows who's killing everybody in town,knows who is stalking him at night.And the answer is a werewolf.Now he and Uncle and sister must stop the creature before it's to late.    StarringGary Busey,Corey Haim,and Everett McGill all deliver solid performances in one of one of my favorite and  best werewolf films ever made.My others are,and not in any order,are Ginger Snaps,Wolf,An American Werewolf in London and it's funny as hell sequel An American Werewolf in Paris,Underworld,and The Howling.The ones I can't wait for is Ginger Snaps IIUnleashed,Ginger Snaps Back,and Curse.    If you'll looking for a great werewolf movie with gore,horror,comedy,than this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"best of the 80's horror","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is by far the best werewolf movie that has ever been made.  It is also one of the great horror movies of the 80's.  It is one of Gary Busey's better movies and Cory Haim's best since The Lost Boys.  It is based on a Stephen King short story about a small town that is being rampaged  by a werewolf.  There is nothing cheesy about this movie and the plot line is very believable. "},{"Title":"The best werewolf movie ever.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Silver Bullet is the best werewolf movie ever, movies like The Howling, Bad moon, An American Werewolf in London/Paris and others can't even get close. Very good effects, good acting, and a great story. This must be the one of the most underrated movies ever. Buy it! "},{"Title":"Few yards shy of being a favorite","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Werewolfs and Stephen King; sounds like a combination that can't miss! While Silver Bullet does have it's moments it's still a few yards shy of being a bona-fide genre favorite.The opening is magnificent; here's where the film's narration actually works. A grotesque opening sequence sets the tone perfectly and we're into one of those typical Stephen King small towns where great horror lies just beneath the picture pretty surface of the idyllic small town.Well, everybody knows the story here; a werewolf is terrorizing the town.While Corey Haim was a likable performer in his younger years, the decision to rest the film on the shoulders of two kids does diminish the film's scary potential. The set-pieces here are pretty good though, with that scene on the bridge with Haim lighting fireworks on the bridge; I remember that scene from when I was a kid.Silver Bullet, while displaying striking individual scenes gets somewhat bogged down when focusing on the kids here, giving them silly dialogue and rather campy scenes. Plus that narration gets very corny and irritating after the initial scene.Gary Busey, always a likable actor, gives a one-note performance here as Haim's well meaning, but rather child-like alcoholic, uncle. That said, quality actors on board here with Everett McGill stealing the show as the town priest.But all in all, Silver Bullet is a classic in the werewolf genre. I still prefer, say The Howling to this one, but I remembered it scared me silly when I was a kid and that fog bound search midway through is still atmospheric and somewhat scary. It's a no-brainer for horror buffs. "},{"Title":"Very good !","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" SILVER BULLET is just pure fun, one of those horror movies that relies on atmospheric tension and frightening monsters. The werewolf is pretty scary in this adaptation of Stephen King's novella, CYCLE OF THE WEREWOLF. 80s teen star Corey Haim is just fine as a wheelchair-bound young boy who discovers there's a werewolf in their midst---the townsfolk think the murders are the work of a psycho killer, but Corey and his sister Megan Follows convince Uncle Red (a cool Gary Busey) and they set off to find the identity of the werewolf. Everett McGill is fine as the creepy minister, and the whole movie works because it doesn't take itself too seriously and it recognizes that. Truly one of the better treatments of a King work. "}{"Title":"Not scary enough to have you make Lemonade in your pants but not bad.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  From Stephen King comes a tale about a werewolf creating hate and discontent in a small town as it tears up a few of the  residents. The townies don't like the way the sheriff is handling things and decide to take to the fog infested woods to hunt down what ever it is that's turning their fellow citizens into hamburg. A local boy confined to a motorized wheelchair thinks he knows what the evil really is. Can he convince anyone including his good natured drunken uncle played by Gary Busey?  It's along the lines of a 50's ish B grade horror flick. The werewolf could have been better done and comes off as something you would expect to see in a Little Red Riding Hood film. Terry O'Quinn of Stepfather films is the towns Sheriff and Everett McGill is cast as a reverend who tries in vain to keep the townies spiritually guided as the menace continues.  If you've never seen this picture do your self a favor and rent it vice seeing it on TV. It's usually edited for television and even though the editing is minor it's still better on video.       "},{"Title":"Brady's Dad","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The actor who played Herb Kincaid (father of the shredded Brady) was phenomenal - I don't understand why no one has commented on this. When he was talking to the local yokels and the sheriff in Owens Bar after Brady's funeral, his voice, the depth of emotion in his eyes - so filled with pain, anger and loss that I almost actually believed that he had lost his son to a brutal killer. He captured the part of a bereaved and inconsolable father as accurately as any actor could, especially the way he said As for me, I think I'll go out and hunt up a little private justice. Such a small part but one that reflected what real acting is all about.I think they should have explained how Marty became paralyzed - his Uncle Red hinted that Marty hadn't always been crippled when he said (I'm paraphrasing here), Sometimes I think your brain must have gotten paralyzed along with your legs. It seems to indicate that Marty had suffered an accident that left him unable to walk and it made you wonder exactly what had happened.I think the manufactured tension between Jane and Marty wasn't terribly credible either. Beside the usual sibling rivalry, there was really no reason that Jane should resent Marty so much and act like she hated him, saying Marty was the cross I had to bear. If anything, it seems like she would have been protective of him since he couldn't get around on his own and shown a little understanding. It made her seem like a selfish little witch and she garnered no sympathy from me. I wish her mom had actually made good on her threat to smack her.Like a number of people, I loved Uncle Red - he wasn't supposed to be perfect but he sure loved his niece and nephew. He's the type of guy I'd want to watch my back in a crisis - drinker or not, he was always there for them.I'm sure we all know a sneering, arrogant little jerk like Andy Fairton (who somehow always got otherwise rational people to listen to him and follow him). I could see this character in a western saying Let's string him up boys before he even knew whether or not the person was guilty. I wish the werewolf had a bitten a sizable chunk out of his know-it-all ass. His mean-spirited comments were pretty funny thoughWhen the sheriff said We'll catch him. Andy said You couldn't catch a cold. This whole investigation is as f***ked up as a submarine with screen doors.The sheriff was totally incompetent though. Why would he go to Rev. Lowe's house at night alone when he wanted to question him about murder and not have any back up. Instead of blasting the reverend when he started walking toward him in a menacing fashion, the sheriff stared backing up in fear and only pulled his gun at the last minute. "},{"Title":"A Perfect MONSTER !","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This was a very enjoyable Horror Film will lots of action from beginning to end. Gary Busey,(Uncle Red) played an outstanding uncle who managed to build a fantastic speed bike called,SILVER BULLET for his nephew and it saved his life in more ways than one. Lawrence Tierney,(Owen Knopfer),Evicted,2000 and Dillinger,'47, was one of the town people trying to investigate and hunt for the killer or MONSTER! Everett McGill,(Reverend Love),Jekyll Island,'98, tried to give spiritual help to his flock of faithful members who had a hard time trying to STAY ALIVE! The Monster effects were outstanding and even to the making of a Silver Bullet! Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Very Underrated","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet (1985) *** 1/2 (out of 4) I know An American Werewolf in London and The Howling usually get all the praise but for my money this is the best werewolf film of the 1980s. I thought everyone loved this film until getting the internet and reading how many people actually didn't enjoy it but I still love it. I think the film works well as a coming of age story with all the horror elements thrown in for good measure. Kinda like a horror version of The Goonies with Corey Haim and Gary Busey doing great work together. The supporting cast of actors also serve well in the story. The scene in the fog and the ending are full of wonderful tension as well. "},{"Title":"This is for the good guys!","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A werewolf terrorizes a small town, so a young boy (Corey Haim) in a motorized wheelchair teams up with his older sister (Megan Follows) and eccentric uncle (Gary Busey) to figure out who it is and put a stop to the killings. One of my favorite movies as a kid that still holds up nicely today. Stephen King, adapting his own novella Cycle of the Werewolf, wrote the screenplay. It's a character-driven horror story that works so well for that very reason. You really care about these people and are more invested in what happens to them than in many other horror movies where the monster/killer is given priority. Corey Haim does a great job, as does Gary Busey years before he went insane. But the real star of the movie to the lovestruck kid in me is Megan Follows, my most memorable childhood crush. Even if the rest of the movie wasn't great (it is), I would have watched it over and over just for her. The rest of the cast includes such fine actors as Everett McGill, Bill Smitrovich, Terry O'Quinn, and Lawrence Tierney. As I said, I loved the movie as a kid. As an adult, I still enjoy it a lot even though I recognize its flaws more now. It's low-key horror but it has likable characters, good dialogue, and some nice suspense. No, the werewolf doesn't match up to the stuff Rick Baker or Rob Bottin did a few years earlier, but it's not terrible for a guy in a suit. It's a great movie, in my opinion, that deserves inclusion in the discussion of 'best werewolf movies.' "},{"Title":"My Absolute FAVORITE Werewolf Movie","Date":"17 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I am so confused as to why this doesn't have AT LEAST a 7 or 8 star rating. This is my favorite werewolf movie, and possibly my favorite Stephen King movie. The story line is amazing, the acting is great, and the characters are likable. This isn't a gory, slasher movie. It has depth to it and I can actually say this is the ONLY movie that I have ever liked more than the book ( if you haven't read the book it's not called Silver Bullet, but Cycle of the Werewolf). Also, on a side note, another reason this is my favorite of these movies is because the werewolf looks realistic. I truly abhor the werewolves that have overly pointed ears, exaggerated snouts, and just look overall cartoonish. So, if you're looking for a good werewolf movie, I would highly suggest this. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Stephen King Movies","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A werewolf terrorizes the small city where paralyzed Marty Coslaw (Corey Haim) lives with his uncle (Gary Busey) and his sister (Megan Follows), the narrator of the story.This film is a great example of 1980s horror with a touch of humor to it. Maybe the producer did not like the werewolf costume, but I think it fits the tone of the movie just fine and has actually held up well. I would much rather watch this film than a classic like The Howling (with all due respect to Joe Dante).My biggest issue with this film (perhaps my only issue) is the narration from the sister. Why is that even included? If you remove the few moments she talks, it would not detract from the movie at all -- she offers nothing in the way of explanation or plot. And it really makes no logical sense if you think about it why would she know what the priest dreams? But, oh well.Terry O'Quinn has a small role, but it is still great to see him. Before he got (more) famous as John Locke on Lost, the horror fans knew him as the Stepfather. So any time he makes a horror appearance, it is a welcome treat. Gary Busey is also great, being his typical crazy self. They say he became crazy after his motorcycle accident, but it really seems to have been present before that.A quick shout-out to the bear trap joke. Not sure which film did this first, but it is always nice to see.Last, but not least, we must salute Daniel Attias. This was Attias' directing debut before going on to be successful in television work. He did an amazing job and I am impressed. Apparently Don Coscarelli was going to be the director before things fell through. While Coscarelli is certainly a legend in the horror world, I am not sure if he could have made the film any better... it is in many ways now a classic. "},{"Title":"Decent werewolf film.","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Film adaptation of Stephen King's novelette Cycle of the Werewolf, scripted by the author himself, gets some things right and is fun enough, and appealing enough, no matter if it can't compare to werewolf classics like The Wolf Man and An American Werewolf in London. Likable Corey Haim is Marty Coslaw, a paraplegic who manages to learn the human identity of the monster stalking his peaceful small town during the summer and fall of 1976. With the eventual help of his sister Jane (Megan Follows) and colourful, wild man uncle Red (the perfectly cast Gary Busey), he hopes to end the nightmare. The only feature directorial credit for TV veteran Daniel Attias (who was an assistant director on movies such as One from the Heart and E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial), it very nicely captures a small town's ambiance during different seasons, and also has some fairly good suspense and atmosphere. Some good touches here and there, especially when Jane learns who the werewolf is; during this scene her face is half in shadow and the effect is spooky. Fine music by Jay Chattaway helps, as well as more than a few laughs, largely supplied by the flamboyant Busey, who delivers some pretty priceless quips. (I could quote the best one here, but it would give away a crucial revelation.) Both Haim and Follows are completely believable, and the supporting cast features a couple of familiar faces Terry O'Quinn ('Lost', The Stepfather '87) as the ineffective local sheriff, Bill Smitrovich ('Life Goes On') as hostile loudmouth Andy Fairton, Robin Groves (The Nesting) as Marty and Jane's mother, James Gammon (The Cell, Major League) as drunk and obligatory initial victim Arnie Westrum, legendary tough guy Lawrence Tierney (Dillinger '45) as bar owner Owen Knopfler, and William Newman (Squirm, Monkey Shines) as service station owner Virgil Cuts. Everett McGill is particularly fine as the Reverend. Only the creature effects, overseen by Carlo Rambaldi, disappoint; some transformation shots are good but the werewolf just doesn't look too good, and doesn't inspire that much terror. One major set piece wherein just about everybody in a congregation metamorphoses IS rather amusing. In any event, despite any flaws, Silver Bullet manages to entertain reasonably well, although it gets too syrupy by the end. Still worth seeing for werewolf cinema completists. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"duality of man","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As I understand it, the main theme of Silver Bullet is the duality of man. The most obvious example is of course the werewolf. Other examples are the sheriff who cedes authority to the vigilante group (calling into question his role as a community leader). The movie also focuses on the issue of imperfection, whether physical (Marty's paraplegia) or moral (Red's irresponsible lifestyle).Of course, it's hard to concentrate on any of that while watching the movie. The viewer just wants to see the lycanthrope do its stuff. I certainly enjoyed it.Director Dan Attias more recently has directed several episodes of TV shows, among them Six Feet Under, while Don Coscarelli (who was attached to direct early on), directed the cult flick Bubba Ho-Tep. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Watching Never Cry Werewolf again today made me think back to this far superior werewolf movie. It is hard to pull off an effective vampire or werewolf movie. Often the creature comes across as silly rather than scary. The best werewolf movies, like THE HOWLING, keep the creature in the shadows as long as possible, and allow it to be menacing without throwing it in our face every 10 minutes. SB is an example of a scary (and fun) werewolf flick. In fact, the scariest moment in this movie comes when the minister shows up wearing an eyepatch the morning after the werewolf has been shot in one eye with a flaregun or firecracker. It also pays to have a terrific cast, as this one does. Everett McGill of The Peope Under the Stairs and Under Siege fame makes a great villain, while Gary Busey and Corey Haim as uncle and nephew make a great team against evil. The fact that Haim's character is in a wheelchair throughout adds immensely to the suspense and terror. Some gore, but no worse than the gore in a film like Fright Night. Older kids can certainly watch this. "}{"Title":"Better than its reputation.","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet is directed by Daniel Attias and adapted for the screen by Stephen King from his own novelette Cycle Of The Werewolf. It stars Gary Busey, Corey Haim, Megan Follows, Everett McGill & Terry O'Quinn. The film is set in the small rural town of Tarker's Mills, Maine, which falls prey to a series of grizzly murders. At first the killings are believed to be the work of a mad man, with the town ready to take up vigilante arms against the perpetrator, but young wheelchair bound Marty (Haim) is convinced something more lupine like is responsible.As most folks know, Stephen King's adaptations to screen are a mixed bunch. Some have been tackled by top line directors such as Kubrick, De Palma, Cronenberg, Reiner & Darabont, while others have been turned out by no marks where the quality befits the low production value. Silver Bullet falls somewhere in the middle on the quality list of King movies. Its reputation is some what Luke warm, and whilst it's a little understandable when put up against other 80's film's in the werewolf pantheon (An American Werewolf In London, The Howling & The Company Of Wolves), it does have a high entertainment value. Of note, too, is that it's not shy in the dark department either. There's mutilated children, a pregnant woman tore to shreds, car attack on our crippled hero, while some of the characterisations are also interesting; such as an alcoholic uncle (a wonderfully OTT Busey) & the mean hick bar dwellers who raise the spectre of vigilantism.True, the film is also dotted with cheese. But there's fun in that too. I don't know if some of the laughs were intentional or not, but I like to think so. How else can you react to a werewolf that takes up a baseball bat to fell one of his attackers? That's surely meant to be funny, no? It is also not taxing of the brain to work out who the hairy beast is in human form, because, like, the makers gives us clues. I really don't think they was trying to spring a big surprise on us. Cast wise it's the usual array of mixed performers. Haim is likable, particularly in the scenes with the afore mentioned Busey, O'Quinn adds professionalism, while McGill is always value for money when playing important members of the community. Tis fun too seeing future Reservoir Dog leader Lawrence Tierney putting his gruff stamp over the bar room proceedings.So not one for the technical and artistry seeking purists then. But definitely one for those looking for a good bit of werewolf tear em up that comes with tasty 80s cheese. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Jane's walking around in all these new clothes showing off her tits, acting like no one ever had tits before her.","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Corey Haim (Watchers, The Lost Boys) is a boy in a wheelchair who believes that werewolves are responsible for a string of gruesome murders, while the townspeople are chasing a serial killer.Gary Busey does a good turn as his drunken Uncle Red. A perfect role. His sister Jane (Megan Follows) is the only one that believes him.It's not a great film, but it is certainly worth watching. The minister's (Everett McGill) dream was outstanding.John Locke (Terry O'Quinn) was also good as the Sheriff.The ending was very exciting with a great werewolf to man transformation. It wasn't great, as I said, but it was a good story. "},{"Title":"And to think I found this in the 3 for 10$ section","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is really good for an 80s horror since the rest really didn't have such great reviews with the critics but what do they know!! I remember seing most of it as a kid and found it really cool considering I'm not big on mysteries or werewolf movies. It's a descent flik with a couple of good scares and a nice little story in it. The only thing that really  bugs me is the stupid ending it's just a shot and he's dead no real suspence at all but I still really liked it it was well well! worth the price that I paid.    "},{"Title":"Here's what's great with Silver Bullet...","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The mood. Some might say its typical King, I wouldn't agree. Its King alright, the old King, but its better than King normally is. I haven't read Cycle of the werewolf so perhaps the screen-conversion differs greatly from the book. Books generally do that because they lack thoughts and emotions that can be read in the books and not portrayed on film. But I usually find the mood to be somewhat the same as the books - this movie is just so much more than I would expect from a King book, or a King screen-conversion.But anyway, the mood - the little community coming together, facing their fears, stereotypical personalities changing along with the aftermath-scenes of the town's problem - its simply brilliant. Its not like it hasn't been done before, its just that it comes out great in this particular movie.The cast - is simply astounding. I wouldn't have any other actors in it. They're all so perfect in their roles. The acting... well, they're not the greatest actors in Hollywood, but they all perform exceptionally well, especially Megan Follows and Gary Busey. There are several enjoyable characters, of which many are small part roles.Effects - could be better, even back in 1985. But the effects stay true to similar movie techniques at the time. The designs are not to my personal liking, a bit too universal-looking, but fill their purpose.Cinematography... this is where it all comes together. Some scenes are just so well-made. Lighting, music, mood and acting come together superbly in several of the key scenes, but also the many story scenes are filled with rigid accuracy.Soundtrack - very well composed, especially the opening track, which is a beautiful, tranquil tune that has a dark side to it which comes alive just as the narrator explains the town's problem. Goes from ideal & sweet to problematic and gloomy, depicting the current events of the small town. Really nice.Action - well... sure, there's action. But there's actually a lot more tension, the building-up before the coming action sequences. And these tension scenes are some of the best in the movie.Summa Summarum - Its a horror movie with a supernatural theme which has some well-placed actors and loads of mood.Buy it already. "},{"Title":"There are no such things as werewolves!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" ~Spoiler~I owe quite a bit to this movie for opening up a lot of doors. Silver Bullet is one of the first horror movies I saw when I was a kid and has since gained it's own special place in my heart. And it's still a classic to this day. I love to watch it. The dream sequence is one of my favorite scenes. As well as the hunt for the werewolf after the fireworks accident. The werewolves identity is hidden very well. I had no idea who it was when I first watched it, of course I was probably six years old though. Everett McGill plays the best role in the movie. Especially when Corey Haim finds out he's the wolf. I think he scares me more when he's in human form. The werewolf itself isn't bad though. The best effects are at the end when the hair is receding to reveal the Reverend's body. It's not the best werewolf effects, however. The Howling and An American Werewolf in London boast far better transformation scenes. And does anyone remember the Monster Squad? That movie had a killer werewolf. But Silver Bullet is on the list of best werewolf movies. Stephen King wrote it based on his book, so there is no rape of his material (unlike most King flicks). Fans should be pleased, especially with the scene where the sheriff is carrying the bloody kite, it's the best. "},{"Title":"Best Werewolf flick to date!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Although 'The Howling' and 'American Werewolf in London' were good, this is the best Werewolf flick to date. Set in a small town in Maine, A wheelchair bound boy starts to think that some murders in the area have been done by a Werewolf. The cast is great and it is scary although the Werewolf make-up could have been better. It uses the same Compressed air bag fx like the other 2 Werewolf flicks except this one mixes the fx with computer fx. In the movie there are superb characters like Milt the angry drunken redneck. Owen Knopfler the bartender who has the legendary 'Peacemaker' baseball bat at his side. Also a guy named Andy Fairton provides the jokes. Jokes like 'Joe Haller, couldn't find his own ass, if you filled it full of radium and gave him a geiger counter!' and 'This whole operation has been about as efficient as a submarine with screen-doors!' The whole town happens to be quite dysfunctional and no wonder they can't catch the killer.(Werewolf) But the humour in the movie comes thick. The gore in the movie comes thick and the scares in the movie come thick. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A real classic in my mind.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** The first time I saw this movie, I was nine years old, it was late at night, and it scared the hell out of me.  That was back in the day, before I had subjected myself to so many horror flicks and became virtually desensitized. It's a funny thing though.  Even now (twelve years later) when I go back to this, I still get that creeped out feeling.  The director, whose name I cannot remember (sorry dude), really did a great job in taking the mood that Stephen King set in the comic, giving hit his own spin, and slapping it on the screen.  Location, lighting, and music is put to great use, giving even the daytime scenes a scary feel.  Even though this movie has a few flaws (and one that's kinda big) I still marked this one as a werewolf classic. Let me back up my opinion here, but first here's a little bit on the plot.***a few minor spoilers***** You see, this kid Marty is having a tough time.  Marty is a parapalegiac so he's doomed to this motorized wheelchair, and I must say, if I had to spend the rest of my days in a wheelchair, this is how I'd wanna do it.  His uncle Red (played by my main man, Mr.Gary Busey.  we'll get back to him...)  has manufactured him a chair that is part wheelchair, part motor scooter. Marty's also one of those who doesn't let his handicap get him down.  He does a lot of things that other kids his age does and gets into trouble with the rest of 'em.  Heck, he even has himself a girlfriend.  Everyday life is disrupted when the town drunk (James Gammon) is found decapitated by the train tracks.  This puts fear into the small town and pretty soon, the body count is rising with mutilated corpses popping up left and right.The town thinks that there is a maniac on the loose and naturally, the town rednecks are ready to form a lynch-mob.  Everyone seems to think it's a man doing these crimes.  Things aren't looking so good for Marty.  His best friend/obnoxious brat, Brady is ripped to shreads by the killer, his girlfriend's step-dad is killed so she has to move, and due to all of this, the town's fair is cancelled.  Bum-mer.  So what's a young man to do?  Why turn to his good ole Uncle Red, of course!   Red is a pretty good guy. He's got his share of problems (a slight drinking problem, but don't worry. He's a happy drunk) but he loves his sister's kids and he would do anything for them.  He's also a pretty rational guy which explains why he flips out when Marty suggests that the town's Reverend is a Werewolf and he's the one who's responsible for the murders.  Reluctantly, Red humors the kid by playing along with the theory, so it's up to these guys to save the day.There, I think that's enough of the plot without dropping any major spoilers.  I think what really made this movie gel was the characters and their relationships.  We're presented with some respectively fleshed-out characters and we can actually sympathize with them.  I really loved Red. Gary Busey pulled the part off, almost effortlessly, as the uncle, with a heart of gold, who just can't quite get his life together.  Corey Haim did a really great job as Marty.  He should be acting more these days.  There was also just enough humor and comic relief to give everything a good balance (the lynch-mob scene was fantastic and I still get the giggles).  The only thing that rubbed me wrong was the behavior of the Reverend.  I mainly blame the scriptor but I don't get why, if he knew about his curse and WANTED to die, why in the hell did he try to take out Marty with his car?! What was that all about?  I never could understand that one.  Anyhow, that's my only bitch.  It still gets a 9/10. "},{"Title":"blast from the past...","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Rented this movie for a rollicking old time.  I remembered wondering Why was that movie rated R? the first time I saw it (which was when I was a teen.) Well. It still gets its 'R' rating with copious amounts of extruded splatter, but it is still the sweet little gem I'd remembered.  Sure, the effects were a little rough, but there aren't that many.  There is a lot of stupid stuff going on, classic hook of the 80's horror films where you've heard moviegoers yelling at the screen don't open that door, don't open that door.......I told her not to open that door.  But ultimately Corey Haim et al make for a good film.  Even Gary Busey makes a pretty good show as the lovable raucous uncle.  For true horror fans, this one is filed under Splatterfest-light.  The perfect film for scaring your date right in to your lap. "},{"Title":"Quote is wrong!!!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I love this movie, it is one of my favorite Stephen King movies, but you guys screwed up a quote! I have seen this movie about a billion times, and the part where Jane is talking about (paraphrasing) maybe he's like this almost all the time, only as the moon gets fuller... You guys have Marty saying The guy grows more wolf hair. Cracked me up when I read it, that's totally not what Marty says. He says The guy gets wolfier. Just thought I'd give a little bit of constructive criticism, I'm sure there are tons of people who are going to be checking to make sure that a quote by Corey Haim is right on a 1985 werewolf movie ) Anyway, love your site, every time I look up a movie to find quotes, I think of 3 more movies to look up! Oh, and I noticed you guys didn't have The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, you need to add that one, it has some great quotes! Have a great day! Amy "},{"Title":"Interesting Werewolf movie.","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  First off, I am not the biggest werewolf fan in the world.  In fact, for the most part I don't care for them.  This is just one of the exceptions that I do like...An American Werewolf in London is another.  This one is about a werewolf killing people in a small town.  Of course, the people are up in arms about it and want something done.  A boy who is paralyzed and his sister end up finding out the identity of the werewolf as the werewolf attack the boy and the boy was able to defend himself by shooting out one of its eyes.  The sister went around to people's houses and eventually came across a man with one eye.  They convince their uncle that a werewolf is what is killing everyone and he has a silver bullet made.  The parents go off one night during a full moon and the uncle and kids must confront the werewolf.  I won't give away who the werewolf is for anyone who hasn't seen this yet.  All in all a pretty cool flick, nothing great about it just easy to watch and enjoy.   "}{"Title":"Pretty Good Werewolf Flick","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet is a really fun and pretty darn good werewolf flick. It does focus a bit on Marty Coslaw (Haim) a wheelchair bound boy, his relationship with his sister Meg (Follows) and Uncle Red (Busy) but this threesome will end up finding out who is the werewolf and become almost comical werewolf hunters in the end.What made this film besides the idea of watching a werewolf? Gary Busy as Uncle Red. He put on quite a show and made a really cool uncle. He's crazy in this one.Quite a few comical moments, some exciting one's but not a lot of werewolf action until the end of the film yet it's enjoyable to watch from start to finish.8/10 "},{"Title":"Silver Bullet as a kid","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As i was only 5 years of age my grandma got this movie for us to watch. It gave my brother and sister and I nightmares for awhile after. I grew to love this film though, funny Gary Busy as Red, and Corey as Marty like lost boys its a great film. Its a must see i watched it on my 10th birthday party with my friends, right before Halloween. I love Stephen King movies, especially IT. They are usually with kids in it or teenagers so i was able to relate to it well. The unrated IT or R rated Silver Bullet arnt really that bad since i have seen worse in war films as a young kid. If you love classic horror films this is it, Everett Megill, is classic in this as the werewolf and he was awesome in people under the stairs another classic film. Have fun watching. "},{"Title":"A really fun/scary werewolf movie!","Date":"5 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Based on STEPHEN KING'S novella CYCLE OF THE WEREWOLF, SILVER BULLET opens up in Harkers Mills circa 1976, a small town plagued by a series of cruel, vicious & very violent murders. It all starts off with the gruesome murder of a railway worker, for which the town merely attributes to a fatal accident, but after another & then another murder takes place, the town can no longer deny that they are dealing with a vicious serial killer, causing the towns law enforcement to establish a curfew. How lucky for the town if it had only turned out to be a serial killer, because as it turns out the reality of the situation is much, much worse, as it turns out the murderer is really a vicious, very hungry, very angry werewolf! who strikes when the moon is full! Wheel chair bound pre-teen Marty Caslaw (Played by the late great COREY HAIM) sneaks out of his house one night to find a nice quiet place in the woods to fire off his rockets, however he has a nail shredding encounter with a vicious werewolf, whose eye he takes out by firing a rocket into it, injuring the beast. With the help of his teen sister Jane, with whom he shares a bond with, they attempt to unravel the mystery of just which one of the townsfolk is the beast. Coming up with a plan for a bottle drive Marty's sister goes from house to house collecting bottles while attempting to find out which of the citizens is missing an eye, revealing them to be the savage beast. Jane is soon shocked to discover that the towns minister has been the one behind the vicious murders, that have gripped the once peaceful town. Visiting their uncle Red, an alcoholic mechanic (who is a laid back kind of guy), who actually helped build Marty's gas fulled wheelchair the Silver Bullet to help assist them in taking down the beast before it gets them. Investigating further, they discover that with each passing transformation the minister will grow more & more evil until his human side is completely obliterated leaving only the beast side taking him over permanently.While it may not be the best King adoption or the greatest werewolf movie ever made, SILVER BULLET still delivers a fairly entertaining & quite scary monster movie. The beast is wisely kept off camera for most of the movie, with mostly it's clawed hand being revealed on camera, along with some POV shots & shadows on the wall as the beast roams about. The werewolf costume when revealed is mucho impressive, while admittedly nowhere near as scary or as impressive as the werewolf monster suits created for both THE HOWLING & AN AMERCIAN WEREWOLF IN London, the monster suit seen here does the trick (courtesy of special effects wiz CARLO RAMBALDI). The film is certainly well acted. COREY HAIM was a real good choice for Marty making his role really believable & the direction is very well handled. The film also boasts many suspenseful & very tense scare scenes that should get even the most jaded horror fan on the edge of their seat. The sequence that sees the minister pursuing the terrified Marty on a deserted back road with his car only for Marty's wheel chair to run out of fuel & terrifying nightmare sequence that sees the entire church congregation transform into hideous werewolves are really suspenseful, edge of you're seat moments. The gore effects are really gushy & gooey as we see a person bludgeoned to death with a baseball bat, a victim impaled on a shard of broken wood flooring, yet despite the vicious nature of the film, it also displays many surprising emotional & touching moments, especially in many scenes between Marty & his uncle & Marty & his sister, you really care & feel for the characters which is not something one can say about most horror films. While not a complete adoption of King's novel (some plot twists have been noticeably altered, but nothing major) it's right up there as one of Kings better adoptions translated to the silver screen & the film wastes no time at all in stripping away the nonsense & getting straight to the heart of the matter.On the downside while there aren't many flaws, I will say somethings could have been handled better The ending is a bit of a let down especially considering the amount of momentum the film has going in, I felt that the creature was dispatched far to quickly & the climax was a little to short. Director Daniel Attias also displays a knack for seemingly being unable to set up a series of really good suspense sequences. While many of the suspenseful moments are very well handled, others are harmed due to being underwhelming in how their executed. The opening murder of the railway worker is spoiled by revealing that the creature is already on the scene, as we see it milling about & the sequence that sees the werewolf pursuing Sam on a bridge in the woods in the middle of the night is also lacking in any real tension it should have had. In the end, despite it's flaws, SILVER BULLET is a must see for all STEPHEN KING/Werewolf fans!**** stars "},{"Title":"Slight werewolf tale from the pen of Stephen King","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" SILVER BULLET is a slight werewolf story adapted from the Stephen King novella. The tale is a simple one and there's a lack of story complexity that means this feels slightly stretched for its running time. It's a far cry from the quality of SALEM'S LOT which had enough material to fill out a TV miniseries, although saying that, it's not without its merits.The presence of Corey Haim as the protagonist brings this in line with other '80s kid-centric efforts like THE LOST BOYS and THE MONSTER SQUAD. I thought his character's disability made him into a really interesting lead, flawed and yet powerful because of his disability. The whodunit aspect of the narrative is the worst part of the film because it's so obvious from the outset, but thankfully there are reasons to watch other than the storyline.One of these is Gary Busey in a great, cast-against-type role as Haim's drunk uncle. Busey brings his usual energy and humour to the part and is undoubtedly the most enjoyable thing here. The supporting cast features some engaging faces from the era, including Terry O'Quinn (THE STEPFATHER) as the town sheriff and Everett McGill (UNDER SIEGE 2 DARK TERRITORY) as the local reverend. Megan Follows contributes a realistic turn as Haim's sister and was best known for her recurring role as ANNE OF GREEN GABLES.SILVER BULLET benefits from some well-directed set-pieces, in particularly a lengthy wheelchair chase scene which sounds silly but actually turns out to be very tense. The special effects aren't as good as in other werewolf movies from the era (most notably AN American WEREWOLF IN London), although some of the Carlos Rombaldi transformation effects are pretty cool. Overall I would class SILVER BULLET as good fun, if not great entertainment. "},{"Title":"The forgotten eighties werewolf movie","Date":"20 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Werewolf movies in the eighties were primarily defined by 'The Howling' and 'An American Werewolf in London.' However, if you don't mind the 'pre-computer generated' special effects in a werewolf movie, 'Silver Bullet' is at least the decade's third place effort.It's adapted from one of Stephen King's many books and, as I haven't read it, I can't say how faithful the film is. Although, it's a decent enough 'who-dun-it,' as a werewolf stalks a small American town and you don't know who it is until at least three quarters the way through the movie.One thing you may not like is that the main character is a kid and kids always seem to have a hard time shouldering an entire horror movie (normally because you know they won't get killed under any circumstances!). Luckily, he's got Gary Busey to look after him and the two of them play off each other well. The other main character is the boy's fifteen year old sister, who occasionally does the voice-over from some distant point in the future. This whole voice-over is pretty redundant and should really have been left out.But, all in all, it's a decent enough entry into yesteryear's werewolf/horror annals.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Kid Power","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" So, I watched Silver Bullet again because I wasn't sure if I'd seen it when I was younger or not. I definitely remembered the title. Watching it again I can say that I probably saw at least part of it.Silver Bullet is the werewolf tale, as told by Stephen King, starring Corey Haim and a young Gary Busey. People keep coming up dead in the small town of Tarkers Mills and no one knows who the killer is. Marty Coslaw (Corey Haim) surmises that it's a werewolf doing all of the killing and he is able to confirm that fact. He confides in his beloved Uncle Red (Gary Busey) and solicits his help to take down the beast.This is no American Werewolf in London but it is pretty good. Gary Busey was nice. In fact, from an acting standpoint, he was the only bright spot. But Silver Bullet wasn't about Oscar performances. Much like the Monster Squad of a few years later, this is a story of kid power. When adults can't see or realize that there are extraordinary causes for deaths or otherwise, kids come to the rescue. Of course, when youngsters are at the helm there will be a lot of cliché and downright dumb actions. Bear with the bonehead stunts and everything will be OK. "},{"Title":"It isn't great Stephen King, but it's good","Date":"19 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stephen King's novels has touched us and startled us in many different ways. Reaching deep down into our deepest and most darkest nightmares, he generated some of the best horror novels of his time. Most of them have made it onto the big screen. His best adaptations are Carrie, The Dead Zone and The Shining. All three movies and his other future adaptations also fared well.His latest film adaption to the big screen isn't really that great, but it fares pretty good. Silver Bullet is told through the perspective of a young girl named Jane (Megan Follows), who's younger brother, Marty (Corey Haim), an wheelchair-bound kid, who's wheelchair is named Silver Bullet ( the title has a double meaning. It is the only thing that can kill a werewolf and it is also the name of the wheelchair that Marty travels in.), lived in a peaceful town called Tarker's Mill, located in Maine. The town seems to be normal, until one night, an railroad worker's death startled the townsfolk. Nobody knows who done it. But, as more bodies start to pop up, the town sheriff is convinced that a serial killer is on the loose. What he doesn't know is that a werewolf is behind all this. Marty and his older sister take notice of the current murders and tries to convince their alcoholic Uncle Red, (Gary Busey) that a werewolf is responsible for the killings. Together, the three of them must kill the werewolf. But, in order to kill it, they will have to wait until the next full moon.As mention above, Silver Bullet is not a great Stephen King movie, but it is a fun and good horror movie. I think the reason why this movie works is that you don't really take the main characters seriously. The more you don't care, the more fun you will get out of this movie. Unlike other Stephen King's projects, Silver Bullet skips the usual Stephen King greatness and goes straight into a formula setting, where a peaceful small town is invaded by unspeakable and startling horrors.The special effects in Silver Bullet is okay, even though the suspense that is created during the werewolf are fun, even if you're still not experiencing the frightfulness that this movie possess. Busey, who is a good actor, is very good as Uncle Red and also very wise when it comes to being with his niece and nephew. There are a few scenes in this movie where I laughed because I was having fun being scared, but also because of the movie's slight sense of silliness. There's one scene where a vigilante group try to hunt down the werewolf in a bog. Probably the funniest line in the movie is when one of the townsfolk who is hunting for the werewolf says, Are you going to made lemonade in your pants? Later on after that hilarious piece of dialogue, the werewolf start to pick off the townsfolk one by one. They don't even realize that the werewolf is right beneath them in the knee-deep fog. Of course, you can laugh during a horror movie if you're scared, but you can also laughed because you realize you're having a good time watching what's up on the big screen. Another criticism that I had about the movie is that I found it hard to realize that the voice that is narrating the story is the same girl that appeared in the movie. If she is 9 years old in 1976, wouldn't she be much older than that? She can't be more than 18 or older. These are the kind of questions you don't ask during this movie or any other movie that is supposed to be implausible. But, that's okay. Silver Bullet doesn't shoot high for Stephen King greatness, but it does shoot for some sort of entertainment. ★★★ 3 stars. "},{"Title":"A Memorable Werewolf Tale","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Years ago when I was a kid, me and my mother just happened to catch the tale end of a werewolf movie that we'd had never seen before. Without giving away the details of the ending, all I'm going to say is those last few minutes made me afraid to go down our dark hallway at night for the longest time! Years later, I found out that the movie me and mom stumbled upon was 1985's Sliver Bullet. Written and adapted from his novella by the great Stephen King, Silver is about a small town that all of suddenly finds itself being plagued by a series of horrific murders. Everyone thinks a lunatic is on the loose but young wheelchair bound Marty Coslaw (the late Corey Haim) knows other wise. The problem is nobody believes him except his sister Jane (Megan Follows) and eventually, his uncle Red (played by Gary Busey in a rare normal role for him). Only by banding together will they have any chance of defeating the unspeakable evil that now has its sights on them and it's probably that element in particular that makes Silver as memorable as it is. It's very easy to think up a story with just a monster and a couple of gruesome murders in it. The genius of King is that he's able to take that story and incorporate how the power of family, the bonding of siblings can overcome anything. Of course, it does help to throw in a few scares, a little bit of gore, and a cool looking werewolf to make things interesting (amazingly, producer Dino De Laurentiis didn't think much of the design they used for the beast or the performance of the actor either. As a kid, I assure you it was pretty damn scary!). All the actors do a tremendous job in their roles, from Corey Haim as the young Marty to Gary Busey, who is just as good in a down to earth role as he is in a crazy one. Director Daniel Attias does an admirable job in creating a suspenseful atmosphere and an edge of your seat climax. In short, if you're in the mood for a good story with some good scares, you can't go wrong with Silver Bullet Also starring Terry O'Quinn and character actor Everett McGill whose name you may not recognize but whose face you almost certainly will. "},{"Title":"Never Takes Off.","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Based on the Stephen King novel Cycle Of The Werewolf film deals with a mysterious werewolf who is terrorizing a small-town, and the efforts of a paralyzed boy(played by Corey Haim) his sister(Meghan Fellows) & Uncle Red(Gary Busey) to combat it, and convince the disbelieving townsfolk about the threat is real...and closer than they think.Misfired film contains an unconvincing werewolf, and poor writing(some of the dialogue is awful) Veers uncomfortably into comedy as well, and the identity of the werewolf is obvious the moment the person appears on screen. Eccentric performance by Gary Busey is amusing to a point, but film otherwise is ineffectual and silly. "},{"Title":"werewolf stalks small North Carolina town in the mid-1970s","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet is probably one of Stephen King's better filmmatic adaptions, especially as the two best, the original Salem's Lot(1979), and the original Carrie(1976) were scripted by others. At least, in my opinion, of course.Tarker's Mill, a small town in eastern North Carolina(the flatlands. that is) is being stalked by a slasher-type killer during the full moon(for the most part, that is). Only paralytic Mary Coslaw(Cory Haim) seems able to realize the killer is actually a monster, a werewolf. His sister Jane(Megan Follows) eventually agrees, and they try to convince their Uncle red(Gary Busey in a great humorous part which may not be that far off of his actual personality) with little success. Marty manages to wound the beast by shooting him in the left eye with a fireworks rocket which Uncle Red has bought for him(since the annual carnival, and fireworks have been canceled due to the creature's activities). During the summer, the monster also slays Marty's best friend, in addition to causing his girlfriend to leave town after it butchers her louse of a father.On Halloween night as it proves, matters reach their climax with Marty, Jane, and Uncle Red attacked by the creature at Marty's house where it is, of course, finally slain.The story follows traditional werewolf lore fairly-closely, although in some legendary accounts, only a weapon made of silver can wound a werewolf, so the rocket strike should've healed up quickly, at the very least. Most such accounts say a round into the heart is needed to slay such a monster also, I would note.Some have complained about Marty being able to climb well with his arms; many paralytics are strong enough to get around well with use of their arms, like those who played the drones in Silent Running, for example.I enjoyed the love/hate relationship between Marty and Jane, seems realistic to me.Also found the non-CGI wolf man effective, and quite powerful the way he tosses Gary Busey around, etc. All in all, a good horror film if not one those jaded by modern CGI-effects will cheer loudly for. It is a little sad viewing it today given Corey haim's premature demise. "}{"Title":"Henry and Kristl take a shot at Silver Bullet","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Stephen King likes to subject midtown USA to terrors. Kristl said when the credits started to roll, I recall a mist filled with monsters and vampires in Salem's lot; this time around it is a werewolf.That werewolf was disappointing. I found the one in American Werewolf in London a lot more scarier. Henry said. He turned off the beamer.Or the ones in the underworld series. This was a bad makeup job. Perhaps they should have followed the rule that you don't show something if you got nothing to show. And there is no reason to show the creature until the very end. The story doesn't require it.The story follows a certain pattern. We get introduced to a innocent midtown, a happy community with happy families. When there is no pressure everything is 'nice'. But when the werewolf starts ripping, that happy innocent community falls apart.. The police, representing temporal power, is unable to serve and protect. The community turns to it's own 'justice' but the lynch mob proofs even less effective. And the final security falls with the priest, who represents divine power, who can not do much more then give a sermon. In some cases the priest is even in league with the evil.. in this one he is the evil. Of course it is left to the individual, the epitome of worship in the USA, to deal with the threat. It is a familiar pattern that is used in the Mist, Salem's Lot and no doubt in many others. Kristl said. It gets a bit...predictable. But maybe it is unfair because this is one of the older movies and can't be blamed for a pattern the is followed in the decade's after it's appearance.Yet I liked the players the kid in the wheelchair, his sister and their Uncle Red. That actor was quite good. I even found him so 'good' that I thought he would turn werewolf at some point. You know when he wonders how that priest turned werewolf, it sort of gave me the idea he would turn out to be one himself. I think the actors carried the movie and certainly not the shaky plot. There were great moments, like that moment the kid shoots that fireworks rocket into the werewolf's eye or he escapes that the priests wrath at the last moment on that wooden bridge..Yet those good moments are offset by awkward moments. Like that sheriff investigating the priest during the night. Why did he do that? There was no reason for him to go into the house alone at night. It was also strange that somehow when the death toll rose nobody seemed to figure out it could not have been a human because it was something with claws that killed them. Nor does the FBI show up or anyone else from the federal level. And it is not like there is no time, they even wait a whole month for the next moon to rise.Yet the movie has a certain charm. Like that love and hate relationship between the kid in the wheelchair and his sister. Between him and his boozing uncle. Did you notice at the end he stops drinking. I like it, despite the strange story.The werewolf part is perhaps the biggest flaw in the movie. There is no explanation of his motives, except for once, and perhaps you have no idea why that priest suddenly turns into a werewolf. It is just a given fact. Kristl said, And it is strange that, after a few more citizens are killed, the main characters have a happy-go-lucky dinner on the porch of their house. And the kid goes of in his wheelchair in the night to set off fireworks, while people have been ripped apart..It is just strange behavior given the circumstances.Still I like it. Henry said,And that is the strength of this movie. It's a likable movie with some great moments and a good endearing cast, but the flimsy story and bad werewolf makeup water it down. It lacks that bite that makes you go wow. Kristl said.Wow. laughed Henry.. "},{"Title":"Fun semi-Classic Horror - If you can put up with the Stephen Kingisms...","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The STORY of this film has always been one of my semi-Classic Horror favourites. I really like the old fashioned Werewolf story and the principle actors (primarily Corey Haim and the one and only Gary Busey) are very good. BUT...And this is the precise reason that I stopped reading Stephen King YEARS and YEARS ago... The basic stories are very good, but in EVERY book and EVERY screenplay (like this one) EVERYONE is a d*ckweed... EVERYONE is selfish and contemptible... ALL authority figures are @ssholes or are weak and ineffective like the sheriff here (and I really like Terry O'Quinn) EVERYONE is a crass redneck... EVERY family is portrayed as dysfunctional and shallow. But, with the exception of course of the hero of the story who is ALWAYS a saint.I just got SO damn tired that with EVERY damn character in EVERY damn book, the people were all the same unpleasant, cruel, d*ck-headed @ssholes. And this screenplay which King wrote is NO exception.Sooooo, my belabored point being that IF you can put up with that oh-so- predictable and exceedingly tiresome way that Stephen King writes most of the characters, and you can just sit back and enjoy the story, THEN YES, this is a good film and a lot of fun (without this annoying element saturating the film I would have rated it a 9 instead of a 7 - just my lowly and wretched opinion...) "},{"Title":"My Review Of Silver Bullet","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For me this is one of the must have for any werewolf movie collectors. I don't even mind that the costume used to show the full werewolf is an obvious on piece suit more reminiscent of a school mascot than a monster. For me it was this story itself that brought this film to life. Most of the special effects done in the film are of standard quality for 80's films. The film focuses on Marty Coslaw, a boy held back in life only by the limitations of his wheel chair. Not just any wheel chair mind you, his is a souped-up motorized machine. Basically it had a carriage added that held a go-cart motor and chained wheels. Then his uncle comes along and reveals his pet project specially designed for Marty, The Silver Bullet, a really souped-up road ready racer styled wheel chair. This part of the story like a lot of this film is sweet- small town- apple pie -life. Almost to the point of nausea. There is a unknown virus that plagues Stephen King's writing that I call The Norman Rockwell Syndrome. Every story is a fragile veil of perfect Americana platitude, filled with wise laid back elders sitting in rockers on Main Street and children happily playing in neighborhoods filled with white picket fences on sweet summer days. However it is a thin veil that is stained with an underlying darkness that Stephen King masterfully gives breath to in his work. Unwed pregnancy, at a time when it wasn't common in the high school hallways, alcoholic and abusive fathers and evil that permeates just under the skin of every organic structure in a civilized community. These are the contrasts in just about all of Stephen King's films and stories yet to be made into film. So is the case with Silver Bullet, a small town of pleasant happy people going about their humdrum lives until once season when a monster comes to town to feed.And brilliantly in this film the monster is a Reverend by day! Can you get more dark and poignant in a horror story than this! A paralytic kid faces an unholy creature masked in the most trusting of images. It is awesomely terrifying and considering the things that have come to light in more recent years about religious figures full of scandal, a very observant cautionary tale. The perfect comedy of nightmares in which the lesson is beware the wolf in sheep's clothing! This is a side of life in rural America and urban alike that most either choose to ignore because they cannot handle the darker side of life or they just flat out feel it is non of their business. Silver Bullet plays with this concept perfectly by having no one that Marty can turn to but his sister and his crazy uncle for help. Reluctant help, Marty has to play a lot of pity tricks to persuade his sister to believe him before they set out to investigate the good Reverend. see rest of review here http//asouthernlifeinscandaloustimes.blogspot.com/2012/08/my- review-of-silver-bullet-1985.html "},{"Title":"Silver Bullet Is Pure Bronze","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I always enjoy werewolf movies. It's not just a horror movie, it's also a mystery at times. Who is the murderer/werewolf? Watch for the gore and creature effects, stay for the mystery and the twists.This movie however doesn't provide much of either. A small town finds itself being terrorized by a crazed killer, which we see is poorly crafted werewolf. As the string of murders gets longer, the town retaliates and attempt to hunt down the murderer with no success, big surprise. It is up to our rag-tag heroes to find the monster and put an end to it's reign of terror.Narrated by Tovah Feldshuh, playing as the older female lead, Jane, recalls the events. You practically forget she's telling the story, only voicing her opinion maybe four times, making her seem quite unneeded. Her brother Marty, a paraplegic with a pretty cool chair, is our hero throughout the movie. He is teamed up with his sister and their drunken uncle played by Gary Busey, who is one of the more favorable characters and always has a fun quote.The deaths can get a bit gory and a little out of the way of a savage beast. About less than a minute worth of footage of the werewolf transformation is pretty decent. The overall costume is not, looking like a bear at times. As for who the werewolf is it is practically shouted out, making every attempt to keep you guessing pointless.The thing about werewolf movies is that is usually a good reason for the intent, some way of sympathizing with monster. With this one we are given a hypocritical reason. Their religious faith. It's a first to hear about a zealous werewolf. Hint it's the priest Lowe with the guilty look. All subtlety is through out the window in the third act, overselling the werewolf's evil intent by giving him an eye-patch and a unshaved beard. I like to think that Stephan King's book was better than this adaptation, though it had some redeeming qualities, it wasn't enough to keep it afloat for too long. Overall it can be fun to watch and riff but not something you'd add to you collection. "},{"Title":"Lemonade in your pants......","Date":"13 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The small town of Tarker's Mill was a place that was very peaceful, where nothing ever happened.Until one night, murders begin. The town people believe its some maniac killer on the loose and intend to hunt the man down.Marty, a young handicapped boy, believes that the killer is no man at all, but a werewolf.After a run in with the werewolf, Marty and his sister, Jane hunt all over town for the man who is the werewolf....Made when King films were released every year, this didn't have the grand stand of being one of his main books, but it still stands head and shoulders against many other adaptations.The relatively small cast make the killings seem a little more urgent, as does the sleepy town setting, which many King films are famous for.haim, in one of his earlier roles, is fantastic as the boy who every one thinks is crying wolf, and by the time his alcoholic immature Uncle and sister begin to believe, things are already a little out of hand.The film really shows its sadistic side when we have the 'Jaws' moment, the bloody kite of a local young boy, and his grieving father, who begs for the killers blood, from then on, the film takes a very sinister turn.McGill again shows that he is a brilliant talent, showing frustration and desperation, once he knows Haim knows his secret.it's a fun movie, not at all scary, but entertaining nevertheless.If you are a king Fan, this is one to check out. "},{"Title":"The Face Of The Beast Always Becomes Known!","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Gary Busey, Corey Haim, Megan Follows, Everett McGill and Terry O'Quinn star in this 1985 horror film based on Stephen King's novel. This takes place in 1976 in the small town of Tarker's Mills where we meet teen girl, Jane (Follows) and her crippled brother, Marty (Haim). Soon, a mysterious killer starts terrorizing the town when he kills some of the residents. Marty begins to suspect it could be a monster and discovers it's a werewolf when he's almost attacked. He confides in Jane and his uncle, Red (Busey) who don't believe him at first, but then they do after. McGill plays Reverend, Lester Lowe who is revealed to be the beast and O'Quinn (The Stepfather) plays sheriff, Joe Haller. This is a good 80's horror film with a great cast and creepy score by Jay Chattaway that I recommend. "},{"Title":"Stephen King meets Bradbury","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A scary film in retrospect. Love and death are present in the life of the young main actor in this little gem of a film. The boy lives a (one could say typical) life in an American mid-west small city with friends and family around that love him. His disability (cannot walk and uses constantly a wheel chair) makes him both a more keen observer of peoples' lives and attitudes around him but also an easy target of the evil lurking in the dark.Therefore, he is the first one that uncovers the true identity of the death behind the mask but at the same time nobody believes him and it appears that he is so alone and vulnerable. Armed with a specific gift he gets for his birthday and support from two of his loved ones is what he needs for his quest. The rest on your screen.Strong influences here for the makers of this film from the great Ray Bradbury. "},{"Title":"'Silver Bullet' (1985)","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" For any fan of Stephen King, his books or his film adaptations, there will be something in 'Silver Bullet' they can enjoy. The setting is typical King, small-town with dark secrets buried in there somewhere. The opening of the film is slow-moving, it develops Corey Haim and Megan Follows's characters well enough for us to care about what happens to them, but the main attraction of the film for me was Gary Busey in his younger years, still going strong on the eccentric personality as the drunken uncle who comes to visit. Even today, 27 years later, I couldn't think of a better actor to play the part.So like I said, the beginning is slow, but if you know King's stories, you will still enjoy the down-time because his locations and dialogue are always spot on. It gets a little tiresome to see so many people getting ripped to shreds in such a dated horror sequence fashion, but looking past all that, the story is classic King, and even if you find it to be predictable, you can't deny that it is enthralling. I've never read the short story, but I'm sure it has more poetry to it than the film version. Personally, I feel that Everett McGill could have done a more convincing job at being the evil priest, but I guess there isn't really supposed to be any mystery in it when we find out who the werewolf is. The scene with him and Corey Haim on the bridge is a suspenseful Stephen King moment, but the ending is predictable, and the best part about the whole film is Busey who doesn't get enough screen time in my opinion. It's nice to see Bill Smitrovich as a younger actor also, but he should have gotten a bigger role as well. Regardless of how dated some of the special effects might seem, the werewolf transformations still looked pretty good even in 2012, and regardless of how predictable it can possibly be, the film is still entertaining, and above all, well-made. If you enjoyed this I would recommend 'Fright Night' or 'The Howling' because those are the films that kept coming to mind, but those are both films I need to revisit as well.SILVER BULLET -----7/10. "},{"Title":"Could've been better but not bad.","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This film contained some memorable moments. Reverend Lowe's dream was one of the best nightmare scenes in a horror film, in my opinion. The chase scene between Marty and Lowe was suspenseful as well. Let's not forget about the music score. It made you expect to see all kinds of evil pop out of the darkness, not just a werewolf. Some of the slaying scenes were too campy, especially when Maine hicks try to hunt down the creature in the woods. Speaking of Maine hicks, most of these people spoke with southern accents. Why not change the setting to Tarker's Mills, North Carolina? Although the werewolf appeared sinister during the brief glimpses we're shown, it disappoints with its final appearance. The monster looked more like a grizzly bear to me. Still, the werewolves in Lowe's dream were well done and the graphic special effects were satisfying. There's an unnecessary narration done by an older Jane to give a poignant feel to the film. At least it wasn't annoying like Job's in Children of the Corn. The actor's were all outstanding in their performances, and I'd really like to give a round of applause to Kent Broadhurst as Herb Kincaid. You could see the anger and pain beaming from his eyes. Too bad he couldn't have had a bigger part. The last thing I'll critique is Reverend Lowe. It's not Everett McGill's performance by no means. I give him extra credit for also donning the monster suit unlike most actors do as they portray transformed characters. It's the character himself that is lacking. We don't get to know much about him, and they leave out the book's explanation on how he became a beast. How can we be interested in the antagonist if he isn't fleshed out a little? All in all I enjoyed this movie, and I find myself thinking about it while taking walks in the woods at night. Silver Bullet is worth a view, but don't expect a classic. "},{"Title":"Silverbulletday","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" (There are Spoilers) More tongue in cheek then horror Silver Bullet seems to be more about a souped up motorized wheelchair then the werewolf legend of a silver bullet being the cure to stopping cold a charging blood thirsty werewolf in its tracks.The story of The Werewolf of Trakers Mills is told to us in flashback by, who was 12 at the time, 21 year old Jane Coslaw, Magen Fellows, which begins in the spring of 1976. It's then that strange things began to happen in that quite rural little mid-American community. Some homicidal maniac started to murder people in and around town with the killings coinciding with the appearance of the full moon. Outraged at the town Sheriff Joe Hannon, Terry O'Quinn, in not being able to find the killer the townspeople decided to take matters into their own hands with good old frontier-or necktie-style justice. Not at all realizing who they were up against the lynch party out to get the elusive killer got themselves ambushed by him in the nearby swamp with some half dozen of them ending up as fresh ground hamburger meat!It's just when thing started to look at their worst that little Marty Coslaw, Jane's brother, played by Corey Haim encountered the killer werewolf on a lonely bridge outside of town one evening and was able to escape with his life. He also left a mark, with a 4th of July rocket launcher, on the werewolf that would be able to identity him when he's in his human form! As we've seen earlier Marty, a crippled, was about to only person in town who believed that the killer was a supernatural werewolf not a human being. This night-time encounter finally proved it to him. The big job on Marty's part now is to have the local Sheriff Hannon and his own hard drinking Uncle Red, Gary Busey, believe it too! And what's more finally have them try to do something about it!Like in most werewolf films it takes a long while for anybody to believe little Marty in not only that there's a werewolf on the loose but that he's also a well respected member of the local community as well. It's Jane who finally tracks down who this werewolf is and together with her brother Marty becomes his prime targets. Finally convincing Uncle Red as to who's, the werwolf's real identity, behind the rash of killings in Tarkers Mills he has a silver bullet minted to use against the beast when he shows up at the next full moon. A move that not only saved Uncle Red as well as Marty and Jane's lives but everyone else's in Trakers Mill!P.S One of horror and suspense writer Stephen King's lesser known works that despite its incredibly gory and graphic dismembering scenes comes across more like a comedy then the horror movie that you expected it to be. "}{"Title":"A King's Version of the Wolfman","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Plot In Stephen King's thrilling adaptation of his novelette, Cycle of the Werewolf, the peaceful town of Tarker's Mills is suddenly terrorized by a maniacal killer. The townsfolk think a madman is on the loose, but a wheelchair-bounding 13 year old (Corey Haim - The Lost Boys) knows the truth... A werewolf is on the hunt. With his Uncle Red's (Gary Busey - The Buddy Holly Story) help, young Marty Coslaw sets out to stop the half-man/half-beast before he sinks his teeth into another innocent victim. Now, time is ticking... and the full moon is rising.My Spiel Part human. Part wolf. Total Terror. SILVER BULLET this movie is a older horror/thriller. What can be said for this movie is its unique blend of the classic ways to kill a werewolf. But when a 13 year old kid claims the killer of all these murders in there small town, is a creature he saw lighting fire crackers and hurt it. He knows no one will believe him except his sister, and tries desperately to persuade his Uncle (Busey) to believe in him. This is a neat tale from a different angle on the classic werewolf tale. I really enjoyed many scenes in this, granted there is some ridicules parts. But for 1985 we can possible excuse that, well I can, I still enjoy watching this I like the older Jane narrating the story along something that adds a element of fantasy/reality to the movie.Stephen King's Silver Bullet (1985) Review 6/10 "},{"Title":"Still scary after all these years","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Corey Haim gets a bad rap these days but I still think he's a great actor. What can I say? The dude can act. I love everything about this movie. I love the pace and the building apprehension. It's not a gore fest or action packed but Silver Bullet still stands the test of time. There are no beautiful naked women but that's okay. Also, Gary Busey is superb in this as well as the dude who played the reverend. You may laugh because this is a werewolf movie but it's the best one of its kind. Putting Corey Haim in a wheelchair was a great idea because you not only feel for the kid but it makes it more scary that he is helpless and vulnerable. The special effects were pretty decent back in the day. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable!!!","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This movie gets a lot a criticism, but honestly, coming from a frequent (Ok all the time) TV watcher, it is my favorite werewolf movie.So heres how it goes. A werewolf starts killing off people because he in his human form knows that the people will kill themselves if he doesn't,which is a nice twist. The movie is generally eerie probably because Stephen King was the writer of the book this film is based off.Where as I have never seen the movie on TV, except HBO, I would expect it to be a movie on the Sci-Fi channel on a Saturday. If you ever have the chance to see or buy this movie, take it, you wont be disappointed, much. "},{"Title":"A decent film but its not the Book","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I liked this movie in many ways but in others it was rather confusing. The movie had good actors, a good storyline(Thanks to the all-mighty Stephen King who can make anything a terrifying monster), and a decent werewolf for the time.The confusing part about this movie was the never-ending full moons. I wasn't sure if the movie was following the book and making it a once a month thing or not. A few things went off topic but most of it followed the story very well.The werewolf could have been better, but it wasn't so bad that you thought it was ridicukous. I actually rather enjoyed the costume. the fog scene is awesome and I wish I could have seen what happened to the boy that was killed. But I wonder why the boy spent hours on end from around 4 to midnight just playing with a kite. Weird... "},{"Title":"entertaining werewolf movie","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" just watched silver bullet and i enjoyed it.it was entertaining and well paced,though not particularly scary.the music was quite ominous and suited the movie well.most of the characters were two dimensional at best,but the actors did a good job with what they were given.i didn't feel much emotional investment for any of the characters.the creature effects were okay and we really only get a full view of the creature in one scene.despite all this, i enjoyed the movie and would watch it again, though not for awhile.the film was unique in one aspect, which i won't give away, so you'll have to watch it to find out.it is definitely worth renting, or buying if you can find it cheap.i paid ten bucks for mine and got my moneys worth.in short,you could do a lot worse. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One've the best Werewolf flicks out there, trust me...*minor spoilers*","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Most peoples complaints about Silver Bullet are about the look of the werewolf creature and the transformation scenes...first off... DO NOT let any comments like that fool you... compared to most transformation scenes the ones in this are actually pretty good.. there's even a scene where an entire church full of people turn into wolves... creepy stuff! sure the final product of the main wolf does look a bit like a bear(like the Tito Ortiz of bears) but being that most cinematic werewolf creatures have the same look i found this quite refreshing...Also we got Gary Busey playing the drunk, burned out, but still likable and good-hearted uncle who wants to help his nephew no matter how crazy his stories seem.. his role is actually probably the best in the movie, his chemistry with the two kids is great.not to say the other actors don't pull through.. Corey Haim is actually good here as well as his sister.. the side characters all do their job as well..don't let the user rating fool you, this is an ABOVE AVERAGE horror flick and a must if your into Werewolf movies.. "},{"Title":"Good Werewolf Film","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet is a good, straightforward adaptation of Stephen King's novella 'Cycle of the Werewolf'. There are some suspenseful scenes dotted about, and its a nice story about how a disabled person can overcome their disability to ultimately succeed ala Forrest Gump.Marty Corey Haim is the protagonist, a handicapped boy who lives in a lazy Maine town and one summer discovers more than he bargained for in the form of a werewolf. Narrated by his older sister as an adult, Marty and the rest of the town are shocked by several brutal 'murders'. After several people close to him are killed, Marty becomes sure of what he's suspected all along Its a werewolf. Naturally, no one believes him and the attacks continue. It is not until his alcoholic uncle Gary Busey eventually comes to his aid that Marty is able to prove what he's known all along.The film is predictable in parts and the film leaves no cliffhanger in store for the ending, but there are some suspenseful scenes along the way and the film captures the general atmosphere of King's story quite well. For a werewolf movie, though its a simpleton story, its quite good. The film is named after the only material that can kill the werewolf, and Marty's nicknamed motorized wheelchair. Its a fun story with level headed direction and performances, which keeps it going despite its sometimes slow pace.Recommended to werewolf fans, though its not really a pro typical horror film in the end.7/10 "},{"Title":"a mixed bag","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Here's one Steven King film I never saw until just recently.  I usually enjoy King written films and when I saw the DVD for this movie on sale for 10 bucks, I had to pick it up.  After viewing, I realized that I hadn't missed anything much.  King's stories usually have more depth.  This was your average werewolf tale with few surprises.  Some of the acting was pretty laughable but leads Corey Haim as a wheelchair bound teen and Gary Busey as his carefree Uncle did a good job with their roles.   I still don't know why the film was narrated by an older version of Haim's sister, played by Megan Follows.  I assume it has something to do with the novella but since she was not the lead character, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense telling the tale through her perspective. The gore effects were fairly good, particularly a beheading at the beginning and a scene where police chief Terry O'Quinn gets bludgeoned with a baseball bat.  The werewolf looked decent for a film made in the mid 1980s but generally you could easily tell it was a costume.  A good werewolf comes across when you don't think 'costume' or 'animatronic' every time it appears on screen. Then again, I'm sure it must be pretty hard to make it look very convincingly real.  On the plus, some of the transformation stuff was good.  So how do I rate this movie?  Well I think it is safe to say that it probably would have had more impact if I saw it as a child.  What I see now is a fairly straightforward werewolf trip, and not that it's necessarily a bad thing to be that way, I think I expected more of a narrative coming from the fingers of King. Some of the goofiness makes the film laughable in spots not intended to be. Overall a C+. "},{"Title":"average movie","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  technically good lightning and nice directing. the story is kinda weak, the acting is rather ok but overall i'd give it 2,5/5. if you're planning to watch a great thrilling movie...well this is not the one...and the ending just ruins it a little more... "},{"Title":"The Cycle of the Werewolf comes to the screen","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stephen King wrote the original novella The Cycle of the Werewolf and adapted it to film with a title that better fits the story.  When all's said and done, Silver Bullet generally holds your interest.  The mystery of the werewolf's identity is not too readily obvious (unless you've read the book) and there's sufficient suspense and gore.  Good acting all around, especially the man Gary Busey.  Not the best of the genre, but most definitely not the worst. "}{"Title":"Worth a look !","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I saw it for a lot of times. It was a good movie with some good performance. Gary Busy  & Haim Corey were cool -) Haim Corey acted with another girl as sister & little brother.She didn't like to look after her handicupped brother but when the werewolf has dead. She realized she loves his brother! It was so sweet. The sister loves the brother ! The only problem was the werewolf was not too scare. I think Stephen King should remake this movie. It's 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A wheelchair, a werewolf, and the coolest Uncle in the world","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Silver Bullet is a werewolf movie done right. Marty, (Corey Haim), is a handicapped kid with a snotty sister and the coolest Uncle in the world, (Gary Busey). I would have liked to have had an Uncle like that. One that would have bought me beer, dangerous fireworks and would have built me a super sonic go-cart. Sigh. Of course I didn't. But that is neither here nor there. Gary Busey is Marty's best friend. But even he has trouble believing that Marty did battle with a werewolf. His drunken Uncle is the only grown-up who can possibly help.This movie is great for two reasons. One is Gary Busey. This must be one of his best roles. He should play a good guy more often. He projects a cool, let's hang out, persona. He's great in this one. Secondly, the werewolf is shown as an evil blood thirsty beast, not as some misunderstood, confused human who happens to get hairy when the moon is full. A lot of werewolf movies show the action from the werewolf's point of view. Empathy with the beast is always bad. Here we have our heroes trying to solve the bloodbath mysteries by looking for the wolf in human skin.  Silver Bullet is also respectful of the Werewolf legend. The title says it all You need a Silver Bullet to kill a werewolf. Period. The End. I hate it when movies mess with the legends for these monsters. The rules for killing them are etched in movie stone.Very enjoyable werewolf flick. Busey and the Beast.  "},{"Title":"Its alright northing more","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This Werewolf film is alright but no way its a classic i find american wereworf in london was better then this. The acting could of been better the plot was little thin there was some silly moments in the film like how can a person be in a wheelchair and climb a tree?? how the hell he got up there i don't know. This is just your average horror film but there was some scary moments in the film. Gary Busby if that name is right did a really good acting job but apart from the rest should go back to acting school. Give this film 6/10  "},{"Title":"really good","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a really good movie. I bought it one day because i am a big fan of Corey Haim and heard he was in it. He did such a good job in it as well as the rest of the cast. It was a really good movie and is pretty scary the first time you see it. (SPOILER) If you are squeamish u might have to cover your eyes a few times. One scene that grossed me out the most was when the wolf started clawing the skin off of the lady's back...ewww it made me squirm in my chair big time! But all in all i thought it was a really good movie and think everyone should see it! "},{"Title":"The best werewolf movie I've ever seen!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is one I vividly remember from my childhood as my first exposure to Stephen King's genius, and the horror genre in general. I have always loved this movie, and finally purchased it.  It's still as scary and surprising as the first time I saw it at 5 or so, which is rare.  I have to mention the special effects.  This movie was made in 1985, before pix like Jurassic Park and the Matrix paved the new technological wave.  Yet, the werewolfs are so realistic, if I didn't know better I'd think the director had pulled a Nos Feratu.  Even the transformations are visually stunning to watch and very believable.  A more recent film, Wolf (with Jack Nicholson) could have taken a look at the special effects.  You'd never know this film was made 17 years ago, it will forever hold up amongst all of its contemporaries, and is worth a look, if for nothing else, a fan of make-up/effects in film.  But the main reason this film holds up over the years, is due to the fact that it's a great film, with a wonderful story by Stephen King.  This is also a good movie for fans of SK as well.  This is probably one of Corey Haim's best, as well as Gary Busey. Whatever you do, don't watch it alone or at night. "},{"Title":"A Weird Nightmare!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stephen King's dark and horrific tale of a werewolf stalking a town, was so freaky that it will nearly mess you up for weeks, maybe even years and years......The story is about a young 11 year old wheel chaired boy named Marty (Corey Haim) who comes from a broken home and a small town. He has two crazy parents, a rebellious teenage sister named Janie (Megan Follows) and a drunk uncle named Red (Gary Busey). When people in the town start being grusomely murdered unexpectedly one by one, Marty begins to suspect something. He doesn't know who it is until the 4th of July when he finds out that it is a werewolf when he shoots it in the eye with a rocket. Marty then goes to his uncle and sister for help so that they can stop the werewolf and save the town.From Hollywood legend Dino de Laurentiis (Hannibal, Army of Darkness), Silver Bullet is a pure and authentic horror movie that is for a sure a classic that I would recommend.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Great edtion for any movie collection!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I haven't seen many werewolve movies,but this would have to be good by werewolve movie,Horror,or just plain movie standards!This was the first R rated horror movie I saw.Keep your eye on the scren because although the werewolf is shown a lot,he moves quick,so you won't get too many good shots of him.The main charicters are also a good touch!Definetly a must see! "},{"Title":"Stupid fun . . .","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Despite a dark, grisly, effective first half-hour this bloody adaption of Stephen King's story Cycle of the Werewolf is nothing more than a dead ringer for one of those cheesy Howling sequels.A small midwestern town is plagued by a series of brutal wolf attacks. When young wheelchair-bound Marty Coslaw accidentally shoots the bloodthirsty beast in the eye with a rocket, he, his bratty but likable sister Jane, and their drunken uncle Red team up to stop it.The film is stupid but fun, with lots of gory murders, dumb but exciting situations and excellent performances from Busey and, especially, young Follows (who is ten times more interesting than Haim's annoying main character).Not even reccommended to fans of the book, only open-minded horror buffs should go out of their way to check this one out.   "},{"Title":"Doesn't Follow the novelette very well, but yet the same writer wrote the screenplay.?","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   When I saw Silver Bullet I was somewhat disapointed with it. It doesn't follow the story very well. It is kind of suspenseful and unsettling, but not really scary. I have noticed that with Stephen King story's they are all very good in a novel, but if Stephen King writes the screenplay they don't work on film, but if someone like William Goldman writes the screenplay they turn out really good.  This movie is about a boy named Marty who is paralyzed below the knees who begins to notice something about the gruesome murders happening in the town of Tarker's Mills.   His Uncle Red(Al in the novelette)gives him fireworks one night and he sneaks out to set them off. He is having a good time when something that looks like a werewolf tries to attack him. He sets of a rocket into the beast's eye and drives off in his motorized wheelchair. Now he knows that someone in the town has only one eye and he sets off to find that person. This had potential to be really good, but it doesn't make the viewer wait to see who the person is it just reveals them within 10 minutes after the event. The climax and the makeup is about the only good thing this movie has going for it. See this movie if you have read the story Cycle of the Werewolf but if you haven't read it I would advise against wasting your time.Content-Rated R Violence, some gore, and language(2 F-words) "},{"Title":"Doesn't Follow the novelette very well, but yet the same writer wrote the screenplay.?","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"   When I saw Silver Bullet I was somewhat disapointed with it. It doesn't follow the story very well. It is kind of suspenseful and unsettling, but not really scary. I have noticed that with Stephen King story's they are all very good in a novel, but if Stephen King writes the screenplay they don't work on film, but if someone like William Goldman writes the screenplay thay turn out really good.  This movie is about a boy named Marty who is paralyzed below the knees who begins to notice something about the gruesome murders happening in the town of Tarker's Mills.   His Uncle Red(Al in the novelette)gives him fireworks one night and he sneaks out to set them off. He is having a good time when something that looks like a werewolf tries to attack him. He sets of a rocket into the beast's eye and drives off in his motorized wheelchair. Now he knows that someone in the town has only one eye and he sets off to find that person. This had potential to be really good, but it doesn't make the viewer wait to see who the person is it just reveals them within 10 minutes after the event. The climax and the makeup is about the only good thing this movie has going for it. See this movie if you have read the story Cycle of the Werewolf but if you haven't read it i would advise against wasting your time.Content-Rated R Violence, some gore, and language(2 F-words) "}{"Title":"One of Stephen King's best","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is an exceptional film as far as the screenplay collections go for Stephen King. This is actually derived from his book, `Cycle of the Werewolf and I can actually state that the film is way better than the book, but the book does hold it's own merit.Silver Bullet may not add up to today's horror standards but it is a great film in its own right. By them able to have gotten Gary Busey (who at that time was considered among the 'A-list' of Hollywood), is clearly remarkable.This was the first directorial debut for Daniel Attias. He did a great job. This also was the first major motion picture for Megan Follows, who plays 'Jane Coslow'. They couldn't have picked a better cast. I highly recommend Silver Bullet for the Stephen King enthusiast and the werewolf connoisseur.  "},{"Title":"Great, gory fun","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is a good Stephen King adaptation. It's nowhere near as good as Carrie, Misery, or Shawshank Redemption but hey, it's better than Children of the Corn or any of those crappy made for TV movies. This is a fun and gory werewolf film that isn't very original but fun to watch. Gary Busey is always good and this was back when he was all coked up so his acting was better. The make up effects are from the man who did Alien so they work well. The music is laughable and out of place at times. Overall it's better than average and worth seeing "},{"Title":"seriously 20+","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have seen this movie when I was 12 years old at a friends place at broad daylight.Movies don't scare me at all, I have seen the faces of deaths series while eating stuff you don't want to eat when you're watching a medical item on tv or when you're having a hangover; with no problem whatsoever.I am the guy that laughs at the rotten.com pictures when my friends are running to the toilet.. And I saw the Blair Witch Project thinking it was real, but I think I was less scared then the others who knew it was a fake.With this in your mind, picture me right now sitting at my computer at 1 AM looking over my shoulder everytime I hear some sounds coming from the stairs or the hallway..THIS IS WHAT SILVER BULLET DID TO ME !!!And I have seen that movie 10 years ago ! After I had seen it I had problems sleeping for a couple of months. With the time the haunted feeling faded. A couple of years after that I finally had the guts to go see the movie again, and BOOM there it was again, luckily the fear now lasted for only a few nights.. But every time I hear or see something about this movie my skin crawls and I keep looking behind me for some time.With that said I must conclude with the compliments to the music behind this movie. Especially the suspence sounds (I think it's basicly some sort of strings) do their job excellent. Maybe that's even what makes it so scary.... "},{"Title":"A wierd werewolf flick","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I am usually a huge werewolf movie fan, and this movie has everything a wolf movie needs (Gore, action, transformations) but for some reason it doesn't really work for me. I think that's because after the  cool transformations the werewolf is fake looking( but with a semi realistic head) and it kept reminding me of the singing animals at Chuck E Cheeses'. I think the movie should have had a darker ending. And the two kids should have been in it less. It feels like a TV movie to me. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stephen King's Silver Bullet was the first movie that I saw with my favorite actor, Gary Busey. He plays an unforgettable role as Uncle Red, the loving, drunken uncle! The suspense builds up when you try to figure out who the werewolf actually is. I'm not gonna spoil it for anybody who hasn't seen this great movie. Everybody likes to talk bad about this film, even though some parts are ridiculous, the acting keeps this 80's horror flick going on the right track. I would recommend this movie to any Stephen King fan, which Silver Bullet is kind of unique, unlike some of King's other movies. Good special effects by Carlo Rambaldi, (E.T., King Kong, Alien) If you can find this movie, I would suggest that you rent it, and see what I'm talking about! "},{"Title":"Awesome 80's horror movie.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I love this movie.  Based on a story by Stephen King, this is a macabre tale of the boy who cried wolf.  A wheelchair-bound kid narrowly escapes a werewolf attack, and flees home to safety.  When the human form of the beast is discovered, he tries to convince his sister and uncle to help him kill it.  This film is highly entertaining, and has plenty of violence.  The werewolf effects are similar to that of the Howling, and there are some genuine jump parts.  Easily one of the best werewolf movies ever made, Silver Bullet deserves to be watched by everyone who loves 80's horror movies. "},{"Title":"Cycle of the Werewolf","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It's a good movie based on the novel by Stephen King. I think this is a good movie, but only to see it once.In a peaceful town the peace is no longer of mutilated bodies. A handicapped boy thinks it is the work of a werewolf. IT'S NEVER WHO YOU THINK IT IS!(5/10) "},{"Title":"Entertaining werewolf horror outing","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A ferocious werewolf terrorizes the sleepy small town of Tarker's Mills. Spunky 13-year-old cripple Marty Coslaw (a fine and appealing performance by Corey Haim) finds himself in considerable danger and enlists the assistance of lovably reckless and irresponsible alcoholic ne'er-do-well Uncle Red (an excellent and energetic performance by the incomparable Gary Busey) after he figures out the lycanthrope's identity. Director Daniel Attias relates the enjoyable story at a brisk pace, presents a flavorsome evocation of the quiet rural hamlet setting, generates a fair share of spooky atmosphere and real tension, and offers a generous sprinkling of grisly gore. Stephen King's compact script spices things up with inspired touches of amusing lowbrow dark humor. Moreover, Attias and King deserve extra points for having the guts to kill both a little boy and a pregnant woman. The sound acting by the capable cast helps a lot, with especially stand-out contributions from Everett McGill as the sinister Reverend Lowe, Megan Follows as Marty's bitter and snippy sister Jane, Terry O'Quinn as the earnest, but ineffectual Sheriff Joe Haller, and Bill Simitrovich as hot-tempered troublemaker Andy Fairton. Popping up in nifty small parts are legendary touch guy thespian Lawrence Tierney as gruff bar owner Owen Knopfler and familiar character actor James Gammon as the werewolf's drunken first victim Arnie Westrum. Tovah Feldshuh's narration radiates a winningly folksy charm. Armando Nannuzzi's glossy widescreen cinematography provides an impressive polished look. Jay Chattaway's spirited shuddery score hits the stirring shivery spot. Only Carlo Rambaldi's hokey werewolf leaves something to be desired. Immensely fun fright fare. "},{"Title":"Silver Bullet","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I really liked this movie,one of my favorite so called horror movies has suspense and humor in it .I thought Gary Bussey was great as the uncle.I have watched it so many times but continue to enjoy it.Too bad there's not a second one.This movie is a classic to me and will never get tired of seeing it.Thumbs up to Stephen King for writing the novel.Ienjoyed all the characters and the actors/actresses did well.Keep up the good work,Stephen and Gary and all.This movie scared me the first ime I watched but after that keep finding things I'd missed being a coward.I'd recommend it to any horror movie lover.writing ten lines is hard for a nontypist.I like this site and all it offers. "},{"Title":"GREAT WEREWOLF MOVIE RIVALED ONLY BY THE HOWLING FILM SERIES","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This enjoyable little gem from 1985 is one of the best werewolf movies ever and in my opinion it is rivaled only by The Howling film series.There are truly some scary little scenes in this film and if there's anyone out there who is scared of werewolves then don't watch this film.This is probably the shortest ever review of a film I have done. The reason for that is because I don't want to give nothing away. I do not wish to give away the identity of the werewolf but let's just say that you'll never guess who the werewolf is. "}{"Title":"Shining Silver","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" While this adaptation of Stephen King's novella/graphic novel is certainly flawed it is, when it truly keeps to the spirit of King's writing, one of the best adaptation's of his work to the screen. It's almost as if two films were combined into one...the first being very good, the second being very mediocre. It's a rather jarring combination, but no matter how bad some scenes are (and there are some REALLY bad ones...witness the bereft father's unintentionally funny hysterics and the Reverand's hilariously filmed nightmare) the scenes that work REALLY work! There are OBVIOUSLY many non actors in the cast...extras recruited from in and around Burgaw/Wilmington NC where it was filmed. I come from NC and readily recognize the accent of the people, and the look of the place down to road signs that probably shouldn't have made it on camera since this is supposed to be New England. The only notable members of the supporting cast are Terry O'Quinn as the harassed and unfortunate sheriff, and a baseball bat-toting Lawrence Tierney, who is excellent in what little he has to do. The main cast is wonderful, and truly suited to their characters. Busey, Haim, Followes, and McGill all give exemplary performances, and all simply feel like King. His readers will know what I mean. The special effects are decent. Some, such as the hair growing longer and shorter on The Reverand's arm are very well accomplished, however the full werewolf makeup with the head by effects wizard Carlo Rambaldi(E.T., Close Encounters, etc.) is less than convincing owing to the head, which is beautifully mechanized, being so large and out of proportion to the body in size. McGill is the one under the makeup, though stunt men would've obviously been required for some scenes, and he does a very nice job, but even so the head seems top-heavy and is distractingly too big. However, when it works it does so to an amazing degree. The general atmosphere of fear and paranoia are palpable. The scenes in the greenhouse, the ruined covered bridge, and Marty's first sighting of the werewolf are beautifully done, as are the opening scene of the railroad worker meeting his demise at the claws of the werewolf and the sheriff meeting his at the BASEBALL BAT of said werewolf. For whatever flaws the film has, and they are numerous, the climax makes up for them all. Beautifully filmed, edited, and performed...it is electrifying. I defy anyone to not scream when the werewolf bursts through the solid brick wall OPPOSITE the place everyone is looking, and the ensuing fight between Busey's Uncle Red and the monster, and Haim's struggle to retrieve the silver bullet from the heating duct are truly thrilling. Adding greatly to the film is the excellent score by Jay Chattaway(Star Trek Voyager). Terrifying when it needs to be it also contains a beautiful, flowing main theme which is given lyrics and performed as the song Joyride over the closing credits by Rob Mathes. A very mixed bag of a film, but one which succeeds admirably in spite of itself. "},{"Title":"AfterSchool Werewolf","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" As I have mentioned in previous reviews, I am a horror junkie. Of all the little sub-genres of horror, the werewolf has always been my favorite, though it is rare to find a quality lycanthrope movie, which means I am always on a quest for that rarity. I had seen this movie once or twice as a child and remember having not liked it much, but I couldn't remember many fine details, so I gave it another chance to see if my opinion has changed. Alas, I remember now why this movie never really stuck for me as a kid.There is a lot of potential here, but there are a lot of ways in which that potential is never met, either. The movie starts off very promising when we are treated to a few introductory kill scenes, all of which are fairly well-done. There is a good mix of gore and effects and the scenes are shot well, building up a palpable sense of tension. This comes to a crescendo far too early, though, as the townspeople's hunt for the killer in a foggy forest is probably the last good scene in the film. From there, it goes off the rails fast.Problem #1 is that there is far too much emphasis on Corey Haim, as a handicapped kid, and his sister. Now, mind you I'm not really stating there is a problem making kids your main characters, far from it. The problem is that it takes their point of view too closely into the forefront and ends up leaning towards a very child-like approach to the subject matter. This is not helped in any way by the cinematography, which is just abysmal. The choice of cameras on which they filmed this movie, the shot selection, the lack of any crispness in the visual. All of these combine to look more like television than cinema. When you stir that together with the emphasis on the kids, the whole thing ends ups feeling like an AfterSchool Special or a Sunday night Disney movie. The biggest problem is, of course, the creature itself, which is just abhorrent. You can read plenty online about some of the conflict between De Laurentis, the producer, and the original director, Don Coscarelli, over the look of the wolf itself and the problems they experienced. I would point towards Spielberg, in JAWS, who knew that the shark wasn't worked as intended, so he wisely chose to shoot from the shark's point of view. The best scenes, in this movie, are the early ones where we only ever get a glimpse of an eye or an arm and the rest is blood and maiming. Those scenes work. Even the preacher's dream, with a congregation of werewolves, is creepy and effective. It's when our main werewolf makes it's first big reveal that the viewer let's out a collective groan, knowing nothing to happen in the movie afterwards can save you from the image of that letdown. We've been waiting so long to see a monster that is just inferior.I will give some credit. As mentioned, the dream sequence is well done. The transformation scenes are actually good and show some creative effects work in the transition from man to monster. There are, typically, 3 ways to go in a werewolf makeup. You can do a dog, with no human qualities left. You can do the wolfman look of a hairy guy. Or, you can go all out with a complete creature, which few are brave enough to try and I respect them for doing so, but it just falls flat, especially when compared to the incredible work a few years prior in American WEREWOLF and THE HOWLING.In summary, this isn't a horrible movie in any way, but there's a good reason it's never made it to cult classic status either. It's forgettable and never really sinks its' teeth into the viewer enough to warrant repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"Stephen King old fashion in comparison","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Idyllic small town Tarker's Mills is suddenly hounded by a crazed killer. The townfolks become restless, and try to hunt down the maniac. Only wheelchair bound Marty (Corey Haim) know the truth. He must get help from his sister Jane (Megan Follows), uncle Red (Gary Busey), and Sheriff Joe Haller (Terry O'Quinn) Written by Stephen King, this has his trademark of something bad in a small quiet town. However the style lacks intensity. The world of horror had moved on after its new golden age. This movie seems quaint and old fashion in comparison.The narration at the start is problematic because it tells the audience that Jane survives. It's an unnecessary giveaway in a horror. The audience needs to fear for Jane's life especially in her one big scene.The werewolf costume and makeup effects are weak. The action is limited, and the gore is unimpressive. There are just a couple of light scares.Overall it's a light weight horror. The actors are good but don't have much to do. The horror style is at kiddie ride level. But it's likable enough to watch. "},{"Title":"Good Performances In A Mostly Unoriginal And Uninspired Story","Date":"23 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm not quite sure why this movie has achieved a sort of cult status for some folks. I've watched a lot of movies based on Stephen King's works; I've watched a lot of werewolf movies. In all honesty, I wouldn't count this as among the best (or even as among the really good) of either. It's actually a fairly standard werewolf story, the only real exception being that there's no explanation of how the werewolf (and I won't give away his identity) became a werewolf. He just is a werewolf who seems to suddenly start his killing spree. Why? We don't know. I suppose that adds a bit of mystery to the story, but you'd think that at least at the end there would be some sort of explanation offered. For a little while there is a bit of mystery about his identity. I identified 3 or 4 possible suspects in the first few minutes, but in the end the revelation of the werewolf's identity was no great surprise. There are some decent scares, especially when Marty (Corey Haim) confronts the creature on the bridge and the final showdown in the house, but there aren't a lot of real scares. There's also some religious confusion here, as Jane (Megan Follows) - who seems to come from a very Protestant town where the minister is called Reverend and not Father - wears a crucifix (which eventually gets melted down as the silver bullet is made) which is a very non-Protestant thing to wear. It's also just a little too cute as Uncle Red builds a motorized wheelchair for the crippled Marty and names it The Silver Bullet. So the story isn't great. If there's any real point being made at all it's that evil can arise from very unexpected places and at very unexpected times. And as for the symbol of the evil itself, the werewolf was pretty cheesy looking; there have been far better makeup jobs, although there is a rather creepy looking transformation scene near the end.The movie's rather weak story is certainly strengthened by pretty decent performances from both Haim and Follows, who are convincing in their fear as they become aware of what's happening and of what the cause is. Gary Busey as Uncle Red was also pretty good. The relationship between the three is well portrayed. Still, a movie rises or falls on its story, and I didn't think there was anything particularly noteworthy in this story. To me, it was unoriginal and therefore uninspired. I was rather disappointed. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"6 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I remember watching this movie when I was a little kid(not saying that it isn't scary, it was just difficult to scare me as a child). I love the fact that Haim played Marty, he did an excellent job, and so did the other actors/actresses. The ending was suspenseful, when Marty almost lost the bullet and shot the Werewolf just in time. It did suck that Brady(I think that's how you spell his name) was ripped to pieces, and when his father wanted revenge, he shared a similar fate. Also, I like how the Reverend was the Werewolf. And on the night Brady's father and half of the other people at the bar were driving out to get the monster, he tried to stop them. I dunno if it was because he knew that it was on the full moon, or if didn't want them to know in general. But it seemed like he didn't want to kill them at all. Plus, you have to think about it logically, when Stella(one of the earlier victims) was attempting to kill herself, he killed her. He said I may have taken her life, but I saved hers eternal. it showed that he probably didn't think she deserved to burn in hell. "},{"Title":"Has some decent generic horror, but drags","Date":"30 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The score is offensively generic.Nice performance by Terry O'Quinn. He doesn't get much screen time but displays an exceptional tuft.Haim is solid. He wears a very bright sweatshirt at one point, which may be the high point of the movie, aside from O'Quinn's tuft. The girl wears a very neat sweatshirt at one point as well.Nice hair on Haim and Busy. Busy's outfits are sometimes nice, but he generally looks very goofy, which isn't surprising.The movie is much too long and should have been compressed into a forty-five minute TV episode. The silver bullet elements are forced, only there to play to the title. Scenes really really drag while rarely building substantial tension.There are a few humorous scenes, as when an old lady holds a gun.The horror scenes and effects are OK and seem pretty typical for the era. The main effects segment is pretty sweet.The voice-over seems contrived are is somewhat bothersome. At least there's not much of it, though that fact contributes to the problems with it.Quality song on the closing credits.There is some good stuff in this movie but it is just way too long. "},{"Title":"Silver Bullet (1985)","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet (1985) Paramount HDTV 95m Director Daniel Attias Stars Corey Haim, Megan Follows, Gary Busey. Everett McGill, Terry O'QuinnLiterary scare-master Stephen King adapts his own novella Cycle of the Werewolf. Sleepy little Tarker's Mills is rocked by a series of gruesome murders. But the sadistic killer only operates during a full moon a Marty and his sister rush to identify the killer before the moon is full again. The fine novella gets a solid screen treatment (it can't hurt if the author is involved). The cast is chock full of familiar faces which do a fine job populating the town with the quirky types you always see in a King story. Although better detailed in the novella, the screenplay gets the gist of it and the Rambaldi beast isn't too bad either. (3/5) "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The town of Larker's Mill is threatening with a lot of strange missing person cases. As the town celebrates it founding day, one of the townspeople is killed. Sheriff Joe Haller (Terry O'Quinn) is under pressure from the town to solve it, and he sets out to investigate. An eccentric builder, Uncle Red (Gary Busey) arrives in town to visit his nephew, Marty, (Corey Haim) a crippled teenager who is confined to a wheelchair. A third animal attack reels the town, forcing Haller to put in a curfew. That still doesn't stop the killer, only this time it is Marty's best friend, Brady (Joe Wright). His father (Kent Broadhurst) organizes a town search party to go into the woods to find the killer, but they mostly end up being killed. Only a few survive, which cancels the rest of the town's celebrations for Independence Day. Uncle Red announces that he has to go back, leaving Marty by himself. That night, he sneaks out and shoots off some fireworks and finds out that the killer is a werewolf. Wounding the werewolf, he asks his sister Jane (Megan Follows) to go around town looking for people with an eye-patch. Only one person has one, Reverend Lowe (Everett McGill). Convinced that he is right, Jane agrees to help him solve the mystery in the town and find the real killer werewolf.If the werewolf were given a motive of some sort, this would be among the top werewolf films of all time. As it stands, this is still a really great film and is one of the better films made from Steven King. Definitely worth a look for werewolf fans as well, it has decent effects, some intense scare scenes, and a good cast.Rated R for Extreme Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Not King's finest moment.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" At their best, Stephen King's movies are dark, wonderful and clever. At their worst, they're schmaltzy rubbish with a couple of good ideas thrown in. Unfortunately, Silver Bullet mostly falls into the latter category.It's not all that bad, though ... the acting is mostly competent, although nobody is particularly notable except for Corey Haim as the young ten year old boy, who is actually very good. Everyone does their best, as most of the characters are fairly cardboard, and as usual in Stephen King movies the kids are pretty much all innocent and pure while the grown-ups are drunken idiots who flail around a bit and then most likely get killed. But there are a couple of interesting scenes here ... there's a great one where the townspeople are hunting the beast in the fog, which may not be that convincing, but it's a very cool idea cinematic ally. There's also an excellent scene in a church which I won't spoil for you.In fact, both of the good ideas take place within the same five minutes, so maybe you could just skip forward fifty minutes into the film, watch those, and not bother with the rest. The problem with it is, there aren't enough interesting or original ideas on show. It's clear that Stephen King did little, if any, research into werewolves, and apparently he hasn't thought at all about exactly what makes them scary. Any truly great writer should really think about the essence of what he's writing about, and attempt to define it in a new and original way. Stephen King knows how to do that, but here he just hasn't bothered. The voice-over from the grown-up sister was a bad idea, and the execution of it is really bad. And pretty pointless too. Just because it's an adaptation of a book, doesn't always mean a voice-over is necessary.The idea of the lead character being a small, helpless boy in a wheelchair on the run from a werewolf is promising, but doesn't pay off. We also fail to sympathise with the werewolf (except for perhaps in one of the two great scenes), something that they understood was necessary even way back in the 1930s.Aside from a couple of shining moments, this is ultimately an a fairly dull movie, far short of what you expect from Stephen King, and not one that I'd really recommend. "},{"Title":"very cool werewolf flick","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  very cool werewolf flick is one of Steven King better ones its pretty entertaining and at times pretty suspenseful and it has a pretty good score too it as well the finale is nail biting suspenseful not like Halloween thats just scary but this was a cool flick that was very watchable and entertaining the effects were a bit uneven though although most of them were pretty impressive there is plenty of gore for gore hounds the acting is very good with Cory Haim and Gary Busey giving awesome performances don't listen to all the bad reviews and check it out for yourself overall i had fun with this puppy and i would totally recommend it *** out of 5 "}{"Title":"Best King Movie EVER!!","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet, adapted from Stephen King's Cycle of the Werewolf, is THE best Stephen King adaptation so far. Not only that, it's a great movie!While faithful to the original book, Silver Bullet is also a great movie with a great cast, focused directing and (believe it or not) coherent storyline...no holes!If you've read my other reviews of King's movie adaptations, you'll realize this is a rare review for me to make. I love King's literary style. I own every book he's done, in hardback. I see all his movies and visit his website often. But the adaptations of his works, even when he is the screenwriter, usually fall short. No, sorry. They usually fall flat on their faces.This is the exception. Not the only exception, but the best one.It takes the innocence of the novel and translates it beautifully onto the screen. The characters haven't been plasticized, the writing genius of King isn't lost in the translation and the sense of small-town, middle/lower to upper/lower class life is portrayed as it truly is; just as in King's novel.Corey Haim (of all people) takes the starring role as Marty Coslaw, an early-teen who is a paraplegic being stalked by a heinous creature of the moon.Megan Follows is wonderful in her role as his older sister, Jane, while Gary Busey brilliantly portrays their Uncle Red, who loves Marty enough to invest the time, money and talent into motorized cycle chairs for Marty. It is a valiant attempt to help him fit in with the other kids; to not feel so different. Uncle Red also wants to believe Marty's stories. He wants to have and demonstrate faith in his nephew. In my opinion, this is one of Gary Busey's best roles; not his most action-packed, not his most popular, but his best. His performance is pure drama; no effects to help him out, no explosions, chase scenes, car crashes, no extreme make-up...nothing. Just Gary Busey in pure and rare form.Narrated by Tovah Feldshuh as an older Jane, it is told from her perspective. Marty is the cross she has to bear. As his older sister, she is responsible for keeping up with him, making sure he isn't lost, isn't in trouble and isn't hurt. She's Marty's reluctant and sometimes insubordinate protector. Marty's such a boogar! Jane Coslaw.As you listen to her words, outlining the story and laying it out, you learn there is a shadow over Tarkington Mills. Within this shadow lurks an ancient terror; called a curse by some, a monster by others. Within this shadow exists an evil in the guise of goodness, making martyrs of those who are damned. As the town searches out this unknown horror, it takes them one-by-one into its misty, hellish nightmare world.Will Marty survive the cycle of the werewolf? Will Uncle Red be able to believe the wild stories Marty has to tell? Will Jane kill Marty before the werewolf does?Well, that's the rest of the movie. And it's too good to spoil. Watch the movie, buy the movie. Excellent! One of the best werewolf movies! Only slightly under the first and second Howling movies, the rest just got stupid. One of the BEST Stephen King adaptations!! THE most entertaining movie of 1985.If you liked this one, you might like The Lost Boys, also starring Corey Haim.It gets a hard uphill 8.6/10 from...the Fiend. "},{"Title":"A great werewolf movie!","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  One of Stephen Kings` greatest stories of all in My opinion is Silver Bullet! Good acting by all of the cast and Gary Busey is very funny and Everett McGill pulls off another great performance! The music is great and the movie is just plain great! Silver Bullet is one of the best Werewolf films ever as it delivers great scares and a great looking werewolf!NoteWatch for a great old wrestling match when the hilarious Milt Sturmfuller watches the tv!  "},{"Title":"Very interesting. Steady your aim and don't blink.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is based on a Stephen King novella. A paralytic 13 year old boy(Corey Haim) tries to convince his Uncle Red(Gary Busey) that a werewolf is on the prowl.Coming from the 'King of Horror', you know that this is well written. I also like the humor that Busey adds to the presentation. Suspense may outweigh the horror. Entertainment for both young and older.Also featured are Terry O'Quinn, Everett McGill and Megan Follows. "},{"Title":"fair","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I have not read Stephen King's The Cycle Of The Werewolf but, a few years back, I scanned through a copy.  It had illustrations, of which I most distinctly remember one of pigs slaughtered in a sty.  What does King have against swine? (Cf. Carrie).  Scenes of a hog massacre are absent in the film Silver Bullet.There are two main werewolf types in cinematic history.  Firstly, the human who transforms into a legitimate wolf (e.g. An American Werewolf In London, The Beast Must Die, etc.).  Secondly, the human who changes into a wolfman/wolf humanoid (e.g. The Wolfman, The Howling etc.).  Neither type is ever satisfactory in terms of the realisation of the monster on film. Transformation scenes are usually impressive, but once the monster is up and about it is best to minimise it's on screen time.  For the wolf type you either have animatronic stiffness or a trained dog or wolf.  A particular favourite is the hyena in the prologue of Murnau's Nosferatu.  As for wolfmen, actors in furry suits/make-up are the fashion, which always looks silly.  Overall, it is best to use darkness, brief glimpses, etc. to reduce such weaknesses.  Silver Bullet features a wolfman and succumbs to its shortcomings.For more lupine hyperbole, there are two extremes of werewolf film (most tend to hover between the two).  Firstly where the wolves are portrayed as evil/beasts and we side with the humans.  Secondly, where the wolf is the victim.  Lycanthropy is a disease and its victims are rendered helpless and remorseful, unable to contain their bloodlust.  A conflict develops between the beast and the civilised human.  Good examples are The Curse Of The Werewolf and An American Werewolf In London (again).  In Silver Bullet the wolf is mostly portrayed as pure evil, although two instances play on the human aspect.The overall tone of Silver Bullet is horror-lite.  It preaches good communal and family ties, innocent teenage fun, and the voice-over is pure Disney. The main characters are two young adolescents and their affable/annoying uncle.*spoilers*The killings start promisingly, but quickly descend into farce.  The death of Lawrence Tierney's character (who played the crime boss in Reservoir Dogs) is the film's nadir.  Clutching his beloved baseball bat, `ironically' called The Peacemaker, he is dragged beneath the fog.  You see his hand bashing out with the bat above the fog.  This submerges to be replaced by the wolf's claw clubbing out with the bat.  Ho ho!The victims are typical horror fare a drunk working the nightshift, a suicide (ties in with the killer's ideology), a drunken bigot, a prankster, and a troop of yokel vigilantes.  The inclusion of two drunks in the roster mirrors the drunkenness of the uncle.  He is a bit of an irresponsible idiot swearing in front of his nephew, building him a high powered trike, supplying with fireworks to use unsupervised, and virtually ignoring his niece.  Of course the boy adores him. "},{"Title":"For fans of flamboyantly cheesy effects only","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Stephen King's patented formula--stock horror tales played against small-town New England melodrama--plays out charmingly but rather limply in this tale of a disabled kid, his sister, and their black-sheep drunken uncle (Gary Busey) fighting a werewolf in a sleepy village. Busey is over the top but as lovable as always, the kids are winning, and there are a lot of welcome faces (like Terry O'Quinn and Lawrence Tierney) as the Yankee peasants. The rest of the movie is given over to flatly directed fright sequences with schlocky effects that fairly scream 1985. For dweebs who think FRIGHT NIGHT is a stitch and a half, this movie is probably manna from heaven. "},{"Title":"Actually, it's pretty much exactly who you think it is","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Everett McGill strikes again.  Like People Under the Stairs, this movie is completely unscary; with McGill's hilariously bad acting, the laughs just keep on coming.  (Did you know this guy was on Twin Peaks?  I suddenly have a desire to see that show.  I mean come on, the werewolf kills one of his victims with a baseball bat, how absurd is that.  The humor's almost all visual, though, with the exception of rare lines like the following It's. . . under the fog . . . okay everyone, slowly back away.  Also starring a young Corey Haim; you can already glimpse that talent he would mature into in the later, more sophisticated Lost Boys.  "},{"Title":"Average werewolf film","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A small town is experiencing some mysterious deaths. The authorities believe a killer is on the loose but young wheelchair bound Marty Coslaw(Corey Haim) seems to think there could be a werewolf involved, his crazy alcoholic uncle Red doesn't believe him but agrees to help him solve the case. Another Stephen King adaptation, this time of his Cycle of the werewolf novella. The film is very 80's with the usual comic leanings but there's still enough of a werewolf plot to keep you interested, even if the identity of the lycanthrope isn't disguised to well. SFX are average for the time, Gary Busey takes the acting plaudits here, Haim is lightweight but perfect for the role. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Small town is plagued by a series of murders in which the victims are mutilated. A young handicapped boy (Corey Haim) suspects a werewolf is on the loose and enlists his drunk uncle (Gary Busey) to help him put an end to all the killings. Routine & disappointing werewolf flick based on the short story by Stephen King has decent effects, some intense scare scenes, and a good cast. Rated R; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Silver Bullet","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A small town community is rocked by a rash of killings thanks in part to a werewolf, and Sheriff Joe Haller(Terry O'Quinn)has no clues as to who the predator is. With a curfew effecting the town and frightened, angry citizens wanting the killer apprehended, it'll be up to brother and sister Marty & Jane Coslaw(Corey Haim & Megan Follows), along with their dis-believing alcoholic Uncle Red(Gary Busey)to stop the one committing the violence.Bothered with having a responsibility for helping take care of crippled brother Marty, Jane must somehow trust him when he claims that he shot the werewolf in the eye with a bottle-rocket one night while lighting them in a nearby park. When his identity is discovered by Jane, they will have to convince Uncle Red to assist them or their very lives may be in jeopardy.You know looking at Silver Bullet now, I feel it's a tale of two halves. A rock solid opening up until the fog-misted werewolf slaughter of gathered citizens, joining a mob out to find the beast, and the stunning show-stopping highlight, a dream sequence of the priest whose congregation turn into werewolves. Then the film suddenly changes. The one plagued with lycanthropy, once before was a good man, troubled with the beast, but at a certain point turns into a grubby-faced psycho attempting to murder Marty with his car, even threatening the wheel-chair bound kid inside a crippling bridge. When the sheriff is told Marty's story about being threatened by this person, he goes to the person's abode without a deputy backing him up. And, it seems that the town up and forgets about the terror plaguing their community murdering their citizens after the incident in the foggy park where the werewolf picked off several out to kill it. When Stephen King's screenplay shifts completely towards Marty & Jane's battle of wills with the man troubled with lycanthropy, the folks from the first half slide out of the picture. But, the first half effectively, I felt, displays a town riddled with paranoia and horror, especially when a child, a friend of Marty's, is brutally murdered. There's an effective attack on a pregnant woman on the verge of suicide. Another effective sequence is where the werewolf attacks a nasty repugnant citizen with a foul demeanor and profane mouth in his greenhouse. The last half does show two werewolf effective transformations..one where the killer turns after his identity is discovered by the sheriff, and at the end from the beast back into a man. Less effective, I felt, were the decapitated heads which never looked very real. I think the true success of this beloved werewolf flick is the undeniable chemistry between Busey and Haim. Their bond really helps bring the characters to life, as does the troubled brother-sister relationship..these elements are indeed important in fleshing the leads out into real characters, building up to a rather underwhelming conclusion when the werewolf comes to claim their lives. One touch I had never noticed before that really impressed me was the last time Marty would see his friend Brady alive, asking him if he was coming..the camera closes in on Haim's face as he stares as if knowing that this would perhaps be the last time he'd see his pal alive(..I felt it worked as an ominous omen the director was foretelling to us, that the werewolf would attack anyone in it's proximity). "},{"Title":"Carlo Rambaldi did not save the universe.","Date":"9 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I used to believe that if effects guy Carlo Rambaldi hadn't deliberately designed a really naff werewolf to diffuse some of the incredible awesomeness generated by the combination of Corey Haim and Gary Busey, then the unbridled power of Silver Bullet would have resulted in the end of the universe (something akin to the apocalyptic scenario predicted before the testing of the CERN Hadron Collider in 2008).I no longer hold this view, having since realised that the energy-sucking crapness of the movie's main monster is automatically negated by Haim's cool-as-f&#x95;&#x95;k motorised wheelchair, the macabre werewolves-a-go-go in a church nightmare scene, a marvellously effective night-time wolf hunt through a misty forest, and the unforgettable sight of Busey being thrown around like a rag-doll, all of which renders any intentional shoddiness on Rambaldi's part utterly pointless.I'm now resigned to the fact that, whilst Haim and Busey are an undeniably cool combination, they don't actually possess the power to end existence for all time (unlike, for example, the teaming of John Saxon with Michael Ironside and Tom Atkins). And Rambaldi is highly over-rated as a movie monster maker. "}{"Title":"Amazing race","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Another werewolf movie which does not renew the subject.The highlight,so to speak,is a duel between the monster (in his human shape) in his car and the boy on his wheelchair/motorcycle.One can also ,at a pinch ,credit the film for the thou shalt not commit suicide  idea ,but that's it.Anyway when children are involved ,there's no suspense;what can happen to them?Teenagers are,so to speak, a better material,as scream and Friday the thirteenth  show.The film begins with a comment by the girl's voice over,a la Peyton Place (1957),which continues throughout the story till its conclusion.The unexpected twists  are so hackneyed the writer (SK) should be ashamed of himself best/worst example the reverend's nightmare.The only asset of this mediocre horror film is Gary Busey's foul-mouthed uncle Red.With this actor's great comic potential ,it is a pity that the film was not treated as a parody (some scenes verge on spoof ) "},{"Title":"Riding the Bullet train to nowhere. (spoilers)","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet is another one of those safe family horror films, though the R rating comes not from the violence or any sexual content, but from the language. Fair warning parents, if you want to enjoy this one with the kiddies. I really don't know who else would find enjoyment in it, save a few nostalgic Corey Haim fans.The movie takes place in the summertime in a small town where all of a sudden, people are winding up dead. And only a handful of folks know why. Corey Haim plays a paralyzed kid, oddly enough named Marty Coslaw. One night out on a pretty rad motorized scooter his crazy uncle (Gary Busey) built for him, he is nearly attacked by a werewolf, until he fights back with some fireworks, leaving clues as to the identity of the man. Of course, like all movies of this nature, no one believes him. It's very straightforward, and not all that exciting, especially the cheap parts where the scenery shakes as people are thrown against trees and junk.Gary Busey may be the only plus, reviving the humor sort of reminiscent of his character in Big Wednesday. Unfortunately, he mellows out and sobers up by the climax, so all of that disappears and you're left with the story. As a kiddie horror, I suppose it would suffice, at least when compared with movies like Pulse of The Gate, which don't give a whole lot of action to go with the story. They always seem to be building up to something, but like to tease you until it gets annoying. Silver Bullet is a little different, as it keep reminds you of the town's werewolf problems. But for a general audience, this is just safety horror. "},{"Title":"Here Is Something New....Teens vs. a Monster.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Sadistic murders start to pile up in a small town and it becomes apparent that a werewolf is the culprit. Wheel-chair bound Corey Haim, his sister Megan Follow and their uncle (Gary Busey) begin to realize that they are the only ones who can save the townspeople from the reign of terror. But which citizen in town is the werewolf when night falls? Typical 1980s horror junk that has a few bigger names than the usual fare, but still is little more than a late-night time passer. Stephen King's novel never does do much to endear itself on the big screen. Busey is best among the sophomoric cast. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Mind if I say throw this to MST3K?","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  (Spoilers)Sorry to object to so many positive reviews but I didn't like this movie. For one it was so stupid! A werewolf climbing into a house? A kid in a wheelchair firing firecrackers at night in the woods? A couple of kids and a smoker out hunting werewolves? The characters I found to be thin and unlikable. Also a very disrespectful religion movie. I dont see why this movie is so popular. I suggest you rent a good werewolf movie like The Wolfman or Curse of the Werewolf "},{"Title":"Okay movie,","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was okay. It has above-average special effects,  buckets of gore, but it was poorly acted and is not very well directed. Okay, but not great. "},{"Title":"A silver bullet would do the trick","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I remember the first time I saw it over a couple of years ago, I wasn't much of a fan and just re-watching it sadly it's still the case. Some moments do work, but there's plenty that don't which I mainly lay blame on the unfocused screenplay (a jilted mix of horror and glazed sentiment), and ramshackle execution. So I guess I find myself in the minority that can't seem to enjoy it, and just have fun for what it is even with lambasted faults.I wanted so much to like it the second time around, and hey I found the performances of Gary Busey (especially so with his energy), Everett McGill and Terry O'Quinn quite riveting. On the other hand Corey Haim (who I guess he forgets about his handicap) in the lead role just didn't work for me&#x85; while his relationship with Megan Follows' character is sincere, but so overwrought. The rest of the performances by the cast are immensely average, and Lawrence Tierney (who seemed to pop up in minor roles in the decade) is wasted.Stephen King adapts his own novel 'Cycle of the Werewolf', but the screenplay wants to be a patchily trite melodrama with flimsy horror overtones. Although when it's not centering on the werewolf angle, it mops along. The tacky script doesn't help either, as I found myself snickering. The theme feels poorly dissected and lacking. It's vague. No real details are chucked it. Though what's not so is just who is the werewolf&#x85; there are clues, but it seems pretty obvious anyway.So being a werewolf, how were the special effects. Pretty cheap&#x85; overdone and unimaginative. However the most striking use of the FX came from a very well done dream sequence involving plentiful transformations. As for the main werewolf suit, it wasn't bad but it definitely had no imposing traits. Actually some sequences were kind of laughable. The character in normal form felt more sinister than when they traditionally transformed into the beast.Director Daniel Attias' goes for grisly and graphic inclusions, which do lack a build up of terrorizing tension. The over-the-top climax is the only time where some suspense is pulled out, before finishing on a sudden whimper. A spotty atmosphere is created honing a bleak air, which is not well served by the cheesy, overbearingly forceful score. There was one death that stayed with me, which we don't actually see but you do feel the impending doom in the lead up and aftermath. The attacks early on are scattered, but feel calculated and do give you a clue to who it might be.Watchable, but disappointingly weak and hokey low-budget werewolf feature. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum.","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Plodding, by-the-numbers werewolf movie which owes its existence largely to being based on a Stephen King novella (one which is equally long on atmosphere and short on explanation). Corey Haim plays a teenager confined to a wheelchair in a small New England town who becomes the first to figure out why townspeople are being brutally murdered every full-moon. None of what ensues is particularly compelling but there are some fairly high level suspense scenes to compensate for some wildly uneven acting. Everett McGill makes an imposing villain (at least when not concealed inside a werewolf costume that disappointingly resembles a giant chipmunk) but much of the rest of the cast doesn't really seem to have their hearts in it. Alas, in between the well executed set pieces there's way too much movie where anyone who's seen a werewolf flick before is a shot or sometimes even an entire scene ahead of the director. Ultimately the film is undone by its inability to make you care about any of its characters and its being made in the midst of a decade of terminally safe film-making. "},{"Title":"Bomb!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I recently finished Cycle of the Werewolf by Stephen King and remembered seeing Stephen King's Silver Bullet. It's about a werewolf terrorizing an ordinary Maine town and a kid in a wheelchair is the only one who knows the werewolf's true identity. As usual, the book was much better than the movie. The movie added scenes and deleted scenes obscurely. Not only that, but the special effects are some of the worst I've ever seen! The book is very descriptive and gory and the movie lacks that. "},{"Title":"Stephen King's Goosebullet","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Whether you call this a 'Goosebumps' episode or Stephen King-lite, 'Silver Bullet' seems to be a kiddies' version of the classic werewolf tale. What I liked most about this is the stand-up werewolf vs. the man who actually turns into a four-legged wolf and the transformation vs. today's CGI laugh-out-loud werewolves. As much as I love the classic horror icon, too many in the past decade have made me roar with laughter vs. actually being scared. For example, 'Van Helsing' and the 'Underworld' films made me snicker. Sure, 'Bullet's effects left a lot to be desired with the minute budget they had, but I'd take a real transformation than a 100 mph blur of a computer effect. Unfortunately, that's the only positives about this bargain basement horror feature. In a town where apparently a full-moon appears for four straight nights, kids come up with the theory of a werewolf without first any physical evidence and a town lynch-mobs the woods in that typical fog because they're scared only to completely forget about it the next day and it's business as usual. But wait! Speed-racer wheelchair-bound Haim who can scale trees and walls in seconds is onto the beast and knows when the beast will be onto him. Unfortunately, like the laughable four straight full moon nights, the whole movie seemed rushed and even with the knowledge that the source material ('Cycle of the Werewolf') is just a novelette, I still think there would be tons of more substance. Hopefully, at least, for the third act as this one was approximately five minutes and almost completely unsatisfying. Though basically harmless and made for a 1985 audience, aside from some language and a tiny bit gore, this might as well be PG or worse a made-for-TV SyFy channel sweeps event movie. "},{"Title":"Nice adaptation, but too cheeky.","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well, I didn't think the film should appear scary to anyone besides kids. Still, it has a suspenseful atmosphere which makes it a fine screen adaptation of King. The little-known actors especially Haim and Follows did a nice work. The cast also contains Terry O'Quinn.The werewolf design and the fight sequences are its main flaws. The werewolf appears like one that should be in some stage adaptation with Red Riding Hood. The human-werewolf transformations are also badly filmed. The action scenes are a bit laughable and partly ruin the suspenseful feeling. But considering the fact that it's an '80s film, I think one shouldn't care too much. "}{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's From the works of Stephen King!","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet (1985) was another bad adaptation of a Stephen King novel. The book was originally based upon an idea for a calender. But the original concept was expanded to novel size. Like any book that was printed during the eighties, it was seized by Dino De Laurentis (a major Stephen King movie backer) and optioned for a film release. The film would star Coery Haim (one of the two infamous Coreys) Megan Follows and the new look of Gary Busey (re-inventing himself as a NIck Nolte wannabe).The film makers didn't know if they wanted to be serious or a cheesy parody. The sad results are on the screen. I was expecting more when I first saw it. But I was disappointed. It would have been a great spoof but I guess that wasn't in the cards. Who or what is stalking the residents? Why did Gary Busey change his image? What is The Silver Bullet? You'll have to find out for yourself when you watch SILVER BULLET!Not recommended (unless you're an eighties horror fan). "},{"Title":"I see...a bad moon rising!","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet was one of the first horror films I ever saw and watched it repeatedly over the years without ever growing tired of it. Even though I realize now (literally hundreds of horror viewings later) that it's not exactly a masterpiece of film-making, I still can't be too harsh on it. Silver Bullet remains a fairly suspenseful werewolf-flick with neat make-up effects and truly terrific set pieces (it maybe sounds cruel, but you're almost jealous at the cripple boy because he gets to race around with such a cool, motorized wheelchair!). Stephen King adapted his own story very well and the screenplay pretty much qualifies as the basic werewolf-tale, closely following all the 'rules' of this splendid horror icon. This means an ordinary man or woman who mutates into a relentless and bloodthirsty monster whenever the moon is full and he can only be destroyed with silver armory. The little town of Tarkers Mills happens to be terrorized by such a creature and the only person aware of this is the young and paraplegic Marty. He has to nag very hard before he can convince his cute sister Jane and insane uncle Red into helping him to identify the man-monster. Actually, the best element about Silver Bullet is something I didn't even notice when I was younger, namely the grim small-town atmosphere with the suspicious inhabitants and dark roads. The finest 80's horror movies are all set in remote little towns, and Silver Bullet is another example to state this theory. The cast is great with interesting names like Gary Busy (Carny), Everett McGill (Twin Peaks) and Corey Haim (The Lost Boys). You should also keep your eyes open for the supportive roles of Terry O'Quinn and Lawrence Tierney. Silver Bullet' means undemanding entertainment for young horror fanatics as well as the more experienced genre experts. "},{"Title":"Dumb.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Ok, when I realized that Corey Haim is the best actor in this movie, I suspected it.  When Gary Busey built a wheel-chair-icycle for the kid, I was pretty sure.  But when the werewolf grabbed the guy's bat and started beating him with it, I KNEW this was a bad movie!!  It lacks the wacky humor of Fright Night and the mystique of American Werewolf.  It wasnt even good as 80's cheese. This movie tried too hard to be scary and it tried too much to be a comedy. And it wound up being neither. "},{"Title":"SILVER BULLET (Daniel Attias, 1985) **1/2","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I had watched this in my childhood on Italian TV - along with a number of other 80s horror stuff, including the two FRIGHT NIGHT, HOUSE and THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD films. Some moments from it - particularly the dream sequence - were still vivid in my memory, and I enjoyed it quite a bit...though it's undoubtedly the least of the major 80s werewolf films.The backwoods setting makes for a nice atmosphere throughout (and looks forward to another Stephen King adaptation, albeit a non-horror one, STAND BY ME 1986) and the love/hate relationship between the teenage brother and sister - played by Corey Haim and Megan Fellows respectively - is like a breath of fresh air to the all-too-familiar proceedings. The make-up effects and transformation sequences by Carlo Rambaldi are good, if not quite in the same league as Rick Baker's work on AN American WEREWOLF IN London (1981; still my favorite film ever from this sub-genre, and that's some feat for a relatively recent title!).The werewolf attacks come thick and fast, though it's not overly gory - or even scary! Actually, the fact that crippled Haim is marked for assassination by the monster (in both its forms) associates the film more with the thriller than the horror genre! Still, like I said earlier, the hallucination of the local priest where he imagines his congregation turning into lycanthropes en masse is quite effective (if negating somewhat the eventual revelation of the monster's human identity!). Similarly, the fog-bound scene where the werewolf is hunted down by the angry villagers is straight out of THE WOLF MAN (1941) - were it not for its prevalent humor and the sheer cheek of having the lycanthrope take a baseball bat away from one of its 'predators' (a welcome but disappointingly under-developed role for 1940s tough-guy actor and notorious hellraiser Lawrence Tierney!) and proceed to beat him to death with it!! The later scene where the werewolf is blinded by a rocket fired by Haim also strains credibility, as does the climax with its nick-of-time retrieval of the silver bullet (while Gary Busey as Haim and Fellows' no-good and disbelieving uncle attempts to fend off the monster, but escapes unscathed despite being thrown around the place - rather than killed instantly, like the monster's previous victims - a number of times!)... All things considered, the film makes for a pleasant diversion if nothing more. By the way, though the DVD I rented was supposed to be the R2 SE (I was especially looking forward to Daniel Attias' Audio Commentary) issued by Metrodome, when I played the disc it turned out to be Paramount's bare-bones R1 edition!! "},{"Title":"OK Stephen King adaptation, as if there weren't enough already.","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Silver Bullet is set in the small American town of Tarkers Mills during 'Spring 1976' & starts as a drunk named Arnie Westrum (James Gammon) is attacked & decapitated by something nasty... The murder of Arnie is just the beginning, as more mutilated bodies show up including that of Brady Kincaid (Joe Wright) a young boy & Sheriff Haller (Terry O'Quinn) doesn't have a clue the townspeople decide to take the law into their own hands, but this also ends in tragedy & more death. A local fireworks display is cancelled & a young crippled boy named Marty Coslaw (Cory Haim) decides to hold his own mini display, on his motorised wheelchair he heads out to a quiet spot just outside town & lets a few fireworks go but he is attacked by a Werewolf whom he manages to shoot in the eye with one of his fireworks, this tactic gives Marty just enough time to escape. Marty manages to convince his sister Jane (Megan Follows) & his uncle Red (Gary Busey) who must prepare to do battle with the vicious beast as it wants revenge & to keep it's human identity a secret...Directed by Daniel Attias I thought Silver Bullet was an OK horror film, it's watchable but not exactly outstanding. The script by Stephen King was based on his own novel called 'Cycle of the Werewolf' which I have not read so I cannot compare the two. The film moves along at a reasonable pace, it just about managed to maintain my interest & not bore me. The character's are fine, the dialogue is OK & King manages to evoke the whole close-knit small town thing. There is very little explanation regarding the Werewolf in Silver Bullet, it's origins are never explained or why it's chosen the small town of Tarkers Mills as a hunting ground. The film is considerably better during the second half when the true identity of the Werewolf is known & the story picks up a bit while the first half of Silver Bullet seems more interested in the effect the murders have on the town & it's inhabitants which is fine I suppose but there was a bit too much melodrama for my liking.Director Attias does a good job, apparently Don Coscarelli was set to direct but left due to 'creative differences'. There's a good atmosphere to the film, a few decent shocks & the Werewolf scenes are well handled, Attias only shows the Werewolf in quick flashes rather than long lingering close-ups as to hide yet more average special effects work from Carlo Rambaldi. The Werewolf looks alright but it won't exactly scare you to death, that's for sure. There's a couple of decent gore scenes, a cool opening decapitation, some flesh ripping, someone is impaled on broken wood, someone with half their face missing & someone having their head bashed open with a baseball bat.With a supposed budget of about $7,000,000 Silver Bullet is well made & has that Hollywood polish about it. Italian producer Dino De Laurentiis also produced some other Stephen King adaptations including Cujo (1983), The Dead Zone (1983), Firestarter (1984), Cat's Eye (1985) & Maximum Overdrive (1986). The acting was OK but the child actors yet again become highly annoying.Silver Bullet is a fairly decent way to pass 90 odd minutes, it's one of those films that I didn't particularly love or hate either way. Definitely worth a watch but it didn't get my pulse racing. "},{"Title":"pitiful","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  this movie is garbage, everything about it makes me want to watch god soldiers, ginger snaps, and other horror movies about werewolves. everything about this movie is bad, just bad, someone should shoot this movie with a silver bullet and kill it. "}]