[{"Title":"Darkness visible","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Marsha Norman's play was gripping and harrowing on Broadway and while Director Moore opens it up as much as possible without losing the repartee, it is still a filmed stage play -- but one that packs every bit of the emotional wallop it did on the stage.  The acting is marvelous and pulls no punches.  Bancroft is almost unrecognizable, in a good way, completely immersing herself in the energetic mother character.  Spacek is completely believable as the determined daughter.  This is a true clinic in two-person character study acting. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film...","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Night Mother is a film for those who appreciate a good, thought provoking drama. Anne Bancroft, the Italian/American actress from NYC plays a Southern woman with gusto.  Sissy Spacek as her daughter is excellent as a woman who has had enough of life & has decided to end hers. It's hard to decide who you feel more sorry for. My heart tends to go out more to the Bancroft character because Spacek's character has finally found some peace with her decision to end her life. This movie is very intense & the music on the soundtrack is beautiful & adds to it's emotional impact.  "},{"Title":"Jesus was a suicide, if you ask me.","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" That is just one of the thought provoking lines from this movie. There are many. And while most of the reviewers praise the acting in this movie, and rightly so since it is a tour de force, I have to give praise to Marsha Norman who adapted her own Pulitzer Prize winning stage play for the screen. When a movie is a slice of life such as this one, I unconsciously look for good and realistic dialog. There are just so many lines in this movie that ring true to real life conversations. There's a part where the Mom (Bancroft) tells Jessie (Spacek) to call her ex-husband up & try again, he might be ready and Jessie tells her that there's no point in calling him up because what's she gonna say, nothing's changed, I'd just like to look at you if you don't mind? In another scene Jessie compares life to a bus ride. She says it's hot, crowded & noisy and the only reason you don't get off is that your destination is 10 stops away. She says if she gets off now, or later, it's the same place when she steps down to it. In another part of the movie she says that she thought about sticking around if there was just something that she really liked, like rice pudding or cornflakes- but Jessie is a person robbed of any enthusiasm for life. So for her, staying around, especially for others, just doesn't make sense any more- she's had enough.I really don't think Marsha was asking us to agree w/that point of view or to even condone it. I think she was just giving us some perspective- another point of view. And I have to admit, after having seen this many times, maybe Jessie made the right decision. As she also says in the movie, she is what *became* of her (Bancroft's) child. That she, Jessie, that might have made a difference to herself, didn't show up. Which is really food for thought for ANYone watching this movie- make a difference to yourself first and foremost. Despite the movie being about suicide, this is actually a life affirming movie if you look at it from that point of view. The acting (I say that in parenthesis because it's so real it doesn't even seem like acting) from Spacek and Bancroft is absolutely first rate. I would recommend this movie on that score alone. Luckily, with the powerful and thought-provoking screenplay and the lovely music by Dave Grusin, there is much to recommend this heart wrenching tale of life and death. "},{"Title":"Totally believable,totally haunting.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Only people who have seriously considered suicide as an option can fully understand this movie. It is dark but it is from the perspective of a realist and is performed brilliantly. Both actresses are totally believable. I saw this movie in 87 and it has haunted me ever since.   "},{"Title":"Incredibly sad; marvelous acting","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is an adaptation of a play - and it shows.  It all takes place in one small house, and there are really only two characters, Jessie and her mother.  Sissy Spacek and Anne Bancroft do an incredible job in their respective roles.  The writing is fantastic.  Jessie is intent on killing herself, and tells her mother what she is planning, in order to explain herself.  Her mother, of course, is appalled, and struggles to convince her to change her mind, and also to try to understand why Jessie wants to do something so drastic and final.  Both roles are emotionally laden, and extremely well-drawn.  The result is a film that is complex, interesting, sometimes funny, and heart-wrenchingly sad.  It is, no doubt, a tear-jerker, but it is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Infuriating.","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was amazingly well acted and filmed.  It plays like a very intimate stage play.  Sissy Spacek & Anne Bancroft each present their characters so seamlessly and flawlessly that I left the theater wondering if they actually were mother and daughter.  This movie is extremely well written.  The fact that it infuriated me, in this instance is not a put-down.  I believe this script was designed to do so.  It's infuriating because Ms. Spacek's character is so hell-bent on her intentions that nothing but nothing is going to change her mind.  Ms. Bancroft's character's job is to try and stop Spacek from reaching this particular goal she's set, at any cost.   This script is a good case study into the mind-set of people who are suffering from extreme depression and the skewed decisions that they might make while in the midst of that depression. I would highly recommend this film, with the understanding that it is not your light, airy, happy-ending movie.  If you're looking for one of those don't bother with this one. "},{"Title":"Night Mother is an emotional roller coaster, if there ever was one.","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's gut wrenching, incredibly sad, funny in a few parts and completely shocking. I first saw this movie in my early 20's and it had a profound effect on me. I do not watch it much because it is very, very deep and extremely, depressing.Jessie Cates, played by Sissy Spacek, is a middle-aged, epileptic living with her mother. She has had a traumatic, divorce in her past and a wayward son headed for prison. Due to her illness, she can't drive or hold down a job and has no hopes that anything will get better for her. Jessie, has after years of contemplating suicide, finally picked the night to do it. She has organized her personal belongings and put everything in order. Now, all she has to do is tell her mother.Anne Bancroft, plays Jessie's mother, the blissfully ignorant, Thelma Cates. Who by her own description, is a plain, old, country woman who just really doesn't think there's all that much to things. She is caught totally off guard when her daughter tells her, she is planning to kill herself that night. Momma Cates is so blatantly unaware that her daughter is unhappy that she even tells her where the gun is before asking why.The subject matter and the way it's presented is so thought provoking that one doesn't even take notice of the fact that almost this entire movie consists of basically only two actresses.I highly recommend this movie, just don't expect a happy ending. "},{"Title":"This movie was captivating","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember as a young adult when I first discovered this movie. It was on a local cable channel....late one night. I was flipping channels and came across it. Immediately I was taken aback by the content of the feature. I continued watching. It is a most amazing feature indeed....I have a problem myself with severe depression and have on several occassions....considered suicide myself. But, this movie so pinpoints what the loved ones left behind go through....the sorrow and misery they must suffer...that since anytime the thought crosses my mind...I think of this wonderful masterpiece of a movie and it helps me through those few moments of unclear thought. The odd thing about the movie...is it is like you are watching a televised play...rather than a regular movie....this is one of the things I liked most about it. Bancroft was wonderful in her role and Spacek did well enough as well. I give it 8 out of 10.....only because I felt it eventually became to drawn out.....and should have concluded a bit before it did...But, all in all the movie...as a whole is quite a marvel to behold!!!!! "},{"Title":"revelations of suicide wishes to a mother from a daughter.","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wow, here it is almost 20 years after this film was made, and I am just finding out about it. I accidentally stumbled upon it on a cable station one afternoon a few months ago. It has taken me many months since then to find the title and details! Now that I have found the title I am so glad. I hope that I can one day see it again. However, the first and only time I saw this movie I was in the middle of suffering from a deep depression myself. When I watched this movie I almost felt liberated. Through the whole movie I just kept imagining how liberating it must feel to have one person to reveal these painful, awful thoughts to. Everyone I had been in contact with tells me to 'cheer up', or 'think happy thoughts', or 'stop being selfish', etc. There has been not one person close to me whom I could tell my thoughts of wishing for death. When I saw this movie I wanted to cry. I wanted to cry because I truly felt the pain of the character Jessie. I wanted to leave this world as much as she did, there are days that I still want to leave! Medication and therapy helps to keep those days farther and farther apart, but they are still there. Watching this movie did help me to realize that I was not alone, and it also helped me to see that there has to be, and there should be other alternatives. I wish that I could own this movie, to watch again and again and dissect it and research it. But, I am at least glad I got to see it once, and I am so thankful for www.IMDb.com for having it on record, as I have not been able to find it ANYWHERE ELSE!!!! "},{"Title":"This film has haunted me for years","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film when it first came out on video. A friend told me about it and I was so compelled by the story that I rented it. I was mesmerized and haunted by the ending. This film has stuck with me over the years. As an epileptic who suffers from depression, I could really identify with the Jesse character and how she feels like an outcast and a burden to those around her. At times, I felt as if that could be me up there. The film is based on a play so it very much feels like one in that it explores the relationship between two characters through dialog. There isn't much action but the performances are so intense and powerful, that you don't really need it. If depression and suicide are outside your comfort zone, then this film isn't for you but if you're into character studies and theatre this is one you don't want to miss. Bancroft and Spacek play so well off each other that it really pulls you in and leaves you...almost in a state of shock. "}{"Title":"I felt every emotion","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Night Mother left me dumbfounded, angry, and with the feeling that I was helpless to the fate of Spacek's character, Jessie. Of course, with any movie, I don't control how it goes, or how it ends, but in this one, I was so sure Jessie's mother was going to win.  I just knew there was no way the suicide plan could be carried through. I was teased with happiness (definitely not engulfed) when it seemed that Mama was going to try to make up for all the time Jessie needed with a cup of cocoa...but teased mind you. For every glimmer of hope for Jessie to live (there weren't many), there was a slap of determinedness (if that's a word) for Jessie to make her own decision.  Although, I do not advocate suicide, or any act that does not glorify God, I feel glad to have watched this movie. It teaches you that not every story has a happy ending, and that you'd better work out your own soul salvation, because life WILL go on without you. "},{"Title":"Such an original film!","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. I caught it this morning and I was glued to the TV from the first minute. The two main actresses did a wonderful job, you don't doubt their performance for one minute. Everything seemed so real, the set could have been any house in the mid-west. This is definitely a movie that sticks with you long after the movie ends. I can't believe this movie isn't more well known and celebrated. Though I rarely watch movies a second time this is one I want to add to my collection to watch again and again. I think every time I watch this it will touch me in different ways. The story is so rich with detail, it feels as if you know the characters. A very moving, thought provoking, touching film you won't want to miss. "},{"Title":"A movie that eavesdrops on a life","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sissy Spacek and Anne Bancroft have really immersed themselves in the characters in this movie, to the point where I really suspended disbelief. I empathize with both of the characters so much in this film. I know this sound so cliché, but this movie touches me on a personal level like few films ever do. I am a smoker, and I have never heard a better description in a movie of why someone smokes. There are so many lines from both characters that touch me so deeply. When i first saw this movie, it reminded me of the MacDonald's scene in the movie Ordinary People as to why someone would be driven to suicide. This movie i will watch again and again, despite how it turns out, to enjoy the powerhouse acting and the great dialog. "},{"Title":"Excellent, timeless, Sissy and Ann at their best","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I hadn't seen this movie since it's original release. It is still amazing and so moving. One of the most interesting aspects of this movie is the way it was filmed I don't feel it will ever seem dated. I vigorously recommend this movie to allow someone to view yet another aspect of a mother/daughter relationship. Sissy Spacek is outstanding in her demeanor in discussing her desires with her mother, and Anne Bankroft is heart wrenching in her portrayal of a mother hearing of the tortured lonely life of her child and unable to do anything to help her. The film's intimate feeling allowed you to be right in the kitchen with them while they organize and clean their way through an inconceivable conversation. One I pray I will never have to have with my child. "},{"Title":"Appreciation","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie I have searched for, for many years. I now own a copy and am thrilled. Though the subject matter is a downer, the actors are brilliant. Suicide is not something I have ever contemplated for myself, but Jessie is so convincing, that she seems to make perfect sense. The writing is so believeable and the skill of the actors so great- one is carried along into their thinking before you know it. I hope all Sissy Spacek fans get the chance to see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Checking Out","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on Marsha Norman's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, Night, Mother stars Sissy Spacek as Jessie, a depressed loner and sufferer of epilepsy who lives with her mother, played by Anne Bancroft.The duo live a dull existence, passing time by tending to chores and discussing various inanities, a routine which is interrupted one night when Jessie announces her plans to kill herself. Her mother, of course, initially does not believe this. The film then unfolds in real time, as Jessie and her mother grapple with issues of life, death, love, pain, dysfunction, failed consolations, depression, illness, regret, futility, hopelessness, self-hate, misunderstanding, anger, guilt, heaven, hell and various other existential avenues. Unfortunately these conversations have no larger effect on Jessie. She kills herself.The film has many flaws &#x96; it is poorly paced, too stiff, Spacek's method acting clashes with Bancroft's more theatrical style &#x96; but is nevertheless at times powerful, and includes at least 4 excellent moments, all of which ooze emotion. Spacek's performance is powerful.Today, most cutting edge studies of suicide zoom in on genetic or biological factors, whilst simultaneously zooming out to encompass wider, social factors. ie, causation is always micro and macro. But in any highly social organism, and with any behaviour with strongly social components, we should always look for the evolutionary reason first within social function. In this regard, perhaps depression is designed to reduce the social influence of the depressed individual, even in extreme cases leading to their permanent removal through premature death. The reason why this is useful is obvious suicide is a far less stressful (for the tribe) method of getting rid of malfunctioning members than murder.This suggests that depression is merely a suicide switch, the macroscopic version of cell apoptosis (programmed cell death), that can be thrown by our tribe when our deaths or dis-empowerment are necessary for the good of the group. This would correlate well with the observation that depression is more likely during the onset of resource-poor conditions (e.g. winter) when the tribe may need to cull members, and less likely under emergency small-group lifeboat conditions, when every member is urgently needed.But what is it about these individuals that would be evolutionary beneficial if they were removed from the tribe? And if suicidal persons are so harmful to society, then why are those who contemplate suicide often high achievers? This opens up a whole can of existential questions, most of them linked with the correlation between depression and IQ. Some studies show that depressed individuals are likely to have higher IQs than supposedly more balanced people (the association stops once you get beyond a certain IQ range). The more intelligent a person is, the more likely they are going to see the world for what it truly is. Nature doesn't want this, of course. Camus himself offered that perhaps it is people who are always cheerful, happy, etc. that are in possession of mental disorders, as they are constantly upholding a false sense of reality. In contrast, the depressed person has the ability to rise out of the human fantasy and enter a sort of morbid reality.But we have to be careful not to romanticise depression/suicide. Suicide is always the result of an organism's inability to construct a future, and most who contemplate self-destruction are actually not smart enough to work their way out of their problems. Indeed, recently neuroscientists have begun linking suicide not to IQ, but to selective attention and executive functions, or what psychologist Michael Posner calls cognitive control. The idea is simply that depressed/suicidal brains have weaker executive functions and are unable to block out things like normal people are able to.But assuming that IQ/giftedness and suicide correlate (studies are conflicting), even intelligent persons who are able to think their way out of suicide &#x96; and suicidal persons are notoriously deep thinkers &#x96; often get caught in a dangerous limbo. Though sufficiently gifted to ponder an issue and come to a conclusion of action, this action itself brings with it a whole other set of issues and problems associated with executing that action. This is why people who contemplate suicide, but never act out on it, often getting caught in an even deeper depression, their minds spiralling into thought, constantly imagining every possible outcome to a particular situation. Eventually the individual shuts itself down and does nothing entirely, opting instead to shelter themselves from the insecurity of not knowing the outcome. End result a sort of stasis.This has led other thinkers suggesting that there is a correlation between suicide and control. That the mind thinks itself into lock-down (depression=evolution trying to slow the brain, some suggest) because it realises it can never calculate the extent of its own autonomy. The suicidal brain, in other words, cannot cope with both chaos and the limits of its own agency, a trauma which normal brains have adapted to blank out.Then you have issues of suicide as a larger social failure; the possible result of a society/government/economic-model/set-of-cultural-mores which is itself toxic (in MEDC's, suicide is the second leading cause of death amongst young people). That's Antonioni territory. On a more positive note, many successful people have self-analysed themselves and turned suicide/depression into an advantage. Kazimierz Dąbrowski called this positive disintegration. You look at many major achievers in the world and you'll find some dark night of the soul looming large in their past. Perhaps it is only in directly confronting suicide that man can truly consider himself to be free.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Wonderful script and acting","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The drama created by a tiny set, two world class actresses and a genius script is amazing in its simplicity. Though terribly dark, it is nevertheless moving in its humanity and occasionally even funny.It immediately made me think of the old quote most men(women)lead lives of quiet desperation.I found the dialog, and its delivery just perfect in its realism. The rural mid-western setting, the mother and daughter monotonous routine all made this profoundly understandable.There may not be two other actresses who could have pulled this off as well as these two ladies. "},{"Title":"Excellent dialogue but very sad","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A harrowing tale, Jessie Cates is an epileptic who is unable to drive or hold down a job and has decided that there is no reason to go on living anymore. She is quite serious in her intent but tells her mother that she is planning to kill herself before the night is over with. She then goes through the motions of labeling all of her belongings so that they may go to the appropriate person after she is gone.During this time Jessie gets things in order for her mother while her mother tries to convince her not to kill herself. This movie hits home with anyone who has ever seriously considered killing themselves or the people they leave behind. Excellent acting throughout as one would expect from these actors. At times the movie was humorous, emotional and very thought provoking. I swear I never cry about films but the ending just gripped me in a way only one movie has ever before, Grave of the Fireflies. The ending was so nerve wracking and tense, it will leave you thinking about the film for awhile after you see the film. This is a great film for anyone who is thinking about committing suicide as it gets you to thinking about the people and devastation you leave behind. "},{"Title":"Well Acted,Well Directed, Well Written yet...Disturbing","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can guess making a film with only two major characters, and little action must be difficult to mold into a watchable movie. However, Night Mother seems to accomplish just that. The talents of Sissy Spacek as Jesse, a girl hell bent on killing herself because she despairs of the future. After a failed marriage, her child in trouble on the run and a future of just staying on at home, she incredibly informs her mother that she is going to shoot herself. Anne Bancroft, as her mother seems to full of love of life but oblivious of the pain that surrounds her. From then on, thru well written dialog, we are shown the lives of these two women and the final outcome. There is little action, but the tension at times can get so thick that you need a power knife to cut thru it' What I did find disturbing was that the content of the film (suicide) seemed to justify Jesse's choice. She probably could have chosen to live and try to better her life but the bleakness of her homebody existence seemed to say that there was no escape....a lonely house off a country road, her illness preventing her from possible jobs or going out,relatives and friends that barely acknowledged her etc..Because of this I found it somewhat disturbing.This film should be served as an instruction or primer of the subject of suicide. You can understand the person who wants to commit suicide and feel their despair, but it shouldn't be accepted as your only choice. The film can be possibly fodder for a play or another movie showing how suicide can shatter a family in the aftermath....maybe another film in the future from the same director, maybe? "},{"Title":"Riviting and powerful performances by Bancroft and Spacek","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can't think of any better choices that could do justice to this heart touching view into painful lives. A mother and daughter spends one last day talking about their lives and how one comes to the conclusion that she has nothing to live for. Her life has been nothing but pain and disappointment so, she has decided to stop the pain. From her own health to the pain and disappointment of her life to a mother, without a real clue, that her children are caught up in depressing and painful lives. How do you convince your child who, so matter of fact, has decided life is just too painful and has set into motion a way to stop the pain. A powerful piece of writing and acting culminates in a memorable film and performances by two very talented actresses. I have looked for this film for years and could not find it. Stellar performances and a must see hankie experience. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I didn't think this was my sort of film at all, but from the start I was captivated.  You can always depend on Bancroft and Spacek for first class performances, and you won't be disappointed.  This was obviously a stage play before it was a movie, and it doesn't need more than the one set. What could be a claustraphobic experience  turns into a brilliant tour-de-force from both actresses.SPOILER...  The ending is unexpected, however much it may have been anticipated and discussed by the characters.  Very sad, but refreshing that there isn't in this case a Hollywood cop-out and a sweetness and life ending. "},{"Title":"Superb film about interesting topic","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What I gather from this film,was that Thelma(Bancroft)was blind to the pain and hurt Jessie(Spacek) felt within.There was nothing she could do to rectify the situation. The self-pitying Jessie was bent on suicide, and she had reason to believe the World was never going to change.It seemed that she was punishing herself, and felt responsible for the way her Life and Family turned out.I believe that Thelma tried to be a good mother. She did not want epilepsy to be a hindrance to young Jessie's fun and social atmosphere.Wouldn't any parent try to make her child blend in and fit with the rest of the crowd? The movie keeps the viewer on the edge; You wonder how low a person can go before he sees a light and gets back up again. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, original drama","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A young woman fed up with life decides to end it. She tells her mother, who tries to dissuade her, but the girl is adamant. There have been too many heart-breaks, her life is empty, she has no one (other than a son). Her epilepsy bothers her, her husband is dead.  There is just nothing to live for. All she can look forward to, is more of the same dreary stuff. She must get off the bus, call it quits. She is not bitter, doesn't want her mother to feel guilty. Her mother struggles in vain to prevent the tragedy.  I like the movie very much. TV critics disparaged it. One accused Bancroft of overacting. To me, that's nit-picking. Both Bancroft and Spacek were very good, as good as one can HUMANLY expect an actor to be. I liked the screenplay even better. From the very beginning I knew, this was no soap-opera, but a very sensitive and intelligent drama that would not offend me with emotional blackmail or Hollywood formula.  I never cried, nor was I meant to. The movie's sadness is beyond and above tears. Part of me hoped for a happy ending.  The writing is too good to allow for any facile twist of fate.  I knew, that with a happy ending the whole movie would be pointless.  It would not be a homage to all the thousands of people who kill themselves each year. Not that they deserve to be honored, but refusing to consider the massive reality of suicide is not appropriate either.  "},{"Title":"A Mother who doesn't Deserve her Daughter","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a wonderful, upbeat portrayal of a person who has had enough of her life. She knows what she wants to do, and is not wasting her time moaning and groaning about things.Here is a woman who has had a pretty-darn miserable life. The more she shares about how things have gone with her mother, the more I can see why she is ready to move on to whatever her next existence is.Of course, her mother has benefited greatly from her daughter's existence here on earth. She has been able to get her needs met. So, mother-dear is not very happy to lose her good thing. I just love the dead-pan way the daughter goes through her list of things to do, to ensure that mother is well-taken-care-of. This shows me what the rest of the daughter's life has been Forget me, take care of others (those who know that they are MORE important than I am).All during the movie, I am cheering the Daughter on GO, Go, go.And, I get a belly-ful of the mother, and her twisted relationship with her daughter. She deserves to be without a loving, dutiful daughter.This is a one-of-a-kind gem. "},{"Title":"Excellent film!","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Night, Mother is by far my all time favourite. Sissy Spacek and Anne Bancroft demonstrate why they have won an Academy Award each. It's not for nothing that Marsha Norman won a Pulitzer Prize for this award winning play(on which the film is based). To highlight minor faults would be no more than an exercise in futility. Whatever errors in acting we may find are far outweighed by the general spirit of the film. It has a message to deliver. And it delivers it eloquently. Although you know what awaits you, nonetheless you are transported into the worlds of Jessie and Thelma Cates. Plus let us not forget the haunting music which carries us from beginning to end. Congratulations Mr Moore on a very well directed film! "},{"Title":"this film will stay with you a long time after the lights go on","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I rated this high because any film that stays on your mind for weeks afterward means it had an impact. that being said, I also have to admit that this is one film that I never want to watch again...unless I am introducing it to someone.the viewer is going to go through some very deep valleys during this movie. how many of us have felt that it would be easier to step off the bus at our own discretion than to ride it to the end of the line? it begs you to question your own morality and mortality. spacek approaches her character with an understanding of feeling so exhausted from the life she is living from the moment she begins to explain herself to Bancroft. and, even though she is determined to end her life on her terms, she shows great compassion towards her mother, knowing that she will never truly be understood regarding her decision.Bancroft embodies the emotional roller-coaster of being a helpless mother witnessing her child made what she feels is a terrible mistake. running the gamut between supportive to berating to acceptance to the final desperation will take your breath away.some feel that this is a very depressing movie and I can understand why they feel that way. in my opinion, it does bring you low but it makes you question what would be your bottom line in order to make such a decision. "},{"Title":"A Serious Film Dealing With Serious Issues","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's six in the evening an introverted young lady names Jessie Cates (Sissy Spacek) asks her mother Thelma (Anne Bancroft) where her father's where her father left his gun. Not feeling threatened by this young lady's strange request, Thelma tells her. Jessie is middle-aged person whose life has been in utter turmoil. Her husband abandoned her and drug addicted son has vanished, Jessie is now living back at her mother's house and things have been very settling until that particular evening. Thelma catches on later that the reason Jessie asked her for his gun is to lock herself into her room and to end her life after the night has cleared. Thelma stays strong and does everything she can to persuade her daughter into not committing such an act.Based on the Pulitzer-Prize winning play by Marsha Norman, the theatrical integrity speaks volumes and due to being low budget, scenery and settings are frugally limited. Almost 90% of the film is situated in the small house but the scope of the film depends on dialogue and hopes that Jessie does not commit an act she might regret before it's too late, and to hope Thelma tries to help her from doing it. There are a few flaws in 'night Mother, but the performances are quite remarkable. Spacek is someone a person could relate to and her emotions are very real. Bancroft was just as wonderful as Thelma and her struggle to keep her daughter from suicide is purely heroic. The script by Miss Norman succeeds as she keeps her characters in fine tune and keeping it in their living quarters as the intensity manifests progresses when the mother and daughter move around. The body language is quite believable and very convincing. The cinematography by Stephen Katz can be a bit spontaneous at times that avoids making this film acceptable when really it should have been more restrained knowing as to what the social issues that is being dealt with. It may seem very frugal, but the meager score is actually very effective. The score is just a simple acoustic guitar demo from the beginning of the movie and when the film wraps up in the end. This is good because it does not overlap with the scintillating dialogue and the subliminal body language and it refrains itself from adding violins which would have ruined the atmosphere. It's actually very easy to follow as there are no confusing flashbacks or any jumping to scenes abruptly. It all happens in one period of time which is a distraction to the bad cinematography. The subject of suicide can be a really tough subject to handle and the controversy that goes with it can be quite overwhelming at times. This movie had a lot of things going for it, but the faults in this movie were very flabbergasting as well. The pacing was way too slow and I don't have a short attention span. The stage-to-screen formatting was poorly executed (could be because of limited budget). However, it is the acting from Spacek and Bancroft that is the real reason this movie does stand out. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You don't need CGI or other special effects, just great dialogue!!!!! The acting in this movie is so perfect,I can't believe that the main characters didn't share a Best Actress Oscar. Anne Bancroft, may she rest in peace, was so incredible, I immediately watched the movie for a second time. Watch her facial expressions, her eyes, her body language. You can feel her angst and sadness in trying to help her daughter.Gosh, this movie is 25 years old. It should have been in wide distribution at the time of release, as many are unaware of its existence, despite being a Pulitzer Prize winning drama.Watch it and leave a comment. I'd love to discuss it with you. "},{"Title":"Excellent Drama Movie","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen many drama movies in my lifetime so far, and this one is excellent. Sissy Spacek, and Anne Bancroft both played their roles extremely well from beginning to end. I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone who wants to watch a very good drama. I'm sure that it was hard to do this movie because of the subject being so dramatic, and tragic. I would love to see more drama movies like this one, and it would be great to see Sissy Spacek again. It doesn't have to be the same type of movie dealing with suicide but, it would be great to see her in a drama again. Another movie that she's done that I really like her in, and enjoy watching is Carrie. She was very good in that one too. I would recommend that one also to anyone. "},{"Title":"Disturbing and real.....","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Anyone who has experienced a tragedy like this will relate, although I will caution you to give yourself a grace period. I had not seen the play, but the film with Spacek as the disaffected and resigned suicidal daughter, and Anne Bancroft as the loving, confused and overwhelmed mother.This is a complex and disturbing issue. At the very outset, Spacek has already made up her mind, and is cleaning and ordering kitchen pots and pans, food and bills, in preparation for her demise.Anne Bancroft attempts to take her daughter out of it discussing mundane neighbors, things they may do in the future, etc. Spacek is classic, we merely need to see her affect and facial expressions to realize emotionally she is already gone, removed from the physical world. Both actresses deliver astounding, insightful performances.Those who are interested in this theme may also appreciate the original film, The Bell Jar, with Julie Harris and Marilyn Hassett (circa 1979) which dissects the complex dynamics and denial of crisis between mother and daughter, and the resulting effects. Another film I would highly recommend is the lesser known film (circa 1982)with Chad Lowe, Howard Hesseman, Mariette Hartley (who lost her own father to suicide) and Charlie Sheen, a very astute portrayal of suicide and family dynamics. All these films are highly recommended, particularly due to the sensitive treatment of this important, and often avoided subject matter. 10/10. "}{"Title":"Dead Is Dead Quiet","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Written for the stage by Marsha Norman, 'NIGHT, MOTHER opened on Broadway in 1983 with Anne Pitoniak and Kathy Bates in the roles of Thelma and Jessie Cates. It proved a stunning success with critics and audiences alike, running 380 performances, receiving the 1983 Pulitzer Prize for Drama, a Tony award for Best Play, and Tony nominations for Pitoniak, Bates, and director Tom Moore.In 1986 Marsha Norman herself adapted the play to film. The roles of Thelma and Jessie went to Anne Bancroft and Sissy Spacek, and in the process of writing--and possibly under pressure from producers--Norman expanded the original play to include characters mentioned but never seen. The result was something slightly less than ideal. Spacek is perfectly cast as the suicidal Jessie, but although she gives an excellent performance Bancroft is intrinsically miscast in the role of Jessie's plain country woman mother. The expansion of the original story also has the effect of diluting the claustrophobic intensity of the original. As for director Tom Moore, although his work for the play was memorable, his work with the film was unremarkable.But unexpectedly, such is the power of the story's basic premise that these flaws hardly matter. Watered down, fiddled with, and somewhat miscast, 'NIGHT, MOTHER is still a knock-you-flat story that raises the sort of questions that keep you awake on a sleepless night. Thelma is an ordinary, uneducated woman who takes life as it comes; Jessie, however, is an uneasy mixture of introspection and uncertainty, a woman whose marriage failed when she developed epilepsy, whose son has become a bit of gutter trash, who has over the years become a recluse in her mother's home. She's tired of the whole thing, and on this particular evening she informs her mother that in a few hours she's going to shoot herself and put an end to it.Like the play, the film is essentially an emotional explosion between the two women, Jessie spelling out her reasons for her suicide, Thelma working to turn Jessie from it. Although the suspense of the film arises from a Will she do it or not? situation, the real interest here is in Jessie's motivations, the how and why of her decision, and the tactics that Thelma uses in an effort to bring Jessie's plans to a grinding halt, and the way they battle each other over the course of the film. The interest is in the characters, plain and simple.As noted, Bancroft is not ideally cast here. It is extremely difficult to accept her in the role of Thelma Cates. Even so, Bancroft gives it all she has--and the end result is quite powerful as acting pure and simple, a remarkable feat. But the real powerhouse here is Spacek we believe her, never question her in the role, and buy into it from start to finish. Even with Bancroft's miscasting, the dilution of the play, and the uninspired direction, Spacek's performance is more than enough to render the film powerful, memorable.This is not a film that I casually recommend. It rather depends on the viewer's life experiences, and I would hardly send it off to a person in a depressed state of mind or one who had a suicide in the family. But it is worth the trouble it takes to seek out, particularly if it leads you on to reading the play itself--or better yet, seeing a stage production of the same.GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"One of my top ten films.","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This has to be one of my top ten films.Speaking for myself, I related so much to Jesse it was scary. I myself have suffered from suicidal depression for years and I just hang on day by day wondering why I am still here? I am right now in the exact same situation Jesse was in in the film, my Mother lives with me and my story follows the film well. If I'd only known years ago when I saw the film I would be in Jesse's shoes later on in life.My Mother is really all that is keeping me here for right now, I just can't seem to do anything until she is gone. I know that sounds horrible to someone that has no idea and probably never will know how I feel and I understand that. It is a constant sense of helplessness, nothing more to look forward to and of not belonging here that drives my thoughts on a daily basis. I am not a coward or afraid to die, far from it. I just can't leave my Mother behind like Jesse did. The really sad part is, it is making both of our lives miserable and I see no way out for right now.I wish people would at least try to understand before they judge myself or anybody that is afflicted with these feelings. I think this film goes a long way in helping them to do just that. As I said this is an excellent film, a no miss in my eyes. If you know someone that is dealing with depression of any kind I would suggest sitting down and paying full attention to this entire film, it may help you save someone's life some day. I think it may have saved mine in a lot of ways. "},{"Title":"Despite their combined miscasting, the lead actresses manage to make this hard-shelled drama a moving experience","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tough, unyielding screen-version of Marsha Norman's play which can hold a lot of interest for select viewers, the theme of suicide being an uncomfortable one for the mass-market. Director Tom Moore doesn't try to disguise the stage origins of the material but, because of his mundane, straightforward handling, the piece doesn't grip the viewer the way live actors on the stage can. It has also been handicapped by the casting, with Anne Bancroft and Sissy Spacek portraying mother and daughter. They're marvelous actresses--and both are fine in this movie--but I never felt they were related (Kathy Bates played the daughter on stage, but was probably too old to be cast alongside Bancroft). Because she always does wonders with roles of conflicted young women, it is Spacek who comes off as the stronger of the two; she really nails the part of this hapless, yet coldly focused and determined girl who wants to kill herself. Bancroft has a tendency to overdo certain scenes; she's theatrical instead of logical. The script really needed to be reworked for the screen (and for these particular ladies) and the daughter doesn't give us much of a chance to catch up to her emotionally, and so many viewers may feel shut out of the proceedings early on. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Memorable","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First let me admit I love Anne Bancroft, and I always will, even when she's  not at her best or when the project is not what it should be.  In this film  she is great, for most of the time, but Sissy Spacek is amazing.  The two  together make for an effective drama.  See it on a Sunday afternoon.  "},{"Title":"It's all about acting here","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For me, it's all about acting here! On the surface, 'Night Mother should be a movie that I detest. I don't normally care for manipulative story lines in film like we see here in Marsha Norman's tale of an intelligent, epileptic woman, void of hope and is bent on killing herself. I get the feeling Norman wants us to go beyond understanding her point of view to agreeing that she had the right point of view. Although not terminally ill, she decides that ending her life is her choice, and the only way to end her despair and hopelessness (too bad they didn't have Prosac in 1986!). Although I don't agree with, what I believe (remember I said, what I believe)to be Norman's ultimate agenda, I find that she put together some very intriguing dialogue, and together with the great acting ability of Anne Bancroft and Sissy Spacek they created something you rarely see in movies today, developed characters! I liked it for the same reasons I like All in the Family, the characters, the dialogue, and the acting, even though they are trying to educate us that the liberal way of thinking is right and anything else is well, Archie Bunker!(WOW!coincidence? Norman Lear, Marsha Norman? All right, maybe I'm getting a little carried away!) I only hoped that Bancroft's character might have suggested counseling or compel her on a spiritual level, but that probably would have defeated this movie's purpose. And with all that why did I give this movie a 9? Because it's all about acting here! 'Night Mother! "},{"Title":"'Night Mother","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A disappointed middle-aged woman (left by her husband, having a drug-addict son and suffering from epilepsy) announces to her energetic mother, with whom she lives, that she decided to commit suicide.Cinematically uninventive film version, in fact plain photography of a Pulitzer Prize-winning two-character play. Excessively melodramatic at times, but marvelous acting and dialogue are likely to reward those in the mood with moving experience. "},{"Title":"Let someone know.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A mother and daughter talk all night about how depressed the daughter is and how the daughter is going to commit suicide. There are only two people in this whole movie which are the mother and daughter. They drink hot chocolate and fix up the sofa. The mother pleads and begs her daughter not to commit suicide. The daughter won't listen as she cleans and checks the gun. The daughter talks on and on about her failed marriage and what her mother should do after she dies.It's a pretty sad movie and I wish the daughter would have listened to her mother or at least checked herself into the hospital. This movie has a good theme which is if someone is feeling suicidal let someone know. It's a good movie to watch because of the perfect acting and it's sad as well. "},{"Title":"Missing in action Kathy Bares","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had the privilege of seeing this powerful play on Broadway with Kathy Bates in the lead. I only saw one other play in the 1970's-1990's that had an emotional impact like this play did. I really looked forward to the play being made into a movie but was very disappointed when I learned that Kathy Bates wouldn't reprise her role in the film--she wasn't well known off Broadway at the time and the producers must have wanted star power I suppose and cast Sissy Spacek instead. Sissy did an adequate job in the lead role but did not measure up to Kathy Bates in any way. I love Anne Bancroft but she seemed too young for this role. The movie plot was true to the play. Anyone who ever contemplates suicide should have to watch this movie to realize the devastation on those who are left behind. "},{"Title":"My take on Jesse's decision","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" **May Contain Spoilers** **Do not read if you don't want to know ending** I had to watch this movie for my Abnormal Psych class this past month. It was a movie that really gripped me from beginning to end. I can see why the screenplay was a pulitzer prize winner. I just wrote a five page paper on the Abnormalty and the diagnosis from the DSM-IV-TR on Jesse. By then end of the paper I was supposed to make suggestions to what kind of treatment she should have had. It is hard to say anything other than what she did. She lived in a time where the medication that would be needed to control her epilepsy were not made yet, the global understanding of epilepsy was virtually nonexistent, she was from the beginning of her life a social pariah because people fear what they do not know or understand. I feel for Jesse so much. Due to the time period she was in and all the suffering that Jesse had gone through and would have to continue to go through, suicide really was the best treatment at the time for her. If she lived in present day, things never would have progressed that far. But its not 2004, its not even 1986 its a time where none of the help she would have needed to survive and live slightly normal happy existence was unavailable in other words non existent. So I can offer nothing but my prayers to her for I agree with her 100% - suicide was the only option for her suffering to end and for her to finally be able to live suffering free. "},{"Title":"Does Not Go Gently...","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ************* SPOILERS BELOW ************* 'Night, Mother is the story of Jesse (Sissy Spacek), a divorced epileptic woman who calmly announces to her brash mother (Anne Bancroft) that she's going to commit suicide. This is a fascinating premise that is drained of all vitality and excitement. The brilliant hook turns out to be a cheat- the story that follows is lacking in substance, gravity and revelatory value. Where are the shocks and surprises as mother and daughter have what may be the last conversation of their lives? Where are the secrets revealed, the confessions and fantasies and regrets? They're here, but they've all been painted the same dull color that keeps emotion in the background and celebrates the 'genius' of playwright Marsha Norman at the expense of everything else. The result is not a film but an exhausting endurance test.Let me preface my comments by saying I find Sissy Spacek to be one of the greatest actresses in the history of motion pictures, a woman so magnetic, so natural that she continues to surprise and amaze me after twenty years of stardom. She brings a touch of class and magic to everything she does, and I've seen her rescue more than one film from the recycling bin with her angelic face and vulnerable eyes, her soft voice and sweet smile. It was because of the great Spacek that I watched this film in the first place, and for one of her movies to be terrible it has to fail in a significant way. This film fails in two.First and foremost the film is adapted so faithfully from the Pulitzer-winning stage play that it is claustrophobic and repetitive. The entire movie is a two-woman dialogue between Jesse and her Mother. What worked on stage- a middle-aged mother and daughter argue for two hours in small house- dies on film. A play, no matter how great, needs to be *adapted* for the screen&#x85; it is self-indulgent and arrogant to believe that the dialogue is so perfect that not of a word of it can be altered. The screenplay for this film could have been shortened by thirty to forty pages, and a knowing screenwriter would have given the brilliant Spacek and competent Bancroft some *physical* sequences, some facial reactions, something to break up the wall-to-wall yak fest and prison-like single-set. It is no wonder that the screenplay was adapted by the original playwright Marsha Norman, who may know theater but reveals herself here to be clueless in film.I cannot over-emphasize the effect the stage-play script has on the film. Watching Jesse and her Mother argue about Jesse's impending suicide is redundant and dull. The women walk from the living room into the kitchen into the den and back into the living room, where they start all over again. A tiny Midwestern house is not the ideal location for a single-set film, and the director never tries anything clever or original, never tries to break up the monotony with an exterior shot or cutaway or a flashback or *anything*. There's no music, no other characters, no other stories... just two women covering the couch cushions and arguing their opinions. The reverence given to the play is sickening&#x85; even Shakespeare's most solemn classics get shaken up for the screen. The commitment to the original play seems almost spiteful&#x85; it's as if the film was made only to document the dramatic treasure that was the stage play, with the audience an afterthought.The other reason the film fails is Anne Bancroft. She may be a good stage actress but on film- where presence is 80% of performance- she rarely seems to fit. She certainly doesn't fit here, playing a Midwestern grandmother but looking more like Mrs. Robinson before her morning coffee. She chases Jesse around the house, looking more aggravated than astounded, and seems extraordinarily unsympathetic, even when her lines convey a loving- if flawed- woman.Sissy Spacek is great as she always is, honest and open and so good that you actually understand and agree with her character's choice. Sissy lets us see that Jesse is a flat tire, a wrong turn of a woman who has had every bad break and made too many wrong choices. She's never had control of her life, and her suicide will be her way of finally saying No more- this is where I get off. That's how she puts it anyway, and when Spacek speaks&#x85; you listen. She proves in all her films that a good actress doesn't have to behave like a man, doesn't have to be all bluff and bravado and borrowed testosterone. In this and in films like Coal Miner's Daughter she quietly demonstrates a soft strength and quiet depth that is as impressive as it is hypnotic&#x85; you can't help but fall in love.That's why it was so hard for me to watch 'Night, Mother. Spacek is wasted in a stilted stunt of a film that never serves to engage or even distract. I would not recommend this movie to anyone except die-hard fans of Sissy like myself and even then you'll be disappointed. I do give the film an entire letter grade bonus for the ending, which is courageous enough to let the lead character do what's right for *her* and not pander to a hackneyed happy ending.GRADE C "}]