[{"Title":"West Side Story meets the 80's!!","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I rented this film because I'm a fan of Kim Richards, who starred in Escape to Witch Mountain and Return to Witch Mountain.This movie reminded me so much of West Side Story because of the gang violence, all the dance numbers, and the events that parallel the story in West Side Story. You can tell that whoever wrote the screenplay for Tuff Turf closely patterned it off of the sequence of events in West Side Story and Romeo and Juliet. A guy meets a girl at a dance, she's part of a gang that doesn't like this guy, and despite being on opposite sides of the tracks, the guy and the girl fall for each other, and obstacles and bad things happen as a result. At the end of the movie, Kim Richards even channels Natalie Wood by picking up the gun and saying How many bullets are left!? Enough for you!?Anyway, if you're a fan of the '80s time period, this movie should be enjoyable. I really enjoyed this movie, it had a good love story, and there was a lot of suspense because you really didn't know whether this movie would have a happy ending or a tragic ending.I'm surprised Kim Richards never made anymore movies after this. She gave such a great performance, and she had the LONGEST hair, giving her such an edge to her hotness! "},{"Title":"awesome in the 80's.awesome now.","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" tuff turf was one of those movies i used to rent over and over again as a kid.Kim Richards always made it especially easy to keep watching.i think it was that amazing hair and raspy voice that hooked me each time.i hadn't seen it for approximately 15 years but recently purchased it on DVD.i was unsure if i would still like it but after watching it again,and remembering vividly every scene,i loved it just as much as i always did.it is still one of my favorite movies of all time.it has all the ingredients a classic 80's movie should have and deserved a lot more recognition and acclaim.would love to see what Kim looks like now.i will have to keep checking in on this site to see if she has any movies on the rise. "},{"Title":"Image is everything.","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Anyone with a music shout-out? 'Tuff Turf' is a uneven, but overly stylised and fashionable mixture ranging from a lesser take on 'Rebel without a Cause' with a constant spray of social and class references/forbidden romance in a L.A suburban backdrop and being backed-up by a pumping soundtrack led by Jim Carroll and Jack Mack and Heart Attacks. The music was non-stop and the story's tone and shape zips-around, as early on we seemed to move from one joint to another featuring blaring tunes and raving dance moves.Morgan Miller and his family have just moved from Connecticut to Los Angeles, where he encounters and interferes with the local gang led by the psychotic Nick Hauser. To make matters worse, his fallen for Hauser's girlfriend Frankie and goes about trying to grab her attention, despite the warnings and beatings to stay away from her.The young cast are quite good. James Spader genuinely fits blending a rebellious attitude with easy-going suaveness. The gorgeous Kim Richards is completely transfixing in who wholesome performance and punk appearance. Paul Mones nails down his role as the hot-headed thug and Robert Downey Jr. lends in with an agreeable performance. Also dependable character actor Matt Clark makes for solid support.Director Fritz Kiersch truly gets the beat on with its breakneck pack (despite some editing in the story wouldn't have gone astray) and stylishly muscular verve. When it calls for it, Kiersch isn't afraid to pack a punch, as the jarring violence is sweaty and a bloody pulp. Jonathan Elias' booming, sullen synthesiser score helps cement the rough atmosphere and saucy energy. Some set-pieces seem to work better than others, but there's no question there are a couple of powerful, moving and harsh illustrations. The script isn't as foreseeable, but the humour at times seemed to get in the way or not entirely fit. "},{"Title":"Revenge of the 80's James Spader's a rebel without a clue!","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Tuff Turf brings back memories of watching movies on Select TV. This 80's cult hit is about a young rapscallion who's life is turned upside down when his upper class father hits financial trouble forcing his family to move out to the 'hood. James Spader slowly learns how to deal with street life whilst his family adjusts to dealing with people that are of lower social class. Interesting film staring James Spader as the young punk rich kid, Matt Clark as his shell shocked father, Robert Downey Jr. as his high school buddy and Kim Richards (Escape To Witch Mountain) as his soon to be girlfriend. The only part of the movie that gave me the willies was when his older (more culturally refined) brother pays a visit, there's an oedipal conflict between the two (the scene where the older brother embraces his mom far too long and hugs her too close for comfort)that would have given Freud a thrill to try and psycho-analyzed. Recommended for 80's fans. "},{"Title":"Great L.A. gang flick.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This was one of my favorite movies growing up. The movie deals with a troublesome youth named Morgan Hiller (James Spader) who moves with his family to Los Angeles from Connecticut. One night, while bicycling through the city, he interrupts a robbery-in-progress by a gang. The gang leader's red-hot girlfriend, Frankie (Kim Richards) seems to be impressed with this new kid in town. They see him the following day at school and all hell breaks loose. There is a strong attraction between Morgan and Frankie, which makes for even more trouble with the gang leader, Nick (Paul Mones) and his posse. The soundtrack is good with a little bit of everything from instrumental to new wave. It also features music by Marianne Faithful, Southside Johnny, The Jim Carroll Band, and others. Lots of music, '80s campy fashion, and great fight sequences. "},{"Title":"Tuff Turf, Not Given The Credit It Deserves","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This was my all time favorite movie of the 1980's, and having the beautiful Kim Richards in it, and the ever cute James Spader made it worth watching time after time,,When Morgan moved to yet another new school and fell for the leader of the Tuff's girlfriend it was the start of a non stop battle of wills and reputations, it prooves that the good guy does always get the girl and that some things are worth fighting for. Some people believe this is the movie that ended Kim's career, to me it just never got the recognition it deserved,I just wish Kim would consider making a comeback to prove to everyone she has what it takes to be one of the great actresses of all time, your fans miss you Kim! "},{"Title":"A great teen action flick","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Tuff Turf has everything a teen action flick should have. A great first conflict between the bully and his prey, the bully being set up, a great sex scene and a final showdown. James Spader is great in the lead, Kim Richards has  a killer body and Robert Downy Jr . finds great comic relief.  "},{"Title":"Stuck in the '80s but lots of fun nonetheless","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This one is a real relic of the '80s--the hair! The shoulder pads! The sweaters folded casually over the shoulders! The movie cheerfully steals from Rebel Without a Cause and winks at The Warriors and Footloose as well. Kim Richards is somewhat miscast as a tough girl but gives a very game performance and looks gorgeous as always. James Spader also gives a sincere performance, which couldn't have been easy with some of these scenes (he is forced to serenade Kim Richards on the piano). The best scenes, IMO, are the country club montage (Olivia Barash blithely asking the rich girls You do swallow, right?), and when Richards and Spader finally hit it off at a club. How do we know this? Because Richards breaks into a perfectly choreographed (albeit spontaneous) dance number! Truly enjoyable if you just let yourself do so. "},{"Title":"Plenty of attitude, lots of style","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Director Fritz Kiersch made the drab Children Of The Corn. Fortunately, this is anything but drab. James Spader is terrific as a rebellious youth whose family moves from Connecticut to Los Angeles. He gets himself embroiled in some very nasty trouble almost right away when he inadvertently tangles with local sociopath Nick Hauser, played with creepy authenticity by Paul Mones. The fact that Spader has an eye for the stunning girlfriend of Mones, Kim Richards, doesn't help his situation, either, but it's a great set-up for a violent, fast-paced teen flick.After this little gem, Spader starred as one of the screen's greatest miscreants, Eddie Dutra, in Sean Cunningham's incredible The New Kids (see my review). Then, Sex Lies and Videotape gave Spader's career a big shot in the arm and took him miles away from roles like this, at least for a decade or so.Tuff Turf has a mean streak and isn't afraid to lather on the violence and bloodshed. Kiersch's direction is energetic and tight, and he is ably assisted in the atmosphere department by composer Jonathan Elias, who delivers a pumping, moody synth score. Kim Richards, with her long straight hair and sexy wardrobe, personifies a teen lust object, and injects her role with more than a little subtlety. A very young Robert Downey Jr. has a subordinate role as Hauser's only friend and acquits himself well.The film's climax, set in a warehouse, is brutal and bloody, and the sequence in which Spader's bicycle is destroyed demonstrates virtuoso cutting, sound design and cinematography. This is a very well made movie with plenty of attitude and lots of style. "},{"Title":"Kim's best film - Spader's break-through role","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Clearly the role that got James Spader noticed!!  Also, excellent acting by Robert Downey.More importantly, probably the best teen actress ever to hit the big screen - Kim Richards!!!Aside from the great acting, the plot was new for the 80s - not the typical bubble-gum teen movie - but a darker side of teen movies. "}{"Title":"a surprisingly fun film","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  James Spader isn't really known as an action hero, but that would be the closest comparison for this character, an early prototype for the late 90s style of hero.  He is ambivalent about his surroundings and interacts well in both social and adversarial scenarios, and pulls off both surprisingly well.  I consider this to be an overlooked gem from the 80s and wish I could find the Jack Mack and the Heart Attack soundtrack online somewhere. "},{"Title":"Not like every other 80s film","Date":"23 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Robert Downey Jr. AND James Spader? This could be a total turkey and I'd still watch it.The performance of both is excellent, but that's no surprise. You get to see the formation of some of their respective trademark mannerisms.Overall strange plot, seems to sit between genres, starts off as a sort of High School rom-com but quickly descends into a rough teen thriller, with two major and totally random music numbers in the first part, both of which are arse-numbingly boring and ludicrous.Having said that - James Spader's singing is nice - he's got a good voice but nothing wow, which is why it's interesting that the filmmakers have included it, but it lends a touch of authenticity to a highly stylized 80s flick. The song is odd, unknown to me, but it served its plot purpose I suppose - I would have preferred something else but we can't have it all can we.Side note what a beautiful man (James Spader). As penetrating and mesmerizing as ever.Moving onto the girl she's good. Intriguing. Playing with the concept of the good/bad girl credibly. Her back story is convincing (and so is Spader's).The baddy of the piece is suitably threatening - you do feel intimidated by the violence and his gang throughout, and I did hold my breath on a few occasions - in terms of the suspense and fight scenes - two thumbs up. Interesting ending - they didn't go for any cheapshots but saw it through to the end.All in all - I think it's a bit of a gem, if a bit of a mongrel one. "},{"Title":"Sounds like another cheesy 80s teen flick--but it isn't","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Morgan Hiller (James Spader) is a new kid in high school. He makes enemies with the local gang...but the gang leader's girlfriend (Kim Richards) falls for him.The plot is very predictable but this still is lots of fun to watch. I saw it in a theatre back on a freezing cold winters night in 1985. I was in college and just expected a stupid teen flick (that's what I was in the mood for). I was surprised to find myself really liking it. In terms of fashions, music and attitude it was great! It caught the 1980s head on. These kids talked and acted like high school kids (even though all of them were well over that age). It moved quickly, was well-directed and is full of energy. Most of the acting is very good especially by Richards and a then unknown Robert Downey Jr. Spader was a little bit too mannered for the role but he was OK.This is no unsung masterpiece but I think it's a good strong 80s flick. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Well, that's tuff","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I suppose that if both your parents are teachers, being in a film with a misspelt title is a pretty good way to rebel. IMDb says that both of James Spader's parents were teachers, and he left school in the 11th grade, so ... well, make up your own mind. To make up for the possible lack of difficulty in playing a rebellious New Englander, this role is all singing, all dancing, all cycling ...... well, I think he sings the line at the start of the film, but the song he sings seems to be dubbed (despite the credits failing to clarify this point either way). And there is absolutely no attempt made to make it seem he is really playing the piano.Spader has never been in anything musical since this, but I will say that his dancing is very good.This is a cross between a rather sweet romantic comedy and one of those films that is unbelievably, mindblowingly idiotic. I particularly liked the line, This is the 80s! No kidding! So that would account for the outfits and the hairstyles.amazon.co.uk deleted part of my review (without my knowledge or consent) because I noted that Kim Richards's hair was unusually long. But it was especially by the standards of the 1980s. Nor did Amazon like my comment that Spader looks as if he is wearing eyeliner during the fight scene at the end. But he does. With his flicked fringe and apparent eyeliner, he resembles the late Princess Diana, IMHO.Most of the songs are ones that aren't played much now, but People That Died was used in a retrospective on the drama series Six Feet Under. It was played during a montage. Amazon didn't want that in the review either.I recommend this to all of Spader's fans. You'll laugh, you'll lust, you'll cringe with embarrassment.It was the 80s.Very much so. "},{"Title":"Uneven, but mostly watchable.","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Anyone interested in seeing what kind of films James Spader started his career with should begin with Tuff Turf. The New Kids would show a darker side of Spader, but that film also covers the same territory. The story deals with a spoiled brat troublemaker (Spader) whose family is forced to move to a seedy area of L.A. from Connecticut after they somehow lose all their money. Back where he comes from, you can tell Spader was the toughest and coolest kid in school, but the tougher kids from his new school quickly have him on the run. After breaking up an attempted mugging by the school's toughest gang, Spader gets his butt kicked and his property destroyed numerous times. To make things worse of course, Spader falls in love with the gang leader's girlfriend (Richards), and she has feelings for him, too. Needless to say, you don't mess around with a gang leader's woman! Even if you are James Spader.The film, though full of clichés as ancient as Romeo and Juliet, starts off with definite promise. The opening scene where Spader stops the mugging is exceptional. It's well-paced,well- filmed, and the action blocked perfectly. Every step the gang members take across the street as they pull out their weapons is well-choreographed. The film shifts gears somewhat as we see Spader adjust to his new school the following day. We are introduced to Robert Downey Jr.'s character, and he always livens things up in any film. His character is a bit of an enigma, to be certain. He quickly befriends Spader, yet he seems to know the gang well enough to borrow the gang leader's Camaro and things like that. He also plays drums for a pretty cool punk band we are introduced to a while later.The tone of the film is wildly inconsistent. The second half hour is bewilderingly bad. Spader, Downey, Richards, and another chick take the gang leader's car for a joyride to some posh locations where presumably Spader feels more at home. The group invades a country club in an excruciatingly bad scene which culminates with Spader playing the piano for his new love interest while she sits atop the instrument and looks embarrassed. Spader's singing performance sounds a lot like the first out-take of a James Blunt recording session before he's warmed up. In other words, it sucks. Things get worse as the group moves to a trendy dance club and Richards does some kind of dirty dance while the entire venue stops to check her out. Simply put, the scene is horrible.The acting is good enough. Spader and Downey just pretty much be themselves. Richards is certainly worth risking your life over. She's pretty, and she's cool enough to have Motley Crue pictures all over her bedroom walls! Paul Mones, who plays the gang leader is charismatic, but ultimately kind of wimpy. He really isn't too intimidating without his homies, and none of them look that tough, (excuse me...TUFF) either. Some of the music is a great example of the early 80s punk scene in L.A.. That Jack Mack and the Heart Attack band from the club is pretty lame, to say the least! No wonder some guy bombed the 1996 Olympics while they were playing a show! The Verdict 5 of 10 stars. Basically for James Spader fans, only.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Instantly forgettable. Somewhat entertaining premise, executed poorly. A Complete waste of time.","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This movie is boring as hell! The editing is garish and obnoxious, there is not nearly enough action it's mostly just padding, full of pointless scenes and poorly written dialogue scenes that just go nowhere and do absolutely nothing to further the plot. The love story between Frankie and Morgan would be more engaging if these characters weren't so dull and lifeless, and don't even get me started on this gang This gang has to be the most pathetic excuse for a street gang that I have ever seen! I mean all they seem to do for a majority of this movie is talk tough and intimidate Morgan yet rarely ever follow through with anything, for at least two thirds of the film! In fact you barley even see anything of them for two thirds of the movie. This was so obviously just intended to be a cynical cash grab and it backfired! There's a reason people seldom remember this stinker because there is nothing even relatively notable about it! It only brought in 9,369,329 that's nothing! Even by 1985's standards that's nothing! It's not hard to see why either, there is nothing of value here! I can guarantee you by the end of this movie it is going to vanish from your consciousnesses entirely and for good reason. There is nothing memorable here at all! I mean I swear I have just sat through an hour and fifty minutes of just pure tedium, pure an utter monotony from start to finish, and you know what else? All of that monotony might have been forgivable if it was just building up to a satisfying climactic battle, but even that ending scene in the warehouse was just dull and bland, totally boring! There is nothing here! It is one of the blandest most sterile films that I have seen in a long time! there was just You want a real high school gang flick, watch Jack Hill's Switchblade Sisters it's streaming on Netflix last time I checked, just watch that and spare yourself the disappointment. Or if you plan to watch this just do yourself a favor and lower your expectations. It's sad too, because that opening scene really did make this film look promising, I thought hey this should be good campy fun! But nope! And these fight scenes! My god they are so poorly choreographed and half-baked and not even halfway decent! I mean were they even trying to make a good movie? No of course not, as I said it's a cynical cash grab. That sex scene also, wow! That was lame, if a film manages to make sex look boring, then you know something is wrong. This is just a lame movie, that wasted a potentially entertaining premise. I came here looking for a good entertaining schlock-fest not to be put to sleep! It is amazing that James Spader's career wasn't ruined by this film, it is nothing short of a miracle, and don't even get me started on his performance it's like he was drunk through the entire thing and just didn't even care but can you really blame him. God knows that I can't. This movie sucks, period. Enough said. "},{"Title":"Tuff Turf rules","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Here is an '85 surprise hit, and something original too. Although this movie only came out at the drive in, I love this movie, every time I watch it. I remember seeing the shorts, and from there I took a vested interest in it, and when it finally came to viewing time, I was in no way disappointed. James Spader is the rebel who gets on the wrong side of the Tuffs, the most feared gang in high school, led by Mick, a fantastic ferocious performance by Paul Mones who outdoes Spader in the acting league. He brings to the role a truly, scared, feared, pathetic, pitiable character. Even though it runs over two hours in running time, time just breezes past in this movie, that saw Robert Downey Junior in one of his first roles, as an out there student/wannabe rocker, who befriends Spader. He brings that same Downey charm as he does in all his roles, even though he only has a small one. The movie opens up with a great soundtrack, as our rebel crusader, Spader, prevents a mugging from the Tuffs, which is how he ends up on the wrong side of them as they happen to attend the same school, that he's just started at. To make things worse Spader falls for the gang leader's woman, Frankie (Kim Richards in an impressive, dynamic, and very real performance, proving later on that's she's not as tough as she acts out. Spader is just average in his role, nothing special, where the older actors are better also. For an R rated movie, this one is quite tame, one scene involving a dead rat hanging in Spaders locker, it's blood dripping onto Spaders books. Sometimes it only takes one scene, but even for under eighteens (I was 16, 9 months when I saw it) this is one you should get your parents to go out and hire for ya. Let's face it, Silence of the Lambs would be much more disturbing than this. Some unexpected surprises arrive in this film too, with Spader and friends (and that includes, Mick's girl) crash a good club posing as members, skimming the huge buffet, smorgasboard, but funny too, is the way they blend in with the other folk, Downey always the comedian. And if this isn't a surprise enough, Spader gets Frankie up on the piano, and sings this beautiful song to her. This is one cool movie, it's climax a blockbuster, realistic as the whole movie is, with an optimistic ending that makes the whole viewing worth it. Fine quality drama, with great music tracks and believable characters. Anyone who disses a film like this needs a brain transplant, immediately. "},{"Title":"Must See 80's Movie!","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This movie is a must-see for fans of 80's movies. It's not as well known as some of the other movies that Robert Downey Jr and James Spader are in, but it's a solid movie that's worth watching. Robert Downey Jr steals the movie in every scene he is in and provides much needed comic relief.The action is enjoyable and James Spader does an excellent job as the former rich kid, trying to make it in a new school. Another reason for watching is a rare performance by the Jim Carroll Band about halfway through the movie.It's a satisfying high school / action movie that delivers! "},{"Title":"a classic 80's film...not to be missed","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This is an unknown and underrated 80's teen action flick. A young James Spader plays Morgan, a bad-boy rich kid who moves to L.A. and instantly gets in bad with the locally gang who owns the turf. But things get worse when Morgan falls in love with the gang leader's girlfriend (the talented and WAY HOT! Kim Richards!). Morgan becomes their target and is subjective to some pretty bad beatings. But then they cross the line and Morgan knows he must stop the psychopathic gang leader in a final showdown, where they fight with axes, 2x4s, guns, switchblades, etc. The film's got surprisingly good acting and a young Robert Downey Jr. co-stars as Morgan's best friend. The soundtrack is great and the film is one of those classic 80's time capsules. The song We walk the night is awesome. Overall, there isn't a lot of action till the end, but the characters and plot are all interesting and fun enough to keep you entertained. A great rental! "},{"Title":"the good and the bads","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" the movie starts off really well..with James Spader(morgan hiller) looking at his best and kim richards looking even better. what's frustrating about the movie though is that our supposedly tough guy(morgan) gets thrashed and humiliated by the bad guy all through the movie and and he(morgan) just keeps his cool. had it not been form kim the bad guy had almost gotten him(morgan) down as all our hero has in his defence is a dart gun. (while anybody who is watching the movie would want him to pick up a real gun from a nearby store and shot the bad guy down after what he had done to his father, him , his g/f and his to be father-in-law) kim has a great role, looks FABULOUS and yes she should have gotten more films. i think good looks run in their family(no wonder she is Paris hilton's aunt). "}{"Title":"Okay low budget movie but too long","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Morgan (Spader) makes enemies with a gang the night before his first day in his new school. It appears that 'the gang' goes to his school. The day after they want revenge for the night before and get it by driving over Morgan's bike. And quite soon there is some magnetism between the gang leader's girl and Morgan...Can't say I was bored watching this movie but I thought it was a little bit too long. I got to say it started out as a promising movie but it showed towards the end that the budget was pretty low. 5/5 "},{"Title":"Enjoyably Silly","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I only saw this film Recently...although Ive know about it existence since It came out...I was first under the impression before i saw it...that Spaders Character was a tough guy....But I was wrong....His character was one that simply cant stay out of trouble.And Yeah,he takes quite a beating in this film.If there is one real tragedy about this film,its that the Talented and beautiful Kim Richards who gives a wonderful performance here, never went on to better things after this.She is better known as a Child actress which probably explains why her career floundered once she grew upI was quite surprised by the Musicals numbers in this film,since i was simply expecting the standard punk film....But the 80s hairstyles,dress styles,and makeup made me wanna throw up.What were people thinking back then anyway.All in all,a pretty good film...and KIM,Start acting again..we miss ya "},{"Title":"new age","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  this film was different from the looks of kim richards and robert downey to the music it was very fresh for its time.it was serious high camp. kim richards the star of many disney films gives what seems to be one of her last roles a nice performance as the tough girl unsure of why spaders character is attracted to her.spaders performance was a bit wooden and came across as dull.the second leads added life to the dull moments especially robert downeys energy added to this film made it worth watching. you will either love it or hate it their is no middle ground for this film. "},{"Title":"remarkably cheesy","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite movies.  No one seems to have heard of it because young Mr. Spader is the only recognizable name in it.  Truly the greatest use of not quite real gun weaponry since Gotcha!, which also came out in '85. Spader is forced to resort to a dart gun in order to defend himself.  This is also a perfect example of what the 80's were about.  From Spader's pleather jacket with the rising sun patch on the back to Kim Richards' painstakingly crimped hair and madonnaesque style of dress.  It has a few great musical numbers, too.  James Spader does a piano and vocal number and Jack Mack and the Heart Attack spices up the club scene.  A great punk band in the warehouse party scene.  The only bad musical number was the Country Club Band, but that was the point.  If you liked footloose, you will love this one. "},{"Title":"Should I give his bike back!","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  This film was so influential to me back in 1986 that I took my dad'sportable video camera (The kind where you strap the deck overyour shoulder like a bag and has a cord running to the camera),grabbed the neighborhood kids in our street and re-enactedscenes from Tuff turf after we had just finished viewing it for thethird time in a rental day row.Hell, I even stole the soundtrack and dubbed the dialogue into ourversion of the film.The tuff guys, the not-so tuff guy who is misunderstood by hisparents and tuff guys who beat him up every chance they have, asexy lead actress (why Kim Richards did not get an award forlongest, straightest hair is a travesty!) But best of all is the soundtrack! The tense music under the gangrunning over Spaders racing bike still haunts me today! Whowouldn't wet themselves getting humiliated in the school parkinglot in front of your class mates and teachers who did not nothingbut laugh at you wetting your pants.NOTE the apostrophe in the title summary as the gang leader isnot asking the question, he is merely answering it? "},{"Title":"So 80's","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  A great rental. A perfect movie for anybody who went to high school in the 80's. The music, the styles or lack there of.Kim Richards sadly disappeared after this movie.  Too bad she was really good. She hasn't even shown up on a Lifetime movie yet.James Spader disappeared too. I was expecting him to show up on some TNT movie about Microsoft.By the way, Kim looked very good in this movie. Oddly enough, I found her more attractive towards the end, when wasn't wearing all of that garbage. She is a very beautiful woman with great hair. Nice legs and dance moves too. "},{"Title":"VERY TOUGH!!!!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a very hard one, very rough. Is about the rules of playing in grounds, to fell in love with good person, and not with bad one. Very tough film! James Spanner is the star, the man who fell in love with wrong girl, and want to get out of it. The bully is a not so famous guy, but he is good for the part, still. It should win a oscar nomsination for the parts, for the people who play them, because they are so rough. And great soundtrack, TOO!!! "},{"Title":"Cool 80's urban teen drama","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Preppy bad boy Morgan Hiller (an excellent and charismatic performance by James Spader in an early lead role) transfers from an East Coast prep school to a new school in a rough Los Angeles neighborhood. An incorrigible troublemaker, Morgan runs afoul of vicious gang leader Nick Hauser (a nicely menacing portrayal by Paul Mones) and falls for Nick's foxy girlfriend Frankie (Kim Richards at her most insanely hot and appealing). Director Fritz Kiersch, working from an absorbing script by Jette Rinck, relates the engrossing story at a brisk pace, brings plenty of dazzling slick and sinewy style to the sturdy material, neatly blends moments of raucous humor with more poignant and subdued dramatic scenes, and stages the surprisingly bloody'n'brutal violence at the rousing conclusion with ferocious go-for-the-throat brio. The chemistry between Spader and Richards is quite strong and steamy. The sound acting from the capable cast keeps the narrative on track Robert Downey Jr. handles comic relief duties with delightfully cheeky aplomb as smartaleck Jimmy Parker, Olivia Barash adds a dash of sass as the brash Ronnie, Matt Clark does fine work as Morgan's decent and honest working class dad, and Claudette Nevins likewise contributes a creditable turn as Morgan's worried mother. Moreover, Spader really struts his stuff as he woos Richards, dances, crashes a posh country club (a stand-out sidesplitting sequence), beats up the bad guys at the exciting climax, and even sings while playing a piano. The dynamic rock soundtrack and the funky pulsating synthesizer score by Jonathan Elias delivers an extra galvanizing kick. Willy Kurant's gleaming cinematography gives this movie a glittery neon sheen. A total blast. "},{"Title":"Piece of garbage!  It's not even for a cozy night of wasted brain cells.","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Let me break this down quick for you if you are considering this movie (you may be snowed in, on hospital bedrest, stranded in a hotel in an unappealing place)Positives 1. Kim Richards is pretty and is adorable in her urban clothes 2. Robert Downey Jr. and James Spader are also tasty 80's eye candy 3. Chuckles at watching 80's style urban rebellion...BRIEF! 4. Chuckles at watching 80's style discipline issues at school-MOMENTARY! 5. Chuckles at some cute and some outrageous styles (apparently male nipples were acceptable at urban California high schools in the 80's).FLEETING 6. A snicker at some of the badly executed dance moves, Flashdance couldn't save these moves.-SPORADIC MOMENT HERE OR THERENegatives1. Oh wow, could this story be any sillier? So many silly details laying all over the place like cheap parade candy. Shooting cockroaches on bedroom walls, high school students moonlighting as armed muggers, friends who convince their friends to leave by shoving their food all over their faces)2. Again with the storyline-very ridiculous and sometimes hard to believe or to even follow...some of this could be an editing issue.3. Poor acting! This is clearly not the role for James Spader to shine his very considerable and worthy acting skills. Robert Downey Jr. is believable with his typical 80's style laid back guy...the rest are just fools in headbands.4. Badly shot...apparent even to me, hardly an expert in this type of thing.5. Seriously???? Do these movie makers think urban teens are psycho paths???The overall film just looks dirty as well...not just the fault of the cockroaches. Instead of a vintage gem found at a cool little flea market...this gives of the feel of finding some dirty used old crap in your reclusive uncle's basement, the one with hoarding tendencies. UGH "},{"Title":"An Entertaining And Fun Teen/Gang/Action Film.","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Tuff Turf is an entertaining and fun Teen film that mixes Teen film,Gang film and Action film. Filled with great direction,a wonderful cast and a fantastic soundtrack,Tuff Turf is an entertaining 80's Teen film and a fine guilty pleasure.Set in Los Angeles,Tuff Turf tells the story of Morgan Hiller(James Spader),a rebellious teen who's family has moved to Los Angeles for a fresh start. Unfortunately,Morgan gets into trouble with a local street gang who's leader Nick(Paul Mones)wants Morgan's blood. To make matters worse Morgan starts falls for Nick's girlfriend Frankie(Kim Richards) which angers Nick and leads to violent confrontations and chaos between Morgan and Nick who want to survive in the Tuff Turf.The 1980s were arguably the golden age of Teen films and there were Teen films that broke down into two categories Teen films that were recognized during the 1980s and became classics years later and Teen films that are obscure and little known but find audiences years later. Tuff Turf fits into the latter category. Tuff Turf is a flawed but entertaining Teen film that is a combination of Rebel Without A Cause and West Side Story with elements of The Warriors and Class Of 1984 and while Tuff Turf doesn't match the greatness of those films I mentioned and doesn't do anything groundbreaking in terms of story Tuff Turf is a movie works in it's own right. Tuff Turf is also a genre mash-up film mixing together genres like Teen films,Gang film,Action film and a little bit of Musical thrown in as well and I think the mixture of all of those genres makes Tuff Turf a guilty pleasure and unintentionally hilarious. TT is a guilty pleasure in a sense where you watch the film and like but you as the viewer are almost afraid to say you liked it. TT is unintentionally hilarious because there are scenes and moments in the film that are really supposed to be serious and straight-forward but are so wild and over the top you can't help but laugh at how absurd at how serious the film tries to be. Although Tuff Turf is silly and very funny,there are times where the film can be dark,gritty and violent with a Film-Noir atmosphere that wasn't seen in Teen films during the 1980s. Morgan Hiller is a great character because he's a rebel who uses his wits and intelligence to get out of tough situations and can handle himself. At the same time Morgan is a character with great depth and is multi-dimensional because while Morgan is a rebel he's not a criminal or thug but just a very troubled and confused teenager that has to deal with the pressures of growing up,his parents,falling for Frankie as well as trying to battle Nick and his gang. The Morgan Hiller character is one of the reasons TT is memorable and entertaining to watch and you will like him as soon as he comes on the screen. The Action and fight scenes are well done and memorable with toughness and great pace and truly adds to the film. At 112 minutes TT moves at a good pace,grabs your attention and keeps you glued to the screen from beginning to end. If there is a flaw with Tuff Turf is that the tone and genre of the film is very uneven because one minute the tone can be light the next minute the tone can be dark and serious. Also you never know where Tuff Turf is going to go and what genre it is. TT is a Teen film then it's a gang film as well as an Action film and all of those elements can make the movie confusing at times. I guess TT was trying to make a Teen film that was different from other Teen films at the time by making a genre mash-up film and throwing in everything but the kitchen sink in this movie and sometimes it succeeds and other times it fails The final 15-20 minutes of Tuff Turf are Action-packed and thrilling and a great ending and fun cap-off to the film.The whole cast is wonderful. James Spader is excellent and memorable as Morgan Hiller,with Spader bringing depth,charisma and humor to the role. Kim Richards is wonderful and beautiful as Frankie,Morgan's love interest and Nick's girlfriend. Paul Mones is fantastic as Nick,a gang leader and rival of Morgan and Frankie's boyfriend. Robert Downey Jr. is great as Jimmy,a student who becomes Morgan's friend. Matt Clark is wonderful as Stuart Hiller,Morgan's Father. Olivia Barash(Ronnie),Claudette Nevins(Page Hiller),Panchito Gomez(Mickey),Michael Wyle(Eddie),Catya Sassoon(Feather)and Bill Meyers(Brian Hiller)give good performances as well.The direction by Fritz Kiersch is great,with Kiersch bringing a great pace and style to the film,as well as great camera angles and movements. Wonderful direction,Kiersch.The score by Johnathan Elias is great and effective and matches the tone of the film. A fine score by Elias. The film also has a great soundtrack with songs from Jack Mack And The Heart Attack(So Tuff,Green Onions,She's Looking Good),Jim Carroll(People Who Died,Voices,It's Too Late),Marianne Faithful(Love Hates),Southside Johnny(Tuff Turf),Lene Lovich(Breakin' The Rules(What Do You Do When Opposites Attract),Dale Gonyea With J.R. & The Z-Man(Twist And Shout)and Jonathan Elias(We Walk The Night). Great soundtrack.In final word,if you love Teen Films,Gang Films or Action films,I suggest you see Tuff Turf,a film that's flawed and far from perfect but is entertaining,fun and is well worth your time. Recommended. 8.5/10. "}{"Title":"When Will It End??","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I was expecting some enjoyable cheese, a la Savage Streets or The New Kids, or vivid SoCal mid 80's atmosphere, like in Fast Times at Ridgemont High or Breakin' 2 Electric Boogaloo, but instead got an absolutely godawful hodgepodge of Rebel Without A Cause, Romeo and Juliet, and the worst music since Disney's The Country Bears. Decent performances by Kim Richards and Matt Clark (as Spader's dad) didn't help the meandering story, headache-inducing examination of violence and poor/rich class warfare, and confusing main character. A scene where the kids crash a Beverly Hills country club was interminable, as was the musical number that Spader warbles at a piano! There's a reason why this film is not well known, and the fact that it was directed by the genius who helmed Children of the Corn has something to do with it. I give it a 2, only for the jacket that Spader's character wears and for Richard's crimped hair. "},{"Title":"Tuff nut to crack","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This mid-80's James Spader vehicle starts off well enough, but its too long for its own good and becomes meandering after awhile. Not to say that this high-school rebellion/revenge movie isn't watchable, as it is, thanks, in no small part, to good acting, a great soundtrack and a perfectly suitable sense of style. It just sadly falls apart far before the end credits, complete with a song based on the title of the film, roll. Still perfectly good for a lazy rainy day afternoon. Also if you're simply looking to get a gander at the awesome Kim Richards topless, I have a little bit of bad news as its a body double.My Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the reason Kim Richards left Hollywood.","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Or, at least that's what I'd like to think the reason was. Many a man who was a boy in the late-70's and/or early-80's would love to see Kim Richards returning to the silver screen, but after playing the female lead in this stinkeroo and some of her subsequent roles, it's hard to blame her for bowing out.The movie stars James Spader(the 1980's answer to David Hemmings) as Morgan Hiller, a kid from Connecticut who's moved to Los Angeles by his parents and immediately has to deal with the school thugs lead by Nick Hauser(Paul Mones)who wreck his bike for kicks. A REAL Los Angeles gang would've wiped these kids out with a single shot, to say nothing of the Jets & Sharks from West Side Story. Those who saw a certain episode of House of Buggin' know what I'm talking about.Anyway, Morgan falls for the gang-leader's gun moll, Frankie Croyden, played by none other than Kim. Obviously, she thinks he's a wimp and a pushover and wants nothing to do with him, but this is the movies, and in movies men easily get the women they want. And in movies like this, the bad girl falls for the good boy, which she shouldn't, which p***es off her lover and leads to a huge gang war between the hero, and his new friends. And if that's not enough, the lucky bastard got to do a love scene with Kim. Sure it's fake, but it's the closest any of us will get.My vote Barely rises above lame. "}]