[{"Title":"Seminal Troma","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Class of Nuke 'Em High is one of Troma's best loved and most seen films. This film helped to define the Troma formula that crap addicts the world over would grow to love - gory violence, gratuitous nudity and black humour, all mixed with a large dose of irony and an incredible lack of taste.Class of Nuke 'Em High was released just after The Toxic Avenger and it shares a similar nuclear theme. In this case, a nuclear waste facility is leaking toxic goo into the local high school with some rather unfortunate consequences for the student body. Unlike the poor nerd in the film's brilliant opening sequence, our heroes are not directly exposed to the toxic waste. Rather, Warren and Chrissy smoke marijuana grown on the grounds of the nuclear power plant. This ultra-potent pot not only makes Chrissy incredibly horny, but mutates her unborn child and imbues Warren with super-human strength.The film then focuses on Warren's rivalry with the Cretins (former honours students who have turned into freaks after smoking one too many toxic joints) and Chrissy's rampaging miscarried foetus (which lives in the toilet and hides out in a vat of toxic waste). These situations provide the filmmakers with plenty of opportunities for hilarious sight gags, gory violence and camp action - and they deliver.As with much of Troma's early output, this film has been crafted with considerable care and attention to detail, despite budgetary restrictions. The plot has its own ludicrous sense of logic and the direction is captivating - Kaufman, Herz and Richard W. Haines all share a directorial credit but the action sequences reek of Kaufman's mercurial style. I love the scene where Warren literally punches one of the cretins through the mouth, down into his chest. The special effects also deserve a mention. The creature effects used for Chrissy's mutant foetus are hilarious.The Class of Nuke 'Em High does not quite match The Toxic Avenger for originality or style, but it is a great example of what Troma does better than any other studio and why they are still around 20 years later. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of crap dedicated for a juvenile audience.","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm glad I was part (I was very young but still) of the Troma boom. Troma is a production company well known for crappy and sometimes cheesy movies. This isn't the exception! Oh no, Class of Nuke 'Em High has the winning formula that has given Troma a name in the business. We have cheap but likable f/x, glorious and gratuitous nudity, kick-ass action, cheap music , and campy acting. This is my kind of entertainment. Thank you USA's Up All Night for educating me on crap cinema. I got majors thanks for it.This movie has plenty of good black humor and intense action a la Troma. So you get a sui generis cheap action flick with the occasional mix of blood and boobs.No, don't expect a typical high school although in my teenager years I expected my school to look like this! A classic in Troma. If you want to get in the ideology of this noble production company, watch Class of 'Nuke Em High. Jeez, even the title fits with everything. "},{"Title":"Hilarious trash flick!","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When it comes to stupid trash films, Troma have no equal; and while the vast majority of their output is absolute rubbish, now and again you'll find a few gems in the rough; and unlikely as it may seem, Class of Nuke 'Em High is one such gem. The film presents a post-apocalyptic style similar to that seen in films such as The Warriors and Escape From New York, and blends it with the idea of a school being run by several students; which is reminiscent of the hit thriller Class of 1984. This is all then mixed in with stoner culture; as its toxic weed that causes all the problems, and you have a recipe for a successful trash flick. The film opens with a 'routine nuclear evacuation drill' at Tromaville High; a school situated next to a nuclear power plant. One kid goes mental, and it's not long before we see that a local gang are buying weed from a nuclear plant worker and selling it to the kids at school. The weed grows faster than normal; and there's a reason for that, as toxic waste has contaminated it and pretty soon the kids of Tromaville High start acting rather strangely...If this film was made by any other production company; I'd probably say it has a point to make about the advent of nuclear power, but since this is Troma it's clear that they've simply lifted a common fear and turned it into a schlock film. There's absolutely no point to it; but seeing all the general carnage is a lot of fun, and director Richard W. Haines isn't afraid to go completely over the top, despite the obvious limitations of his special effects budget. The film plays out something like a zombie movie; although there are influences from other sources, and not all the afflicted characters turn into mindless beings. The gang at the centre of the film is an interesting troupe, and their style fits the jokey tone of the film very well. It's good to see a film like this that has a sense of humour, and absolutely nothing in the film is to be taken seriously; shown best by the fact that the central location is 'Tromaville', and is the 'toxic chemical capital of the world'! The special effects towards the end get a little silly, but it's all in good fun; and while this movie won't be to everyone's tastes, if you enjoy schlock horror - you'll love this! "},{"Title":"fun times","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If only my highschool was like this...eerily predicting a violent chaotic state of highschools in the future loaded with biker gangs and mutants. I first saw this movie on USA's Up All Night back in the early 90's when I was about 8 years old and it became one of my favorite late night viewings especially since I was very heavy into the Toxic Crusaders. Movies like this and the Toxic Avenger played a big part in my childhood and thanks to Lloyd Kaufman's influence I am the sick demented horror fan I am today...as if it's a bad thing. 10/10 "},{"Title":"100% troma","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Troma usually gives us demented violent comedies and they are really cool if very politically incorrect. I love them. This film is also cool. It has no real plot, but it's fun to laugh at the weird stuff going on. It is funny, but not as dark as the average troma film. If you were just trying to get into troma movies, this would be a good place to start. Not as gory as Toxic Avenger, Not as funny as Kabukiman, but still a cool movie.  "},{"Title":"Juvenile, gross, stupid, badly acted, hilarious.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know you're in Troma (a very low budget film company) territory right from the outset, when a poor student accidentally drinks nuclear waste, melts, and jumps out of a window. Welcome to the seriously twisted universe of Tromaville, where a nearby nuclear power plant is leaking radiation into a nearby school. Cue lots of dismemberment, green ooze and horrifically bad acting.Taken with a lot of salt and good humour, this is just the kind of film you can enjoy with your friends those Saturdays when you have nothing better to do. The fact that it's all to cheesy merely adds to the low budget charm. It's nice to see one company which, amidst the rampart glossy and self concious products of Hollywood, has the guts to produce films that don't take themselves so seriously.RATING **1/2 (out of four) "},{"Title":"Entertaining trash","Date":"17 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie opens with a shot of Manhattan Island and then never features New York for the rest of the running time. Much like this paragraph.Nuke 'em High is a Tromaville hellhole populated by a diverse range of characters, some annoying, some funny. The Cretins (a punk gang in the vein of Griff Tannen's gang from BTTF Part II) have a deal with the neighboring nuclear power plant to deal toxic weed grown on the grounds. The sludge from the plant has already infected the school's water supply and is having a terrifying effect on the students. But the toxic weed causes horny feelings, speedy demon pregnancy, and sporadic superhuman powers (other students being completely unaffected by it is one of an infinity of logic errors).Wholesome couple Chrissy and Warren, affected by the contamination and toxic weed, battle with the Cretins in a stupendously disjointed and senseless plot, but that's missing the point. Anyone watching a Troma film for serious art will no doubt be disappointed and confused. These movies barely hang together and were made by amateurs that make Ed Wood look like Orson Welles. The cinematography is wobbly and uncertain, the acting just about passable, the sound is barely audible, and for some reason generic 80s rock music plays in the distance during every single scene.But it entertains. Class of Nuke 'em High may be trash of the lowest order, but it has a lot of energy, a lot of ideas (no matter how underdeveloped or misunderstood), crazy and interesting characters, is frequently intentionally funny, has mediocre-to-decent gore effects, has a gorgeous female lead in Janelle Brady (a sort of 80s Katherine Heigl, who has sadly massively deteriorated since then - missing and presumed dead in Las Vegas), and is never once boring.If that is all the movie sets out to do then does that make it a huge success? It led to a sequel and a spin-off - so yes? "},{"Title":"Not What I Expected... And That's a Good Thing","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've only seen 3 Troma films thus far(The Toxic Avenger, Bloodsucking Freaks, and this one) but this is my favorite so far. It's a fun piece of 80's trash that most horror/exploitation fans should enjoy. Aside from obvious similarities to The Toxic Avenger's storyline, I think this is a good movie that should be checked out.The acting is awful but hilarious. I think the one thing Troma usually does well is gore, I thought the gore in this film was great and pretty disturbing. I also liked the look of the creature. This one has cheesy but great effects and an okay storyline. Check it out if you liked The Toxic Avenger! "},{"Title":"Classic Troma","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, like everything that comes from Troma, this is not for the faint of heart and if you don't like senseless violence in your movies then steer clear of CLASS OF NUKE 'EM HIGH. I think they go over the top on certain things in these movies and it can get in the way of the story. The creature effects are impressive considering it's 1986. The story is a tad strange and the acting is over the top at places. But it's also a comedy, so the over the top acting and effects might be part of the dark humor. All and all an entertaining movie and the sequels are good in their own right, they also have their own flaws, but I will get to them when the time comes. I give the first and best CLASS OF NUKE 'EM HIGH 9 STARS. "},{"Title":"A nuclear reefer joint by Troma!","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The secondary school described in this movie is totally crazy! Every character's got an insane streak. The vandal gang is perfectly caricatural and it made me laugh several times. The nuclear plant near the school is completely bad-managed and the consequences are terribly funny at the beginning of the movie, a weak-looking geek turns into a drooling monster after drinking nuclear-polluted water and this makes him become outstandingly strong -- though dead and melt, after jumping through a first floor window! I think that when the heroes smoke a joint made with nuclear stuff is the best scene of this mad movie! The way Troma shows you nuclear power is so horrific that you could believe this movie was made by environmentalists! I recommend to watch this film with friends. It's an outstanding horror-comedy! "}{"Title":"50's Drive-In meets 80's excess","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People seem to unfairly dismiss most of Troma's output. True, on the surface there is enough melting mutants, gore and exposed female flesh to appeal to the lowest common denominator, however, most Troma movies (like most good movies) make a comment on the world we live in and following the tradition of 50's radioactive monster movies, CONH explores the fears society has towards expanding and growing youth cultures who reject the ideas of the generation before them, just like the fear Rock and Roll created in the 50's that has never fully subsided and our fears about the saftey of radiation, the media and our education system. Viewed as a piece of paranoid social commentry, Class of Nukem High is a classic. "},{"Title":"Back in the day...","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Troma amuses me, no doubt, but I really like the older stuff better.  Class of Nuke 'em High is a great example.  Nowadays it's like Troma's gotten TOO good at what they do, which sort of kills the charm of their special brand of filmmaking (Though I anticipate Citizen Toxie).  This one's pretty funny in just about every way, completely ridiculous all around.  I love that the pot grows right outside the power plant and only 1 or 2 workers notice.  I love how all the signs featured look like someone glued cut-out construction paper letters to a piece of poster board.  I love the dialogue from the fat guy who runs the power plant.  I love the Cretins' incredible overacting, and who couldn't love the monster?  The heroine's pretty cute, too, and this is just that special brand of cheezy charm Troma used to bring us....I guess it's tough to recommend it to anybody who doesn't already have a taste for this stuff, but if you do and haven't seen it, rent it!  And check out the narrator's voice in the trailer when he announces the title.... "},{"Title":"An urban high school with a beautiful view of Tromaville Nuclear Powerplant, where the students and the school itself have a complete meltdown.","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I first watched this movie, I was probably ten years old. My next door neighbor convinced his Mom to rent it for us, telling her it was just a harmless comedy. Boy was that putting it mildly. When I look back on my memory of the first time watching this, the thing that springs to mind is the catchy theme song. I mean it was gold compared to most movie tie-in music. The fact that they crammed the premise of the movie into a cheesy 80's rock song baffles and delights me to this day. The only other thing I remembered about the movie was boobs, and the hilarious grade F student Gonzo.Well fast forward almost 30 years later and watching Nuke Em High again was like seeing a familiar friend after they had moved back into town after being away for so many decades. It is honestly one of the best of the bad cheesy horror/comedies from the 80's. The characters are almost cartoonish in their mannerisms and you can almost smell the toxic waste oozing from the school's campus. Within the first few minutes a student named Dewey goes Zombie on his peers after drinking green water from the water fountain. After he jumps out of a balcony window to his death, the movie's first of many one liners jabs you with wit; Well that's one way to get out of class. Warren Brandt, played by Gilbert Brenton, plays the token jock protagonist. Of course he has a hot girlfriend named Chrissy, played by the lovely and overlooked Janelle Brady. His wacky but likable friends round out the cast. The rivals of Warren's crew are known as The Cretins, and they consist of names like Gonzo, Spike and Taru. This gang of punk rockers love to beat up the preps and sell pot that was grown at the nuclear power-plant right behind the school.Needless to say, the radioactive cannabis makes some students go nuts, and Chrissy gives oral birth to a turd-shaped critter into a school toilet. The creature mutates and becomes a serious health hazard to students and faculty alike. Without going into too much detail, let's just say this monster of sticky proportions ends up bringing down the house in a nuclear meltdown that brings summer vacation to the kids a little earlier than expected. This movie creates a great sense of anarchy, with scenes that are reminiscent of early horror flicks. The fact that there is a frickin' Nuclear Powerplant behind the school creates a constant feeling of suspense. If you are a fan of any other Lloyd Kaufman directed Troma films, then this will surely be at the top of your list of faves. Tromeo and Juliet, The Toxic Avenger and Class of Nuke Em high are all the best of the worst horror films and they don't pretend to be anything but. If you have no idea what a Troma film is, then you will probably want to stay very far away. "},{"Title":"10 stars for Troma (but not other stuff)","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Class of Nuke em High is probably my favorite of all of the Troma films. Top 3 for sure. I also liked Toxic Avenger, Tromeo & Juliet, Sgt. Kabukiman and Surf Nazis Must Die. But let's talk about this one. Honor roll society starts smoking radioactive weed and morphs into a psychotic gang of sex crazed Cretins? ha ha If that's not funny to you we may not jive. I think the acting is so bad that it actually starts to get good? It's like Reefer Madness on Toxic Waste! Plus who doesn't love to cringe at New Jersey in the 80's?!Let's face it, Troma really only falls into 2 categories good bad and bad bad. This is good bad. I loved every trashy moment of it and do not feel nearly as guilty about that as I probably should! "},{"Title":"Troma trash, but not without charm","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The ludicrous plotting of CLASS OF NUKE 'EM HIGH sees a nuclear power plant situated right next to an American high school, where the regular leaks lead to contamination of the students. I wasn't quite sure what to make of this one, given that I'm no huge fan of Troma movies, but I'm pleased to say it's the best of their productions yet.Things start off on a hilariously blackly comic note, with a geeky student coming into contact with toxic waste and melting from the inside out. At that point things slow down considerably for the first half, with some very poor acting from the non-existent actors, stupid dialogue, and all of the usual things that blight a low budget comedy horror production.It's good news, then, that things do pick up quite considerably for the latter half of the production. In this, the heroes are menaced by an evil gang of street thugs, while a mutant monster roams the corridors of the school building and kills people in various grisly ways. The effects are ludicrously over the top but they work well in that '80s way, and the film becomes a fun slice of demented B-movie excess. "},{"Title":"Another great flick from Troma.  Some T&A","Date":"19 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you loved The Toxic Avenger then you'll like Class of Nukem High. Brief scenes of nudity, nothing too salacious. I really like the bad guys in this flick and the motorcycles they ride. As a stoner I really liked the marijuana references! The special affects were pretty good considering how low budget this movie was. I still watch this movie just for it's campy corn-ball appeal. I especially love to show it to people who've never seen it, it's always worth a laugh. This great flick is available to watch right now on Netflix streaming. Not a ton of gratuitous T&A but really captures the gritty nature that is Troma and all of Troma's films. "},{"Title":"Where Troma really started to become weird.","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before this and The Toxic Avenger, Troma did really normal horror/thriller/erotica movies. It wasn't until Combat Shock that the movies got a little weird, but The Toxic Avenger and Class of Nuke 'Em High really started the whole toxic love obsession that has become associated with Mr. Kaufman and Troma.Class of Nuke 'Em High is a simple story about Tromaville and it's one big problem, the nearby nuclear powerplant is infecting all the town's weed with toxic materials. And boy, the weed, nicknamed Atomic High, has bad side-effects. It starts messing with Chrissy and Warren's hormones. Problems increase when the school's gang takes over the school. Then a mutated monster, the effects of the powerplant, attacks the school and kills all the gang members. Using a really fake looking laser, Warren manages to kill the monster, and live happily, mutated ever after.Yes it is a trashy plot, and laughable to some, but for someone like I, it is an amazing plot. I can not put into words how much I love this movie. The scene where the geek starts spewing slime was awesome. Sure, the acting isn't the greatest, but it's good ol' fashioned trashy fun. A must see for anyone into tasteless movies. "},{"Title":"kids start  to mutate a tromaville.","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" a good film if you can stand the cheesy acting and weirdness to it.I was terrified of it when i was a kid and even when i watch it now i think its a mad film.The effects are laughable by todays standard but who cares.the film has a really cool 80s feel to it which sorta makes it.i remember asking my uncle what was raising from under the lads blanket when i was a kid which he replied a snake.watching it now i saw it was his cock,that was a nice idea i think you'll agree.this is a film i always seem to put on when I'm bladdered and miss the end most times in all its a fun film to watch were you don't have to think to much about the story.class. "},{"Title":"Weeeeellll.....","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm torn, you know, I am... I love Troma, deeply, and I had been waiting for years to see this classic. When I did, I was a little bit disappointed though. Don't get me wrong, I do love all the silliness and outrageousness, but, well... I just think it could have been better. The script was just flawed in so many ways. For instance, when Warren is suddenly turned into a radioactive monster that goes around killing cretins (a la Toxic Avenger), well, that's a pretty cool scene. But he never turns into that monster again! So it makes no sense at all, and is generally a sign of shoddy writing. You don't put in a scene like that without a payoff later in the script. And I could go on. The film just never reaches the brilliance of some of Troma's other classics, like my favorite, Monster in the Closet (that is much sillier, if less gory (since it's a kid flick) and has a much better screenplay, where everything works out). That's not to say that Troma fans can't enjoy the film. I liked it to a certain extent, but it could have been so much better. Cheers!  "},{"Title":"it's funny","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (funny theme song)  Nuke 'em High! (then repeated softly X2)  What's going on?! (whole thing repeated over and over) Very very funny.  Very 80's.  Very High School.   Readin', Writin', and Radiation baby! the dvd is loaded with extras random comparasion movie wet hot american summer- for sheer abundance of campy comedy if you know what you're getting this movie will deliver! "}{"Title":"Just another day at Tromaville High.","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Class of Nuke 'Em High is another near-classic from Troma studios.  I use the term classic loosely of course.  It's not as brilliant as The Toxic Avenger, but then again none of their movies are.  The Toxic Avenger is the king and cash cow of Troma.  If there were a pretender to the throne I suppose it would be Nuke 'Em High.  The Tromaville Nuclear Plant is naturally located next to the high school and a radioactive leak leads to mishaps in the student body.  The former honors society has become mutant cretins and they sell super-weed that they grow at the nuclear plant.  The call it an atomic high.  That's just a sample of the many storylines going on in this flick.  The effects are enjoyable and half of the cast of The Toxic Avenger (all of the villains) star in this.  Don't go in expecting much and you should be mildly pleased. "},{"Title":"A must see","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film might have weak production values, but that is also what makes it so good.  The special effects are gross out and well done.  My favorite part of the movie had to be Chrissy played by Janelle Brady.  She is super hot and also has a good nude scene.  Robert Prichard as the leader of the gang is hilarious, as are the other members.  This film is actually trying to make a point, by saying that nuclear waste plants are bad.  4/10  Fair comedy, gross out film. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think every fan of tromas work should see this, it's one of the early films that made troma what it was. After their 4 sex comedies and buying Bloodsucking Freaks, Toxic Avenger was the first truly Tromatic film and this is the follow up where they do MORE. I love this film to death it's amazing with cheey eighties special effects, comic book plot, good music and good jokes. A lot of fun, you'll enjoy it if you like Troma's other stuff...Not recommended as a starting point. "},{"Title":"High School Hijinks on an Atomic level!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Long before Buffy, Dawson and young clark kent captured teenage life, this troma classic paved the way. Allright maybe not, but compared to the slick, teen movies of today, this baby is the real NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE. Nerds, nuclear waste, radioactive pot, very unsafe sex. It's all here in this blast from the past. So kick back, push the pause button on your brain and push the play button your VCR/DVD.  "},{"Title":"A kooky and funny movie.. but..","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Me and My friends watched this movies with high hopes because we had heard so much about troma movies. The movie has lots of people doing really retarded things and stuff but that just makes it even more funny. One thing I noticed was right when we thought there would be tons of gore it cut away. Later on I realized we had the edited R rated version and missed out on all the cool gore.. Don't bother with the R rated verson because all the good stuff is cut out.. "},{"Title":"Best Troma movie that i've seen","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man am I a sucker for cheesy low budget flicks and this film is the proof. I mean yea, the acting is pretty bad and the plot is extremely off the wall, but it's just so cool that someone has the guts to make a film like this and then make 2 sequels. !!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!A New Jersey Nuclear Power Plant leaks some radioactive waste onto a nearby High School, causing students to transform into punk rock psychos and causes girls to give birth to mutants. A group of friends discover the truth and must battle a deadly mutant and a gang of thugs to save their school and town.Exciting, great plot, cool effects, and some likeable charecters. **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Definitely not a thinking movie","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't see this movie if you're looking for intellectual thought, it is entertaining only if you turn off your mind and don't analyze it.  Besides, Janelle Brady is one of the hottest leading ladies around. "},{"Title":"Troma at its best!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While it may not be as good as The Toxic Avenger or Tromeo and Juliet, this is one of Troma's best films!  It's hilarious and a classic!  If you haven't seen this, check it out ASAP!  It's cheesy, crappy, and has all the seams showing, all of which blend together to make this a masterpiece of B cinema "},{"Title":"Didn't make any sense","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I absolutely adore the 'Toxic Avenger' series, but this weak offering by the Troma people didn't make any sense, and it had me yawning all the time.A leaking nuclear plant (and the growing weed next to it) makes the youngsters of Tromaville High go nuts, which causes them to join a gang, have sex, explode, and whatever. Also there's some sort of monster breeding in the high school... my God, this movie's a mess.The actors pretty much stopped their efforts after this one and they should. The (intended) overacting started to get on my nerves in about 5 minutes...Disappointing. 2/10. "},{"Title":"Nuclear power...","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Tromaville, New Jersey (Where all Troma movies take place) a power plant is across the street from the local high school. Being a kid in high school is bad enough, Living in New Jersey is bad enough but living in Tromaville is extremely tough especially since the cretins rule the high schools and in Tromaville (As witnessed in Toxic Avenger 1-3) toxic waste is the only thing that can give you the necessary edge to defend your girlfriend, your school and indeed yourself from the cretins who rule the Tromaville high school. Ah yes, is there anything more signature in terms of feel and exploitation outside of the classic 80's Troma film? Well I don't think so. It's hard to explain exactly why this movie is so enjoyable. I mean quality wise it's no better than ROTOR but for some reason the movie's tone conveys an enjoyable feel that kept me mildly amused. Of course I saw this for the first time on TV a long time ago (I only remembered the nerd who puked green slime) but on re-watch this is a fairly fun movie. I give it three stars even though it doesn't make sense on any level, it's poorly made and it's just a mess but because it's a watchable mess and it has that nostalgic Troma feel that I find somewhat endearing. Plus the girl in the movie is very easy on the eyes. So check it out and chances are you won't ever see a movie quite like it. Plus it's called Class Of Nukem High and it pretty much delivers what you would expect. (Even a little more)*** out of 4-(Good) "}{"Title":"Funny - Sexy - Gory","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Funny The comedy is wittier than you'd expect. Along with the obvious gross gags, there are some deadpan character reactions that made me laugh, like when some of the men checking the plant for radioactivity were dropping like flies and their colleagues, who were standing right beside them, didn't seem to notice or care. Also, you learn a useful lesson here when you find a barrel full of green slime that smells bad and makes weird noises, DON'T stick your hand into it!Sexy The heroine is cute, but the two (or were there three?) bad girls are from another planet!Gory Considering the budget they probably had to work with, the gore effects are ingenious. The mutations, mutilations and monsters all look good.I've not seen enough Troma films to compare this with, but it's fun for at least one viewing. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The setup The pupils at a high school next to a nuclear power plant start acting and looking strange after buying contaminated drugs from a plant worker.The verdict The first half is actually quite good, as it occasionally borders on being a clever satire. The big weak spot of this film is low budget, but try not to pay attention and enjoy the film. It is a pretty unnecessary film. This story is dumb and average. Was anybody serious about this film? There's really no way to classify or categorize this film. I don't know why I watch the movies I do, because I always waste at least three hours a week watching crappy movies. "},{"Title":"Like a spoof of 'Class of 1984,' and a good one at that","Date":"16 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are a great deal of movies about high school from the 1980s. The most popular are likely those by John Hughes, which still have many ardent fans to this day. Some are very grounded in reality, which makes them more relatable. Then there are those that take a more wacky approach and some are more over-the-top than others. The 1982 cult classic 'Class of 1984' lies somewhere in the middle, having a realistic feel and characters, but a concept that's somewhat exaggerated. This is a word that can be use for just about every film by Troma. After the success of 'The Toxic Avenger' the next big project would be a high school set movie where a violent gang and nuclear waste run rampant. The result was a totally ridiculous, but always entertaining movie-going experience.Pros Cast members are game, really seeming to be into their roles. Fun score and cool soundtrack. Goldmine of camp value. Good job on the make-up and special effects. Many hilarious lines and sequences. Fast paced. Better direction than you would expect, including some stylish touches. Some ingenuity.Cons Paper thin plot. Some awkward editing. Very dated.Final thoughts With a title like 'Class of Nuke 'Em High' you hope the film will deliver. Well if movies like 'Toxic Avenger' and the work of directors like John Waters are your cup of tea then you need to check this out. It may not be great filmmaking, but the people behind this knew exactly what they were doing and accomplished what they set out to do, which was make something fun.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Unintentionally hilarious film","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- 1986, Class of Nukem' High, An 'animal house; typical 80's teen movie about high school angst and sexual & social foul-ups. The two most repressed teenagers in Tromaville High have sex after being contaminated by nuclear waste seeping into the school's drinking water. Their mutant baby, a nuclear creature attacks and infects all parts of the student body with bloody and grizzly effects on their bodies. The mayhem continues until the town and army comes to the rescue to clear up the problem.*Special Stars- Janelle Brady plays the romantic lead with Gil Brenton playing her boyfriend.*Theme- School drinking fountains can be dangerous to all who use them innocently.*Based on- 'Animal House' and Zombie movies.*Trivia/location/goofs- This is a TROMA film. It has plenty of sex and guts, but not necessary the best story or acting on celluloid. Troma's own Animal House rip-off with a few inane twists of female topless nudity and dope use.*Emotion- A shallow but unintentionally hilarious film. The film has every film cliché' unimaginable due to extreme bad taste and writing of those involved. ONLY good for a rainy afternoon's mindless funnies. "},{"Title":"Troma at there best...","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Out of all the Troma films this one is probably the best. Many will argue and say Toxic Avenger but these people are wrong. The Class of Nuke em High is much better. With more colourful characters and a brilliant over the top story line. This film is hilarious but sometimes shockingly violent and bizarre. Acting is to tromas usual standard of passable, but only just. Special effects are great. And everything else is Troma at its finest. Like I said much better than Toxic Avenger or any of there other films.Definitely one of the best post pub films.Buy it on DVD today... "},{"Title":"The best extras ever!!!","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While Class of Nuke'Em High stands alone as a fine piece of filmmaking, it continues to distinguish itself with the appearance of the incredibly talented Ron Epps as the shaker knit sweater wearing hallway lothario, pictured SEVERAL times throughout the film in liplock with some lucky young starlet.  BRAVO Mr Epps!!! "},{"Title":"Funny little trivia","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not really a review but I wanted to add a silly little bit of trivia to this. Back when this movie was filmed, I was an extra in the scene where Gonzo I think that was his name) rides through the cake at the bake sale. The local comic book shop had a sign-up sheet there for it, and the only payment was free soda.Anyway.... of all the places to film a Troma movie, the bake sale scene was filmed in the parking lot of a Catholic school in Paramus, NJ. I always thought it was funny they would film even part of a movie like that at a Catholic school.Overall, though, this wasn't exactly what I would call a great movie. I probably would have given it a 3 rating. I added 1 for my 2 second appearance on the screen. I've seen a few other Troma movies which had more by way of makeup and special effects than this did, but if you truly enjoy campy horror flicks (if you even want to classify this as horror), I guess this could be for you. "},{"Title":"not even bad enough","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It looks to me as if the creators of The Class Of Nuke 'Em High wanted it to become a cult film, but it ends up as any old high school B-movie, only tackier. The satire feels totally overshadowed by the extremely steretyped characters. It's very un-funny, even for a turkey.  "},{"Title":"Bad special effects, juvenile humour, gaping plot-holes - one of Troma's best!","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Following the surprising success of The Toxic Avenger (1984), cult, Z- movie proprietors Troma Entertainment stuck with the toxic-mutation-in- high-school theme and blended it with the zero-taste, smutty humour of the likes of Porky's (1982) to bring us Class of Nuke 'Em High. This is crass, low-brow entertainment, but entertainment it certainly is. Long a cult favourite, this is hopefully due a critical re-evaluation, because if you can look past the many burp and fart gags (although admittedly these probably got the biggest laugh from me), there is an energetic movie underneath, and certainly one of Troma's best works.Tromaville High School has been overrun by formerly respectful honours students, who now dress like punks and sell weed in the school corridors, calling themselves 'The Cretins'. They sell weed to Eddie (James Nugent Vernon) for a party, where he gives a joint to his friends Warren (Gil Brenton) and Chrissy (Janelle Brady), who end up having some supercharged sex. Unbeknownst to them, the weed was grown next door at the nuclear power plant, giving the weed an extra 'potency'. That same night, Warren and Chrissy have strange dreams, and Chrissy gives birth to a deformed foetus which is flushed down the toilet, only to land in a drum of toxic waste underneath the school.It's a ridiculous premise, and nothing more than an excuse to flash some boobs and show some gore. The blood-letting is kept a minimum, however, and doesn't really advance of the movie's opening, which has a nerd affected by nuclear waste jump out the window to his death, his body quickly rotting away. This is all about the comedy, and subtle this certainly ain't. The Cretins are ridiculous caricatures, one with a nose ring so big it drops well below his bottom lip, and he carries a bone for some reason. So while Warren gets super-strength, the Cretins have seemed to have just turned nihilistic from smoking too much of that 'Atomic High', as they call it. It's a major inconsistency to the plot, but not one that will have any Troma fans complaining, nor me neither. Some extremely dodgy special effects aside, the climax proves to be insane and amusing, even throwing in a foetus monster for good measure, and rounds off what is a pretty good movie.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Class of Nuke 'Em High","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tromaville High has become an amoral wasteland of filth thanks to the aftereffects of the nearby nuclear plant's accidental release of toxic waste.Unrestrained chaos crammed with absurd violence and crude behavior. Rather horrible, obviously intended to be, mess of a film with the filmmakers cutting loose the reins allowing the untalented cast free reign to ham it up. Craft was far down Troma's list of objectives for this gory sleazefest. The honor society are punks with eerie face paint jobs and wacky outfits. The German teacher who becomes a member, through a toxic kiss has the streaks down one side of her face that really gave me the creeps.The toxic monster, which dispatched the ANNOYING punks towards the end, is pretty cool, though.Kind of movie trash connoisseurs will embrace wholeheartedly. "}{"Title":"Grade-z garbage.","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bottom of the barrel horror flick that is so badly acted, written, plotted and paced that it makes you wonder why movies like this ever get made. The one good thing about this movie was the cool monster effects, but they are not shown enough to make this turkey worth watching. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad movie","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie I'd have to say , well.... sucked. I've got let you know that  there are many movies out there much worse than Class of Nukem High but that shouldn't be taken as a compliment. Troma films I personally find crap, but I must admit they always choose some hot chicks in their leading roles. The girl who played Chrissy (Janelle Brady)  was so hot I was amazed. Apart from that this movie was a load of bull. "},{"Title":"Troma have made worse (understatement of the millennium!).","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Your typical 80s Troma film is a trashy low-budget piece of B-movie excess featuring lousy acting, lame humour, comic-book violence, gratuitous nudity, bad music, and even worse fashion; generally, this kind of exceedingly puerile, deliberately crappy nonsense has me cursing the day Lloyd Kauffman was born, but very occasionally I find that the Troma formula actually delivers a pretty good time, as is the case with Class of Nuke 'Em High, which displays just enough manic inventiveness and anarchic energy to ensure that boredom is never an option. Lots of gloopy gore and the impressive sight of lovely Janelle Brady in (and out of) her bikini also go a long way to make this one much easier to endure.Janelle plays Chrissie, one of the students at Tromaville High School, which lies in the shadow of the town's nuclear facility. When Chrissie shares a joint with her boyfriend Warren, unaware that the weed has been grown on the toxic land adjacent to the power plant, she finds herself in a sudden state of arousal leading to some impromptu rumpy pumpy with her more than eager beau. Of course, as everyone knows, unprotected sex while high on radioactive reefer can result in the birth of an ugly slug-baby only a few days later, a creature that can rapidly grow into a massive monster given the right environment&#x97;such as a warm basement full of toxic waste, just like the one under Tromaville High!With wee gags, fart gags, a gang of outrageously daft punks, lots of ugly people, a swim-wear frat party, and plenty of surprisingly decent make-up effects (including the monster punching right through a woman's head), this clearly isn't high art, but if you're only going to watch one Troma film in your life, and you cant lay your grubby paws on Poultrygeist or The Toxic Avenger, you might as well make it this. "},{"Title":"A terrifically wacky'n'tacky Troma trash treat","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A leak at a nuclear power plant contaminates a crop of marijuana. Teenagers who smoke the toxic pot transform into crazed murderous mutants. One nerdy kid spazzs out and takes a fatal spill out of a window. A vicious gang of deranged goons called the Cretins led by the insane Spike (a gloriously gonzo portrayal by Robert Prichard) terrorize the other students. Worse yet, straight-laced goody-goody two shoes Chrissy (sweetly played by the adorable Janelle Brady, who has a great topless scene) and her equally square boyfriend Warren (affable Gil Benton) give in to their naughty lascivious urges and engage in raunchy sex. A hilariously wild sense of anything-goes raucous'n'tasteless lowbrow humor, ripely hammy acting from a game cast (tubby Pat Ryan is an absolute hoot as shady nuke plant manager Mr. Finley), some yummy gratuitous nudity, a nonstop frantic pace, a handy helping of cartoonish over-the-top splatter, and an infectiously vibrant feeling of sheer go-for-it energy and enthusiasm all add immensely to the blithely silly'n'schlocky fun that's on abundant display in this gleefully madcap gut-buster. Michael Mayers' snazzy cinematography makes nice use of vertical wipes. A grotesque lethal monster goes on a rousing and righteously gruesome rampage at the film's stirring conclusion. Cool catchy theme song, too. A total zany riot. "},{"Title":"Better than usual effort from Troma.","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Class of Nuke 'Em High starts at 'Tromaville Nuclear Utility' where a leak of radioactive material is reported to the boss Mr. Finly (Pat Ryan as R.L. Ryan) but he insists there is no problem & doesn't want any hassle from the authorities & tells everyone to forget about it. It's not long before the nearby 'Tromaville High School' is contaminated with radioactive water & a gang of drug dealers start selling weed that also has been contaminated with radiation. It's not long before the whole school goes into complete meltdown & slimy radiation monsters are running around poking people's eyes out...Directed by Richard W. Haines, Michael Herz & Lloyd Kaufman as Samuel Weil I thought Class of Nuke 'Em High was better than most of the crap Troma make although that by no means makes it a masterpiece, far from it. The script by co-directors Haines & Kaufman along with Mark Rudnitsky & Stuart Strutin is dumb, has no real story, no real character's & it isn't particularly brilliant on any level. The script goes for comedy, a bit of social commentary & the usual bad taste gags that Troma are notorious for, any successful attempts at achieving these are purely by accident. The films funniest scene is when someone farts in someone's else's face, yep that the highest level of intelligence that Class of Nuke 'Em High reaches I'm afraid. It moves along at a fair pace, something is always happening even if it's not very entertaining at times, it doesn't take itself too seriously & it works on a basic level.I can't quite understand why it took three people to direct Class of Nuke 'Em High (& four people to write it, four!?) because it's a pretty shoddy looking production throughout but is still better than most Troma films. There's no scares or shocks & it lacks any atmosphere although some may find it distasteful with scenes of old ladies being mugged & beaten up, guys growing breasts & girls giving birth to tadpole like creatures. The special effects are actually quite impressive & the slimy radiation monster at the end looks really good which was the last thing I was expecting. There's some gore here, a decapitation, a poked out eye, a severed hand & a cool scene where someone's face melts down to their skull.Technically Class of Nuke 'Em High is basic but isn't as bad as I'd feared. One thing I must say though is that I hated the music which seems to play constantly in the background, it gave me a headache. The acting was variable but again better than the usual crap I've come to expect from the average Troma film.Class of Nuke 'Em high is an OK way to pass 90 odd minutes, it's not brilliant & has virtually no story but there's enough twisted & depraved Troma nonsense here to make it worth a watch. Followed by Class of Nuke 'Em High Part II Subhumanoid Meltdown (1991) which is the better film... "},{"Title":"When a Movie's Bad by Troma Standards...","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I happen to be of the opinion that Tromeo and Juliet is a very good movie. I'm not qualifying that in any way at all. If more Hollywood movies had that level of intelligence and humor, it'd just be more fun to go to the movies. I also really like The Toxic Avenger. But let me tell you, there's absolutely nothing less appealing than a really bad Troma movie. But as my summary indicates, Class of Nuke 'Em High isn't *really* bad. But it's certainly bad.When a pipe at the local nuclear power plant bursts, some people think the townspeople should be warned. But not the portly man in charge. He sends in cleaners and goes about his business, unaware that the nuclear sludge has leaked into the ground and that the kids at the high school a quarter mile away may be in danger. But of course things have been bad at Tromaville High for a while. The National Honor Society, for example, has become a gang of self-mutilating punks who ride their bikes around down and decorate themselves with body art ranging from the ambisexual, to the multipierced, to the truly odd. Was it the radiation that made these good kids go bad? Who cares! When a geek drinks nuclear waste from a water fountain and dies a kinda yechy death, nobody thinks anything about it. But when some atomic weed turns two popular kids into sex-starved animals, well, that's not entirely relevant to the plot either. Actually, looking back at Class of Nuke 'Em High, I don't entirely understand how one event led to the next and why anything happened at all. This isn't really good-bad plotting, it's just confusing.Troma films operate on a basic principle of anarchy which stretches from the absurd plots (it never feels like a Troma film has much more than a basic ten word premise, anything more than that is gravy) to the hammy acting (John Waters's acting troupe looks like the Royal Shakespeare Company compared to these guys) to the special effects. At their best, though, there's a true joy that comes with their artistic freedom. Troma films can doing anything, show anything, and say anything. That's why it's disappoint watching this film. It's just doesn't seem to go anywhere. There's some sort of inherent satire of the high school comedy going on, but nothing is ever taken to the extreme where it would be at best hilarious or at worst offensive.The special effects look especially cut rate. Much as I enjoyed the images of the mutants with bodily fluids pulsing just beneath their skin, I would have liked to see more of that and fewer close-ups of bubbling waste. And the dialogue reaches all of its high points entirely too early. When one of the nerds-turned-cretins is accused by his girlfriend of caring too much about money, his quick response is something to the effect of, That's what you get for dating a yuppie. I wanted more of that and less endless footage of the cretins terrorizing the school.Class of Nuke 'Em High shouldn't be anybody's introduction to Troma. It has all of the bad traits of the company's films without any of the amazement that comes from watching every rule of cinema broken. Class of Nuke 'Em High just makes you remember why things like good writing, quality acting, and production values are mostly good things. This is a 2/10.  "},{"Title":"Classic Troma","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this movie, it makes absolutely NO SENSE. It's true. But who cares, it is a very fun movie with a cool monster, some very funny scenes, and some nice boobies. The characters are awesome, Gonzo is amongst the best. He has a humongous nose ring and carries around a giant bone. We got Spike, another weirdo who is the leader of the gang. We got girls using boy's bathrooms, guys selling Atomic Weed to students, and nerds evacuating the building by jumping out of a window...what's not to like? This may not be as good as The Toxic Avenger or Terror Firmer, but is sure is fun. It has some gore, not as much as other Troma flicks but this is more science fiction anyway. I end every school year by watching this masterpiece, a must see for anyone who likes darkly comical movies, or Troma flicks. "},{"Title":"Excellent Troma flick!","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the town of Tromaville, there is a normal everyday high school except it's located near a nuclear power plant as there has been a horrible accident occurs as it contaminates the school. There's even more trouble as a vicious gang of teen bikers called The Cretins are becoming a menace to society in the town and there's also some nuclear abominations ready to kill.A cult Sci-fi horror comedy hit from Troma who made the cult masterpiece The Toxic Avenger. It's everything you expect from a typical Troma movie with bad acting, funny writing, laughs, sheer tastelessness, and splatter abound with some good make-up effects including the nuclear monster. Look for R.L. Pat Ryan ( a.k.a. the mayor from The Toxic Avenger) and Lloyd Kaufman ( head of the studio) in small roles in this movie.Also recommended Class of 1984,  Battle Royale,  The Toxic Avenger, C.H.U.D, Slugs, The Crazies, Akira,  Nightmare City ( a.k.a. City of the Walking Dead),  The Being,  Basket Case,  Bad Taste,  The Stuff, Street Trash,  The Incredible Melting Man,  Brain Damage,  From Beyond,  Toxic Avenger 2, Toxic Avenger 3, Citizen Toxie The Toxic Avenger 4, The Children,  Rabid Grannies,  Scream. "},{"Title":"80's Troma 101","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Class of Nuke 'Em High (1986)** (out of 4) Troma tries to re-capture the magic of THE TOXIC AVENGER but doesn't quite come close. The film takes place at Tromaville High School where several students get contaminated by a nuclear power plant located nearby. Soon these kids are turning into mutants and doing all sorts of perverted and gory things. CLASS OF NUKE 'EM HIGH isn't a good movie but I doubt anyone walking into a Troma movie is expecting one. For the most part the film delivers everything a Troma fan would want but it just doesn't quite reach the levels of the studio's best work, which is of course THE TOXIC AVENGER. That film was released a couple years before this one and you can tell that they basically took the toxic waste from that film, applied it to a high school and ended up with this thing. For the most part the first half of the film is extremely fun as we get the typical group of teenagers doing all sorts of crazy and rude things. I should say these are Troma teens and not your typical teens next door. Once a nuclear joint gets smoked by the virgin lovers (Janelle Brady, Gil Brenton) things start to pick up in the gore department. The monster here certainly isn't scary but I really don't think it was meant to be. Apparently the entire costume was never completed, which explains why we only see its upper half throughout the picture. If you're a fan of gory, over-the-top violence then you're going to get plenty of that here as countless heads are ripped off and various other body parts are fractured and torn apart as well. The performances are exactly what you'd expect from a C picture but I will admit that Brady and Brenton at least kept you entertained in the events going on. CLASS OF NUKE 'EM HIGH isn't the work of John Ford but for a low-budget flick from the 80s there are enough campy moments to make it worth watching. "},{"Title":"this is troma","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes I know, it have been taken until now to watch this 24 year old Troma flick. I don't have to say a lot about it, the effects are cheap, the creature is never scary, the score is by some cheap bands and some sounds are clearly done with the hype of the eighties, the Korg M1. For me it's a bit like class of 1984 with some humor in it. The movie is dated but if you are in for a good laugh on a Saturday night when the ladies are gone, then this is a good choice. There is a bit of everything in it, some cheap gore but somehow it works, luckily there is no stop motion what would there this flick into a turkey. It is Troma, and you know what that means. "}{"Title":"you know it when you see it - this IS Troma","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Easy as pie let a decrepit little town like Tromaville go to waste to save the face of a pig-like boss as a nuclear power facility that's spreading its nuclear crap all over. And, of course, let the high school be (slightly) inflicted on by the toxic sludge, sometimes in the water or in the basement or on random teachers. Oh, and of course don't mind the toxic-pot (made for an Atomic High, so clever!) that people might smoke and then gain certain nuclear powers (or, for that matter, have little toxic babies that miscarry). But, last but not least, make sure the monster gets out that's been gestating in the basement of the school just to wreak havoc on those bastard Cretin gang motorcycling through the school.Oh, don't worry if I spoiled you anything. While Class of Nuke 'Em High has a plot, it shouldn't be at all your concern. This is the cream of the crop of Z-grade film-making, done with a budget that would make Corman wince and with tons of ingenuity and awesomely bad special effects gore and make-up. The humor is juvenile and stupid and all the better for it; this movie requires that there be bizarre characters, but this goes a step further by making it like a cross between Return of the Living Dead and Lean on Me. The bullies are ass-wipes who are decked out so much you can't see anything like they actually look like (one of which donning a nose ring to rival any one ever worn or seen), and all of the main good characters are (near) defenseless dweebs and sweethearts or bad comic relief.And what it comes down to is this - Class of Nuke 'Em High is far from any high art- even its repetitive and sometimes intrusive generic 80's rock track grows thin after the opening theme song- but it's a fantastic party movie. Throw it on and tune in, or maybe sometimes tune out if you wish, and have lots of laughs (and sometimes raised eyebrows) at the mania pulled off here. The monster looks cheap as hell and funny as Hades wearing a tutu, and some of the dialog is actually quite quotable when not trying a little *too* hard. It knows its badness and embraces it with a beer in one hand a slimy crap in the other.One either goes for this as the trash it is or they don't. Those that do get the rewards that Troma offers best, and in this case (with the exception of Toxic Avenger) it's most likely the go-to example for how Troma started out in the 80's. All they could care about is getting smart (or dumb is fine) kids to chew on horror-comedy that is 1/3 parody, 1/3 gross-out, and 1/3 flat out awful. Somehow it all comes together and makes for a wild little ride after midnight. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Troma movies!","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie that came through the gate of our good pals over at TROMA, it's got the perfect blend of laughs, horror, science fiction, gruesome transformations & really cool looking slime drenched toxic monsters that go about eating a bunch of high school kids! I mean for a Troma movie you can't go wrong there! The story starts with a chemical leak at a nearby power plant that turns the water of a local high school into slimy green toxic gunk & turns honor students into black leather wearing, dope smoking punks called CREETINS! Within time two high school teens decide that they must save the entire school before things get well out of hand, but seeing that this is Troma movie, things wind up out of control anyhow...way out of control! If you're a Troma fan & have not seen this yet, then I highly suggest you check it out, it's really a fun movie that echo's THE TOXIC AVENGER, another Troma classic. It's filled with loads of slime, gore, nudity, likable & memorable characters, good directing & acting & truly awesome creature effects. The Creatins were also fun villains & the film is never boring as it races from one crazy moment to the next. Highly recommended to Troma fans! Followed by two sequels starting with the dull CLASS OF NUKE 'EM HIGH PART 2 SUBHUMANOID MELTDOWN **** stars "},{"Title":"They don't need no education&#133;","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Typical Troma-trash, this smutty 80's flick is considered one of the highlights of Lloyd Kaufman's notorious production studio, alongside The Toxic Avenger released one year earlier. The Toxic Avenger is far superior if you ask me, but this demented splatter-flick is nevertheless endurable as well; just make sure you leave your full brain capacity at the door. The events take place in Tromaville, a little town that proudly claims to be the toxic chemical capital of the world, and they certainly aren't lying. The safety precautions in the local nuclear power plant are substandard, to say the least (even Homer Simpson never was this nonchalant) and toxic waste seeps through to the nearby high school. The first intoxicated victim is the stereotypical nerd, who starts spurting green stuff out of all his body cavities, but his death is believed to be an accident because he had no less than TWO microwave ovens in his house! Oh, the humanity! Shortly after, however, the nuclear leaks also affect the school's weed plantation and thing really start to get messy. After smoking a joint at a party, the cutest couple in school produce a gigantic worm monster that settles in the basement and feeds on teenage scum. Class of Nuke 'em High is bottom-of-the-barrel horror film-making, with dialogs so dumb they hurt your ears and make-up effects that give a whole new meaning to the word tasteless. If you enjoy watching faces melting away, getting crushed or splitting in half, this is definitely a must-see! Unlike the aforementioned The Toxic Avenger, this film suffers from a couple of really dull and overlong moments where nothing really significant happens, like for example when Chrissy and Warren try to figure out what's wrong with their hormones. The crude humor isn't as effective as in Toxic Avenger and the acting performances are unforgivably amateurish. Proceed only if you're an avid Troma-fanatic. "},{"Title":"Troma-they make Full Moon studios look good.","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What to say about this movie.  Well it is about a bunch of good students who have some bad drugs and turn into delinquent students that sell more of the bad drugs to people.  Two of those people have adverse effects as one turns into a toxic avenger type and his girlfriend throws up some creature that grows in the school's basement.  That is about all there is to it and they stretch it out for 84 minutes.  This movie is pretty bad and should be locked away forever.  Though that is not fair, some people like Troma's movies and they can watch it if they want.  Troma movies for me though, are the worst movies there are out there.  I just watched this one out of morbid curiosity. "},{"Title":"This film has a special place in my heart as the worst movie...","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has a special place in my heart as the worst movie I have ever seen.  It is about as fun as doing hard manual labor with stomach cramps.  The movie starts out bad (I would rate the first few minutes of the film a 1/10) and then it get progressively worse, minute by minute.  The only way to rate it at all would be some kind of abyssmal spiraling negative number that grows for ninety, long minutes. Unfunny is not a real word but it best describes the humor in this video.  Somehow the video manages even to make cute, scantily clad females and sex look grotesque and distasteful. This movie is amazingly bad. I would say it would be better to be locked up with the TITANIC theme playing over and over and with Buscemi's character from ESCAPE FROM LA droning on in your ear than to watch this movie.  The sequels  are not nearly as bad.  If you have to rent a Troma film, get Tromeo and Juliette or Combat Shock.  I would rather watch 5 Tony Little infomercials back to back than to see CLASS of NUKEM HIGH again.  Don't get me wrong, it took some kind of criminal genius to make a movie this terrible and if ever a movie deserved an award for being awful, this is it.  "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Troma effort like many of there other films is undefendable on every techincal level. However, it is decently paced and manages to keep you entertained for 90 minutes. This one is about a group of high school students who fall prey to a toxic monster lurking in the hallways the result of an error at the toxic plant next door!Rated R; Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations, and Profanity.  "}]