[{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I know this movie is so cheezy, but it cracks me up every time I watch it. I grew up watching this movie and I'm sure that had a lot to do with it. It is so great! Is good, is funny! My best friend and I use to watch this movie so often that at one point I believe we knew all the words to it. It is not a movie that most people would like watching it for the first time as an adult. I have many fond memories of my friend and I laughing and repeating the lines while we were and weren't watching the movie. The best scenes in the movie are with Michael Richards who plays Fejos. He is absolutely hysterical! I think that he totally made the movie. I think it was a very fun movie. "},{"Title":"Good one","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Transylvania 6-5000 is the movie that my siblings and I make inside jokes about and no one ever gets them. This movie is funny. The person that wrote the highly retentive review above is lacking a significant character trait necessary to positively judge such films persistent immaturity. OK, his mother may be really proud of him. However, the ability to appreciate the validity of Transylvania 6-5000 is unique, and I am quite happy to admit that I am a fan. And believe it or not, I am not a weirdo movie buff who goes out of her way to appreciate stupid ass movies. Rather, I look to flicks such as the one in question to remind me so fondly of my 80s childhood. Stupid humor is remarkably cathartic, especially when nostalgia pervades, and that is why I love Transylvania 6-5000. Watch it and love it.One liners make my life worth living. "},{"Title":"awesomely hilarious","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is possibly my favorite ever. The comedy is at times intelligent, at other times just plain slapstick-style hilarious (micheal richards, slapstick similar to kramer from seinfeld style action), and at the best times the movie contains that awesome brand of sarcastic comedy that jeff goldblum is famous for. I love jeff goldblum and certainly all of the other actors of this fine film. Jeffery Jones, whose amazing comedy stylings were also a part of what made Ferris Bueller's day off and beetle juice great movies, brings the same amount of quality acting to this flick. Speaking of beetle juice, i would have to compare this movie with that, they both are extremely funny movies that have horror based plots. Plus, this movie has lobotomy in it! "},{"Title":"Worth A Watch","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love a good horror comedy, and this movie does a great job poking fun at tabloids, the old movie monsters as well as East Europe. The plot is good, but the script seems written by high school kids with a mismatch of jokes and laughs varying from funny and hilarious to just bad. Some of them shoved down your throat. First off, Goldblum and Begley are a hilarious comedy team; Goldblum acts like some sort of genius in logic with Begley as his gullible foil. Begley is a believer, but Goldblum is a confirmed skeptic with a sense of humor. They are sent to Transylvania to investigate someone masquerading as the Frankenstein monster. Not knowing exactly where the region is, they are told it is over there somewhere. The problem with this is that Transylvania is not a town or a country; it's a region of Romania (the movie was actually filmed in Yugoslavia). Nevertheless, the locals, somehow knowing too much of American culture, have fun teasing these bumbling reporters. Jeffrey Jones is a bit subdued in his acting, but Joe Bologna has a fun time with his role. Michael Richards plays a bellboy doing bad prop comic jokes in order to get Begley to take him to Hollywood. The funniest characters are John Byner and Carol Kane as married servants who have been married too long. He wants to take things easy, but she is still in love with him. In some scenes, Kane is almost as funny and coquettish as Madonna used to be. Geena Davis, however, is woefully miscast as a sex starved lady pretending to be a vampire. As a whole, it's not a bad movie, but the soundtrack is bad and the ending just doesn't measure up to the movie. The whole thing sort of ends anti-climactically with a whimper, but yet, it's still worth a watch. "},{"Title":"So silly but oh so funny.","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Seems like this movie is a case of you'll either love it or hate it. I actually surprisingly much liked it and the movie really made me laugh numerous times! It's a comedy done Mel Brooks-style. So lots of the humor is being very simplistic and childish and all of the characters are being very over-the-top and crazy. Obviously not a movie to take serious in any way and it's not really being one that tries to make sense with its story. No big surprise this movie feels Mel Brooks like, since director Rudy De Luca has written on a couple of Mel Brooks movies. Not Brooks his best ones though, needs to be said.It really are the actors and all of its funny one-liners that make this movie such a joy to watch. You can tell that most of the actors were improvising their way through this movie and especially Michael Richards was on a roll with it. His antics really made me laugh. While watching this movie it's obvious to see how how much fun the actors were having with this movie. This is also really what helps to make this movie such an enjoyable one to watch, even though it's really not being a great movie by any means.It has quite some well known names in it but some suit their roles better than others. I mean, I'm sorry but I just never saw Ed Begley Jr. as a good comedy actor. Jeff Goldblum, Carol Kane and Jeffrey Jones on the other hand are for instance some great picks for their roles.They present a plot in this movie but does it really matter? The movie really isn't about its story and once you actually start analyzing it, it is quite a bad and unoriginal story, that doesn't even make sense. I mean, didn't the film-makers know that the Frankenstein creature doesn't come from Transylvania at all and also has nothing to do with it at all. But oh well, I understand that Transylvania has a more familiar ring to it than Vasaria. And there still is a vampire in this movie as well, as is a wolf man. So plenty of well known horror material present in this movie that gets spoofed.Really too bad that the movie doesn't manage to remain consistently funny and entertaining throughout. It's last half hour or so just isn't up to par with the rest of the movie, probably because they suddenly started to focus more on its plot and story at that point. You could easily do without its last half hour but be sure to watch the first hour though, when you're in for some good silly laughs.It ain't no Young Frankenstein but it's more than good and funny in its own way!7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Oddball Performances Make This Tepid Farce Highly Watchable!","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  TRANSYLVANIA 6-5000 (3+ outta 5 stars)I dunno what it is about this movie... I'd be the first to admit that the story is silly and the script is terrible... yet somehow this movie winds up winning me over every time I see it.  What saves the movie from tedium and even makes it *memorable* are some of the weird, crazy performances... primarily by a pre-Seinfeld Michael Richards whose loopy servant character is indescribable.  He improvised the whole thing... and most of the time it's not even clear WHAT he's trying to do or WHY he's funny... he just IS.  Jeff Goldblum and Ed Begley make a good comedy team (seemingly influences by Abbott and Costello more than anything else).  Jeffrey Jones, Carol Kane, John Byner, Joseph Bologna and Genna Davis all have their moments as well. The story has two dim-bulb reporters (Goldblum and Begley) going to a small Transylvanian town to track down reports of monster, wolfman and vampire sightings.  You are either gonna love this movie or hate it.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever.","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie just cracks me up! It's the first time I saw Michael Richards (Kramer on Seinfeld)--he plays one of the goofiest characters. You have to watch this movie with the idea that it is a goofy movie. If you go into it thinking it's serious, you are sadly mistaken and will miss out on a lot of good humor!!!The team of Ed Begley, Jr and Jeff Goldlum as the two main characters was a great match. They contrast and complement each other well. With Jeff's sarcasm and Ed's seriousness you are bound to laugh at something one of these two guys say. Other characters that make this movie hilarious are Jeffery Jones as Mayor Lepescu and the hilarious lower than low couple, Lupi and Radu, played by Carol Kane and John Byner. Check it out. If you enjoy slapstick comedy, meditating, and Dracula, then you will get a kick out of this movie. "},{"Title":"Definitely Not a Lost Classic, But Has Its Moments","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two reporters (Ed Begley and Jeff Goldblum) travel to a strange castle in Transylvania to investigate the apparent reappearance of Frankenstein's monster...One would think that with this cast (besides Begley and Goldblum, you have Jeffrey Jones, Geena Davis, Carol Kane and Michael Richards) it would be a non-stop fun romp through Transylvania. But, it really is not all that. While there are some decent jokes, most of them just fall flat or are never really properly explored.Seeing a pre-Seinfeld Richards is a treat, with his antics being more along the lines of his role in UHF (the doofus with the childlike behavior). But although he may be the highlight of the film, he is not enough to carry the entire picture.I feel like there was a lot of potential here and it was an idea that just never got fully cooked. But, you know, that happens. "},{"Title":"Transylvania 6-5000 OHH-OHH-OHH!","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two journalists careers are at stake (no pun intended?) when they are assigned to travel to Transylvania to prove that the Frankenstein monster truly exists. Made a laughing stock of within five minutes of being there, they eventually find a mad scientists and his creations A Frankenstein monster, Wolfman, and sexy female vampire. The poor man's Young Frankenstein gives a few laughs here and there but tended to give light chuckles rather than actual laughing out loud. Don't get me wrong, the film does have some fun parts but overall it does not come off as a memorable classic, however the Mel Brooks subtlety shines some light on it. if you're a Jeff Goldblum fan, this is your movie. Otherwise it's a very slow 40s horror spoof. Not terrible but nothing too legendary. "},{"Title":"Comedy has more misses than hits","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two tabloid reporters head to modern Transylvania - now a charming eastern European tourist trap - in pursuit of a story about monsters, and find the place over-run with vampires, mummies, werewolves etc. Ed Begley Jr. and Jeff Goldblum have good on-screen chemistry together as the luckless writers, but the script does them few favors. The tone of the movie is all over the place, aiming for wacky and scary by turns, but that sort of approach (familiar to Abbott and Costello fans) takes finesse that is not on display here. The production designers worked hard to create an attractive and convincing modern monster movie setting and mostly succeeded, but the script has a too-many-rewrites-by- committee feel and the material is very weak for the most part. Geena Davis has a very appealing bit as a beautiful vampire wannabe, but most of the supporting performances are not well fleshed out and are occasionally just absurd. Joseph Bologna, as always, chews the scenery outrageously as a mad scientist, plus Michael Richards is just annoying and unfunny as a clumsy bellhop. There are a few genuine laughs here and Davis' first appearance in vampire gear is worth a rewind, but most of the movie is just exasperatingly unfunny and tiresome. Avoid. "}{"Title":"Funny... if you're a 7 year old","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think it's interesting that several people have mentioned remembering this movie from childhood because that's where my recollection came as well. I'm glad I'm not the only one whose childhood included this movie since I was watching it thinking Geena Davis' costume alone makes it not for childish consumption, but it's sort of cartoonish in its sensibilities so maybe kids got it better.I hadn't thought about the movie in over 20 years, but something just made me put it in my Netflix queue -- I remember it being a movie I loved!! I have to say I'm disappointed... you would think a move so packed with famous names would be somehow better. I laughed 1-2x tops. My husband was browsing a joke website while I was watching this and I found myself paying attention to it instead of this. "},{"Title":"Some extreme cases of childhood nostalgia can be the only explanation for the positive reviews.","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Hey, they've taken the title of an old Glenn Miller hit and replaced Pennsylvania with Transylvania&#x97;isn't that hilarious? Well, actually, no, it isn't&#x97;and neither is anything else about this film!A dreadful comedy/horror with a surprisingly decent cast, this has got to be one of the least amusing movie experiences I've ever had. Written and directed by regular Mel Brooks collaborator Rudy De Luca, the film is a desperate attempt to replicate Brooks' 'madcap' style, but which falls flat on its face thanks to the dreadfully weak material and ill-advised improvisational performances that result in some truly ludicrous moments that defy description. Bizarre it most certainly is, but on what plane of existence it could ever be considered funny I really haven't a clue.Michael Richards baffles as demented butler Fejos; Carol Kane and John Byner irritate as kooky kitchen staff Lupi and Radu; a manic Joseph Bologna maddens as doctor Malavaqua; and Goldblum and Begley Jr. do their utmost to emulate Abbot and Costello's buddy-buddy style banter, but fail in every respect, the pair lacking any chemistry whatsoever. The only person whose performance I enjoyed was Geena Davis, on account of her revealing vampire costume&#x97;but even Geena in sexy goth get-up isn't worth sitting through this garbage for. "},{"Title":"When Jeff Met Geena...","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Horror spoof that is probably best remembered as the film where Jeff Goldblum met his future ex-wife Geena Davis and vice versa.Jeff plays a skeptical tabloid reporter who feels that he is not making any great contributions to the world of journalism who is forced to go on a wild goose chase for in Transylvania with hapless believer Ed Begley Jr. (also the son of their boss). Along the way, they encounter a number of oddballs who are not actual monsters but are really just downtrodden, misunderstood misfits. Among them is Geena Davis as a sex starved vampire wannabe. Geena fell for Ed, but Jeff walked away with her off camera.Film takes a while to get going but briefly comes alive here and there when a pre-Seinfeld Michael Richards is on screen as a goofy hotel worker. The film also gets a good shot in the arm from Joseph Bologna as the mad scientist whose entire personality changes depending on whether or not he's in his lab. Geena does what she can and Jeff & Ed have their moments as the reporters. Good. Everything hurts. - Joe the mad scientist.If I didn't keep you chained up, no man in town would be safe! - another good line from Joe the mad scientist.  "},{"Title":"Show of Shows","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Sid Caesar invented a specific form of comedy skit. You have a transparently thin story  that you invite several comedic actors to populate. They come in and invent their own  characters and much of the dialog. If there are enough different types, then everyone can  find the one of two they like.Viewers are amazingly tolerant they will put up with a large percentage of dead screen  time in exchange for a few laughs as long as you don't go in the hole somehow. For my money, Carol Kane leads the pack here.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre horror spoof.","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This comedy has some tolerably funny stuff in it, surrounded by a lot of unfunny stuff. Just about every scene involving the servants of the castle and their silly antics is a waste of time. And the plotting is so sloppy that it makes you wonder if they actually had a script ready before they started filming this, or they were simply making it all up as they went along.    (*1/2) "},{"Title":"Have You Seen Frankenstein Lately?","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Jeff Goldblum, Ed Begley Jr., Joseph Bologna, Geena Davis, John Byner, Carol Kane, Norman Fell, Theresa Ganzel, Michael Richards and Jeffrey Jones star in this 1985 horror comedy. Jack Harrison (Goldblum) and Gil Turner (Begley Jr.) are 2 American reporters who get sent to Transylvania to find a story on Frankenstein. After arriving, they investigate, meet strange people and get into mishaps along the way before finally finding what they're looking for. Bologna (The Woman in Red) plays mad scientist, Malavaqua, Davis (The Fly) plays vampire-dressed nymphomaniac, Odette who falls for Gil, Byner plays odd butler, Radu, Kane (When A Stranger Calls) plays his nagging wife, Lupi, the late, Fell (Three's Company) plays Jack and Gil's boss, Mac who is also Gil's father, Ganzel (The Toy) plays Jack's love interest, Elizabeth, Richards (Seinfeld) plays other odd butler, Fejos and Jones (Beetlejuice) plays the Mayor of Transylvania and owner of the castle where Jack and Gil stay. I've always enjoyed this film, it has some goofy/corny moments and kind of spoofs old horror films. It's a good 80's horror comedy with a good cast & score I recommend. "},{"Title":"Dreadful, idiotic comedy that is saved by bizarre, hilarious moments throughout","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Transylvania 6-5000 is really quite terrible. It's a juvenile, sophomoric, amateurish comedy that the actors and filmmakers appear to have made up as they went along and then stuck together in the editing room. But the movie is chock full of non sequitur moments that range from bizarre to hilarious.As the two tabloid journalists who travel to Transylvania to get a story, Jeff Goldblum and Ed Begley, Jr make a strange duo. Goldblum's performance is offbeat and funny one minute then uncomfortably flat the next. One gets the feeling he started out having fun but at some point during the production grew bored. On the other hand Begley is great as the dopey, manic reporter who really believes they're going to blow the lid off the Frankenstein legend.Michael Richards's only direction seems to have been be weird. He takes his chiropractor character from Fridays to unprecedented heights of outlandishness and his unhinged performance is one of the highlights of the movie. Jeffrey Jones, John Byner and Carol Kane are, as always, goofy and fun, as is Joseph Balonga as a mad scientist who only seems to go mad when he physically steps foot in his laboratory. Rounding out the principal cast are Geena Davis as a sexy vampire lady and Teresa Ganzel as Goldblum's love interest. Ganzel appears to be so delighted to be in the movie she never quite manages to do anything except smile giddily.Rudy De Luca (a far cry from his work with Mel Brooks on Spaceballs) directs the movie like a TV show. It has a Disney Channel blandness to its photography and pacing. Were it not for the aforementioned work by Richards and Begley, Jr this movie would probably be a gargantuan task to sit through. But there is enough oddball humor sprinkled throughout to make it worth watching, though apparently much of the comedy was improvised by the actors, which leaves little credit for De Luca, who seems to be a much better collaborator than solo writer-director. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and Pleasant But Not Very Funny","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Alright, I admit it's not a great comedy. Still, it's oddly enjoyable. Part of this is due to the likable cast. They seem to be having a good time. I'm a fan of classic monster movies so that's an added bit of fun for me. I also really liked the Yugoslavian locations where it was shot. I don't know how else to explain it but to say it's a fun movie. Not funny, but fun. Hope that makes sense. The most memorable part of the movie is Geena Davis' incredibly sexy vampire. I think children of the '80s will appreciate it for its nostalgic value. So...yeah, it' s not going to make you snort milk out of your nose but it's a good time. If nothing else, see it for Geena's cleavage. "},{"Title":"Just roll with it.","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you go into this movie with hopes of seeing another Young Frankenstein, you will be disappointed. If you see it with the understanding that this was made with have to use it in Yugoslavia funding from Dow - and not a lot of funds, but the buck does stretch a bit further there - and if you like shtick, you'll probably not regret your time spent. Others have divulged the plot, so here's my take despite the inexpensive production values and a great deal of on-location shooting, this film offers some funk pokes at the classic horror movie genre. Michael Richards' performance causes a few squirms here and there, but everyone else does a fine job John Byner and Carol Kane are a hoot, as is Joseph Bologna's split personality role. Jeff Goldblum is so laid back, he seems to be on vacation and Ed Begley is......well, Ed Begley. The ending actually has some warmth and heart, and speaking of warm things, see this - if for no other reason - to ogle Geena Davis in her Vampirella-like outfit. WHOA! "},{"Title":"I hope you have a pleasant stay in TRANSYLVANIA!","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two tabloid reporters Jack Harrison and Gil Turner travel to Transylvania to cover a story on the monster Frankenstein that was supposedly caught on video footage. The locals discover their reason for being there and laugh of it, but the mayor and local chief of police are hiding something from Jack and Gil. Through their journey to uncover this mystery they encounter many odd characters and weird situations.Don't childhood memories just seem to make things a lot greater than they actually were? Oh, yes that can happen. And it occurred with this feature. Although I had a fine time with the film, but I remember it being funnier than it was. Transylvania 6-5000 is a gleefully silly hit and miss lukewarm affair aimed at spoofing the classic mad doctor and monster themes of the early golden years. It has one foot planted in the juvenile pool, while the other is kicking about in clever screwball antics. With so much potential ammo to poke fun at, it falls extremely short, as there seems to be a shortage of gags that stay afloat in the aimlessly overlong, but randomly on-the-spot screenplay. Sight jokes have little input (though Richards thought otherwise) with the main focus more so on the repetitively lagging dialogues and flat stretches. Everything feels like its simply going with the flow. It basically takes half of the movie before the monster investigation takes shape and the ghouls make their appearances. What mostly comes across is embarrassing, rather than humorous. Mel Brooks definitely did a better job of it with Young Frankenstein (1974) and oddly enough writer/director Rudy DeLuca co-wrote the screenplays for Brooks' Silent Movie (1976) and High Anxiety (1977). Not to take anything away from DeLuca as he crafts some flashy images amongst loony and jocular moments (like the film's opening involving the reporters getting the story) that do work. Although that's marginally because of the fruitfully campy performances.The down-to-earth Jeff Goldblum is his usual sophisticated; dry sarcastic self as Jack and the edgy Ed Begley Jr. is good as Jacks' ill-fated partner Gil. The snappily colourful banter and crackling chemistry (that reminds you of Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein) between them worked a treat. The ensemble-supporting cast they got for the feature is rather interesting too. Michael (impulsively creative comic) Richards is absurdly flamboyant as the castle's porter Fejos. Who likes to spontaneously bob up from nowhere and hassle Begley Jr's character with plenty of psychical jokes that turn into amusing results. The weird doll scene that opens Richard's character was a ball and his was a standout in what you could call a prototype for the Kramer character of Seinfeld. Even his accent reminded me off Borat. A delightfully spunky Geena Davis is desirably teasing as Countess Dracula with a flavorous Bela Lugosi accent. The talented Jeffery Jones is truly fantastic as the suspicious looking two-faced Mayor Lepescu and Joseph Bologna is superb as the erratically minded mad (although he can be nice) scientist. While, Carol Kane can be extremely irritating in her nagging role of Lupi. There's something lovable about her oddball character and her pairing up with John Byner's downtrodden servant Radu that makes it worthwhile. Elizabeth Ellison is there to look pretty and be the token love interest of the story. Another up and down element was the wailing soundtrack has that really tacky, but quite catchy shtick to it. The quickly made project looks like it had a miniature budget and they work around it neatly enough. The workable make-up for the monsters are impressively done (though the werewolf is pretty plain) for this type of feature. The title happens to be a pun of a Glen Miller big band tune and also happened to be a title of a Warner Brothers' Bugs Bunny cartoon.I find it hard not be charmed by this ridiculously mad-hat comedy with its pleasantly well-shot Yugoslavia locations and unusual characters. It can be quite forced on the humour front and rely to heavily on its actors' presences, but I'm still slightly enlightened by it even though it didn't impress me like it did when first encountered it.Side-note The interestingly informative and highly witty DVD commentary track involving Director/writer Rudy DeLuca and visual consultant Steve Haberman is a real hoot. "}{"Title":"Amusing B movie","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't agree with the previous comments. I thought this movie was silly and fun. It is not going to strike you as a movie that should have won any awards (and it didn't)! It is a very typical B type movie that spoofs almost every horror movie made. It tackles Frankenstien, Wolf Man, and Dracula. Two reporters head to Transylvania to investigate odd occurrences. What they find is a lot of weird things in this old town. As they investigate further, they find things are not what they seem in this town, and somehow they get caught in the strangest circumstances. The ending is different and very funny. My family used to watch this in the car during long trips. Now as an adult, I think its a great look back at an early Jeff Goldblum and early Michael Richards. Geena Davis has an amusing comedy role as well. Enjoy it as a light hearted comedy. Be careful though, that stupid theme song gets stuck in my head anytime I hear it. "},{"Title":"Sort of a spoof of horror movies, sort of just a comedy.","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Kind of surprised it scored so low here as I thought it was rather funny. Granted the last time I watched it I was just a kid, still for the most part this movie cracked me up. Listed as a horror as one of its genres, it most certainly has no horror in it, or even any dark spells for that matter. The movie centers around two journalists for a tabloid type newspaper. Well one is kind of the editor's son and is kind of forced on the other guy. They are sent to Transylvania because of a video that seems to have the legendary monster Frankenstein in it. Well they get to town and they discover its many colorful characters including a rather strange mayor, a butler that performs very bad practical jokes and a super sexy vampire girl. The also have a very humorous run in with a couple in the bushes as they try and track down the wolf man. For the most part the movie is funny, though there are a lot of groan inducing scenes to be had too. The highlights for me was the discovery of the couple and the next trip to the fortune teller after that, the leg joke by the butler, and the scene where the one guy went nuts every time he entered his fathers laboratory. Gena Davis also looks very nice as the vampire hottie too so you have a bit of everything. Though the story is kind of all over the place which may be a reason this film does have such a low score. "},{"Title":"Like opera... You either love it or hate it.  Laugh hysterics but only to those who catch on quickly.","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is your typical Airplane, Mel Brooks, Three Stooges, fast-paced and sometimes so incredibly stupid-funny (corny) type humor. If you didn't laugh the first time you watch this, then you may have to watch it again. There are quite a few things that you need to observe to get it. I don't want to give up the jokes but without being too cerebral they are sometimes so subtle. Jeff Goldblum plays the ultimate straight man while Ed Begley, Jr. does a fabulous job for the underdog comedy relief. The characters are uncommon and original, especially for the time era. This movie was ahead of its time and I can't say enough about how it can put you in a great mood (knowing there are worse things in the world). Keep an open mind, sit back and let the film take you outside of the real world. Enjoy the show. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When I was a kid this movie made me laugh so much! It is a great 80s flick. I know it is no award winner, but it wasn't trying to be. This was my first movie I ever had once VCRs had come out. I made my father search high and low when I was a kid in order to have it. It makes me long for childhood. (The best part is that besides this movie I was never crazy about purposely stupid funny movies, even as a kid, but this one has my approval.)It made me want to go to Trannslyvannia, which I will actually be going to next year. People don't even think the place really exists. Well, I recommend it if your into movies, it is a cult classic. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie so many years ago,i liked it then and i love it now.I'm a huge fan of New World movies from the post-Corman era of the mid-late-80's.They made cheesy but good B-movies such as Night Patrol,Tuff Turf,18 Againand this one.Jeff Goldblum does an excellent job as the dead-pan straight man who does'nt believe in monsters(same as Bill Murray who did'nt believe in ghosts inGhostbusters)and Ed Begley,Jr.is also good as the monster believing neurotic.This movie would of been made from a bigger studio if there had been a bigger budget,cuz of the all-star cast.Michael Richards is funny as the comedian butler,although he's been funnier on Seinfeld and inUHF.John Byner,Carol Kane,Joseph Balogna,Geena Davis,Jeffery Jones and Theresa Ganzel are also good as a supporting cast.The plot is great,the characters are quirky but they work,the editing is fine,and the locations are adequate.The soundtrack even has its moments.Transylvania 65-000 is an 80's campy classic comedy.10 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Brings back a flood of memories!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I loved anything connected with horror as a kid. As such, as a boy, I watched many stupid horror comedies that I didn't know any better than to watch at the time, case in point, Jim Carrey's ridiculous Once Bitten. However, this movie is one of three horror comedies I loved as a boy that is still funny to me today (the other two being A&C Meet Frankenstein and Young Frankenstein). Mostly because it was writer/director Rudy DeLuca's (very funny man who works for Mel Brooks today) 1980's update of the classic Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein. It's funny as hell, and anybody who didn't think so at the time should pick up the new DVD and check it out again.Interesting post scripts to the movie's production1. Goldblum and Begley's parts were to be played by Bosom Buddies' own Tom Hanks and Peter Scolari respectively, but New World would not let them play the parts because they didn't know who the hell they were. 2. Michael Richards' dimwitted servant Fejos was not originally the clumsy idiot he is in the movie. Richards was recommended for the role by his friend Begley, and characteristically fell all over himself at his audition. As a result, he ad-libbed every one of Fejos' physical acts and they were all kept.I just have to mention this. My favorite line in the movie is after Geena Davis' lady Dracula attacks Begley from Goldblum.Begley Do you smell perfume?Goldblum (mock scared) Yes. I know what was in this room.Begley What?Goldblum The Creature from Estee Lauder! "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I cant see why people think this is such a bad movie. I think its a wonderful movie that made me happy. Two journalists(Jeff Goldblum & Ed Begley Jr) is sent to Transylvaina by their not so very serious employer to investigate if Frankenstein is alive.In Transylvania they find everyone to be loonys . This movie is hilarious with a great cast. Best is the scenes with Michael Richards(Kramer from Seinfeld) as the crazy servant Fejos. This no masterpiece and its a little campy, but if you want a good laugh and want to get into a good mood, see it! "},{"Title":"Unbelievable ludicrous, and yet, not funny","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't understand how a movie can be this silly, and yet not manage to create one funny joke. One ludicrous joke was following the next, yet, all I have been doing, was to shake my head. I didn't actually find that the actors did a bad job. They did a good job, and interpreted the jokes as good as possible. But nothing could have possibly been saved with this script. And I really have to doubt the actors sanity by deciding to be part of this bad joke. This might have been the last chance I have been giving the comedy - horror genre. This sort of movies keep disappointing me. I don't know why exactly, because, in theory, there is no reason why jokes should be worse in a horror-comedy compared to a normal comedy. Sadly they are.Unless you are a fan of police academy, and similar senseless inanities, avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"The worst film I have ever seen","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Were I not with friends, and so cheap, I would have walked out. It failed miserably as satire and didn't even have the redemption of camp. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever!","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While some (obviously inferior) people pan this movie, I think it's absolutely hilarious. Come on, Jeff Goldblum, Geena Davis (in her only good role), Joseph Bologna, Ed Begley Jr., the incomparable Carol Kane... how does it get any better? Oh, right, it does; the theme song. The fabulous Pennsylvania 6-5000 by Glenn Miller in 1940. Hey, that's my ringtone. And, by the way, that's a real phone number... it is the (translate to modern numbering) the Hotel Pennsylvania in NYC. So there. In any case, this is really classic slapstick, and it has so many references to other works you can watch it many times and still find new ones. Dang, I think I'll watch it again now. "}{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Transylvania 6-5000Flights to Transylvania are typically the only ones that airlines will allow passengers to carry wooden stakes and guns loaded with silver-bullets on.Unfortunately, the tabloid reporters on assignment in this horror-comedy only packed their flash bulb camera.After their ornery editor (Norman Fell) comes in contact with video documentation of Frankenstein, he sends his goof-off son Gil (Ed Begley Jr.) and a hardnosed newsman Jack (Jeff Goldblum) to the Romanian countryside.Once in Transylvania, Jack and Gil encounter a gypsy who encourages their investigation.Digging deeper, they come across an unhinged physician (Joseph Bologna) determined to socialize the creatures he created in his experiments, including a werewolf, a sea-monster and a vivacious vampire (Geena Davis).A saucy send-up of classic horror archetypes, this screwball comedy is highlighted by some great comedic performances and adult oriented humour.Incidentally, tabloids today would only be interested in monsters caught without their makeup.(Yellow Light)vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Ooh, bazonkers! I never counted on bazonkers.","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The premise is good, and it is filled with stars so everyone can find someone they like.Jeff Goldblum and Ed Begley Jr. are reports who come to Transylvania looking for Frankenstein. The town is ostensibly using the legend to draw tourists. They have turned Frankenstein's castle into a hotel filled with really groan inducing characters like Carol Kane as the batty cook, and Michael Richards as a butler or bellman or whatever.Geena Davis appears as one hot vampire!It's not quality, but it was funny in spots. "},{"Title":"Great 80's fun","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie from a critical standpoint would probably get two thumbs down but it's just one of those goofy movies from that mid-80's era that make it one to add to any buff who grew up on those silly movies from our childhood or teen years.The cast is great, the European setting, the corny gags, it's worth the price I paid. It all makes for a fun movie to add to your collection for a only a few bucks. A bonus for me is the fact that my three year old wants to watch it over and over. Hey, I'd much rather watch one of my 80's flicks than Pokémon or some of the other trash they hammer out for our little ones. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies ever. It's really goofy but enjoyable. It had a great cast and some incredibly funny little things happening all over the place. If you like movies like Army of Darkness or Buckaroo Bonzai then you'll enjoy this one. This movie has a lot of stupid humor but for a good laugh that you don't really have to think about then this movie is your best bet. When i first saw it i had my doubts but i realized that it was probably one of the funniest movies i've ever seen. You really have to listen so you don't miss any of the lines because everything is so funny. It has some really funny slap stick actors and some great monsters so i really REALLY recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Give it a chance","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I've seen the movie, and I've got to say, though not as funny as some of Jeff Goldblum's other eighties/early nineties movies (Earth Girls are Easy, for one), it does have his classic charming verbal stumbles. Also,Micheal Richards' performance begs the question How much of this fiasco-piece was actually written on paper, and how much just sort of happened? A good way to describe this movie Take Young Frankenstein,add a little of The Three Stooges and a bit of Dragnet. Now take out half the amusement and intelligence that's Transylvania 6-5000.Plus Geena Davis. "},{"Title":"just my opinion...","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  well i know it's not the most popular movie ever but it definitely is the funniest.  it is a weird and unusual movie about two reporters that search to find out if frankenstein lives.  the characters are the best, portrayed by actors such as michael richards, carol cane, geena davis, and jeffrey jones.  if you have not seen this film, i recommend you do and if you have seen it but not in a while, i suggest you seen it again very soon. i give this movie a big fat ten!  "},{"Title":"Great cast wasted in a tedious and mostly unfunny spoof","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Horror spoofs are not just a thing of the 21st century. Way before the 'Scary Movie' series there were a few examples of this genre, mostly in the 80s. But like said franchise most of these films are hit or miss. Some like 'Elvira, Mistress of the Dark' mostly rise above that, but other like 'Saturday the 14th' and it's sequel fail to deliver the laughs. But out of all these types of films there is one particularly big offender and that's 'Transylvania 6-5000,' a major waste of time for many reasons.Pros A great cast that does it's best. Some of the dopey humor is amusing. A corny, but catch theme song. Some good Transylvanian locations.Cons Threadbare plot. Mostly tedious pacing. Most of the humor just doesn't cut it. The monsters are given little to do and little screen time. I thought this was supposed to be a spoof of monster movies? Lame ending that will likely make viewers angry.Final thoughts This is a comedy? If it is then why are the really funny bits so few and far in between? Comedies are supposed to make us roll on the floor, not roll our eyes and yawn, aching for it to be over. I can't believe Anchor Bay released this tired junk. I'll admit it's not one of the worst films ever made, but it's not worth anyone's time or money even if you're a fan of any of the actors. See 'Transylvania Twist' instead.My rating 2/5 "},{"Title":"I saw this years ago and it hurt to watch it...","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Unwatchably bad film about two guys (including Jeff Goldblum) who go into Transylvania investigating vampires, or something like that (it's been a while and I've tried to forget). This was a year before Jeff's big break with The Fly - thank God there was no sequel to this. Unfunny, with bad direction and storytelling. One of my least favorites film of perhaps all time.0/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"The tallest cast in one film ever","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This clunker makes THE MUNSTERS look brilliant. I remember seeing it in the theater and so desperately trying to find it funny. I failed. "},{"Title":"Without rival, THE worst film I've ever seen.","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Anyone familiar with my reviews on the Internet Movie Database will know that I can be a grumpy bastard from time to time. There are a lot of films I don't like which, for some unfathomable reason, I've felt the urge to review. However, if anyone out there is curious to know the name of the worst film I've ever seen, look no further than Transylvania 6-5000. Without question, this takes the title of the all-time no. 1 awful film. I can't believe that I actually made it from the start of this clunker to the finish!It is clearly meant to capture the flavour of Mel Brooks's Young Frankenstein, but where that film was a funny take on horror movie traditions, this one is a desperately strained and misguided attempt to wring laughs from embarrassingly weak material. Jeff Goldblum and Ed Begley Jr look ashamed to be here as a pair of journalists in modern day Transylvania (perhaps they realised early on that they were doomed in this dud). During their research, they come up against all the chief monsters from past horror favourites, such as vampires, werewolves and mummies.Anyone who manages to brave this film right through to its end may pray that a stake be driven through their heart to relieve them from the agony of boredom. It marks a career nadir for everyone involved and proves that when comedy fails in a big way, it results in awesomely dire entertainment. "}{"Title":"Not even good for a kid","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie originally in the theater, when I was 10. Even at that age the 'humor' was mildly insulting to my adolescent intelligence.In the past, whenever I would see Ed Begley Jr. or jeff Goldblum I would cringe and start to feel very uncomfortable and even slightly sad. Until I was reminded of the existence of this movie today, I was unsure why I felt that way. Apparently I blocked my memory of this movie yet my negative feelings towards two of the perpetrators remained. Apparently I forgot that I saw this movie but subconsciously mourned the pieces of my soul that had been stolen, nay EATEN by the creators of this inhuman work.I haven't been brave enough to try watching it as an adult. I imagine that as part of the healing process that I should probably look at confronting this childhood fear so that I can *truly* put it behind me. Some regression therapy and / or hypnosis might not be a bad idea either. "},{"Title":"Transylvania 6-5000","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Two journalists, Jack(Jeff Goldblum, doing his usual shtick)& the incompetent Gil(Ed Begley, Jr., who tries so hard)are sent by their employer looking in Transylvania for Frankenstein(never called Frankenstein's monster which tells you how badly the film will indeed wind up). But, this Transylvania, or it's supposed monsters are anything but ominous.Clearly the cast appear to be having a good time at the poor viewer's expense. I thought Goldblum was gonna burst into laughter out of character numerous times as we watch him trying to hold himself together. His character Jack spends most of the film trying to romance Elizabeth(Teresa Ganzel). It's Gil who gets to do most of the foot-work and snooping, often stuck in unusual situations trying to sniff out leads.You have some weird characterizations. Michael Richards has by far the strangest pulling a more bizarre version of Kramer as Fejos, butler of the hotel where Jack and Gil are staying. He has some really off-the-wall comic bits with Begley, Jr. You have Geena Davis in an early role as a vampire wannabe named Odette who has a lustful thing for Gil. Donald Gibb(Ogre of REVENGE OF THE NERDS fame)as the wolfman. Joseph Bologna as Dr. Malavaqua, a gentle kindly doctor who turns stark, raving loony when he enters his lab underneath the hotel. John Byner is Radu, the much maligned assistant of Malavaqua, who also spends the day as a manservant ordered around by Mayor Lepescu(Jeffrey Jones)and Inspector Percek(Bozidar Smiljanic)who seem to care more for their wine festival than keeping law and order in Transylvania. Dusko Valentic is the supposed monster(known by Jack as the twisted man.)while the Mummy unwrapped has to be seen. Carol Kane is Lupi, the wife who adores Radu..the running joke is she always informs him of her love and devotion to him in spades.More odd than funny. To be honest, the cast gives it their best shot..energetic and inspired even if the material they're saddled with isn't. The film just lacks big laughs, and the moments of weird behavior will not always wash with the more mainstream crowd. I do believe fans of spoofs regarding classic horror might respond to it the most. Never quite works, although it desperately wants to. "},{"Title":"Whaddaya wanna bet that most people nowadays know this movie better than the song that the title spoofs?","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Transylvania 6-5000 is the sort of movie that you can only enjoy if you accept low, silly humor. It has moronic reporters Jeff Goldblum and Ed Begley Jr. going to Eastern Europe to investigate reports of Frankenstein (and possibly Dracula, the Wolfman, etc). Sure enough, they get a real surprise.So does this count as a stupid movie? Maybe, but if so, then it's deliberately stupid. And how can one not like the untie this scene? Or what happens to the doctor walking in and out of the lab? Overall, T65 isn't the sort of movie that you watch to have a religious experience; you watch it to get entertained, and I guarantee that you will. Also starring Joseph Bologna, Carol Kane, Jeffrey Jones, John Byner, Geena Davis, Michael Richards and Norman Fell (I assume that Rudy De Luca is the same guy from the Mel Brooks movies).Oh, and the title spoofs the song Pennsylvania 6-5000. I know that Glenn Miller did a version of it, but I don't know whether or not he wrote it.Yeah, who needs lightning when you got all that other s--- to work with? "},{"Title":"Good stupid","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The difference between this movie and truly bad ones is that the actors are obviously having fun. As have been suggested below, they probably came up with most of their characters and lines themselves. This is where I first noticed Michael Richards, and we used to imitate his antiques all the time when I was a teenager. All the characters except Goldblum's are, well... totally insane. Goldblum's character is the anchor of the movie, providing a center for all the madness to spin around. It also has a big heart, and a ridiculously (and ridiculous) happy ending.The movie reminds me of Weird Al's UHF, another no-budget comedic masterpiece, also featuring Michael Richards.  "},{"Title":"One of my most favorite comedies!","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What do you get when you put some excellent comedians together and allow them take full license to improvise all they want? The result is this film. That's why you'll either love this film or hate it. If you understand that each actor is doing his/her thing, you'll clearly see each individual's outstanding comedic brilliance! If you mistakenly think that this film had close direction and plot, then you'll unfortunately assume that this film was terribly done. So get away from the plot.It was just a guideline. The director was probably on the floor holding his sides laughing more often than directing! So watch this film for each actor's performance rather than trying to understand direction or plot, and you'll come away loving it -- like I did!    "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  3 words.  Transylvania six five-thousand.  Greatest work of cinematic art ever filmed, and everyone involved should be proud.  Robert Altman couldn't have done better, nor could have Ivan Reitman.  Bravo Bravo Bravo. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A friend and I rented this film one day almost by accident. We knew the two actors on the sleeve, Jeff Goldblum and Ed Begley Jr., and we'd already seen Jeff Goldblum in another classic film, The Fly and we thought okay, he was great in that film, let's try this one. I think we watched it six or seven times before we had to return it. My wife doesn't like it at all but one year for my birthday, she went all over town to find a copy for me. It's a very rare find.I found this to be a hilarious film and it's become my absolute favorite movie of all time. Jeff Goldblum and Ed Begley Jr. are perfect foils for each other; one calm and sensible the other stressed and neurotic. John Byner was a nice surprise since I hadn't seen him since Bizzare. He is so funny in this film, especially when he's trying to chloroform Hunyadi, the Frankenstein look alike. I almost fell out of my chair.I think that viewers that have seen and perhaps anyone who hasn't seen this film should rent it again and give it another try. It may be worth the 90 minute investment. "},{"Title":"Obviously a matter of taste -- I find it a waste!","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really wanted to like this -- certainly the theme is near and dear and I don't mind broad humor.But I found this a painfully tedious waste of a talented cast. Right about the time one of the characters says This film must be destroyed I reached for the fast forward... Needless slapstick and endless labored jokes about provincial Transylvanians.The sad thing is that I like just about everybody in the cast. Geena Davis looks cute in her Vampirella outfit (and provides the film's only dramatic tension as we watch for her to pop out of her navel-deep decolletage) but only appears in a few brief scenes. Jeffrey Jones is always fun but had trouble keeping his accent in line. Ironically, the Frankenstein's Monsters looks better than in many another production.For me, it feels rather like a 60's monster nudie-cutie, without the nudity.I hope everyone had a nice vacation shooting on location in Yugoslavia. "},{"Title":"Transylvania 6-5000","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Yikes! I thought they stopped making these kinds of films. Richards, much before his Kramer years, adds the minimal laughs to this awful comedy.  "},{"Title":"This movie RULES","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Anyone that would give this movie a bad review and whine about suffering through it is a total jagoff. You know damn well what you are getting yourself into before pushing play. It stars Jeff Goldblum and Ed Begley, Jr for chrissakes. Its like putting in Bio-Dome and hoping for an Oscar winning performance from Pauly Shore. If you are total snob, go find something else, but if you love movies that came on channel 54 when you were a kid, then this movie is right up your alley. "}{"Title":"Mediocre spoof with some cool gimmicks","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Transylvania 6-5000 is an insignificant but occasionally funny and charming mid 80's horror parody with some very familiar names in the cast and a handful of genuine opportunities to chuckle in the script. Two bozo journalist of a gossipy tabloid newspaper are sent, very much against their will, to Transylvania to do a story on the alleged return of mad scientist Frankenstein. There are some adorable little gimmicks and details to discover left and right in the film, like a little guillotine for hard-boiled eggs and laboratory test tubes that are being used to put in cream and sugar at the breakfast table. The wholesome of the film, however, is not as successful as it could and should have been, with jokes and parody situations that are way too overlong. The Roger Corman production Transylvania Twist, which came out four years after this, is a lot funnier and much more recommended. The film is particularly parodying the classic Universal milestones of the early 30's, so you better make sure you've seen those if you want to grasp all the tiny gags and references. There's a pretty original twist indicating that the Frankenstein character only behaves like a mad-raving evil scientist when he enters his laboratory. It's also revealed that he's actually more of a Father Damien sort of messiah who's only concerned with the condition of exiled monsters. Michael Richards, the freaky guy who plays Kramer in Seinfeld, stars as a psychotic butler who appears and disappears at the most inappropriate moments. I'm pretty sure John Turturro's character in Mr. Deeds was inspired by Richards's role here. "},{"Title":"Mindless, wonderful fun to watch!","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I LOVE this campy, hilarious production, centering around 2 American reporters sent to Transylvania to get the scoop on the re-emergence of Frankenstein's monster.Excellent spoof of all the old horror classics, and a very enjoyable endeavor.Lupi. WHAT are you doing, now?! *wide, happy, dumb-blond grin*...I'm HELPING yoooou! If you help me any more, I'll be DEAD! Jeff Goldblum is an absolute joy as Jack Harrison, and while I never cared much for Ed Begley Jr's style, I liked him more in this production than I did in She-Devil. But not by much. Ignore him, and enjoy John Byner, Carol Kane, Joseph Bologna, Geena Davis, Norman Fell, and an all-out star-studded cast of characters including everything from a female VAMPire to the Wolfman, and everything in between.Very fun to watch and giggle at Carol's character, Lupi.It rates a 7.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Kinda stupid","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  None of the comedy is actually funny, but it keeps you laughing - at the movie, not with it.  You will keep watching to see how stupid it can actually get.  I really can't recommend this movie unless you are absolutely bored out of your mind.  Even then, watching The Mating Habits of the Long-Horned Ibex on PBS would be about as interesting.  Maybe little kids would think it was ok though?? "}]