[{"Title":"THE 80's comedy","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"74 out of 87 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Weird Science is the best 80's comedy that was ever made. I'm saying it. Ghostbusters, Summer Rental, The Great Outdoors, Strange Brew, Gung Ho, Mr. Mom, all of these movies have their place, but none of them can match Weird Science for laughs or pure....eightiesness. Yes eightiesness is a quality. It's a corny, dated quality but one that is tangible and valued by my fellow eighties loving brethren to this day. Come back with me if you will to a time when Anthony Michael Hall was still fielding calls and Kelly LeBrock was French for sexy.Weird Science has everything that an eighties comedy needs A least one hot girl, a few actors who are no longer working or who do anything that will come along, plenty of dashing eighties threads, a corny as hell eighties soundtrack,(and Oingo Boingo is as corny and eighties as they get), and plenty of cheap funny jokes. Undoubtedly the best thing about Weird Science is Bill Paxton, who plays Wyatt's older brother Chet. Chet is the worst big brother ever to grace a movie screen and is a role model for all big brothers everywhere, me included. Chet delights in extorting money and valuables from Wyatt in exchange for his silence about Wyatt's activities. The best part in the movie is when Chet gets turned into the toad thing or whatever it is. Man I love that part. The rest of the cast does a good job of being their stock characters. Kelly LeBrock does a good job of being hot. Robert Downey Jr. shows none of the signs of future drug addiction. The film is unremarkable in the fact that it isn't anything groundbreaking or special. It's just a funny movie. And an eighties classic. Bottom Line If you grew up in the eighties and you never saw Weird Science then you must atone for your crimes by going out and buying it right now. Then send me an email telling me how grateful you are that I put you on the path to rightousness and eighties correctness. "},{"Title":"Essential Viewing for the 80s generation","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"61 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Weird Science is the product of the prolific '80s' writer/director John Hughes (who later went on to create films such as 'Home Alone'). This man single-handedly crafted movies about teenagers for teenagers, without ever becoming patronising or authoritative. Weird Science epitomises the 80s with its fast cars, shoulder pads and big hair. To be honest, Weird Science is synonymous with that decade and reflects most if not all, of its hopes and aspirations (computers in every home, robotic servants etc.). Looking back on it now it's incredibly dated, however and more importantly, the film is still as entertaining today as it was over ten years ago!Anyone who grew up in the 80s and is beginning to reminisce will instantly relate to the exploits of the two lead characters Gary (Anthony Michael Hall) and Wyatt (Ilan Mitchell-Smith), as they use their computer and associated paraphernalia to create a beautiful girlfriend (Kelly LeBrock). Although not Hughes' best work, this was reserved (in my opinion) for the later 'Ferris Beuller's Day Off' which was far more appealing to a wider audience - Weird Science will always be a 'Geeky' 80s classic. The film was so popular it spawned it's own TV series - ten years later!Unless you lived through that decade the film won't touch you in quite the same way. You needed to have been in awe of Tron, to have worn stone washed jeans and to have owned at least two pairs of illuminous odd socks, to really appreciate the naivety of the main characters as they place their faith in computers and 'modern' technology.Today to a younger - more clued up audience, Weird Science could get lost amongst so many other 80s flicks with inferior technology and  visual special FX to today's CGI standards. However there is something quintessentially 80s, something oh so Duran Duran about Weird Science that separates it from even the best of today's films. It's that central 'Hughes' element with its visual nuances and audible gags that makes this a timeless classic, watchable again and again.If you know what 'ghetto blaster' is definitely watch this film, if you were born after 1984 take everything with a pinch of salt and pay attention - you might learn something. "},{"Title":"Bill Paxton is unleashed to audiences","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"45 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not sure how many people really read these reviews in IMDb but if there are people out there like me that enjoy this forum quite a bit, then they will know that I have loved Bill Paxton's work forever.  I can tell you he was in Stripes and he was one of the punks in Terminator and he even had a small role in Commando.  His three best films in my opinion are True Lies, Aliens and his classic turn as Chet in Weird Science.  Anyone that has seen this film will tell you that they loved it when Chet comes home to find it snowing in his room.  Or how fun it was to watch him torture Wyatt by extorting money from him.  For Christ sakes Wyatt will you cover yourself!   Bill Paxton may be best known for his work in James Cameron films but it is John Hughes that we have to thank for unleashing him onto audiences with this amazing turn as Chet Donnelly.  He is the meanest, nastiest older brother and yet he is screamingly funny.  Bill Paxton had a cameo in a film called The Last Supper years later and his character really could have been a grown up Chet.  But it is here that we get to laugh at some of Paxton's best work.  Weird Science is one hell of a funny film and John Hughes is responsible for that, but if Chet wasn't played by Bill Paxton then it just wouldn't have been the same.As the film goes, it is quite good.  I don't believe it is Hughes' best, that honour, in my opinion, goes to The Breakfast Club, but it is very very entertaining.  And as one reviewer said before me, you had to have grown up in the 80's to really appreciate this film.  And underneath all of what this film is about, it is still just a film about the insecurities of being a teen, getting the girl and living happily ever after.  I think Hughes may have been writing the script for Sixteen Candles, stopped in the middle of it and then took acid with Chevy Chase or John Candy and then came up with this idea because some of the situations really are right out of nowhere. Take for example the actual creation of Lisa.  The two geeks hook up a doll to the game of Operation?? and then with bras around their heads, they connect the computer and then lightning and winds invade their room and then Kelly LeBrock walks out of their closet.  Acid for sure.Then there is the scene with Vernon Wells and his biker buddies.  A highschool house party and then a bunch of guys on motorcycles straight out of Mad Max breaks into the house and starts to terrorize the kids.  Acid trip for sure.  Acid aside, Weird Science is a trip through time.  If you were born in the 70's and went to highschool in the 80's like I did, then you are probably familiar with the name John Hughes, and if you are then you are probably a fan of most of his work.  Along with Ferris, Sixteen Candles, Breakfast Club and some of his adult films like Planes Trains... She's Having a Baby and even Vacation, Weird Science is a film that should be seen again.  It is 15 years old and perhaps people can say it is dated some, but to me it is a throwback to what films were like in the 80's.  This film is fun, hysterical and enjoyable.  And it has Bill Paxton in one of the funniest roles in any career.  This is a fun film and if you haven't seen this in quite some time, then maybe you should.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Funky Teen Sci-Fi  (spoilers)","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"35 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" 80s! I'm living in the 80s! If you love 80s teen movies, then Weird Science ought to be in your catalogue. It is one of director John Hughes most memorable, and one of the 80s most original.Written in two days, this is a teen science fiction film, the story of two teenage loners, Wyatt (the always grimacing Ilan-Mitchell Smith) and Gary (Anthony Michael Hall before he went deadpan) and their weird way of discovering girls. A variation on Frankenstein, the teenagers create a beautiful woman (the super cool Kelly LeBrock) using their computer and some clever hacking skills (of course, it's exaggerated). Their creation is Lisa, the chic English accent woman who brings a little life to the subtle Illinois suburb. As the antithesis of both Wyatt and Gary's personalities, she's going to show these boys a little adventure, get them to loosen up, and for crying out loud, gain some self-esteem.Because Lisa is a lady with some supernatural power like freezing grandparents in time, erasing the memory of a bad first impression with Gary's parents, turning Wyatt's obnoxious military school brother Chet (Bill Paxton in his funniest, most arrogant role yet) into a giant pus maggot, or even having a gang of mutant bikers storming a house party. And Lisa's greatest gift to the boys showing them true love by helping them along to meet the two girls they've been after all along, their high school classmates, Deb and Hilly, who are unfortunately hung up on the dweeb bullies, Max (Robert Russler) and Ian (Robert Downey, Jr.). So essentially, it deals with many aspects of teen angst (but more like just teen self-esteem or self-consciousness issues) within one story. Parents, class status (done subtly here as opposed to Some Kind of Wonderful or Pretty in Pink), relationships, etc. It works well, and is done quite humorously.One of my favorite scenes is when the trio (Lisa, Gary, and Wyatt) go to the night club looking pretty out of place (they're not only the only white people there, but probably the only ones under thirty). Once Anthony Michael Hall's character, Gary, gets drunk and starts with his slang, it's hilarious. Reminds me a little of Adventures in Babysitting when the gang drops in on the club and they're not allowed to leave until they sing. So eventually, they loosen up and have a little fun.It's a wonderful movie with a classic John Hughes comic touch (says the mutant biker to Gary and Wyatt after they threaten to kill them if they don't leave, Please don't tell anyone about this. I'd hate to lose my teaching job.). Plus, it's got a great soundtrack, featuring Killing Joke, Lords of the New Church, and Oingo Boingo doing the title song. The music video for it was fantastic, and not only features clips from the movie, but Kelly LeBrock herself in Oingo Boingo's own rendition of creating the woman via technology. Although not one of John Hughes' best (I think Sixteen Candles is still his greatest), it is certainly one of his most memorable and one that I will love no matter how old I get. So have yourself a lazy Saturday, pop in the movie, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies I've ever seen.","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a story of 2 boys who create a super cool woman. The most funny thing is that these boys are total losers. They are oppressed by the society. Lisa - the cool fictional woman - teaches them how to become popular and brings out their best qualities. The good story combined with the excellent jokes and awkward situations creates a very nice setting for a true comedy. The characters are very well constructed. One of the most important features of this movie is that it teaches people to be brave.I watched this movie as a child and i loved it. My opinion is that this should be a classic not just a mere comedy of the 80's. I hope all who watch the movie will be very satisfied with it ) "},{"Title":"80's 80's 80's","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  God bless the 80's, and may they live on way after their time!  This film captures the 80's geeks, preps, and class rivalry.  It was a hard time to fit in, but a fun time, like most teenagers, I had these fantasies that this movie reflects on.  I can not believe they got Wes from the Road Warrior to do a part.  The scene where the computer animated women talks to Michael Halls parent is hilarious, but sick.  The stuff going out of the chimney, the MX missile, and the kitchen turning blue is funny.  Bill Paxion or chet is a classic wait and see what happens to him.  Anyways rent it live it and be it! 8/10  "},{"Title":"Total fun!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WEIRD SCIENCE was a great movie made in the mid 80s.The cast is pretty cool,it is fairly well acted,and its total fun! The film develops nicely from beginning nearly till the end,the last 15 minutes of the film are rather unnecessary.Although not the best 80s film out,it is a great imaginary film,with pretty cool SFX. Bill Paxton did an exceptionally well performance,i had total fun watching this movie,you will too!7.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Really Good","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best fantasy/sci-fi movies ever. Also a good 80's flick.  A lot of very funny jokes and laughs. Anthony Michael Hall and Ilan Mitchell-Smith do a good job playing nerds and are hilarious. Kelly LeBrock as the cyber girl Lisa, is hot. A feel good 80's movies written by the master John Hughes. A must see. They wouldn't be able to make a movies like this these days. I love the 80's. "},{"Title":"That's not a joke! THAT is a severe behavioral disorder!","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Does a movie need definitive plot points or events that move the characters forward? No! Weird Science proves that a movie need be nothing more than a series of jokes and visual gags. But Weird Science is also a movie with a message. That message &#x96; horny boys and science is a wicked combination. Once you see John Hughes' masterpiece about Frankensex, you will be asking yourself why you ever quoted The Breakfast Club. I sense you doubting that Weird Science effectively taps into the troubled teen psyche with sincerity and insight. Well consider the following. A bodacious babe is front and center with Einstein's intellect and essence of David Lee Roth. A teenage girl is stripped naked by a vacuum cleaner chimney &#x96; which is okay cuz it's in the name of science. Bill Paxton is reduced to a Jim Hensonesque troll! A giant phallic missile penetrates a suburban house. Still not convinced? Well, just watch the last half hour. A gang of road ragers crashes the obligatory 80s teen party, do donuts all over the floors and smack random guys in the crotch. Bennet from Commando asks the heroes if they have tossed off to any good books lately and Anthony Michael Hall get's all Dirty Harry on their uninvited post- apocalypse asses. This is a work of unparalleled brilliance and sophistication. It's got Robert Downey Jr. in it too! "},{"Title":"Unquestionably a bad film, but not without occasional funny moments.","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Weird Science is the kind of film you watched when you were a young kid and found hilarious. The humour is infantile, which probably explains why. However, if you revisit this movie as an adult, you're pretty sure to be disappointed by its lame plotting and insistence on crude sex jokes. All the same, a couple of the more inspired jokes still raise a smile, though it's hard to justify sitting through a feature length presentation just to get a couple of giggles.The plot involves two high school losers who invent the woman of their dreams on their computer. She is meant to be a cyber creation, but for some unknown reason she actually comes to life in the shape (and boy what a shape!) of Kelly LeBrock, whom they soon name Lisa. Lisa helps them to gain popularity and street-cred, by doing such enriching things as taking a shower with them and escorting them to a local jazz bar. She even throws the mother of all parties at one of the kids' houses, resulting in full-scale chaos and a nuclear missile being planted in the house (quite literally).Generally, the audience being aimed for here is the slightly immature teenage boy who hasn't got a girlfriend. If that's you, you'll probably love this film. Others might not be so impressed. However, as mentioned before, a few comic moments remain that are funny whoever you are. The scene where a kid named Wyatt accidentally backs into a toilet cubicle and sits down, only to find he has sat on someone who is halfway through taking a dump is pretty good. Also, the scene where Chet (Bill Paxton) says to his brother For Chrissake, will ya cover yourself? handing him a towel only to leave himself stark naked is amusing. If you're after a witty, sophisticated comedy, get something with Cary Grant in it. If you're after toilet humour personified, this is for you!!! "}{"Title":"Weird Science","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" From writer/director John Hughes (The Breakfast Club, Ferris Bueller's Day Off) I had a vague idea of what this film consisted of, and I was pretty close. Basically two nerdy teenage boys, Gary Wallace (The Breakfast Club's Anthony Michael Hall) and Wyatt Donnelly (Ilan Mitchell-Smith) are desperate to be liked, and of course sex-obsessed, and in their desperation (inspired by watching - a coloured version of - Frankenstein, 1931) they decide to create the perfect woman. They weren't counting on the computer gaining so much power it would actually make their woman a reality, but it happens, and Lisa (Kelly LeBrock) is determined to help them have a good time. Lisa, who can get absolutely anything she wants (e.g. expensive cars, mutant bikers to appear) has a purpose to turn them into men by putting them in a couple of situations to boost their confidence, and they are on the road to becoming accepted by others. Of course it is at the big party (they always wanted) they meet the girls they would have always wanted, and Lisa's job is done. Also starring Bill Paxton as Chet Donnelly, Suzanne Snyder as Deb, Judie Aronson as Hilly, young Robert Downey Jr. as Ian, Robert Rusler as Max, Commando's Vernon Wells as Lord General, Britt Leach as Al Wallace, Barbara Lang as Lucy Wallace, Ivor Barry as Henry Donnelly, Ann Coyle as Carmen Donnelly and the original Hills Have Eyes' Michael Berryman as Mutant Biker. LeBrock is obviously very attractive, and there are one or two amusing moments, but the comedy is pretty crass, but it was interesting to see younger Paxton and especially future star Downey, Jr. in a film of this sort. It was number 42 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments. Okay! "},{"Title":"Failing Science","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The most fiendish trick of John Hughes' filmography is the manner in which he takes patent untruths about society's outcasts (usually within the realm of high school, his preferred battleground) and weaves them into something that successfully deceives the viewer into thinking otherwise. I'm not complaining, since his commitment to character usually overrides all else, making even the most contrived leaps of faith engaging. Unfortunately, his commitment to character takes a turn for the disastrous in Weird Science, easily his worst film. Two shrill, unlikeable high-school losers, frustrated over their inability to score with chicks, decide to create one of their own (through some laughably awful 1985 computer technology), in the form of vacant Playboy centerfold Kelly LeBrock. But hey these shrill, unlikeable losers (who would be justifiably subjected to beatings by their own nerdy peers) really just need to face the fact that a little confidence is all it takes to impress the ladies (and stand up to your sadistic, Army-brat brother)! I have come to expect the contrived, 20-minute opening setup that frames the remainder of a Hughes film, but the setup for Weird Science is non-existent; in its place is a gimmick a glut of special effects and out-of-place action (in the third act, a bunch of bikers out of Mad Max terrorize our hapless losers) that tears any possible humanity to shreds. It's not spoiling anything to say that the losers get with their respective hotties in the end (and are much more worldly, sensitive guys than the horndogs we first met), but the manner by which Hughes arrives at this conclusion rings so patently false it's infuriating. "},{"Title":"Great comic premise gone unrealized...","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Hughes scraping bottom two teen boys invent a busty, sexy brunette with their home-computer, resulting in hormone-crazed comic chaos. What might've been a likably goofy slapstick ride has become a tasteless, witless affair aimed at sniggering juveniles. It is far worse than the usual sex-related teen shenanigans, which not even Anthony Michael Hall's affable charm can rescue. Kelly LeBrock, with her pouty lips and deep, guttural laugh, is definitely game, but she's used as a sight-gag, a prop, and Hughes can't even work up a genuine character for her to play. Even for low-rent tastes, the final joke is jaw-dropping. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"It was written in 2 days.. Well, IT SHOWS !","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love (John Hughes). I love buddy comedies. I love fantasy. And indisputably I love the 1980s. BUT I don't love this John Hughes's buddy comic fantasy from the 1980s !! The 1980s got many movies with a gifted magical woman to a disturbed man. Just recall (Xanadu &#x96; 1980), (Splash &#x96; 1984), (Mannequin &#x96; 1987) or (My Stepmother Is an Alien &#x96; 1988). However (Weird Science) is in the bottom of this list for sure.I didn't feel anything that comic. Maybe the scene with the kid talking in the bar like an old drunken lover. Everything is swift and not in a solid way. The movie is sometimes sluggish and all the time poor. The imagination isn't crazy enough, and the solutions are so easy (the guys will be brave by facing some mad max bikers who appear suddenly ??, the hard brother will be softer by turning into a huge disgusting frog ??,..). Simply, the hastiness ruled. Let alone that the fake frog's level was awful, the dealing with the grandfathers was mean, and even Kelly LeBrock looked not amusing enough or sexy enough.Nothing by (John Hughes) was as low as this ever. To tell you the truth I was thinking for most of the time that this was a work of copycats, doing a bad job at it too. Nonetheless the performance, couple of lines, plus some real wacky moments (when the imagination is fresh) saved the day. Almost saved it!I think the deep innocent tone of it, the wisdom of she is all what I wanted of a woman before knowing the woman I wanted, and the showing of some teenagers' dreams so dreamy were the good points that may ensure a place in us to respect or even love the movie. Add to that, the effective sense of nostalgia which doesn't come from the 1980s fact only, but from what happened to the teen comedies after (being mucous, seminal and emetic). So compared to them (Weird Science) is the morning cartoon ! However, this time I felt that these dirty comedies got something, I don't know what, maybe more interesting than what this 80s comedy got. It could be the polished look, teenager-like leads more than kids, a sexual boldness, or funny stuff?? Generally  Naive fun, but naively made. A melted ice cream. Or a practical translation of how Hughes's first drafts seem ! "},{"Title":"A dream come true!!!!!!","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was so freaking funny. I would definitely rate this a 10 because of it's funny scenes, it's wicked hot girls, and it's other funny parts. The actors and actresses did great acting. The directors and film makers and all of them did good effects for an old movie. If you ask me I would say I could watch this movie for the rest of my life and I wouldn't stop laughing, and trust me it will be the same for you to. If you asked me what was the funniest part I would tell you that the whole movie is the funniest part. So what I'm really trying to say is to just watch the movie and see for your self how good it is. So when you get a chance go ahead and watch it. "},{"Title":"Superb teen movie","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing this film like 10 times when I was younger, I have just seen it again. The film is beginning to show it's age compared to newer movies, but I would surely recommend it anyway. Alone the story line is great. (A little more below the spoiler warning)The first couple of times I saw this when I was younger I would give it a 10/10, so lets keep it that way =)(POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD)2 boys, a computer, amazing hardware to scan all kinds of things from the most beautiful women around, creating the super hot girl of their dreams.Off course she has a little bit of magic, creating everything they boys have dreamt about. Big parties, state of the art cars, and the cool factor having a beautiful girl hanging around.I would recommend this to everyone who liked other teen movies, because this one of the better ones.  "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a film that I grew up with, anybody who gives a rating other than 10 was either born to late, or has no sense of humour, along with the likes of The Lost Boys, Stand By Me and The Goonies, this movie is an absolute classic, and will always remain an absolute classic. (In my opinion at least) -) "},{"Title":"perfect teenage geek film","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Hughes does it again!This is his greatest film to date, especially if you were part of the 80's flair and style, and even more so if you have ever wanted to bring Kelly LeBrock into your bedroom!Watch Wyatt and Gary design their 'perfect' woman on Wyatt's Apple Lisa (hence the character name) and break into DataNet to make her super intelligent with a side effect of magical powers.  How about a beautiful female genie when you are a teenage computer geek?  Yep, the fun is a-plenty.  "},{"Title":"Weird is right","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very strange film. On one hand it's perfectly entertaining, but it's so bizarre and - to be blunt - utterly far-fetched and beyond-ridiculous that it actually kind of distracts from the entertainment value at times. The plot is so dumb - and the way it's handled - that suspension of disbelief is pretty hard.However, if you look at it as a realization of every teenage boy's fantasy, I guess it's all right.It's essentially about two 15-year-old boys (Ilan Michael-Smith and Anthony Michael Hall) who create a woman using electricity, a computer and a Barbie doll.This was my problem with the movie. John Hughes is usually great at character development and dialogue - but there's so little here. The setup is weak and the boys' decision to create a woman is handled waaaay too fast. And then the science behind their actions is ignored so much that it's almost insulting. The hacking of the computer mainframe that takes place during the Barbie doll's transformation into a human is classic '80s technology - they had no idea what a computer even was back then and as a result the hacking segment is basically an animated slideshow of cool images on the computer screen as Smith types noisily away on his keyboard.Their result? The beautiful supermodel Kelly LeBrock, who promptly takes a shower with the boys (their clothes are left on, of course, but hers are not) and then teaches them how to be cool, get girlfriends and so on.I was surprised by the amount of sexual content for a 1980s movie involving under-age teens. I've seen people say here on IMDb before that '80s movies couldn't get away with anything but that's not true. It may have been the Reagan era but this movie features 15-year-olds making out with a woman in her late '20s, sexual innuendo involving the woman (it's implied one of the two boys has some type of sexual contact with her during the first night), underage drinking, underage smoking, and then of course a classic scene that could never be filmed today - Anthony Michael Hall mimicking African-Americans in a seedy downtown bar.I don't mean to sound like a prude, I was just shocked at how much they got away with for a 1980s, PG-13 John Hughes comedy.The acting in the movie is decent. Anthony Michael Hall is a revelation, and his scenes as a drunk pimp in downtown Shermer are hilarious. He comes across as a true comical force, which I was surprised at considering he's not usually the leading man in films.On the other hand, Smith is poor - he smiles throughout the movie, even when he's supposed to be scared or angry. Maybe it was his first acting job and he was nervous or in disbelief, but it's kind of annoying.Bill Paxton is responsible for the movie's most memorable scenes. He is utterly hilarious and his scenes were usually the only ones I laughed out loud at.Overall this is one of Hughes' weakest films and it's probably because it was one of his more early directorial works. In terms of character development, The Breakfast Club reigns supreme. The dialogue isn't that great and the movie is too short and spends too little time with its setup. It's entertaining if you're not looking for anything of substance, but I think if Hughes had tackled this a few years down the road of his career the result would have been a bit more intelligent and memorable. "},{"Title":"Movie Within the Movie","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.We all live in our own movies. Most Hughes films deal with adolescent elements of this in  simpler ways than here. In this case, we have a movie about two kids who create their own  `movie.All the humor is movie humor characters from another movie invade for instance.The problem is that Hughes usually plays it both ways he demonstrates how artificial the  imaginings of the teen are and at the same time sucks us into the warm sweetness of those  same imaginings. The fulcrum is usually Molly Ringwald who knew to support this enterprise,  I presume intuitively. She made Hughes a success, not the other way around.And isn't that what this is all about?Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}{"Title":"Longevity - still funny today.  John Hughes is masterful.","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For anyone who spent their pre/early teens in the late '80s, this film made a huge impact.  Its fantastical theme was still somewhat believable at that age, while the sexual energy was beginning to steam ahead full throttle. Another  triumph for the great John Hughes, and a high point for Anthony Michael Hall.  "},{"Title":"fun 80s.","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented WEIRD SCIENCE almost three years ago. It was a five day rental, and I watched it like seven times! It was a movie thats fun to watch. You can watch it over and over aguin and it would still be fun. I think all teens and pre-teens should love this movie. "},{"Title":"Over-the-Top in the Best Way Possible!","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Flashing back through history, the best decade for teen comedies were the 80's. A little before my time, but that doesn't stop me from loving such comedies, especially when John Hughes is in charge. Weird Science is another geeky invention of the 80's and I just love how over-the-top the film is and how the film knows it. Any film that turns militaristic brothers into ugly monsters or a beautiful woman freezing grandparents gets a check plus in my book. The film isn't the best teen film from the decades, but it's sure one of the most cheesiest and entertaining ones. John Hughes's film is about two unpopular, bullied kids named Wyatt and Gary who are trying to find true love. They decide to generate a woman through the use of Wyatt's computer. But after Lisa is created, the situation they created vastly spirals out of control. The film has a plethora of enjoyable performances. Anthony Michael Hall and Ilan Mitchell-Smith certainly made there characters relatable, awkward, and funny. I liked Kelly LeBrock's sexy performance as Lisa. Robert Downey Jr was pretty good as one of the bullies, almost Tony Stark-like. Bill Paxton was highly enjoyable as the older brother super involved with the military lifestyle. Overall, Weird Science is an over-the-top movie but in a fascinating, enduring way. It's essentially a product of the 80's, a great decade for movies. The film may be weird and quite funny, but it does have relevant thematic issues that every kid should take a note of. I really like how the quirkiness of the film did not take away any of the themes. Not the best of 80's teen comedies, but certainly an enjoyable romp. My Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Excellent in so many ways","Date":"16 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Gary Wallace (Anthony Michael Hall) and Wyatt Donnelly (Ilan Mitchell-Smith) are two high school losers that want nothing more than to be able to score with hot girls and to be respected by their peers. Whilst bored one Friday evening they decide to try and see if they can create a perfect woman on their computer. However the boys find that they get more than they bargained for when their creation called Lisa (Kelly LeBrock) enters into their lives and immediately makes a big impact on them.This film worked for me in so many ways and the first thing I liked about this film is that it's a fun piece of escapism. When growing up, how many young men wouldn't have wanted to create a beautiful woman and then find out that said beautiful woman was there to guide them through their adolescence. How much simpler would life be if we all had a Kelly LeBrock by our side.The second more obvious thing that was good about this film is that it quite simply was funny; I wouldn't go as far as saying that it was consistently funny, but when the gags came they hit the right note and I was pleasantly surprised that the film was much less vulgar than I was expecting. I thought that Chet's comeuppance at the end was particularly surprising and amusing. Gary's early scene when he's in the bar trying to emulate the style of the 'black' guys was also funny, but again that scene was funny in a way that was neither crude or offensive. The best character in this film was undoubtedly Chet who kind of reminded me of an 80's version of Stifler from American Pie. Paxton's character was funny, but not in an obnoxious way and he clearly had a lot of fun in this film.The final element that made this work is that it isn't just a dumb teen sex comedy; this actually has a lot more depth to it than one would assume from the beginning and it's actually pretty smart and very well-written. Essentially it's a coming of age film with a few life lessons thrown in for good measure. What also makes this work is that for me it never felt preachy or ever felt like the point was being forced home. Whether you were a nerdish character growing up like Gary or Wyatt or a jock like Ian or Max it's a film that many people can relate to and I think that's ultimately what makes it work so well.If you can look past the embarrassingly dated special effects then there's really very little wrong with this film. It's definitely one of the better teen comedies. "},{"Title":"Amusing Science in the 80s","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Weird Science' is a funny, quirky and silly teenflick directed by the one and only John Hughes. Yes, it's cheesy and the story is ridiculous but it's 80's fun, hilarious and has heart. Of course it looks dated but at the same time, it's the kind of film one will be revisiting. The special effects are quite laughably awful and who could forget the 80s costumes and hairstyles but that's what makes it so enjoyable. 'Weird Science' has all the ingredients of a successful 80's teen comedy. Then there's the ultrahot Kelly LeBrock and Ilan Mitchell-Smith and Anthony Michael Hall playing the dimwitted teens desperate for a girl. You'll also see a young Robert Downey Jr. (in 80s getup) playing the popular bully kid and of course Bill Paxton as one of the worst brothers on film.'Weird Science' is certainly something for an 80s classic fan. In addition to humour, it's got an amusing dose of science fiction and action. "},{"Title":"The illogical and wild side of the John Hughes coming-of-age films","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even when John Hughes makes a mediocre film such as Weird Science, the nature of his intent still shines through, to the point where you can't necessarily fault him for anything except not making a better one. Weird Science serves as the ultimate 1980s high school nerd fantasy, one in which babes see social awkwardness as a turn-on and bullies and extortionist older brothers help themselves to large servings of humble pie. The movie truly doesn't need to be anything more, even in spite of the shallowness of its characters and general disregard for logic.Anthony Michael Hall (in his fourth Hughes film in three years) and Ilan Mitchell-Smith star as two losers who determine that if they can't get girls the old-fashioned way that they can use their computer smarts to play Frankenstein and create the ideal woman. After some illegal hacking they pack her with a high IQ (and an appropriate breast size) then hook a doll up to a machine. One crazy storm inside their house later and suddenly there's Lisa (Kelly LeBrock), who's every bit as stunning with a type A personality as a nerd could possibly imagine or desire.The story then goes the unexpected route. Lisa, equipped with mad street smarts and magic powers, literally takes over the driver's seat and the young Gary and Wyatt for a wild ride. After helping them loosen up a bit, she determines they need a few tests to find the courage they need to stand up to bullies and go after the girl.Hughes determines that Lisa needs no rhyme or reason other than causing an appropriate amount of mischief so the boys can learn a valuable thing or two. She's the fairy godmother of this fantasy; it's one thing to stand up to your parents, for example, and tell them you're going to a party, and it's another to have a hot model do it for you (and cause your father to forget who you are). Hughes basically sticks it to everyone who made his life crappy during his teens, though to be fair, he recognizes the nerd's shortcomings and doesn't paint them as heroes. Hughes has always played things close to the chest, filming most of his movies in the Chicago suburbs where he grew up, even naming the high school in Weird Science after the main road where his actual high school was. In this film he has absolute loony fun with his usual tropes, going as far as turning Bill Paxton, who plays Wyatt's militaristic older brother Chet, into a steaming pile of crap that looks like Jabba the Hut.Fans of the more romantic side of Hughes, who love his candid nature toward portraying high schoolers, might find Weird Science to be the wild mutt of the family with its irreverence, and high level of silliness. It could be considered the cult favorite of the Hughes collection and that's fine. It definitely caters to those who can relate to being a socially outcast teenage boy and not too many others, but by no means is it a slip-up for the coming-of-age master. ~Steven CVisit my site at http//moviemusereviews.com "},{"Title":"Failed Experiment","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is unbearably low for John Hughes.  The fact that he actually directed it adds insult to injury.First off, the message is all wrong.  If you thought WarGames was cheesy, this is gooey.  Any attempts to make things right with this movie falls into a pit of garbage.  We are supposed to laugh, but there isn't any reason to.  In the end, Hughes insults our intelligence for pranks.  Perhaps it has something to do with the fact that he wrote this in two days.  If he'd spent another month reviewing it, I'm certain it would've been better.  It lacks both the message of Breakfast Club and the inventiveness of Ferris Bueller, that's all I can say.I saw this when I was twelve and didn't think much of it then.  I saw it again last week and think even less of it now.  It's interesting how Bill Paxton tided his career over between The Terminator and AL()ENS with this. Overall, not worth your time.  Stick with The Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller's Day Off instead.  1.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"One of the best teenage '80's comedies.","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Looking back, it might very well be true that the '80's was the best decade for comedy. It had some of the biggest comedy stars at their prime at the time and some capable directors, with experience in- and love for the genre, such as in this case John Hughes.Not only was John Hughes just a great comedy director, he specifically was also one who made some great movies for teenagers and he really seemed to connect with his audience. He knew what teenagers wanted for a movie and what issues were on their minds and needed to be handled within a movie. Lots of film-makers just don't connect that well with its teenage-audience, simply thinking that what they put in their movies is what they want to see. It's the reason why there simply aren't any good teenage comedies these days anymore it seems, with the exception of the American Pie-series and a couple of other recent movies like that out there.John Hughes always claimed he wrote this script only in 2 days. And yes, I do believe this. I'm glad it got only written in 2 days, fore if the movie had gotten written in a couple of months or so, Hughes would had probably attempted to let the movie and its story make more sense and would had probably put a more clear main plot line in the movie, giving the overall movie also some more purpose. But I just simply love the movie for not doing this. The movie often just simply doesn't attempt to make any sense and it's all some big fun non-sense. The movie now is basically just the one fun and crazy event after the other.Yes, in all truth this really was one of the most fun movies I have ever seen. The characters, the events, the premise, it's all so much fun to watch and the movie basically has no slow or dull moment in it.It's also a movie in which the main characters are actually being played by some real teenagers. A movie always deserves some extra points for that. Anthony Michael Hall and Ilan Mitchell-Smith play some teenage characters everybody should be able to relate with. What's on their minds is girls, popularity and sex. Basically all the things real teenage boys used to think about. It was also fun to watch some now famous actors in this movie, in some of their more early roles. Bill Paxton is greatly fun as the prick, military, brother and Robert Downey Jr. also shows up in a quite big early role as one of the school bullies.It's a movie with some great comedy pace and timing in it. Added to this are some good and fun characters and situations and you basically have a great, fun comedy already. John Hughes' qualities as a director probably made this movie work out better than it had the right to and he also makes this one a great one that still connects to a lot of teenagers out there.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"This movie was the best EVER!!","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie about half a year ago. And as soon as i saw it i fell in love with it. I think it's just because i'm only 13 and i like those kinds of movies...also in movies that i watch, they seem better with some attractive guys in them. In this movie Ilan Mitchell-Smith(who played Wyatt) was really hot!This movie is great, it's by far the best movie from the 80's ever. I think it's awesome to watch it and think of how times have changed movie-wise. This is kind of a cheesy movie compared to movies today, but it's still by far, my favorite ever!The best part in that movie is where at the end all the bikers come..i can't remember if they were bikers or not, but i think they were. That part was awesome! "},{"Title":"Is Weird Science a piece of cinematic cheese? Yes, undeniably. Is it a must-see? Hell yeah!","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, Weird Science is not a spectacular film. It will never be mentioned in a history of film class, and watching it fifteen years after its release shows that time has not been kind to it at all. But as a good, fun comedy, it lives on forever. Just as computers were really beginning to make a big impression on the world, a couple of geeky kids, Gary (Anthony Michael Hall) and Wyatt (Ian Mitchell Smith), decide to create a girlfriend for themselves using Wyatt's 'sophisticated' computer. The way that they actually design her, although ridiculously unrealistic, is hilarious! Weird Science is what I like to call a Cheese Classic. It required minimal talent to put it together, but there is an element of endless amusement that can be found in the film that makes it great. From the bras on Wyatt's and Gary's heads during the creation process to countless inexplicably hilarious pieces of dialogue (Wyatt, your kitchen is blue...), Weird Science is a true comedy classic. It is, however, the film which probably had the most mixed reviews until the Blair Witch Project, so I suggest watching it for yourself. Just keep in mind that it is meant to be laughed at, not learned from! "}{"Title":"This one was funny...and well weird.","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has two teens that are not the most popular of kids making a girl to fulfill their fantasies.  They are indeed successful, but their creation 'Lisa' has a bit more spunk than they could have hoped for and this provides some very funny moments and scenes.  This movie is a great 80's comedy and features cool music and a rather good cast.  Kelly LeBrock is great as Lisa, but my favorite character has to be Chet, played brilliantly by Bill Paxton.  Every scene he is in is very funny and worth the watch.  The movie though is packed with funny scene after funny scene.  Of particular interest to anyone who likes the movie The Road Warrior is the scene where the bikers crash the party.  I do believe the lead biker is in fact the same one from that movie.  This movie is filled with surprises also, and it is just worth a look. "},{"Title":"John Hughes made this crap?","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I find it unbelievable that John Hughes, director of comedy classics like Ferris Bueller and The Breakfast Club, actually wrote and directed this piece of junk. There is no justification for this movie; the humor is painfully weak (minus a few scenes namely involving Kelly LeBrock) and the acting terrible, while only at about 1h 20min it felt about half an hour too long. All the crashing, yelling and screaming grew so tedious by the end that I was left wondering why I didn't flick it off half way through. I guess I was expecting something genuinely funny or interesting to happen. I don't think it should matter that I saw this movie 21 years after it came out, because The Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller's Day Off were superb films made within a year of Weird Science. I'm sorry to say this about a Hughes film (obviously set in Chicago, Shermer High School), but avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Disappointing outing from Hughes","Date":"30 March 2010","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lonely teenagers Wyatt (Mitchell-Smith) and Gary (Hall) decide to make a woman that fits all their requirements from a computer, only to find not everything fits perfectly.There were two words that attracted me to this high school comedy, John and Hughes. The mastermind behind the conceptual excellence of skiving school to live in Ferris Bueller's day off to the film that showcased how teenagers really felt about their suffocating parents in the Breakfast club, the man seemed to have his knowledge spot on regarding teenage life.What emerges is a pretty standard and very degrading depiction of lonely lust, containing two teenagers who are the good guys, but are hard pushed to maintain that.Anthony Michael Hall, a hero from the Breakfast Club, feels repetitive and loud in another role for Hughes. Mitchell-Smith likewise feels weak and a stereotype of high school repression and against Hall, we have the most conventional and boring comedy duo ever mastered, which is a great shame for a director and writer who also created some of the best teenage comedy ever.The premise for the story sounds promising, two lads attempt to break science through some technological mastery in an attempt to fulfil their lust on a weekend away from their parents.So after some degrading and embarrassing perversion by the lead duo on cheerleaders and a head turner away from dropped pants do the duo retreat to their sanctuary and form an hyperbole of illogical science to fulfil their uses and gratifications. Through some fast flowing wires and a bemused science guard to the pair get their just deserts.One thing John Hughes usually does perfectly is introductions and Kelly LeBrock's opening shot is the equivalent of Megan Fox in Transformers, a slow panning from her legs upwards in a small Barbie styled costume, a beautiful introduction which is maintained through the nest few scenes as she jumps into the shower with the two lads, uses provocative gestures such as late drinking and kissing practice to keep any horny male teenager hooked.Certainly LeBrock hits the nail on the head, acting flirtatious and forward to justify her character as perfect female, until the inevitable outcome the plot always has in mind, there is more to a person than looks tag.Through some careful shots and repetitive music we see the story pan out as any other romantic comedy would and there are minimal surprises to generate a good watch, particularly when the humour is gross out and shamefully degrading to the actors.The final nail in the coffin is the change in personalities of the final act and as predictable as the coming of next year will have you shaking your head.Certainly not too much consequence came from this film as there were Ferris Bueller's amongst others to follow and create a reputation of teenage comedy mastery. "},{"Title":"80s high school science-fiction comedy is strange, but genuinely enjoyable","Date":"5 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" From director John Hughes came some of graceful high school comedies filled with laughs, heart, and splendid nostalgia; such tropes that many teen comedies lack today. Whether his movies follow a group of teenagers coming together on a Saturday detention, cutting school for a day of enjoyment, or getting involved in an unexpected love triangle; his movies are always entertaining, unless of you are someone who doesn't enjoy teen rom-coms. This movie however, takes a slightly different route in the comedy genre by adding elements of science-fiction and fantasy to form up a geeky, but funny teen comedy for teens and adults alike. This film follows Anthony Michael and Ilan Mitchell Smith as Gary and Wyatt, two unpopular teen boys who struggle to climb up the social ladder at school and are constantly pitted targets by the bullies Ian (played by Robert Downey Jr.) and Max (played by Robert Rusler) who manage to maintain high social standing with their girlfriends Deb (played by Suzanna Snyder) and Hilly (played by Judie Aronson). In an efforts to make their social (and sexual) fantasties come true, these two use Wyatt's computer to create themselves a live girlfriend who they name Lisa (played by Kelly LeBrock). Upon her creation, Wyatt and Gary began getting accepted as they began bringing her on dates while she teaches them confidence of getting out in the social crowd. The greatest gem of the film comes from how John Hughes takes such a silly idea and manages to make it work. Now for a science-fiction comedy in the 80s, viewers should not go in expecting groundbreaking special effects or anything blow you out of the water. But this film brings just about everything it needs including a solid cast, good laughs, a heart, and an inspiring message. The main characters are quite funny in some scenes, especially when they get involved in some surprising shenanigans, and come to be easily likable. Of course, these are the typical teen boy stereotypes with fantasies of losing their virginity. It can be fun to watch teenagers take their girlfriend to a bar with fake IDs and throwing parties with booze and loud music. The opposite comes from Bill Paxton who plays Wyatt's abusive brother Chet who torments him whenever he gets the chance, but with unexpected comic relief; and of course Robert Downey Jr. and Robert Rusler who's characters find fun in pantsing the main characters in front a group of girls, or dumping sly smoothies on them. Aside from the silly and occasionally vulgar humor typical for teen comedies, viewers may find enjoyment by the classic 80s soundtrack including songs by Van Halen, and most importantly the message about being socially accepted by people for who are you, not for what you have. Weird Science doesn't meet the heights of John Hughes' other works, but it is still enjoyable and fun for teens and up to watch. This is a funny movie with a great cast and an inspiring message. It is definitely a film teens should watch. Yes, the idea of teenagers making a girlfriend out of a computer is silly, if only Steve Jobs actually made a computer with that kind of power. But what matters in the end is that John Hughes makes it work. "},{"Title":"Just average really","Date":"31 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Weird Science is really just an average film. There really isn't all that much new or entertaining material in this 1980's teenage romp. The acting is really just alright, not all that impressive or poor, just so so. I mean I guess there were a few funny moments, but in my opinion, it wasn't anything that special or amusing. This movie doesn't have much of a purpose in my mind. This movie is really not John Hughes's best, I would consider weird science to actually be one of his worst films. It's simply not original, well written or well made. The jokes are not funny and the many physical gags are over the top and been there done that. My advice to you if you see this on the television grid is to just pass it by, there are so many more entertaining and better quality 1980's classic films that are better and much more worth your time. 5/10. "},{"Title":"She's Alive, ALIVE!","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anthony Michael Hall, Ilan Mitchell-Smith, Kelly LeBrock, Bill Paxton, Robert Rusler and Robert Downey Jr. star in John Hughes' 1985 sci-fi comedy. Hall (Vacation) and Smith play nerdy, Chicago teens, Gary and Wyatt who decide to create the woman of their dreams via computer after being inspired by the horror classic, Frankenstein. LeBrock (Hard to Kill) plays their beautiful, intelligent creation, Lisa who helps them gain confidence and popularity. Paxton (Titanic) plays Wyatt's bullying, older brother, Chet, Rusler (A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge) plays Max and Downey Jr. (Iron Man) plays his pal, Ian who like to humiliate them. This is a good 80's flick that's a little different from Hughes' previous films, Sixteen Candles and The Breakfast Club with a good cast & score. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"A silly movie but alright!","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really expected a few laughs by looking at this movie and of course, using classic 80's Sci-fi style! Kelly LeBron looked absolutely stunning as Lisa and honestly, who wouldn't like her Amercian British accent? It makes you feel so relaxed hearing her voice throughout really!Although I wouldn't consider to have Lisa being attached to me all thetime because I wouldn't be a good at creating chicks im afraid! I wasso bummed to know that it was rebooted in 1994 as a series, why couldn't Hollywood leave the original movies alone!Anyways, it was an alright film, that's all I can say! "},{"Title":"John Hughes up-and-coming","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Weird Science is one of those fluffy 80s comedies that does not age particularly well, but will bring a smile to the face of that generation, and perhaps an embarrassed smirk to a modern teenage face What, my parents were that dorky? What, I thought Robert Downey Jr. was cool?It's really not a great film, with its deus-ex-machina plot of two sex-starved teen boys having their home computer synthesize the perfect woman, who can conjure anything needed to keep the plot moving or -yawn- redeem the boys when she conjures a motorcycle gang that rides around the parent's living room. A set of artificially linked set pieces, culminating in the party to end all parties, ensues.The special effects are kind of interesting historically, combining what computer graphics were accessible cheaply in those days with physical special effects that are a cut above a cheap teen flick comedy.Still, even in this very imperfect work, one can see director John Hughes' ability developing to write teen fare with that unbearable lightness of being. Ferris Bueller, which launched Matt Broderick's career, was not too far in the future, as was Home Alone, which launched Macaulay Culkin on a much shorter career. Both are funnier and generally better films than Weird Science. But if it shows at your local drive-in, and you have plenty of cotton candy or twizzlers in hand, it's a good crowd movie. "},{"Title":"Weird is the word","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" WEIRD SCIENCE is an odd and unique little comic fantasy movie from the ubiquitous John Hughes, although his scripting isn't as assured here as in his more well remembered classics from the decade. In fact, WEIRD SCIENCE has something of a scattershot approach to the material; it feels a little like WAR GAMES at the outset, before turning into the usual teen 'ideal woman' fantasy scenario and then into a bizarre action comedy in the second half.I wasn't too fussed about this film if I'm honest. One of the biggest problems I have with the film is that the two central characters act like a couple of jerks and were completely unsympathetic to me. Half the film seems to consist of them sitting around and arguing in the toilet and it all feels rather stale and uninteresting. The goofy fantasy stuff is better; Kelly LeBrock is having a ball as the 'ideal woman' and has probably never been better in her career. Still, Bill Paxton should have been asked to tone it down a bit, because he's WAY over the top here.After a rather dull first half, things pick up with the introduction of a house party that pretty much takes up the whole second half of the movie. There are some wonderful cameos from Vernon Wells (playing his character from MAD MAX 2 THE ROAD WARRIOR) and Michael Berryman that prove to be the highlight of the whole thing. There are plenty of jokes here too, many of them feeling forced but some hitting the spot. I'd class WEIRD SCIENCE as an interesting failure rather than an all-out cult classic, though. "},{"Title":"The 80s fun-fare","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This sci-fi movie makes me nostalgic. I belong to the 80's brigade. We are probably the only age group to have witnessed the change the technology first hand. Floppies, monitors, those 2d line graphics to the cutting edge technology we see today. I came across this movie while reading Robert Downey Jr's biography. Weird Science is over the top, yes, but in a quirky way. The film captures the 80's geeks, fashion, class rivalry & classic fun. The plot is simple. 2 geeks wish they could fit in and rise one up above their rivals. They use technology to create a woman of their dreams. Things are going their way and in the process they are transformed by her . The jokes are crude however some parts of the movie are genuinely funny. Bottom-line, don't think too much while watching this movie. Just go with the flow. travel back in time and revel in memories that flood you! "}{"Title":"So wet you could shoot ducks off him","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" What do you get if you use a computer to design a perfect woman, taking your inspiration from old Playboy magazines, and then connect your computer up to a Barbie doll during an electric storm? The answer, according to this film, is that you get a girl who looks like Kelly LeBrock! And that was in 1985. Just think what you might get today when computers are so much more powerful.Gary Wallace and Wyatt Donnelly are two nerdish Chicago high school students. They are also unpopular with their male classmates and are picked on by the school bullies. Wyatt is also picked on by his unpleasant older brother Chet. Although they are only fifteen, however, their main obsession is their inability to find girlfriends. Inspired by an old Frankenstein movie, they try to remedy this problem by performing the aforementioned experiment and are greeted by the emergence from the bathroom of a beautiful young woman clad only in a T-shirt and pair of panties. Despite being only a few seconds old, the young lady, whom they name Lisa, is much more worldly-wise than Gary and Wyatt, and also has magical powers.Now the film doesn't simply end at this point with Lisa becoming Gary and Wyatt's girlfriend. Quite apart from the jealousy that such a mnage-a-trois would be likely to give rise to, there is also the problem that, despite her extreme youth, Lisa has the appearance of a woman in her mid-twenties, and even in the eighties a plot in which Kelly LeBrock becomes the lover of a pair of underage teenagers would not have found favour with the moral majority. (Today it would probably be banned as kiddie porn). So she becomes a fairy godmother who uses her powers to help the boys with their struggling love lives. By the end of the film, they have managed to lure away the former girlfriends of the two class bullies. (Unfortunately, neither girl is as attractive as Lisa, and the film does not really delve into whether their appalling taste in men actually makes them worth having).Actually, there seems to be a perfectly simple explanation for the duo's lack of success with girls. Gary, as played by Anthony Michael Hall, is so wet you could shoot ducks off him. As for Ilan Mitchell-Smith's Wyatt, shall I just say that the girls are probably looking for someone a bit more manly than a boy whose voice still hasn't broken in his mid- teens and who has a penchant for wandering round the house in women's underwear? The film might prefer the alternative explanation that the boys simply lack confidence, but to me they just came across as a pair of dreary wimps.The one really good performance comes from Bill Paxton as the obnoxious Chet, and LeBrock, a model who had previously only appeared in one feature film (The Woman in Red), does more than merely rely upon her good looks. (If only I could say the same of all models who have tried their hand at acting!) Overall, however, the film struck me as a failure, for two main reasons apart from the wimpishness of its male leads. The first has to do with the way the character of Lisa was conceived. She came across as far too self-assured and omnipotent, and did far too much to help the boys. If the intention was to help them gain confidence, making them so dependent upon an all-powerful fairy godmother seems like a weird way of doing it. It might have been more interesting if she had been fallible with fewer magical powers, initially confused and bewildered at having suddenly been conjured into existence with the body and mind of an adult, and then growing in confidence into a sort of loving big sister, being helped by the boys as well as helping them. At the same time the boys would also grow in confidence as they came to realise that this beautiful woman needed them as much as they needed her. Such a concept, however, might have been a bit too subtle for a movie, like this, subtlety being a concept largely alien to John Hughes who acted as both writer and director.The film's other drawback is that, like a lot of teen comedies, it relies too heavily on puerile or tasteless adolescent humour, with little if any genuine wit. (This was characteristic of eighties teen comedies, Drop Dead Fred being another classic example, although plenty have been made in a similar vein since). Some of Lisa's tricks seemed very mean-spirited cause and the plot at time seemed bizarre and inexplicable. (Hughes evidently thought that he needed to stress the weird element in the title). I understand that a remake of Weird Science is currently under consideration. If that is so, there is a lot of room for improvement on the original. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Loving this 80s comedy","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Gary Wallace (Anthony Michael Hall) and Wyatt Donnelly (Ilan Mitchell-Smith) are hopeless dorks dreaming of classmates Deb (Suzanne Snyder) and Hilly (Judie Aronson). Their douchy boyfriends Ian (Robert Downey Jr.) and Max (Robert Rusler) keep bullying them. Wyatt's parents are going off leaving his older bully brother Chet (Bill Paxton) in charge. After watching Frankenstein, Gary gets Wyatt to use his computer to simulate a girl. They break into a restricted system and create Lisa (Kelly LeBrock). She's got the brains, the body, and the guts to push the guys to be cooler than they could ever hope to be.It's hard to justify loving this movie so much. It's a nerd fantasy that John Hughes is tapping into. It has everything that a film critic hates. It's stupid, crude, and really stupid. It's just funny and the guys are adorably geeky. The fact is that the guys are lovable and Kelly LeBrock is perfect for this role. She's smart, ballsy, and sexy. "},{"Title":"Undeniably charming","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two losers are consistently humiliated at school and don't have a love life to speak of. They conjure up a vivacious woman from their computer that they made up in their heads (Kelly LeBrock) This woman gives the boys a new sense of entitlement and confidence, leading to messy and hysterical results. I have a weakness for cheesy films from the 80's. If it is cheesy, well done, there is a good chance I am gonna be entertained. I wouldn't consider Weird Science to be one of John Hughes best films, far from it actually, but it is enjoyable and that's all I care about. The premise doesn't make much sense and lacks the believability factor, but that's OK with me. I kicked my brain to the curb and was able to go with it. John Hughes knows how to entertain his audience and go with the times. This may not be the strongest of scripts, but he injects some great humor into this movie. I laughed my ass off on quite a few occasions. Anthony Michael-Hall is a member of the infamous brat-pack. He has charm in spades in this movie. Ilan Mitchell-Smith is solid as Hall's geeky friend. Bill Paxton is a scene stealer as Mitchell-Smith's mean brother. And, of course, Kelly LeBrock is very memorable as the creation. She was downright breathtaking at this juncture, what happened?! Final Thoughts Please kick your brain to the curb, this isn't Schindler's list. There is no reason you can't enjoy this film for what it is. Go back into the 80's and have some fun!7/10 "},{"Title":"Weird. No Jr.?","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I used to watch Weird Science, and a lot of John Hughes movies as a kid, but I don't recall a Robert Downey in the mix.With this 8/9/13 viewing, probably the first in 20 years, the focus from me was twofold the fact that Robert Downy (no Jr.) was so young and he probably had no idea how incredible his stardom would take him once he donned the IRON MAN outfit and that I had an incredible crush on Wyatt (Ilan Mitchell-Smith) when I was young. So, basically, with this revisit, I focused on those two.Okay, fine, I also wanted to see the gorgeous Kelly LeBrock before she became, well, what she is today. She is such a wonder&#x85;woman. What happened to her that she didn't grow&#x85;more? No, I don't mean her, well, two attributes.I digress. This totally 80s flair film takes virtually no realism and is a ton of fun when you suspend your disbelief. It's a coming of age story in a period of one weekend. It's wildly random at times, and inconsistent, but a lot of fun due to the music, comedy and namely performances from LeBrock and (yeah, being honestly unbiased here) Mitchell-Smith.When watching the wretched 2012's Project X, I always think back to this party movie. While neither is realistic, I would prefer, any day of the week, to watch these party animals have a good time, than the kids of 2012 destroy their souls.I digress&#x85;.again. Best buds and nerds, Gary (Anthony Michael Hall) and Wyatt create their perfect woman from a 1985 com-pu-ter and their dreams are set to come true. Of course, there's a little learning to commence during this and some more comedy when they come out of their shells and get the girl(s.) Real girls, that is.It is interesting with what they could get away with back then, i.e. PG-13 rating. Honestly, it would surely be an R in today's time.Nevertheless, not the best John Hughes movie, but a whole lot of fun for those who grew up with this movie. I look forward to the remake and see what they can come up with. Especially, with the technology of 2013-14&#x85;or 2015? "},{"Title":"Weird Science, Science","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the better comedies of the '80s, and a cultural classic, Weird Science succeeds at being good and funny in a weird way. The plot strings along nicely allowing the kids to do nothing more than create 'weird science' on their computers, and party all the time and chase after women, all while trying to keep their parents and friends, and Wyatt's older brother, Chet, out of their hair. Chet's so funny being played by Bill Paxton. Writer/director John Hughes knows a thing or two on how to cash in a film. John Hughes has such an expansive versatility with writing. Hughes goes against the grain a bit in Weird Science by deciding Gary, played by Anthony Michael Hall, as the main character. That's okay, the problem is that Hall is losing his cuteness, seriously, more like he's loosing his cool. Hall's generous tendencies are fleeting him, and therefore, the character isn't very relatable, but more so sympathetic, which makes it good in a different way, a less conventional way, but Gary should have been the side star, and Wyatt should have been the main character. It's purely sexual. There's nothing wrong with Kelly LeBrock, Lisa, not a thing! What an '80s babe! In the beginning, Kelly LeBrock introduces all the sex appeal needed appearing in her '80s undies, and then she proceeds to manage the movie with sophisticated sexiness the remainder of the viewing. How sexy! Weird Science = Kelly LeBrock. The boys are very good too and make the movie really worth watching. Weird Science scores all the way up to 6 for its creative ingenious fun. "},{"Title":"Make A Circuit With Me","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Hughes was on a tear in mid-1985, but the writer-director of celebrated teen-angst comedies like Sixteen Candles and The Breakfast Club was either slumming for a paycheck or suffering a brain cramp when he made this cockeyed paen to young libidos unleashed by technology.Gary (Anthony Michael Hall) and Wyatt (Ilan Mitchell-Smith) are a pair of luckless high-school nerds who crave females but have no idea about getting them. But Wyatt does have a computer, and Gary convinces him to simulate a woman with the hotness of a Playboy model and the personality of David Lee Roth. One lightning bolt later, and presto, there's Kelly LeBrock in panties and a halter top, ready to make their dreams come true.Honeybuns, you wanna party so badly, you can bottle it, she tells Wyatt. If you wanna be a party animal, you have to learn to live in the jungle.Weird Science is an outlier among Hughes' teen movies of the period, which tended to present more authentic emotions in pursuit of comedy. Still, Lisa, as LeBrock's character is known, is of a piece with Bender in The Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller in Ferris Bueller's Day Off, the rule-bender who has to teach some young charges about escaping adult preconceptions.Employing the outright fantasy of a dream girl with magic powers for such a function could be useful, if the characters were better developed or the comedy funnier. Sadly, Weird Science is a kind of rush job, most of the humor being in the form of crude embarrassment gags on Gary and Wyatt, and their reactions to same. An opening sequence shows them staring at a gym full of teenaged girls, until their reverie is interrupted by a pair of toughs who pull their pants down. That's all the scene has, and it's par for the course.One of the toughs is played by Robert Downey, Jr., making a minor impression except for his hair, which is tousled like a firework. Hall wins the prize for Biggest Big '80s do, though, a layered flip of such intricacy it had to take the boy all morning to set it. Hall is the star of the show, something he earned with his great supporting turns in Breakfast Club and Sixteen Candles, but Hughes doesn't do him any favors here, letting him overplay too many scenes while Mitchell-Smith winces and grins in fey support.LeBrock does better, in part because she knows she's playing a special effect and has fun with it. People talk about her amazing body, but her kissable mouth is equally lust-inducing. She shows a bit of range, too, but Hughes gives her little more to say than I do whatever they say when asked about Gary and Wyatt. There's a lesson somewhere, too, about finding self-confidence or whatever, but it's a lame tack-on.The film does fly. Hughes' willingness to play for cheap laughs makes this vehicle subtlety-free. The scenes featuring Bill Paxton as Wyatt's unhinged bully of an older brother provide real sparkle, especially when Lisa lays down the law. Every now and again, Hall delivers a decent Hughes line in the old style. Mostly, though, it's enjoyable when giving you a chance to oogle LeBrock.This happens a lot. Hughes is pandering, but sometimes it works. Other times, it is more of an amiable if unimaginative time-waster that reminds you how the director needed to keep things real in order for his films to work. "},{"Title":"Weird Science - Together they made the perfect movie","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Two guys considered losers in a US high school (Gary & Wyatt) decide to make the perfect woman (Kelly LeBrock) they soon become the two most popular guys in school grabbing the attention of the two hottest girls in school, classic 80's movie. This film is hilarious for many reasons, the two main characters are likable, the perfect woman is witty and smart plus an 80's pin up. There are scenes beyond the films years, a giant turd brother, frozen Gran & granddad and a giant blue missile... I just love it from start to finish. The story is basic but well written, imaginative and filled with 80's fashion, mall scenes and everything needed to enjoy a totally retro movie. All the additional characters are funny, Chet, the parents, the bad guys and the motor cycle rockers from another planet. I have seen this movie roughly 30 times and still love it. "},{"Title":"Like Jumanji, I Dream of Jeanie and Ghostbusters-Total Fantasy Fun","Date":"18 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just read several pages of random interviews. A lot of people just don't understand this movie. It is supposed to be totally impossible and unrealistic. I believe that John Hughes was trying to push-the envelope to see what he could get away with and still keep a family rating. Today, if a film like this was made at all, it would have to be by Pixar animation. Let's examine the basic premise Two nerdy naive teen age boys set out to create the fantasy girl of their dreams, for their personal sexual purposes. It doesn't quite turn out that way.Lisa what is she? She sure isn't human. She acts like Barbara Eden's Jeannie but may be a 3D hologram made of energy. Her creation makes no sense how can voodoo and computer simulation create anything alive?Like Jumanji and Zathura (The Brass Bottle, I Dream of Jeannie, Mary Poppins, Nannie McPhee) and similar stories, all is returned to its original state and no one is harmed; only wiser for the experience. What I like about this film is that nobody dies, it's just an adventure.It is a teen-age fantasy nonsense film, meant to be enjoyed as just that. Do not try to attach any greater significance to it. It is fun to watch and has great CGI and EFX 1. The big brother as a flatulent- toad is completely outrageous. 2.Kelly Le Brock, sadly, made too few films. (Even she admits that her body was impossible to maintain and she struggles with her weight in later life.) What I don't like about this film 1. The White Superfly bar scene. Too racist and uncomfortable. 2. Nobody makes friends with their high-school bullies. Ever. 3. The Mad Max characters are a little too much over the top. You have probably watched this already and either hate it or love it. It's in the same class as Men in Black. Totally unbelievable and too much fun. "},{"Title":"Anthony Michael Hall is such a great actor","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Admittedly when I looked at the title of this movie and the poster i was a little hesitant to watch it but I did anyways.. the plot was not my kind of thing but the acting and production was absolutely superb. It made the movie. Anthony Michael Hall is such a great actor. He's so natural and also quite cute. I would go as far to say he's in my top 5 best actors of this time.His acting was absolutely great in this movie, he was hilarious.The movie itself was not that bad to be honest, I would watch it again even though I don't like all the aliens and weirdos that pop up. The message that was clearly being sent also resonates with me more than The Breakfast Club or Pretty in Pink.. it was very good and clear.All in all a great movie. "},{"Title":"It sure is weird, as the title may suggest, but that helps make it fun!","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the third movie which was both written AND directed by the late John Hughes. Like all the other films he wrote and directed before 1987's Planes, Trains & Automobiles, this is one of his teen films, but it is certainly not quite the same as its two predecessors, Sixteen Candles and The Breakfast Club, even though it was released the same year as the latter! Having seen Sixteen Candles for the first time very recently, after being familiar with The Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller's Day Off for several years, I decided to watch Weird Science. It seems to be less popular than any of the other teen films I've seen from Hughes, so I wasn't expecting it to be any more than pretty good, but my expectations were surpassed!Gary Wallace and Wyatt Donnelly are two nerdy 15-year-old friends who are very unpopular at their high school and have a very poor chance of getting dates anytime soon. One weekend, the two of them are at Wyatt's house while his parents are away. As the two friends watch Frankenstein, they are inspired to conduct a science experiment, one similar to that of Dr. Frankenstein, but instead of reanimating corpses, they will use Wyatt's computer to create a new woman! They feed information into the computer to make sure this woman is both good looking and highly intelligent, and hack into a government computer to get more power! The experiment causes a violent lightning bolt to strike and make a huge mess around the boys, but after this chaos is over, Gary and Wyatt's bold experiment proves to be a success! They find their new woman in the room with them, and it turns out she is gorgeous, intelligent, devoted to the boys, and even has superpowers! The teenage friends decide to name her Lisa, and they are in for some bizarre experiences as she tries to help them gain popularity! The beginning of this movie shows Gary and Wyatt watching gymnasts at school, fantasizing about them, and then getting pantsed by bullies. It looks like the film could be reasonably funny (though I'm not sure how funny the pantsing part is), but not necessarily anything great. However, it soon gets funnier, probably around the time the experiment causes destruction, and I certainly found laughs while seeing Gary and Wyatt in the shower with their new computer-generated woman and then going out with her. The film soon goes downhill again, and I didn't think the part with Gary and Wyatt getting drinks poured on them was very funny, though there certainly are still funny parts around this point. Weird Science soon improves again, I think starting with the scene showing Lisa meeting Gary's parents for the first time and telling them things he doesn't want them to know, which is definitely a comic highlight of the film. From this point on, I thought this 1985 fantasy comedy was consistently entertaining, not just with the humour (though there is lots of that), but also with the bizarre story, which made me constantly wonder what was going to happen next! Kelly LeBrock, who plays Lisa, sure is hot in this movie, and I like the powerful character she plays.Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club, and Weird Science are all John Hughes films featuring Anthony Michael Hall in the cast, and the main characters in all of these movies are high school students. However, the first two are both realistic films, with no fantasy in them, and that's far from the case with this one! Yes, this is one bizarre film, combining not just comedy and romance, but also sci-fi, a genre which Hughes was not usually associated with. If you've seen this film's two predecessors and haven't seen this third one of the bunch but are intending to, I strongly advise you to keep all that in mind! I can imagine many people who usually like Hughes' teen movies really being put off by how over-the-top this particular one is! Still, watching it shortly after Sixteen Candles, I think this bizarre 1985 comedy is the stronger of the two, even if most viewers would disagree. If you have some idea of what you're in for and still want to watch Weird Science, I won't advise you not to. "}{"Title":"Weird is Right","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Weird Science (1985) ** (out of 4)Two nerds (Anthony Michael Hall, Ilan Mitchell-Smith) dream of being cool, having good looking girlfriends and being invited to the best parties in town and they finally get their chance after making their own sex pot (Kelly LeBrock) from their computer. As you can tell, this is a nerds wet dream come true and before watching this movie it's very important to turn your brain off. I must admit that I was really disliking this thing for the first hour but things finally got so campy that I started to have a little fun with it. I still think this is a disappointing movie that doesn't live up to its cult status but at the same time I've seen a lot worse. I think the best thing the film has going for it are the performances by the three leads and some of the supporting players. Anthony Michael Hall fits that nerd role perfectly and he's also quite believable towards the end of the film when he fills out the role of someone cooler. LeBrock clearly steals the film as she looks incredibly good and her performance is nice as well. I thought she did a terrific job no matter what the scene called for and she really brought the film up a few notches. Bill Paxton was fun in the role of the mean brother and Robert Downey, Jr. doesn't do too bad of a job as one of the bullies. Cult favorite Michael Berryman (THE HILLS HAVE EYES) has a small but nice role as a biker mutant. The biggest fault of the film has to be the screenplay, which is somewhat of a shock considering Hughes is best known for this. I think his dialogue is perfectly fitting and I think the original storyline is good as well. The problem is that very little is done with that storyline and everything is just way too predictable. There are many cute moments but in the end the movie is just a tad bit too brain dead for its own good and a stronger story would have certainly helped. "},{"Title":"Only John Hughes could make this work.","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" It truly is one of the most bizarre and insane movies I have ever seen, yet in its own unique way it has a heart and soul and an actual lesson to teach us. Combining elements from his previous movie, Sixteen Candles, and the science-fiction genre, Hughes creates a world that isn't fully rooted in reality but has realistic characters you are able to interact with. As the story goes, two nerds are tired of being made fun of and perceived as uncool. They decide to use their computer and create the perfect woman which will then elevate their status at school and in society, they think. What they don't count on is that it turns out to be an intelligent, English woman who has more in store for them than they wanted.To get right down to it, this is the most unusual of the John Hughes movies but it also maintains that message that is so prominent in other movies like Sixteen Candles and The Breakfast Club. I didn't grow up in the 80's, but I am sure that teens felt ostracized and left out in many aspects of their life, least not including high school. What Hughes has done with the three aforementioned movies as well as others later in his career is that he has created characters that are memorable, flawed and willing to listen to change that could benefit them. To enjoy this you have to look past the bizarre climax and the other subplots and appreciate that someone made a movie for you as a teenager, a person and not just a dollar sign. "},{"Title":"A childhood favorite worth revisiting","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I grew up watching Weird Science and watched the movie dozens of times as a kid. My mind had totally stashed away the memories until this week when the movie was on TV. WOW! If you haven't seen the movie recently, it's worth seeing again.The plot (for those who can't remember it) centers around these two nerds (gary and Wyatt) who decide to create a virtual woman on their computer during a weekend sleepover. The plan goes awry when a real woman (Lisa) pops out of their computer. She not only looks like a goddess but has super powers. In scenes inspired by classic shows such as I dream of Jeanie and bewitched, the guys spend the entire weekend doing damage control for the crazy things that she causes to happen. in the midst of it all, there is a coming of age for the boys, who must face bullies and unpopularity in their quest for girlfriends and acceptance among their peers.Lisa does everything to make these guys the epitome of 80's cool. Big hair, skinny ties, suits with shoulder pads, a Ferrari and 911 Porsche, the classic pink Cadillac, etc. The soundtrack is distinctly 80's, with songs by the General Public and Oingo Boingo as some of the stand outs.A pleasant surprise about this movie is how well it has held up over the years. The scene when dorky Wyatt and Gary end up in an all black bar with Lisa still works. Un-pc as it is, the scene where Gary gets drunk and tries to talk like a black man is still hilarious.This movie has several elements I really dig as an adult that were beyond me as a kid. First, Kelly Lebrock's powers and sensuality are both great analogies for the explosive sexuality of a woman and the insecurity of what it is to be a teenage boy. Much like Bewitched and I dream of Jeanie an incredibly sensual woman uses her powers and these dorks spend all their time begging her not to use them. Despite the fact that she is supposed to do whatever Gary and Wyatt ask of her, she is still totally intimidating to them.In one discussion of why the movie Elektra failed, the critic mentioned that while teenage boys find older women really sexy, they also find them scary. To keep it's appeal to the under 18 set, the movie constantly plays on how intimidated regular guys would be if a real woman were to just pop into their lives.With the old school modem and graphics, the movie also gives a peek into how the world viewed computers not even 20 years ago. There was clearly a belief that someday, computers would be able to do anything, even create life. Author William Gibson envisioned an internet where people would literally plug themselves into their computers. In this movie, the computer has the power of creation. Time has proved that these things are possible, just not quite as sci fi types envisioned them. We do have an internet, but we don't plug our bodies into the computer. And while games like Sims and GTA San Andreas make it possible to have a virtual girlfriend, it's not quite what this movie envisioned.The clutch of this movie is of course the girl herself. Kelly Lebrock sizzles in this movie. She has an understated sexy confidence about her that has not been replicated by anyone other than Angelina Jolie, and her sense of comedic timing is spot on. It's a shame that she more or less disappeared after this movie was made, because she is very memorable in this film. The scene where she picks up Gary at his parents house is the best take on meet the parents EVER.Finally, this movie served as a great launching pad for a lot of careers. Anthony Michael Hall would have probably become a star if only his next movies had been good (instead of the silly Out of Bounds and the pathetic Johnny Be Good), but Bill Paxton (who's role as Gary's older brother alone is worth the price of a rental) went on to become a well known a-lister and this early role is classic Paxton (I'd argue that his role as Hudson in the 1986 movie Aliens is probably Paxton at his best).So, for the soundtrack, the old school science fiction, the bikini-concept of women's sexuality as something dangerous, and the launch of some great stars, this is a movie well worth revisiting. "},{"Title":"John Hughes and Dr. Seuss","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  During most of the 1980s, I was working in or running movie theatres.  I showed this movie and previewed it before it even opened.  The one thing which struck me upon first viewing it was that it is essentially a teen-age version of Dr. Seuss's The Cat in the Hat, right down to the house being magically cleaned up and the last piece of furniture sliding into place just as the parents return home to find everything as they left it.  I always wondered if Hughes borrowed the plot on purpose or if he wrote Weird Science without realizing it's commonalities with one of the best loved children's story of all times.  Anyone have opinions on that? "},{"Title":"Anthony Michael Hall as a geek? I didn't see that one coming!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most teenage boys probably can't help but relate to Gary (Hall) and Wyatt (Ilan Michell-Smith). They're just average sex starved teens that create a living, breathing, aerobicizing woman with super model looks, the brain of Einstein and the magic of Houdini with Wyatt's home computer. Yeah, I know, it might sound cheesy but it's still fun. There's plenty to see and laugh at, and there is something for everyone. If you're a girl, you'll love seeing the two boys embarrass themselves to no end. If you're a guy, you won't care about dialogue or anything else as long as Lisa (Kelly LeBrock)is on-screen. Although I can't say, I liked it as much as some other John Hughes movies I've seen, it is still great entertainment when your just in the mood to fall into the 80's or have some mindless laughs. If you like teen movies, you'll want to see this one. "},{"Title":"Insane Comedy.","Date":"3 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Anthony Michael Hall and Ilan Mitchell-Smith play best friends Gary and Wyatt, two outcast high-school students who decide to make the perfect woman by programming a computer with various data and pictures, and amazingly, one is made in the form of Kelly Le-Brock(perfectly cast, and quite watchable), who then proceeds to turn their lives(and the whole physical world) upside down.Nutty film throws logic and credibility out the window early on, and never looks back. Pity it forgot to be funny, since this over produced and under written comedy/fantasy settles for being heavy handed and sanctimonious, with far too much humiliation and destruction, to the point you just want someone involved(director John Hughes?) to get control over this train wreck.Good comedy premise thrown away, despite a few amusing bits. "},{"Title":"Not John Hughes' best, but not bad, in fact it is quite entertaining","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I do not think Weird Science is John Hughes' best film, but it is a decent enough film that did entertain me. It is too short however, and the humour occasionally is rather crass. However, I loved the concept, it was original and I think it worked rather well. The film looks good too, the scenery and cinematography are typical Hughes which is a good thing in itself, while the soundtrack is cool. While the humour is crass, there are some funny moments and some inspired wit in the script, while the pacing and direction are fine. The acting is good enough as well. Anthony Michael Hall Ilan Mitchell-Smith are likable leads, while Bill Paxton gives the best performance and Kelly LeBrock is smouldering. Also look out for Robert Downey Jnr in this. Overall, not bad, not amazing but it entertains. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Weird Science","Date":"9 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" WEIRD SCIENCE is a celebration of the incredible sexiness of Kelly LeBrock and the fact that director-writer John Hughes FINALLY gave Anthony Michael Hall the starring role he had sure deserved. The usual high school hi-jinx are on display with plenty of teen sex jokes, except unlike past John Hughes comedies, this has elements of science-fiction and the supernatural. I think the movie works so well because of the marvelous chemistry between Michael Hall, Ilan Mitchell-Smith(..as Hall's nerdy pal, Wyatt)and LeBrock. The Frankenstein idea of how Michael Hall and Mitchell-Smith is merely playing on our teenage fantasies..I know when I was a youth that LeBrock was certainly a fixture in my pleasant dreams during puberty! LeBrock was in her element, positively a knock-out, with a confidence(..and figure)and swagger that I'm sure had many a gal jealous. She's ideally cast as the fantasy babe, but Anthony Michael Hall and Ilan Mitchell-Smith compliment her very well as our dorky heroes. Bill Paxton steals his scenes as Mitchell-Smith's goofy, crude, bullying brother, Chet.This film stretches the PG-13 rating to the limit and features pretty coarse dialogue and situations for a movie aimed at teens. After all is said and done, the movie's message is similar to other stories penned by the late John Hughes..thanks in part to (im)proper guidance, the nerdy boys find guts to stand up for themselves while wooing lovely girls(Suzanne Snyder and Judie Aronson) in the process. Robert Rusler and Robert Downey Jr(..two years before hitting paydirt with LESS THAN ZERO)are the two popular high schoolers who pick on Michael Hall and Mitchell-Smith and desire to get a shot at LeBrock. Vernon Wells and Michael Berryman are among these fictional Mad Max type bikers who interrupt our heroes' big party(..created by LeBrock as a means for Mitchell-Smith and Michael Hall to prove themselves in front of their peers).Memorable scenes include Michael Hall and Mitchell-Smith's shower with a naked LeBrock, the trio's trip to a juke joint, LeBrock's freezing Mitchell-Smith's grandparents, LeBrock's confrontation with Michael Hall's parents, and LeBrock's smooch with Mitchell-Smith(..this left an indelible mark on me as I, like other males in our teens, put myself in his shoes). LeBrock wears some wild costumes and has big hair at times, but is she a stunner. "},{"Title":"maybe the second best teen movie made by john hughes!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  weird science is another good movie from the master of teen movies john hughes. this movie is maybe the funniest of all teen movies made by john hughes. but it's not the most entertaining. that award goes to the breakfast club. weird science is entertaining. john hughes goes a bit too far toward the end,but it's still unforgettable. weird science in my opinion comes from the greatest decade of all time.the 80's! i give weird science *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"For the time it was a great film","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Weird Science was in 1985 one of the most wise film I ever seen. It was as simple funny thing, I mean the joke was not to hard understand.  I liked the idea to create the perfect women, on the computer.  I was also thinking if one of the producer of film make a 2000 version of the film wold be cool.  I would see at the movie theater right away.  I also think about to buying the film Weird Science I cloud found a copy some were. "}{"Title":"Classic eye candy!","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can you say about Weird Science? Well lets be honest the plot is hardly in-depth and no oscars were dished out for the performances but it still proves to be a hit every time I decide to watch it!I can recite the script now but still I haven't tired!Perhaps its just a trip down memory lane to those days when life was simple! "},{"Title":"80s Teen Surrealism","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The teen movie genre of the 1980s had as its central premise 'finding a partner'. So this movie is no exception but where it differs is its bizarre way of hammering home the obvious messages this film contains.The plot for those who aren't aware concerns two 'nerds' who decide to create a woman using their computer(!).  As a young teen myself watching this for the first time I never really considered how totally out there this John Hughes film is.  Apart from the idea of creating a perfect woman who does everything you want (a horrendously sexist idea that is hardly redeemed by the weak moralising at the end), we have snow falling in someones' bedroom, a kitchen turned blue, nuclear warheads sprouting through a bedroom floor and furniture flying through chimneys.  The one part of this film that really strikes me as odd is where did Kelly Le Brock (who plays Lisa the created woman) get her powers to make all this weird stuff happen?I was pretty disappointed when I revisited this.  Nostalgia had created this movie as a minor classic in my rose tinted eyes. In reality all I found was a plot full of holes, an unpleasant teen fantasy and a director who looked like he couldn't give a damn about any more 'nerdy teens come good'. "},{"Title":"One of John Hughes' best films","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Every high school boy's dream comes true  in this wayward film about a couple of guys  creating the ultimate woman. Cool, confined  and well acted (considering the bad cast),  this film really captures some of the follies  of 1980s youth. The materialism, the shallowness  and the lack of parental control really demonstrates  what kids back then really wanted. While I  was not a teenager at this time, it was still  a fun movie to watch, one that kept me  interested the entire time I watched it. "},{"Title":"Painfully uncomfortable","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" For years people were telling me how awesome this movie this is - saying it's a classic and making references and stuff. I was hyped to see it. Holy crap was I in for a surprise. I wasn't able to watch this all the way through this thing. I knew something was up when the kids (kids, mind you) walk by wearing black thongs. Excuse me? Isn't that illegal? What the heck kind of anti-pedophilia standards did the 80's have (if any)? The bizarre direct sexual contact between our adult lead and the 14/15 year old boys continues, getting more and more explicit until they're tongue-kissing for a very, VERY long time. I turned the movie off after that. Sorry for being a prude, but these are kids. This is actually happening. I know it was the norm for a lot of 80's films (Carrie, Sixteen Candles, Blue Lagoon, for example) to show actors under 18 in nude and sexually interactive scenes, but that just doesn't fly today. I was WAY too weirded out to continue. "},{"Title":"Flashback to eighties movie making","Date":"6 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read in the trivia section that John Hughs wrote Weird Science in two days. This I can believe. Pluses As a person in 2014 looking back on a film from the 80's I'm willing to give the film a lot of latitude. The fx, the clothing, the hairstyles, even the plot. This film will eventually be forgotten or used to showcase eighties film clichs. It's not well made for our time. It's retro, and those kinds of films are fun sometimes. Minuses The girl is created in the first few minutes of the film and there's no real surprise from anyone. It's just given that she's there. Lisa sets up situations to make the boys accept themselves and there is nothing that she does that would lead to that end, so the ending is frustrating to sit through. The effects they used weren't necessary and the characters they created were one dimensional. "},{"Title":"Better in its own time...","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" A couple of nerdy teenagers get the idea to use a computer to create a woman who will give in to their every whim. Little did they count on whims of her own...like creating men out of them.Kelly LeBrock's big break comes in this film and becomes every red blooded young man's fantasy, and her antics throughout this film are quite for its time, but computers have come a long way since then and with cloning...All right! Enough of that. The bottom line is that this film was good for its time, and it's not bad now, but it has faded over the years and the only time I pull out the DVD is when I'm in the mood for some comedy from the 80's (but The Breakfast Club is a lot better). The interaction between the characters is not bad, and the chemistry is a bit intriguing.7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A true 80s classic","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not only is this movie one of the most recognizable titles in all of my generation's history... it might as well be among the many other cinematic greats.For those that don't know this movie all that well, I really hate having to spoil it by giving away anything... so I won't.If you're going to watch one of the many classic movies of the 80's, it's better you see for yourself.All I can say though, is that it's not only funny, but it has a message to go along with the humor... and that's a plus.Now for my verdict 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Fun, hilarious 80s teen fantasy-comedy","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" WEIRD SCIENCE may be my favorite John Hughes movie. Although Hughes' films Pretty in Pink, Ferris Bueller's Day off, Planes Trains Automobiles, and The Breakfast Club are more highly remembered and regarded and all have a message to them, WEIRD SCIENCE is just a pure, fun comedy. The movie stars famed 80s 'Brat-packer' Anthony Michael Hall (as Gary) and the not-so-famous Ilan-Mitchell Smith (Wyatt) as two uber-nerds who are mocked, socked, rocked, and jocked continuously throughout the film by their 'more cool' high school counterparts. To get even and become more cool themselves, Gary and Wyatt create the perfect woman 'Lisa' (played beautifully by super duper hot and exotic 80s British model-icon Kelly LeBrock; more on her later). Late one Friday night at Wyatt's house while his parents are away, inspired by watching the classic film FRANKENSTEIN, they create her with various 80s gadgets and objects (an Apple computer, pictures from model magazines, and a Barbie doll that is connected to the parts from the popular old-style game Operation)They even give her a brain and make her super-smart! I know it sounds ludicrous, but its a fantasy-comedy, with the emphasis on comedy.Anthony Michael Hall (as Gary) is nothing short of comic genius in this movie. He just lets it all go and gives one of the most memorable laugh-out-loud comic performances. He has a great, hilarious scene early in the movie in a blues club where Lisa takes Gary and Wyatt to. In this scene, Hall mimics and sounds just like an old, world-weary, club-hanging soul brother and carries it off to perfection. He also sports 'big eyes' throughout the movie at various times to great effect and it totally works. Ilan-Mitchell Smith, even though the movie sports them as a duo, is less funny, but still he works well as Gary's sidekick and on repeated viewing is very watchable himself.Now to 'Lisa'. Kelly LeBrock! What a forgotten bombshell from the 80s! She did this movie, The Woman in Red, Hard to Kill and was never heard from again. But she ought to be remembered for Weird Science. She is 100% total hotness! Gorgeous to look at from beginning to end, she is no supporting character either. She's essentially the female lead and is totally sexy and funny. She looks and acts like she's having fun throughout. And she has some great throwaway lines ('Rex Harrison hat'; trust me, you'll laugh when you see and hear her delivery of it). Even though she is the boys' creation, Lisa is pure fun and has more personality than most humans! She's the ANTI-FRANKENSTEIN, or the ANTI-BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, if you prefer! Lisa gives Gary and Wyatt the confidence they need to become cool like the rest of their high school compadres.Also along for the fun in great supporting roles are Bill Paxton (before he became Mr. Big Shot in the 90s) as Wyatt's older, Neanderthal, jerk of a brother Chet and Robert Downey,Jr. (as one of the guys taunting and bullying Gary and Wyatt throughout). Of course, the movie has its obligatory, happy ending where Gary and Wyatt (thanks to Lisa) get the girls (a couple of standard, high school Madonnas) and well, as for the 'make-believe' Lisa, you'll be happy how it all ends up with her too. Being an 80s movie, obviously the technology looks and is very dated, but that's part of the fun. Also, there's a few moments, especially at the climactic party at Wyatt's house, that don't come off as funny as they should be, but they are few and far in between. The movie, in addition to being funny, also works as a piece of 80s nostalgia that makes you want to be in high school again w/o any cares and makes you just want to party.A fun, funny, 80s teen flick that takes me back to the good ole days! "},{"Title":"whoa!","Date":"21 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like this movie.It's purely sexual.like the computer that Wyatt has.I don't know the name,but i like it. i like the characters Wyatt,Gary and Lisa(who was named after Apple's first GUI computer,the Apple Lisa.I think there is a reference to the TLC music video to Unpretty when Chilli's boyfriend goes on the thing on his laptop that extends the woman's boobs.Have you got one of those at your home,or don't they exist anymore? I think it would be cool to have one of those.I also like the theme song to weird science performed by Oingo Boingo(once called The Mystic Knights Of Oingo Boingo).The movie was made in 1985. "},{"Title":"Good 1980's sci-fi/comedy","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rated PG-13 for Sexual Content and Language.I saw Weird Science on showcase Diva where they were playing a 1980's movie marathon.The other film I saw was Hiding Out.This film slightly exceeded my expectations.It was fairly funny and the storyline was interesting as well.It is a great 1980's teen comedy.The film is about two nerds who create a dream woman using their computer.Afterwords, the woman changes them by making them socialize more and having a big house party, and also inviting some biker punks mess up the house so the two will stand up to them, thus increasing their bravery.Weird Science is an interesting and funny movie and I recommend it. "}{"Title":"A Wonderful Film for this age and the last!!!!","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film by director John Hughs is simply fantastic!! The movies begins with you jeering the second rate special effects and wondering where the hell this came from. Then the movie actually gets started and you can't help but laugh yourself silly!!! Anthony Michael Hall and co-star Ilan Mitchell-Smith light up the show with one of Hall's best performances and Smith is perfect for the role of the best friend. LeBrock sends a sexy performance through and Paxton is a hoot to watch in one of his first ever films. Wonderful acting!! More important than that is that the film is funny!!!! You will not go two seconds without laughing and Hall and LeBrock have some of the best lines ever put in a comedy movie.Wonderful film for all the ages!!! 100/10 "},{"Title":"A  scream from start to finish!!!","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Love this film as it is genuinely funny and all cast are excellent in their respective roles. When the boys decide to create a 'perfect' woman using their computer they do the right thing and create Kelly LeBrock in the form of Lisa! The dialog, acting and sets and sequences are hugely over the top and this is a joy from minute one. As with comedies from the 80s it contains a lot of stars that went on to do a lot more but these guys are brilliant already!! The shower scene is a scream and where Lisa takes Wyatt home and tells his parents she's taking him to a party, much to their angst and disbelief is genuinely hilarious. One of the funniest films of the '80s and a must see if you like smutty comedy! "},{"Title":"so funny","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is so funny,i mean bras on your head indeed, but it worked for these two guys.The story line to it is out of this world and is a very good way to get your imagination going.I remember watching this movie when i was a teen and it made me laugh all the way through so if you haven't seen it then i suggest you do.and yet again i cannot seem to find it on DVD which is really disappointing.movies from the 80s are just the best as they don't make them like this no more,i haven't found another movie like this one in a long time,and when my friends brother watched it he actually put a bra on his head to see if it worked hahahaha.all the actors played a very good part but i must say kelly le brock was fantastic,very witty and well i don't think that anyone could have played her part better.this is a movie that has to be seen so what you waiting for ) "},{"Title":"my thoughts on it","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is the first movie i ever remember watching on my own. I know its the same age on me but OMG its really the dogs privates. I cant thin of a better movie. If anyone is wondering it has just been re released in the UK on region 2 DVD i been waiting for years. If you have seen it and want something a bit more modern from the other perspective i.e girl makes lad then check out English film virtual sexuality. Both films are excellent but the original weird science is better in my opinion but check them out for yourself.There was once a American TV show in 90's of weird science but Lisa was blond and it had been modernized. Not heard about that show for years though. "},{"Title":"Time has been unkind","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was THE movie that teenagers watched at parties in the late 80's. This was American Pie and Dude, Where's My Car for my generation. But, it has sadly fallen on tough times. Any 20 year old movie would show its age; the effects, the clothes and the slang are all terribly dated now, but that happens to all movies.Where this movie got killed was in syndication. Since, it was so popular, it got shown on many of the big cable networks like TNT, USA and TBS. But, those networks also cut the movie up to fit with broadcast standards. So, not only does it look like an old movie, some of the dialog is dubbed over (badly) to remove any offensive words and some funny scenes are just cut altogether to make it more family friendly. And in so doing, the film is almost unwatchable. So, any teen watching this movie today will be left wondering what the big deal was. If you can see the uncut version, this is a fun film. But unless it magically appears on DVD, it will probably remain a joke that kids born after 1985 just don't get. "},{"Title":"A great 80's movie..and a personal favorite of mine..","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Weird Science is definitely one of my favorite films. I'm a huge fan of 80's films and this film does not disappoint. It's extremely entertaining and certainly worth a watch. I'd highly recommend this movie to anyone. Some may find it cheesy, but that's half the fun of it! It's not meant to be taken seriously anyways. What makes this movie great, is that even though this movie is meant to be a comedy, it is also romantic in showing that looks and popularity aren't always what matter.To me, with this film there is never a dull moment..and someone must agree with me, as it spawned it's own T.V. show (which was also wicked)! A 10/10 film, and a must watch! "},{"Title":"ahead of its time","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film seems way ahead of its ahead of its time, in its music quality and production. This film rocks ... the kind of film I can watch again and again. It is entertaining, funny, and touching near the end when Lisa says goodbye. Gary and Wyatt and a great duo, one of them the nerd, the other the cockier one who makes out to be cooler. I'm not into teen or sci-fi movies, but this has got to be one of my favourite films of all time. It's up there with the classic eighties movies - Back to the Future, Superman 3, Karate Kid, Rocky 3. I recorded it on VHS when I was twelve. Call me a nerd, but I'm twenty-five now and still enjoy watching it. The funny bit for me was when Chet and Wyatt are in the kitchen, Chet says next thing you'll be wearing a bra on your head and Wyatt looks to the camera. "},{"Title":"I loved this when I saw it in 1986","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Someone else said if you hate this, you were born too late.  I totally agree.  This is a light-hearted 80s teen comedy.  They were all like that!--their worst worries were getting girls, being popular.  I liked the visual gags, where the camera cuts to the boys in shorts in the shower.  I liked the scene where Anthony Michael Hall is bragging about his rough life to the old blues musicians.  This is as much a classic as Ferris Bueller or 16 Candles.  I like it much better than Breakfast Club.  The only things that date it are the polite parent-child relationships, the tame sexual innuendos and the Mad Max references towards the end.  LOVE those old clothes big hair and the Madonna-inspired outfits.  Enjoy! "},{"Title":"It's always a real delight to watch this movie !","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The main theme's undoubtedly the coolest thing about this movie. Oingo Boingo's song will always last. The plot's simple, quite foolish yet highly entertaining. Kelly Le Brock's a super sexy cybergirl and the two nerds Wyatt and Garry are really funny, especially when they wear those funny bras on their heads. Bill Paxton plays the role of the hateful brother very well, luckily his cruelty's suitably punished by Kelly's magic powers. Robert Downey Jr. was really young here, one of the few times we don't see him in trouble with justice ). What else could we say? Well it's funny to think that one of the bikers who crash into the house 's a teacher, don't you agree with me? This movie's unique. I hope no one wants to shoot a sequel.   "},{"Title":"Not one of Hughes' best.","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a little disappointed when I saw this movie, only because I was expecting a lot more from Hughes.  But, it was still a good movie. Now, I love Anthony Michael Hall, I've mentioned this before in other reviews.  And the highlight of the movie for me, was when Kelly LeBrock, asks the two guys what her name should be, and A.M.H. says, How 'bout Lisa?  I about died!  If you'll notice what my name is, that just made my whole day when I saw that. But really the movie wasn't as good as so many make it out to be.  It was a little too juvenile and a lot of the acting was very bland.  The kid who played A.M.H.'s sidekick/buddy did not impress me all that much, and I was shocked to see Bill Paxton play such an imbecile, although he played it almost too naturally...it gave me some suspicions.But, of course the only person who really did a good job was Anthony. He is a true talent even today, especially in Pirates Of Silicon Valley, which he did a terrific job in.  However,  I don't understand what all the fuss is about with regards to LeBrock.  In my opinion, there are a lot of other girls/women who are much prettier, and frankly more talented.  But I won't sell her short, she did do a good job in the movie, but let's face it, there wasn't much to act to.  A simple piece, that was an easy role that just about anyone could have played.I give this movie a 7 out of 10 (10 being the highest), for good writing, and some good acting, but otherwise, my second least favorite Hughes piece.That's the end of this review. "}{"Title":"A nice film for the average fridaynight","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oke for a comedy this movie get's ***** out of ***** because it's just so damn funny, i was laughing troughout almost the entire film.The story is not that great but the jokes are just so funny, there's nothing more to say about the film than that it's just ... funny "},{"Title":"Total Sci Fi Tinged With Teen Comedy","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like this movie. I watched it the other day. I first seen it at the movies in 1985 and it was rated PG13 - me nor my girlfriend were 13 yet - almost - but we seen it anyways (sssshhhhh , dont tell the theater)Anyhow - these days the rating speaks for it self , its sort of like Sixteen Candles and on that note , I think it should only have a PG rating - weve come along way since 1985! This is another 80s teen film - and its a good one. Not so much boring as it is ...unrealistic. But , its a movie - directed at preteens and at that it does it's trick. There are some funny parts and funny quotes and it starts out a little depressing but you end up smiling. So , enjoy this bit of 80s teen history - If you liked Sixteen Candles - you will probably like this. ) "},{"Title":"fantastic and exceptional film","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hi!My name is Bruno!I'm Italian boy!I'm 15 years old.... and I have seen this film yesterday.....For me this is a fantastic and exceptional film, because it mirrors the world of the young people and our beautiful age.... I am contrary to the critical ones that say.... this film don't make any teaching and it doesn't serve to anything... they are wrong him because this film has made me understand, and I also thinks to others, that the dreams are realizable.... compliments to the authors... actors and to Kelly Le Brock... magnificent....I attend an answer....bye bye "},{"Title":"Anthony Michael Hall's last great movie....","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...(I abhored Johnny B. Good and his performance in Edward Scissor Hands was sub-par, although he does an excellent job in the tv series The Dead Zone.)  But over all a hilarious movie with an inane story line.  Bill Paxton as the 'Evil/Sadistic Brother' was outstanding.  Kelly LeBrock's straight-faced approached was priceless.  For inane '80s comedy I would rate this as a ten.My only complaint is of the soundtrack changes made for video and tv release.  Van Halen's Pretty Woman during the mall scene and the theme from Rocky during the gym scene was much more appropriate than the canned Weird Science theme it was later released as.Overall I would highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"So 80's, Very Exciting movie!!!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So 80's! I've seen this movie a couple of times and actually it's an really exciting and cool movie. The story of two young fellows searching for women. They can't get any because they are geeks. They create a woman by the computer, and that's what's really interesting about this movie. It has a story witch is great. The boys acts good and it's good music too. The thing i like about this movie is that it's so funny and it's interesting too. Once you've put your eyes on the movie, you can't stop looking. That irritates me sometimes when i am in a hurry and you can't stop watching.80's movies have something special. They're both funny and very good at the same time. That surprises me sometimes. I just love when movies has both good music and is funny too. I think 80's movies are very good sometimes because i love music from the 80's.  I really think the music affects the other things. And music is a big part of my head, i think. I would give this movie a 9/10 "},{"Title":"The first movie I ever owned.","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasn't allowed to see it in the theatre when it came out, so I had to wait until I could rent it.  Well, actually my friend rented it and I saw it at his house.  I've been hooked ever since.  Way back when I first began my movie collection, I made it a point to buy this and Caddyshack first. True, it doesn't make me belly laugh like it used to, but hey, I'm not 12 years old anymore either!  I still get a very enjoyable viewing out of it (especially from Chet), and I can't help but be swept back in time when the music kicks in during the opening credits.  To me, this movie is a blast and will always be one of my favorites.  Peace. "},{"Title":"SO REAL!!!!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie had such power efefct on me, I wanted to study deep science, and to hope that the girl in this would come to normal. And this movie, it makes you belive this can happen, you think with science and computers, you can bring a woman to normal. The guys in the movie, the story, the cameras is so real, it make you belive that anything can be brought to normal. I think this is why the film is too good, it feel SO REAL, the acting is so good, and the tecology is all so real. I think the films makers should win a award for this and making a movie which you think is real. The most real film I have ever see since Mannequin on the Move. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film for the 80s generation","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the funniest films from the 80s. It has everything that the 80s a great era to grow up in.The best feature was the computer nurds trying to create the perfect woman, who completely turned there world upside down.It's has everything. Two very cute girls Deb and Hilly, the nurds Gary and Wyatt. Two grandparents in the cupboard, three killer mutants who create their own party, a toad-like creature with a cru-cut hairstyle which turns out to be Wyatt's brother and not forgetting the beautiful woman herself Lisa. Another great aspect about this movie and others in the 80s generation is the heavy rock soundtrack which accompanies this film. All in All great fun. I recommend it.I do have one question though. Why make a series out of this movie, it was great as a film, but not as a series.  "},{"Title":"Pure nostalgic fun","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this film when I was about seven years old and I thought it was great. Yeah, looking back at it now it's quite trashy but that's sort of the fun of it. It's a no-brainer. Just stupidity and laughs. There's not one person I've met who hasn't seen it. It's like Porky's or Evil Dead 2, everyone remembers it and has fond memories of it. Hell, me and my friends could probably sit down and quote our way through the film. If you haven't seen this I totally recommend it. As long as you're not gonna take it seriously.  "},{"Title":"Crazy Weird Science","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"   This is a good film, but my least favorite of the John Hughes collection that I've seen. One feels that it was only a matter of time before Hughes (Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club & Ferris Buellers Day Off) would not get away with such a film... Ferris was next up. In house Anthony Michael Hall (Vacation, Sixteen Candles & The Breakfast Club) ,does a good job as lead after The Breakfast Club and Ilan Mitchell-Smith (Daniel, The Wild Life & The Chocolate War) is okay in his only Hughes role. Though I'm not convinced by Le Brock's performance (The Women in Red, Hard to Kill & Betrayal of the Dove) she was clearly not an actor by trade. I enjoyed the 'All American' acting of Bill Paxton (The Terminator, Twister & Titanic) and the desperate 'please have sex with me' acting of Robert Downey Jr. (Chaplin, Natural Born Killers & In Dreams) as Ian.Other than that I'll give it 6.9/10 a worthy effort "}{"Title":"An unpretentious, hilarious romp","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you insist on having movies provide you with a substantial theme, intricate sub-plots, and well developed deep characters then this movie is not for you.However, if you belong to a slightly less snobbish school of thought that believes that the salient purpose of any movie is to entertain, then you will love Weird Science.Weird Science is also one of two movies (16 Candles is the other)that feature Anthony Michael Hall at a point in his career when he was far and away the funniest thing on the screen.  All you need to do is see him hold up Molly Ringwald's underwear to a bathroom mobbed with nerds in 16 Candles, or hear him deliver the classic line The chicks can't hold the smoke, that's what it is,. in Weird Science to appreciate his natural hilarity.The plot is way out there.  Two teenage misfits create a woman using a computer.  She prods them to improve their teenage lives and shows them how to have fun.  The humor is often slapstick schtick.  Many of the jokes are obvious.  The popular kid/nerdy kid clash has been done to death, but this movie still works big time!Priceless scenes include a scene in a downtown bar where Gary gets drunk and Gary's and Wyatt's run-ins with Wyatt's older brother Chet. "},{"Title":"John Hughes can friggin entertain!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  John Hughes, the director who seemed obsessed with teenagers in the 80s, made some fine essential films like Sixteen Candles, Breakfast Club, Ferris Beuller's Day Off, and of course Weird Science. Like many of his masterpieces, this tale is set in fictional Shermer, Illinois, which must be near Chicago. It starts out with two dorks (Ilan Mitchell-Smith and Anthony Michael Hall) who set out to become popular by creating their dream babe on the computer. Their idea is straight-forward hanging out with a 10 will make them popular. Once they create Lisa (Kelley LeBrock), the hijinx begin and it does not appear that their plan will work. Until finally, everything does work out and they get the girls and live happily ever after. The reason I skipped the middle part is because it must be watched, and I am too damn lazy to go into it. Notable appearances come from Robert Downey Jr (Ian) and Bill Paxton (Chet).The DVD is pretty good but lacks any features whatsoever. There are no subtitles, no trailer, nothing but the movie, but the movie is so good that the DVD is worth owning. This will bring you back to the days of ultra-hip skinny ties, feathered hair, and English Beat songs. I will give the movie a 9.5, and the DVD itself a 5. If you haven't seen this, at least rent it, or catch it on USA Up all night. "},{"Title":"One Of the Best 80's Movies","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Weird Science is such a classic 80's movie you can't help but love it. The plot is about two geeks Gary and Wyatt who create a real life dream girl on their computer, I want her to live, I want her to breathe, I want her to aerobicize. I think the whole movie is hysterical but my favorite part (which isn't in the movie but in some of the TV versions) is when the weenies come to the party on their scooters armed with devo hats. It was too funny. I recommend that if you haven't seen this movie then see it and if you already have then watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Idiotic fun","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anthony Michael Hall domination of the early 80's continues with this John Hughes (surprise!) film that gets a bit carried away with the special effects and occasionally forgets about the laughs. The 'plot' is that two teenage boys conjur up a supermodel using their computer, although it's more an excuse for special effect heavy jokes and slapstick humour. There's no denying Kelly LeBrock is a beauty she just has a little trouble acting. Hall carries the entire movie, and Bill Paxton is superb as the obnoxious older brother. Filled with the Hughes witty teenage talk we all know and love, and naturally both boys get the girls at the end.Of course, the best thing about Weird Science is that it could only have been made in the 80's. As soon as the Oingo Boingo theme tune kicks in, a tear wells up in the eyes of anyone who lived the eighties. The film also spawned a somewhat successful television show, nine years after the film was released. (Comedy/Sci-fi, 1985) "},{"Title":"Dumb but fun","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not every movie is a CITIZEN KANE. That's okay. We need our clowns as well as our thespians, and John Hughes's WEIRD SCIENCE delivers up some of the goofiest teen comedy ever to come out of La-La Land. Basically, it's about two geeks, Gary and Wyatt, who take a cue from Dr. Frankenstein and create the ultimate woman (played by Kelly LeBrock). Of course, like Frankenstein, the boys soon learn that their creation is out of control. Their lives turn upside-down as one wacky incident after another occurs. Despite the hokey '80s decor, this movie is actually still quite funny and perfect for days when you just want to throw your brain in the blender and laugh your butt off. "},{"Title":"The best of 80's nostalgia in one movie!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't understand how anyone can describe this movie as anything short of a masterpiece.  So, all comedies are not funny anymore after you've seen them for quite a few times, but the difference with Weird Science is that you can still watch it over and over again, without getting bored with it.  It is fun to watch, and it should appeal to anyone, not people who were teenagers in the 80's.  I myself, am now only 19, so, I was no teenager in the 80's, but with an intelligent, objective, opinion, I'd say 80's movies and music are the best.Despite the fact that Wyatt and Gary create Lisa, who cares if it is unrealistic?  If you can live yourself into this movie, become part of the fun, you'd have a ball.All the main characters are very funny.  Parts I single out is Lisa asking the old lady for advice on underwear for a 15 year-old; Chet turning into that little monster, Gary and Wyatt in the mall, the list goes on!Even the special effects are quite good for that time.Apart from funny moments throughout the movie, in the end you can also learn something, where Gary says to Debbie  Because I want you to like me for me, and she replies  Whatever you are I like it.  Whereas today, money, looks, etc. are the thing.It is also so sweet in the end, where Lisa says goodbye, what she says to them, the farewell, it is just so overall endearing!  Which just makes you love this movie even more.The sound track is also quite nice, with Weird Science being played at just the right moment each time.I've come across a few people who always give negative comments about this movie, and surprisingly enough they're all teenagers in the 90's mostly. My advice to anyone watching this movie, remember the 80's was a different era than now, the fashion, the music, everything was different.  Take time out, and just see this movie for what it is, a great fun-filled movie, that anyone can enjoy.  The prejudice that such a lot of people have against the 80's is beyond comprehension to me anyway.  Anyone who watches it, cant help but go crazy about Gary, Wyatt and Lisa, who are all such endearing characters.This is one of my favorite movies of all time, and the fashion and the music in it just adds to that 80's nostalgia that this film gives you.To end off this movie could do with a sequel, with Gary and Wyatt, married, life going downhill again, and once again calling upon Lisa to straighten them out.I gave it 10/10.  Watch and see if you do too. "},{"Title":"It sure does live up the title","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this movie was weird. A bit too strange, you ask me. That fat poop monster was disgusting, I almost lost my supper. For some strange reason, I started to enjoy this weird little movie because of the strange storyline. This is on my list of the most strangest movies I've ever, and for some strange reason I liked it!*** "},{"Title":"Well, I'm confused.","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched and thoroughly enjoyed this classic film and was appalled to see the scathing remarks my fellow Internet users wrote about WEIRD SCIENCE. Their main criticisms of this film seemed to be based on the fact that it is a 1980s movie and therefore must be completely irrelevant and trashy, fourteen years later.What?!?Just because something is old, is it automatically defunct? Is anything from the 80s defined as crap, solely because it is from the 80s?Well, I'd better go and throw myself off a bridge or something, because I was born in 1980 and therefore I must be Past My Use-By Date, and perhaps No Longer Of Any Relevance To This Glorious Decade.But seriously folks. I realise that the 90s is a very anger-oriented decade, and people like to hate anything that isn't from the 90s just because it's fashionable to do so. But that just isn't what the art of film-making is about. Film-making is about being on the cutting edge, indeed, but it is also about respecting fine traditions laid down (gasp) in the past, even (shock, horror) in the 80s. Many 90s films, in their attempts to be avant-garde and completely different to everything from the past, just end up going overboard and get tripped up by their own self-conscious sensationalism.But I digress. This film may indeed contain music and fashions that are different to the somewhat ridiculous contemporary 90s equivalents. But don't judge a book by its cover. Beneath the very 80s exterior lies a brilliantly funny movie, with themes and ideas that are just as relevant today as they were in the 1980s. And the special effects still look good today; they don't have that oh-so-clichd 90s computer-generated tackiness. And what other film have you ever seen that involves a grand piano being launched from a chimney and landing on a summer-house? I give this film a solid *** and a half out of ****. And remember, what goes around comes around People in 2013 will be laughing their heads off at the bad fashions, horrid music and corny special effects from the movies of 1999. The 80s have a certain timelessness, however, evident in such great movies as this one. "},{"Title":"A visually stunning comedy with much more to it than laughter.","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is easily the movie I have seen more times than any other film.  A wonderful source of laughter,  nostalgia and warm feeling,  Weird Science sticks out among many of the 1980's teenage angst movies as it tells an amusingly funny story while at the same time retaining a sense of deep seated humanity.  At first glance Weird Science might seem like just another coming-of-age movie,  but many would agree that between the one-liners and bathroom humor one can find a stunning degree of thought. "},{"Title":"Bad haircuts and eighties panache","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Weird Science is a film for a generation, not that other generation won't enjoy this.  This film which to be honest is so old even the BBC have shown it more than twice, captured my friends and I.  The film manages to mix belly aching laughter with dodgy eighties soundtrack music.  In fact I'd have to say that if you like the eighties and bad fashions this film can't help but hit the spot.However the lack of a real plot actually makes this film better, so those who don't like it I'm afraid it's a little over your heads people.  With excellent performances from most concerns and all your favourite strange looking actors for the biker freaks scene.  With one liners a plenty, this is the one you mention down the pub along with Do you remember Bagpuss? and you can even remember Kelly Le Brock, YES!All in all a cracking film and one worth a sly mention ever now and again, heartily recommended! "}{"Title":"To the Point!","Date":"24 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Weird Science is a true reflection about the films and pop culture of the 80's.  A very good movie that can be enjoyed by anyone who grew up in that decade.  The movie offers very good acting and a flow that makes the movie seem almost too short. This movie deserves a high recommendation for anyone who hasn't seen it, but beware; it is dated.  It may bore teens who grew up in the 90's, who have become desensitized with the extreme/in your face crap that is being fed down their throat, but if they want to enjoy a decade that was truly enjoyable, here's the movie. I gave it a solid 7 of 10 rating. "},{"Title":"I love the movie","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't know a TV series existed but this movie appealed to me straight off.  I watched it with a friend one night and we fell about the floor laughing.  The best bit is when Chet ( Bill Paxton ) finds it snowing in his room.  Whacky and idiosyncratic but if you fancy a great night out with mutant bikers, then rent this forthwith. "},{"Title":"Good, GOOD movie","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know a lot of fans of the TV series that didn't even know this movie existed! Hopefully they wisened up and rented this awesome movie. Anthony Michael Hall, in the midst of his teenage prime thanks mostly to the Breakfast Club, is hilarious in this movie.  The funniest character, BY FAR, is very suprisingly, Bill Paxton!  Bill plays Wyatt's brother Chet, and never stops making me laugh.  80's movies are the best, and this movie is just more proof to back that. "},{"Title":"Random Fun","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The plot is simple. Two unpopular teenage virgins (Hall and Mitchell-Smith) use a supercomputer to build the perfect woman (Kelly LeBrock.) She's programed to give them whatever they want. (Why they only create one for the two of them is a little kinky, no?) Instead of giving them what they want, the all-knowing Lisa gives them what she knows they really want. They want to be popular, well liked, cool, and most of all, popular with the ladies. So she sets out to boost their confidence using her magic powers and sex appeal in various ways.The boys deal with bullies (Robert Downey Jr. and Robert Rusler,) a nasty older brother (Bill Paxton,) uptight parents, a gang of mutant bikers, a nuclear warhead in the living room, and cranky grandparents, all while gaining respect from their classmates and winning the affection of two popular girls from school.Personally, I have never been big a fan of John Hughes movies. I think 'Sixteen Candles,' 'Ferris Bueller,' and 'The Breakfast Club' are all overrated. They're not bad movies, I've just never personally found them very interesting. But I really enjoyed 'Weird Science.' It's probably one of the most unpretentious films I've ever seen. It's random, funny, bizarre and has a refreshing anarchic feel to it. It's like a punk film without the punks. "},{"Title":"How Could You Not Love This Movie?!?","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" First, let me say that I am only 24 years old. I do not remember the first time I saw this movie, but I can tell you it has been one of my absolute favorites since I can remember. Generally, some of my favorite films are the brain-children of John Hughes (The Breakfast Club and Sixteen Candles are classics). That being said, everyone should see this movie at least one if not 100 times. I always seem to watch it in its entirety whenever it is on TV. It is one of those classic 80s teen movies that just delivers everything it should. Granted, it is not Oscar worthy or anything like that. But it is one of those movies that you just love to watch. I won't comment on the plot for those of you who may not have seen this, but I strongly urge you to see whenever you can. Nearly 20 years after its release it is still worth watching (plus it is fun to mock the typical 80s fashion choices). In short, I love it and I think you will too. "},{"Title":"Lyrics to Oingo Boingo's Weird Science!","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" (weird science) Plastic tubes and pots and pans Bits and pieces and Magic from the hand Were ma-kin(weird science) Things I've never seen before Behind bolted doors Talent and imagination(weird science) Not what teacher said to do Makin dreams come true Living tissue, warm flesh(weird science) Plastic tubes and pots and pans Bits and pieces (and) Bits and pieces (and)Chorus (bits of) my creation--is it real? Its my creation--i do not know No hesitation--no heart of gold Just flesh and blood--i do not knowFrom my heart and from my hand Why don't people understand My intentions . . . . ooh, weird . . . . Weird science!!(weird science) Magic and technology Voodoo dolls and chants Electricity Were ma-kin(weird science) Fantasy and microchips Shooting from the hip Something different Were ma-kin(weird science) Pictures from a magazine Diagrams and charts Mending broken hearts (and ma-kin)(weird science) Something like a recipe Bits and pieces . . . . Bits and pieces . . . . (weird science) "},{"Title":"Weird but good","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Gary and Wyatt are teenage geeks who want girlfriends, but they don't think anyone would want them. So while watching the classic 'Frankenstein' at Wyatt's house while Wyatt's parents are away, Gary gets the idea to create a woman. Wyatt can do it on his computer--with a little help from a larger computer somewhere else that he hacks into. The 'woman' is only a simulation until lightning strikes the house. A real woman appears wearing next to nothing, and at that very moment Dr. Frankenstein says from the TV upstairs, 'She's alive!' (This is strange since the power was supposedly knocked out.)'Lisa', as the boys decide to call her, can do anything the boys want, and she has to do what they say because they created her. This would be a teen boy's fantasy, but having everything you want may not be what you really want. And the boys learn this important lesson, and about the best way to be popular with the other teens. After going through some really weird situations including killer mutants and a nuclear missile in the basement.Kelly LeBrock delivered a decent performance. In movies such as this you would expect the girl to be a perennially happy brainless bimbo. Lisa is not. She has a brain and she cares about what the boys need, not just what they want. And if they need to be taught lessons, she gives the boys what they think they want.I did not care for Wyatt's mean brother Chet. Wyatt's grandparents made a brief appearance that was campy. I liked the men in the blues club and the bartender in a later scene. The visual effects were pretty good but not groundbreaking. One of the strange characters was a blob resembling Jabba the Hutt.Overall, I thought the first twenty minutes were good, but the movie started going downhill, later recovering temporarily. It turned out that no matter how weird things got, the writers managed to recover somehow, often in a clever way. So this wasn't complete garbage. "},{"Title":"Cheesy 1980's film, but hey, it's all good.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those films that really isn't very good, but when you were a kid it was the coolest movie around.  As a child in the 80's I grew up with this film and it was awesome, but I watch it now and it's fun to watch, but I can't imagine anyone that didn't grow up with it really liking it. There really isn't much logic or reality to this film, but it's fun to watch anyway.Although, if you want to see Kelly LeBrock looking unbelievably sexy, then you might want to check this film out.  Also, the two love interests aren't bad either (Suzanne Snyder and Judie Aronson).  The rest of cast is quite good as well. I especially like Ilan Mitchell-Smith's character, Wyatt, he seems like a genuinely likeable guy.  Anthony Michael Hall is pretty good in his role, but he truly is a nerd in the role.  Bill Paxton plays an excellent older brother to Wyatt, he really seems to steal the show when he's on the screen.  Robert Downey Jr. and Robert Rusler play the perfect cool-guy morons in the film.The acting is ok for the most part, but nothing terribly spectacular. Pretty much what you would expect from an 1980's teen comedy film.  All in all, the film is ok, but far from great.  If you haven't already seen it, I can't imagine you would really like it, but I have been wrong before.  If you feel intrigued, go ahead give it a view.  Hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Weakest John Hughes","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" John Hughes' weakest effort to date was this 1985 pic about two sexually frustrated young boys who come up with the bright idea of creating the perfect girl with the help of modern technology.The script from Hughes is basically a pathetic teen wet dream that perhaps stems back to the writer's own childhood. Certaninly this premise was not strong enough to carry the film, which consequently has no depth and will entertain at surface level only. Weird Science is blessed with some funny scenes but is ruined by too many clichd situations and two dimensional characters. Hughes fails to say anything profound to or about his young teenage audience.The cast are all below par, with Anthony Michael Hall not at his usual perceptive best, Ilan Mitchell-Smith merely filling in as the wussy sidekick and Kelly LeBrock having little to do but look hot. Bill Paxton has since moved on to bigger and better things, as has Robert Downey Junior.Sunday, September 28, 1997 - Video "},{"Title":"Appalling sexist junk","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" As all of the negative reviews for this abysmal film are stuck at the back of the review section, I thought I'd better try and get a more balanced comment at the front end. We'll see where my comments end up! Whilst I am by no means a big John Hughes fan, some of his films are enjoyable as popcorn flicks. This is not one of them. Michael Weldon's Psychotronic Video Guide indicates that Hughes wrote this in two days, and it shows. With few exceptions, Weird Science is devoid of humor and is repulsively chauvinist. The genesis of the lads 'dream woman' is laughably presented and the result--Kelly LeBrock--would surely have lead to a notation of 'must do better' on their science class term paper. The only redeeming factors are the performance of Bill Paxton as an abusive older brother and Michael Berryman as a motorcycle gang member. Unless you think boys fantasizing about breast size whilst wearing bras on their heads is funny, give this one a wide berth. "}{"Title":"What was John Hughes thinking?","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When this movie first came out, the reviewer in my local newspaper began his review with This offensive mess... and finished by giving it an F minus. He was being way too generous.  So was Leonard Maltin when he gave it 1 and 1/2 stars, although his use of the word appalling is pretty much on target.  The boys wear jock straps on their heads; the sadistic older brother/military school cadet refers to the 2 main characters as donkey genitalia (not a direct quote; I'm too much of a gentleman to use the correct word here and if I did use it, it would probably be expurgated); and one character gets turned into a three-foot-tall clod of steaming manure (how symbolic).  The TV series on which this movie was based was marginally better; possibly because the censors were on duty.  John Hughes wrote this thing in two days?  I'm not surprised.  This is the worst piece of garbage I've ever seen.  Take my advice and pass this by; THERE IS NOTHING WORTH SEEING IN THIS WRETCHED EXCUSE FOR A MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Brings New Meaning to Made to Order","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I haven't seen this movie for a long time, so for all I know it's horrible, but I have nothing but good memories of it.Any red-blooded American male has to at least appreciate the premise two horny teens discover a way to create the perfect woman, who exists for no other purpose than to fulfill their every fantasy. Hot damn!! Their perfect woman is Kelly Le Brock, who wouldn't necessarily be my choice, but she'll do.John Hughes was on a roll with his teen comedy genre, and this film preserves the memorable performances of Anthony Michael Hall and a young Bill Paxton as the world's most obnoxious older brother.Grade B "},{"Title":"Not that bad!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was not one of John Hughes' greatest successes. Supposedly, the film critics trashed this film. But you know what, it's worth watching. Kelly LeBrock plays the model that Anthony Michael Hall's character and his friend create from a computer. They live in suburban Chicago of course which is one of John Hughes' trademarks is to set most of his films in his beloved city. Anyway, his friends' parents go away for the weekend. Once Kelly's role is created, they want to get girls and be popular rather than be humiliated by the lights of Robert Downey Jr. who is also in this film as one of the popular dudes from their high school. The film could have been better but it could have been a lot worse by today's standards too. The film works because you can watch the silliness and chuckle at some of the scenes in it. It's not award-winning stuff, it's kids' stuff. LEt the kids today watch and judge for themselves. I'm not saying that adults can't enjoy it. I do to this day. So if you want to escape from depressing reality, watch this John Hughes' film. It will at least make you smile. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Along with 'Ferris Bueller's Day Off' this is one of John Hughes's best movies. Written over the course of a weekend (also corresponding to the plot time line), Hughes rushes, head first, into 'everything goes'-territory and takes a familiar plot...well, God knows where. I guess this was, sadly actually, only possible in the mid-80s. The lead characters are constantly overexcited, the supporting cast are even more excited in addition to Bill Paxton's key career performance as the 'bully brother' (later on, also as the 'human turd'. Don't ask). It even features a fairly young Robert Downey Jr. with a bra on his head shouting obscenities. After several years in limbo, 'Weird Science' has finally been released on DVD (part of the Hughes triple-feature) but depressingly enough without any extra material. Imagine if Paxton had contributed with a commentary track? "},{"Title":"This whole movie is a memorable quote!","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The ultimate 80's comedy.Memorable quotes?- This whole movie is a memorable quote;You get me started and chances are you will hear the whole movie. If you get the chance to see Bill Paxton being obnoxious, take it, because you're in for a treat. I believe this movie could only have been more enjoyable if the story had revolved around Chet. Can't believe nobody thought about further developing the Chet- character, cause it's f**kin' genius. Could you imagine a movie about Chet?-Do you realize...about Chet! I mean the movie is not meant to be clever, witty or realistic, but over the top and entertaining for kids, and I believe, especially for the 80's generation, it's unforgettable and always fun to watch again. As for Anthony Michael Hall- he should have stayed a child longer, just to make more films- he rocks!(just watch him drunk at the bar telling stories..)- Hilarious! "},{"Title":"Great 1980s teen comedy","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am having a 1980s teen movie marathon over 2 days and i am going to watch and maybe comment on movies like The Breakfast Club,Sixteen Candles and Pretty In Pink.I love this movie and if u are a teen now u will love this movie and if u where a teen in the 1980s u will love this movie too.I am a big fan of Anthony Michael Hall and i think he is a really great actor and he does a great job at acting in this movie.There are some funny scenes in this movie like when the character Gary Wallace (Anthony Michael Hall) gos to a pub and gets drunk and then his friends drive him home and on the way home his friend accidentally runs a red light and the drunk Anthony is flung around on the back seat and his friend asks him if he is OK and in a really funny drunken voice he says My nuts are half way up my ass but other then that,i'm perfect!Over all this movie is a all time 1980s teen comedy classic and my rating for this movie is 6 and a half out of 10. "},{"Title":"Butter my muffin","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" One word Hilarious. In my opinion Weird Science is one of the funniest films ever made. Just as long as you suspend your disbelief and enjoy the ride.Gary and Wyatt are too high school losers dreaming of the respect of their peers and being popular. Somehow they create a sexy computer genie lady and much craziness and laughter ensues. It's so good you can't even count the laughs on a centipede.This film riffs on Frankenstein and various eighties film clichs but uses really great dialogue and original comedic situations, whilst dealing with all the issues an unpopular teenager has.Anthony Michael Hall is a genius who sadly faded, and John Hughes has also fallen by the wayside but this will forever be their finest achievement and I urge you to catch it on region 1 DVD, because it's difficult to get anywhere else.Bill Paxton is also great and you will also notice a early appearance from Robert Downey Jr. "},{"Title":"Can Bill Paxton save this movie?","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Weird Science is just there. A juvenile 80s comedy that struggles for laughs and with a very weak premise. It still gets some good gags in and Bill Paxton has the role of a lifetime as Chet, the abusive older brother of one of the protagonists of the film. All the scenes with Paxton are hilarious and I dare you not to laugh out loud when he delivers the wedgie.Kelly Lebrock is so hot in this and that voice is so sexy. When I was a kid, this was as cool as female roles got.Anthony Michael Hall and Ilan Mitchell-Smith flounder as the two leads. They are not very likable and while AMH at least has something going for him, Ilan is terribly miscast and that voice will haunt you. It is not surprising Ilan never made much of himself as an actor.They play this on TV a lot and I'm giving you the OK to check it out the next time they do. It has enough funny scenes to validate watching it and has a genuine classic movie character in Chet. "},{"Title":"That was made by John Hughes?","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've always been a fan of John Hughes movies, even the goofy comedies like Vacation. My boyfriend is a fan of that movie so I decided to watch it, even though I was septic. I didn't know it was made by John Hughes when I rented it, and I thought I was going to see just another 80's goofy comedy, which is pretty much what it is in general.I'm not sure if I liked that movie. I liked the silly story, two geeky teenagers making the perfect woman with their computer who becomes like a big sister to them who gives them advice. It's also so badly made and silly that it can be hilarious for that reason.  Just watch the scene where they create the girl But sometimes it just seemed like an excuse to give real geeky guys something to dream about. The two main characters aren't even that interesting or funny. One of them is a fun character because he's very shy and scared of people around him, but in my opinion, the other character is extremely annoying. I usually like pointless and goofy movies but I was completely discouraged at the end of this movie when there was an attempt at a love story. I know this movie doesn't take itself seriously, but come on...I didn't find this movie very funny overall. It just seemed like another sex comedy for teens. It's sort of like a really bad cross between American Pie and Mannequin. I laughed sometimes, by example, when the two protagonists have bras over their heads, but I don't think anything made me laugh aside from this scene and the general goofy-ness of the movie.I'm not going to talk about the acting either. The appeal in a movie like this one is that it's so stupid and badly made that it can be fun to watch. It can be a good addition to your 80's classic comedies collection as well.  "},{"Title":"Good Cheesey 80's film","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wierd Science was on one of the movie channels the other night and to tell the truth i only watched it to see Robert Downey Jr, but when it got going I found myself really enjoying it. It is simply a feel good 80's movie that shows the lengths that people would go to to be accepted. Ok so maybe no-one would actually create someone on their computer, as thats not possible, but there would have been no point to the film if that hadn't have happened. The actors chosen for the roles were, in my opinion, perfect. They were just the right kinda of people, geeky looking enough to fool, but then handsome enough to carry off the new 'look' Lisa gave them. I wasn't as keen on Lisa's character as I personally thought that she was too...i dunno, too bitchy and condesending. She didn't seem to fit into the character very well. I loved the characters that were played by Robert Downey Jr and Bill Paxton. They were just so typically condesending and nasty!With Paxton as the All American big bro, wanting money and other payments as bribes. Downey Jr was just right as the school bully and hunk (soz but he was !!!) All in all the preformances in this movie were just right for the movie and decade....cheesy but cute. "}{"Title":"weird writing","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched the show Weird Science the entire time it was screened in Australia, so naturaly I was interested in seeing the film that it was based on, nothing could have prepared me for what I saw. I did enjoy the film emensly, in that I was laughing my head off at it, but it wasn't because of well crafted and creative humor but more in the vain of the what the hell's going on type of humor that floods this film. I heard that it was written in just a couple of hours, which looking at it seems to make perfect sense seeings the plot is so loosley put together and the situations so far fetched it's almost as if John Hughes asked us to forget about logic for a couple of hours and just sit back and enjoy the ride, this I did, and I was not disappointed. "},{"Title":"fun teen comedy","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of three terrific John Hughes movies from 85, this is yet another simple, easy going story like we've seen from Hughes before.  Basically, with the help of a little computer magic, two dateless dweebs create a dream girl one late Friday night.  She turns out to be an English stunner (Le Brock) who gets them partying, meeting girls, and driving fancy cars.  Once you accept the fact that this is totally fantasy that could never happen, you should have fun.  Hall and Smith are very good together as the buddies, and Paxton is a real standout as the pushy, abusive older brother (who gets turned into some sort of midget-alien in the films funniest moment).  A terrific title song from Oingo Boingo and the ultimate proof of what a great writer Hughes was in the 80s...he wrote this (allegedly) in only 2 days! "},{"Title":"Clear fail!","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hard to believe that this is by John Hughes, the genius of Ferris Bueller's Day Off and Planes, Trains, Automobiles. But this movie is utterly, devastatingly bad, save for this one line Two guys have created this ber-girlfriend (on their home computer), and then one of them meets this cute real girl. He has to explain to her how he prefers her to Ms. Bionical. So he goes She's all I ever wanted ... until I knew what I wanted ... -- deep look at his chick.OK, that IS a good line. The rest of this movie was just utter crap. John Hughes knew how to capture the imagination of a teenage audience -- not in this schlocker.RIP, John. "},{"Title":"Michael Berryman deserves better","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even at the tender age of fifteen, I realized that this dismal bit of adolescent wish-fulfilment stank to high heaven. Leonard Maltin describes John Hughes as that shameless panderer to teens, and that's as good a description as any, even if I consider it rather too polite when you consider who we're dealing with. When I was fifteen, I was a big fan of Monty Python, so watching this trash after LIFE OF BRIAN was like following a gourmet banquet with a Big Mac. Once again, Hughes rolls out every stereotype in the book (and some of the most unutterably crass and disgusting dialogue, even in this lowly context) and pads out his paper-thin conceits with a dire cast of unappealing louts, and tops the whole unappetizing recipe with the vacuous talent-free zone that is Kelly LeBrock. The only decent actor in this mess is everyone's favourite movie mutant, the one and only Michael Berryman (THE HILLS HAVE EYES), obviously embarrassed and just paying the bills as a biker. It's worth mentioning that my mother, at the time closing in on fifty, loved this uninspiring trudge through the sludge of Hughes's otherwise empty brain. I told her this is for KIDS! You should be ASHAMED of yourself!, and she countered that I was just being facetious and humourless. Almost twenty years on, I still think this film is as good a trigger for advanced manic depression as any car wreck, serious bereavement or crippling financial difficulty, and the fact that there are still dozens of copies of this in just about every video store in town only compounds my long-held point of view that there is indeed no justice in the world. Oh yes, and it's no wonder Anthony Michael Hall later developed a geek complex and went on to do several bad action thrillers.  "},{"Title":"boring","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mmmmmmm, high ratings for a comedy, must be good but up to today's standards it looks ridiculous. I had never seen it before because when it came out I was at the end of my teens and was already into horror but the story always attracted me due being based on Frankenstein, and by doing they added a lot of screenshots from the Universal classic (1931).But I must say that I never laughed it out loud . I was more watching it for other reasons and no you are wrong, not for Kelly Lebrock (Lisa) in her sexy outfit. This is one of the earlier flicks with Robert Downey Jr. with his other teeth. You know what I mean when you are going to watch it. Michael Berryman is also to spot as a biker, you know him from The Hills Have Eyes (1977). The jokes are really stupid and so predictable that for me it was all a bad joke. Didn't like it at all but it must be me because it even spawned a series (1994). A classic, not for me. I rather go for the other classic from the same year, The Breakfast Club.Gore 0/5 Nudity 0/5 Effects 1/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0,5/5 "},{"Title":"Bill Paxton, as Chet, rules - the rest is pretty awful...","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  CHET, played by bill paxton in a career starting role, is awesome. chet rules! he is the best part of the movie, and without him there is nothing to go on and it's a weak bratpack john hughes movie. the premise is interesting and fun to watch but it's sloppily done. i like that david lee roth had a part in making the girl's personality. i wish she'd have taken over the band instead of sammy 'mediocre' hagar. she is pretty (was?) but she's very annoying and her jaggerish lips get in the way when she talks and that accent is so thick. anthony michael hall is good but the story doesnt hold him up. i liked seeing robert downey jr. he is cool but looked too goofy for a bully; i think he walked off the set of 'back to school' and didnt change his clothes; or rather vice versa. there's a part in the movie where some bikers ride into the house of hall's buddy during a party and it's very dumb. the iatolla of rockinrolla from 'road warrior' (a movie that i refuse to rewatch because the dog dies) is in it and anthony hall and his buddy must fight them to be popular. but this is after the party is already destroyed by a giant atom bomb growing from the earth up into the house. dumb. but bill paxton is great especially when he is pointing his rife at anthony m. hall and his pretty blonde girlfriend, and he bangs hall's head with the nozzle and then bangs the girl in the head. we all want to be mean to hot chicks (out of our reach) and we can all relate to chet's character in a way, atleast we crazy, lonely, 80's reject people can... "},{"Title":"Bill Paxton as Chet is the only reason, if any, to watch this","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  the older brother of the second nerdy kid, the kid from the wild life, played by bill paxton in a career starting role is awesome. chet rules! he is the best part of the movie, and without him there is nothing to go on and it's weak. the premise is interesting and fun to watch but it's sloppily done. i like that david lee roth had a part in making the girl's personality. the girl is pretty (was?) but she's very annoying and her jaggerish lips get in the way when she talks and that accent is so thick. anthony michael hall is good but the story doesnt hold him up. i liked seeing robert downey jr. he is cool but looked too goofy for a bully; i think he walked off the set of back to school and didnt change his clothes; or rather vice versa. there's a part in the movie where some bikers ride into the house of hall's buddy during a party and it's very dumb. the iatolla of rockinrolla from road warrior is in it and hall and his buddy must fight them to be popular. but this is after the party is already destroyed by a giant atom bomb growing from the earth up into the house. dumb. but bill paxton is great especially when he is pointing his rife at hall and his pretty blonde girlfriend, and he bangs hall's head with the nozzle and then bangs the girl in the head. we all want to do that and we can all relate to chet's character in a way, atleast we crazy folks can... "},{"Title":"I don't get it.","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't understand how two teenage boys that put paper into machine instantly come out with a woman. It doesn't make any sense at all to me and that was the whole plot of the movie. All the boys wanted was to have a girlfriend and she ended up being ten years older than them. Plus they didn't know what to do with her. Then why did they create her in the first place? If I were Lisa, I would be running away from those two as fast as I could. The music is horrible and the special effects are the cheesiest I have ever seen. Then the piano comes out of the chimney and I don't have a clue what that has to do with making a human woman out of paper. This is one of the dumbest plots I have ever seen. Take it from Milhouse, nerds are smart. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever made","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am afraid that this is without any shadow of a doubt the very worst film I have ever seen.It really is truly appalling and has no redeeming features whatsoever. I am certainly not averse to watching junk, indeed some films are enjoyable precisely because they are bad. But this was is quite unbelievable.The acting is utterly abysmal - particularly Kelly LeBrock, who is totally talent-free. The storyline stinks to high heaven and is so politically incorrect it would make even the most severe male chauvinist blush. The dialogue is truly ghastly and made me cringe on many occasions. Time Out said that it was as though two adolescents had been let loose with a camera.I dare say many will think I am taking it too seriously. Believe me I am not. It is obviously meant to be a joke - it's just that it fails dreadfully and does not seem too aware of the miserably obnoxious underlying message it conveys. "},{"Title":"Worse than I remembered","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I caught a few minutes of Weird Science on television the other night. Boy, I wish I hadn't.Whereas the TV series was funny for being the goofy and pleasant comedy that the movie aims for, Weird Science is only amusing when one realizes how bad it was. Look at the casting. Anthony Michael Hall was tolerable in other John Hughes' movies as a supporting character, filling the nerd quotient. As a lead, however(even a lead nerd)?...I think that question answers itself. Who was Robert Downey, Jr. supposed to be playing? Were the love interests some of the worst drawn roles ever? The only character I liked was Lisa and Vanessa Angel proved to be a much better choice for the role 10 years later.There were a lot of great 80's movies about teens and for them, but Weird Science just doesn't belong. The only way I think you'd genuinely like this film is if you believe in ridiculously fantastical plots or Bill Paxton's ridiculously bad haircut. "}]