[{"Title":"They don't make 'em like this anymore.","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm so tired of modern family movies full of fart jokes or movies where teenagers make love to pastries and it's supposed to be funny and then they staple on some superficial message at the end in an attempt to be poignant and balance out all the trash that came before. Every other week we are tortured with some nonsense of this calibre and whenever I wish for a movie that stands out from the crowd I have to go back in time and consider some overlooked gem. The Boy Who Could Fly is exactly that.The characters seem so real and their emotions genuine, it builds at a slow pace but it never gets boring and story development is consistent. This is not a ferociously loud summer crowd-pleaser or something bloated with pointless SFX. Very few movies have the power to make a whole story out of characters and situation alone without feeling the need for some ridiculous set piece or blaring thrash metal guitars.In fact Bruce Broughton's score is the wonderful opposite of that. The performances, especially the two leads, are flawless and the direction is far more refined than the typical. Everything in this movie comes together perfectly to make a film so unique and charming. If you have lost your faith in the current dreck that graces our screens and if you want a family movie with some meaning and subtext then check this out. And keep an eye out for director John Carpenter as on of the Coupe De Villes.The DVD is in 1.781 anamorphic widescreen and in Dolby 2.0. It has an introduction by Jay Underwood and director Nick (Michael Myers) Castle, they also feature in a commentary with Lucy Deakins and Fred Savage.  "},{"Title":"Lovely movie","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm really surprised I didn't see more comments on this movie. I remember watching this movie when I was, I think 13 or 14. I never quite understood the complexities of emotion that were put into this movie. But I had always remembered it from my younger years. I decided to pick up the DVD when it came out again. Now that I'm older, and actually work with cut scenes as an animator for a living. I now see everything that I missed. I am by all means not an emotional person or cry a lot etc, but I have at least watched this film more then 15 times in the last year. No other movie has ever brought me to tears every time I watch it. Not tears of sadness or being upset , but tears of happiness. There are so many moments in this picture that can overwhelm you with that gut feeling of real love. You really let these characters take your heart and go with it. That is what a true movie is a about , is the ability to let you heart go and pull in that emotion from them and try to imagine feeling what they feel. I don't think any other movie has captured my heart that way. I might seem all soft and sound like a push over but I'm about as manly as you can get. If you have the time to see this movie or buy it. You truly will receive a much broader look at life , love , fear , relationships and most of all believing in yourself and who you are. I didn't want reveal any of the movie but it really has touched me. Michael Loeck Character animator http//www.immortal3d.com "},{"Title":"A warm and poignant tale.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In an atmosphere of fantasy, the movie explores several real human issues. The story centers on a mother (Bonnie Bedelia), her young teenage daughter (Lucy Deakins), and her pre-teen son (Fred Savage) as they struggle to cope after the beloved father's sudden passing. Their grief is intensified by the manner of his death and their almost immediately having to adjust to a new life, a new home, a new neighborhood, and for the kids, a new school and new friends. Into this mix enters Eric (Jay Underwood), the apparently autistic teenage boy next door, who is coping with demons of his own as a result of his parents' sudden death in an airplane crash. So grief is involved, and adjustment, and trying to fit in, and acceptance of human differences, and courage, and love - love within a family group and among people, as well as real boy/girl love. Writer-director Nick Castle deals with these issues with respectful sensitivity, as does the excellent ensemble cast of Lucy Deakins, Jay Underwood, Bonnie Bedelia, Fred Savage, Colleen Dewhurst, Fred Gwynne, and Mindy Cohn. That fantasy might be important to plot movement shouldn't be surprising, considering the movie's title. However, whether that fantasy is allegorical or real, or both, is in the eyes of the beholder. In any case, it's a warm and poignant tale, and it deserves a high place in the literature of motion pictures. "},{"Title":"this was the best movie i have ever seen in my life","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is great. It takes you back when wishes and faith brought people a long way. There is no getting around it if you have never seen this movie you need to. This is a great movie for kids to watch compared to the movie choices that they have today, but yet is great movie for adults. This movie is an older movie but yet is the only movie that I can honestly say was great. no complaint or suggestions just great. Well written and directed the actors and actress's where great. This movie is one that should never be forgotten and I would love to see anther movie made that is like this. This movie should never leave your library of movies and if you do not own it you should there is no getting over it it was the best movie of my time and that is not very long but it always will be the best. "},{"Title":"Lovely movie and there could be an interesting sequel","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Like other commentators before me I watched this film as a young man and it touched me. In fact it moved me to tears. Now I am older I am still touched by the simplicity of this film and yet it is complex in showing us that from adults to children we all have things to deal with. The reason why Eric Gibb could fly is the most touching of all and in case there are people who do not believe that it is possible for one to sense tragedy in one close to you, believe me it's real.As I pen this comment I have just watched it again and cannot help but feel that even twenty years plus since this movie came out there is the scope for a sequel 'The Man who could fly' I am not talking about a TV series but a one off movie showing our stars meeting again in adult hood. Something to think about. I liked this movie and I would like to own it on DVD should it be released for the European audience. "},{"Title":"Uplifting tale of friendship","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There are few films the go beyond the realms of reality, yet hit so close to home. Such is the case with this film. I could immediately identify with Milly. She is a down to earth girl who was alone and wanted to believe in a boy who was as lonely (if not more) as she was. But little did she suspect that his story would be one that would go beyond all of her wildest dreams. This movie is very rare in today's movie market, a wholesome and innocent film that is a pleasure to watch again and again. One of the most beautiful scenes to me is when she reaches for a rare white rose with one pink petal and as she climbes the railing (the only thing gaurding her from a deep gorge) Eric immediatly grabs her arm, concerned for her safety. The love is really there in his eyes. Wonderful film that illustrates the forbidden lines between reality and the incredible. "},{"Title":"Perfect warm-hearted family faire mixes down-to-Earth drama with flightful fantasy","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The Boy Who Could Fly is one of those rare family films that mixes just a touch of fantasy with a truly down-to-Earth dramatic story.Following the death of Bedelia's husband, she moves her family into a new neighborhood next door to an autistic young man (Underwood).  Deakins gains interest in Underwood's silent world of thought while attempting to keep things stable at home. Unusual things begin to happen around Underwood. While life seemingly falls apart for her family, Deakins and the audience are irresistably drawn into Underwood's world and we begin to question if his apparent dream to fly isn't more than just a fantasy. The acting in this film is superb, especially silent Underwood who conveys more thought and emotion with his eyes, face and body than the actors who speak. Bruce Broughton's melodious score is heartwarming and delivers full enchantment for the flying? scenes.  (The main theme is so enchanting, the Walt Disney company has used it to open every film at their El Capitan theater in Hollywood, CA). This is a wonderful film for the entire family.  Slight warning  for families that have recently lost a parent, it would be a good idea for the other parent to watch with the kiddies. And although they may find themselves dealing with the emotion of their trauma, they should feel much better when the film ends.  "},{"Title":"A meaningful family oriented drama","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Back in the late 1980's, Jay Underwood was a teenaged boy who had a short lived starring career in films. He made his starring debut in this 1986 Lorimar release which could've been a major star making vehicle if its theatrical response was more profitable. Time has served it well and it now stands as a family favorite from the 1980's. Underwood portrays a boy who isolates himself from society after his parents die in a plane crash. He stays in his house all day long and pretends to be in a land where he can fly. Lucy Deakins portrays a teenaged girl who feels sorry for Underwood and tries to help him fit in. Somewhat sappy at times but otherwise genuinely touching. Film is also notable for serving as the debut performance of Fred Savage, the star of the TV series The Wonder Years. "},{"Title":"Flying Dangerously Close To The Ground","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A classic 80's film that nears cheesy pap but still avoids and retains heart through excellent pacing, dialog and acting. It might not hold up as well as when I first saw it because the family film concept had not yet been run into the ground yet for me. Fred Savage does a good job in an interesting subplot that involves a bully and funerals for GI JOE soldiers. Fond memories of his confrontation with the neighborhood bullies still color my memory of this film.A fun warm family fantasy that seems to be in short supply as of late due to it being nearly impossible to make something realistic because of the amount of film cliche in the modern world. Still, the film is very watchable and fun. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Sweet but kind of slight","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As one other IMDb user noted here, this is a movie that would most likely not be made today. It's lacking in cynical attitudes and razzle- dazzle flash. But being raised in the era that this movie was made, I could appreciate the movie's sweet and gentle tone. I also thought that the cast did a very good job in making their characters believable and sympathetic.Still, this movie is far from perfect. A big problem I had was with the movie's length - it is almost two hours long. Though it could have been worse, since there is evidence here that the original cut of the movie ran much longer and was whittled down in the editing room to its present length. (Evidence the bullies that show up in the first few minutes of the movie subsequently disappear for more than an hour before showing up again.) Also, the movie seemed to be spinning its wheels over and over, with one scene after another advancing the plot little or not at all.This isn't a BAD movie - it has charm and warmth - but I think director/writer Nick Castle should have either reviewed his script a few more times before filming, or invited outside input to review the script. "}{"Title":"Fantasy movie with stronger drama elements","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I remember being intrigued by this movie when finding it on IMDb. For me the relative innocence of 80s movies and childhood nostalgia made it a much better, if absolutely unrealistic movie. It could be seen as some sort of modern fairy tale, not be considered seriously, but with some sort of hidden meaning/moral.I can relate to this movie because of some similar events, fears and dreams from my own life; of course like most movies, this one is exaggerated a bit, and mixes fantasy(people's dreams) with real life.This is why some 80s movies are so fun to watch, because they are absolutely unrealistic escapism and fantasy to the max, cheesy and overly optimistic as some may consider, but so is belief in God and Lord Jesus Christ, which i do share by God's grace. This may be due to a partial return to conservative and Christian values that the world had in the 80s, as a backlash against confused and crisis-ridden 70s.The film is about a family struggling with their lives after the tragic death of their father, who chose suicide instead of fighting with cancer. But no matter how hard one's life is, there is surely someone whose life is worse, so their neighbor is an alcoholic man with an autistic nephew, whose parents have died in a plane crash.While this movie is not Christian, in showing no love to or mention of God, it is similar to Jesus' second greatest commandment Love your neighbor as yourself. The girl Milly, while doing her best to be the family cook, actually finds time and care to help the autistic boy next door/window Eric. As many 80s movies' characters, Milly doesn't have much flaws, except for underage alcohol drinking; though i expected her to breakdown into i'm getting no respect/real life fit, guess i've seen too many 90s-00s overdriven realistic movies, where teenagers are too often rebellious and egoistical.As the Milly's mother and brother get through their work and bully problems, Milly and Eric get romantically close in an innocent way and get to fly holdings hands to the amazement of the whole city. Then Eric flies away. THE END.CONCLUSION The whole flying, may be a metaphor for the first love, with Milly and Eric, being high on the wings of love. It may also be an aspiration to what is true, noble, right.. as in New Testament, Philippians 48. The fact that Eric then flied away, may mean that Milly and Eric separated and never seen each other again, or that Eric may have fallen off the roof and did die, which sounds sad, but possible. Thus many people could relate to it, adding their own life stories about their first love, life tragedies or mental problems. "},{"Title":"A touching story of how dreams can come true","Date":"12 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was a teenager when this film first came out and never got round to seeing it back then.It was literally after reading a recommendation on an 80's website that i watched it this morning online and had to write a review.This film had me captivated from the beginning titles, right the way through to the closing credits. You cannot help but become engrossed in this film due to the quality of the cast and the soundtrack.I won't go into details about the plot of the film as other reviews have already covered that but all i will say is that i'm a 38 year old guy who doesn't lose control of his emotions often but i cried a hell of a lot at the final scene between the two lead characters.If you haven't seen this gem of a movie then don't wait as long as i did to get round to seeing it. You will fall in love with it, i guarantee that. "},{"Title":"gentle sensitive family film","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Milly Michaelson (Lucy Deakins), her little brother Louis (Fred Savage) and mother Charlene (Bonnie Bedelia) move into their new home. She gets a new friend in pushy Geneva Goodman (Mindy Cohn) while Louis gets bullied by Geneva's brother and his friends. Charlene has a difficult time to start anew after losing her husband. Eric Gibb (Jay Underwood) is a mysterious mute boy living in the room facing Milly. His drunken uncle Hugo (Fred Gwynne) is his guardian. People think Eric is autistic. He started to believe that he could fly at 5 when his parents died in a plane crash. Milly wonders if he could truly fly. Their teacher Mrs. Sherman (Colleen Dewhurst) works to keep him from being institutionalized with Milly's help.It's a wonderful sensitive film that is good for the whole family. Lucy Deakins is endearing and sweet. There is a gentle magic about the movie. It's very romantic in the simple childlike way and also surprisingly funny. The family drama is poignant. It's a live action fairy tale. "},{"Title":"Gentle, touching and intelligent 'family film'","Date":"29 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sappy? Yeah, I guess at times&#x85; but this also mostly earns its big heart, and treats early teens with more far dignity and insight than most films. Lucy Deakins is terrific as an intelligent, thoughtful 14 year old, who slowly grows to care for the autistic boy next door. He doesn't speak, but dreams only of flying away, a condition brought on by the deaths of his parents in a plane crash years before. Now he's in the care of an alcoholic uncle (the always wonderful Fred Gwynne), and the powers that be think he might be better off being institutionalized. Almost all the acting is top notch, which is crucial in this character based story. Jay Underwood walks various fine lines as the titular boy, named Eric. By turns mysterious, locked in, charming he seems believable as an emotionally isolated adolescent as well as a possible source of magic. Colleen Dewhurst doesn't have a lot of screen time, but makes something rich and real out of a concerned teacher who doesn't want to see Eric locked away, knowing it will kill his spirit. And Bonnie Bedelia makes a touching warm and understanding widowed mom. There are some scenes where the comic relief is more than a little forced, and a sub-plot about a little brother taking on neighborhood bullies seems grafted on from a far more Disney-ish film. But this Capra-esque gentle, bittersweet fantasy is a great 1980s film for tweens even today, and not a bad one for adults as well. "},{"Title":"After 20 Years...","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I just watched this movie for the first time in at least 20 years, and to my pleasant surprise, it lived up to my fondest memories of it.To be sure, there are flaws in the movie. I doubt that an autistic person with as severe a case of that disease as Eric would show so much response ... but then I suspect he was not truly autistic, but traumatized. A couple of scenes are cheesy or out of place (the dream sequence or the drinking scene in particular).Still, it is a touching film. Outside of Eric, the characters are very real and you feel for them. You feel the Louie's frustration, and the mother's fear, and Milly's uncertainty, and Uncle Hugo's disappointment in himself.Beyond that, the emotional touchstone is NOT Eric, and NOT the mystery surrounding him, but rather the struggle of the Michaelson's, and Milly in particular. Even before the dramatic conclusion, Milly has found hope through her relationship with Eric, and tries to share this the rest of her family. As the movie reaches it's (somewhat cheesy) conclusion, it feels good to see all the happy endings, but mostly feels good to see the characters with hope and optimism, regardless of the end result.As a child I remembered having a mini-crush on Milly. As an adult, I totally understand why. She is a beautiful character, not just her looks (where she is very pretty in a girl-next-door sort of way), but her care for her brother, her mother, her neighbor. The strength she shows in trying to keep everything together when she feels like its falling apart. Her kindness. Her gentleness. Her love. What a wonderful character, and what a character so deserving of being saved.Ultimately, the movie is very uplifting. It reaches beyond plausibility, but while the ending may have been necessary for some characters (Uncle Hugo), Milly had already grown into her happy ending, and I could feel her turning the tide for her mother and brother regardless. And much like the Shawshank Redemption delivers it's best line at the close, (MINOR SPOILER HERE)when Colleen Dewhurst says Maybe if you dream hard enough and love long enough, anything is possible. "},{"Title":"Fantasy 80's parable draws you in","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a sucker for the coming of age stories. This one's about a high school girl who moves to a new neighbourhood, who befriends the autistic boy next door. The boy seems to be able to fly; he's obsessed with airplanes and spends long hours sitting in the window or standing on the roof. The parts are all well played. There's lots of real emotion and a fantastic portrayal of real high school problems. Plus who doesn't dream of flying? Some of these young actors went on to larger roles. Fred Savage looks a lot younger here than in The Princess Bride or The Wonder Years. Jason Priestley is barely recognizable.A great family movie. "},{"Title":"A quite lovely and affecting story","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The Boy Who Could Fly is a very underrated film from the 80s. A film that addressed the condition of autism long before Rain Man did (and much better too than that overrated Oscar winner). The tale of an autistic boy, Eric (Jay Underwood) who believes he can fly, and his neighbour Milly Michaelson (a sweetly appealing Lucy Deakins) who forms a friendship that blossoms into love.Eric has been autistic since his parents died in a plane crash when he was five. Ever since, he's imagined he can fly like a plane (possibly so he could save his parents), sitting on the windowsill of his bedroom or standing on the roof of his house, getting ready to take off. Eric is in danger of being institutionalised. He doesn't speak a word to anyone. Not even to his own uncle Hugo (amusingly played by the late Fred Gwynne), who cares for Eric, and drinks more than he should.Milly has just moved in next door with her widowed mother Charlene (another fine performance from Bonnie Bedelia) and her brother Louis (a groan inducing Fred Savage). She becomes fascinated with Eric, and cares for him a great deal. She's not sure if she believes Hugo's stories that Eric can really fly, but when she falls from an overpass, and somehow survives, she slowly convinces herself Eric has the gift of flight.I really did enjoy The Boy Who Could Fly. There's a wonderful simplicity to its storytelling, and thanks to director Nick Castle's confident and assured grasp of narrative, its a rewarding experience. Sadly, Castle never really distinguished himself in the following 90s with anything particularly worthwhile. Only this film, and his previous venture, The Last Starfighter (an equally underrated film) are films that really stand out.Castle finds just the right tone and sense of whimsy. In some ways, its almost a Spielbergian story. But it hardly ever lapses into slush and over-sentimentality. I could have done without Fred Savage's unnecessary subplot about finding the courage to ride around the block on his bike, and the ending does somewhat surrender itself to full blown fantasy, but up until then, TBWCF seldom puts a foot wrong.Really, the only problem I have with the film is when it outright embraces the fantastical. When I saw TBWCF for the first time, I assumed Eric's desire of flight was a metaphor for freedom. That on the outside he's cut off from everybody. But on the inside, his mind is free and perfectly clear. In fact, if the film had stayed true to those conceits, I probably would have gave it 10/10.But unfortunately, TBWCF chooses to stray too closely to fantasy. Midway, there is a scene when we see Milly flying with Eric. Now that scene in of itself works quite well. It seems very magical (although the moment they kiss in a background of a fireworks display is overdoing it) and hits an uplifting note, but when its revealed to just be a dream, I liked the ambiguity to it. It adds an air of mystery that permeates the film.Its just unfortunate that for all the deft direction Castle displays beforehand, he chooses to cop out with an ending that's pure escapism. If the climax had some of the same mystery the rest of the film had, it would have made Eric's departure even more powerful.But still, TBWCF has much to recommend it. The performances are uniformly excellent. Lucy Deakins is a wonderful young actress. She has charm, grace and a genuine sense of sweetness. What a shame she hasn't gone on to the acting career she richly deserves. And Jay Underwood is a master of minimalism. He communicates volumes of frustration and pain without ever having to open his mouth.Its in their relationship the film soars. You really feel their love and affection for each other, and Castle handles it all with a light but expert touch. The fantastical elements aside, the way it addresses autism is done with a refreshing and unpatronising maturity. At least you don't get Eric screaming his head off with fists flying like Dustin Hoffman's embarrassing performance in Rain Man. The Boy Who Could Fly is a far superior film.Another of the 80s many hidden treasures. "},{"Title":"A mix of subtlety and  nonsense","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I go back and forth on this film so much that it makes me dizzy. But when I hit the ground I am on the side of really liking this film. It is the subtle handling of the conflicts in this film that wins me over. The underlying conflict lies in the death of Millie's father. He dies before the film begins but we find out that he chose suicide instead of a long, probably losing battle with cancer. Millie's little brother asks the question one stormy night after his dog (who he loves very much) is hit by a car and may die--Why didn't he even try,Millie? Life has been very difficult for Millie's family which consists of Millie's brother and her mother. Her mother is having difficulty in her new job; Millie has to take care of her brother, fix all the meals, and generally take care of things around the house; and Max is doing poorly in school and is being bullied by kids in the neighborhood. The family shows signs of cracking and the question is, Why even try. The climatic scene for me is the stormy night, right after Max asks the question, when he runs out to dig up his buried Army figurines and Millie and Mom end up out there with him. Max is crying and desperate to find the figurines in the mud. His mother and sister, instead of dragging him in out of the downpour, dig through the mud with him. It is a beautiful scene that makes the movie for me.The nonsense is ironically the boy who could fly. Although Jay Underwood plays him sensitively and wonderfully it is the literal fulfillment of this title that blows away all the subtlety seen previously. I understand that the boy being able to fly is symbolic of achieving the unachievable in the face of life's obstacles, but seeing him fly through the fair making a slam dunk on the way was just too much. Although my children loved that part, I always cringe a little when I see it. For me it turns what was a very sensitive movie about a family fighting dissolution into a comic. And yet the first 110 minutes is good enough for me to have me put up with the ending. Lucy Deakin is such an attractive character and the show is wholesome and gives the cold shoulder to ugliness without denying it's existence. I found this very refreshing. "},{"Title":"One of the classic and wonderful films from the 80's!","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The boy who could fly was and still is one of my favourite films and my feelings about this film haven't changed since. It opens as Millie and her family are starting there new life in town and moving in to their new home. As they are settling in Millie sees a boy called Eric he lives just opposite her he doesn't speak and shows no emotions. But one thing he can do is fly. Millie befriends him and tries to get to know him better and slowly he begins to open up to her. They fall in love and it's so sweet and heart warming This is an underrated gem from the 80's.Some people may have missed this film but I recommend it to anyone looking for something with a heart and a great story. The music by Bruce Broughton is just beautiful and wonderful and the song in the closing credits walking on air is just fantastic. This film has a positive message about dreams and believing that things can happen it's one of the best films I've ever seen. They just don't make films like this anymore. "},{"Title":"A Truly Wonderful Film Filled With Fantasy & Heart","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This has been one of my favourite films since I was a kid The story of Milly & Eric was incredible seeing them beginning to learn from one another and then slowly fall in love was magic.Jay Underwood is an amazing actor his performance showed how gifted he is, this movie was a lot better than the overly done up fantasy films that are shown today. I haven't seen it in years but it still remains as one of the best movies I enjoyed watching on t.v. the film had all the right ingredients, fantasy, tears, romance and above all fantastic visual effects. For anyone who wants to believe that anything's possible I recommend The Boy Who Could Fly you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"A wonderful movie from my childhood. Still holds up.","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of my favorite childhood films. The acting and story are so genuine. Looking at it now, as an adult, I can see many other technical things about it that really make this film stand out. The camera shots are amazingly well done; in some cases without cuts. Cleverly done, indeed. The music score is absolutely marvelous with complex use of the orchestra's wind section. Made in the day of mass electrification of music scores, this movie has a tasteful mix of electronic sounds.The supporting actors are so powerful in this film. They were more recognizable than the leads, but really help push the story forward with very realistic performances. A good supporting cast can make relatively unknown actors into stars. This is a formula that has worked for other really famous movies (anyone remember Star Wars?).We need more films like this. -Marcus "},{"Title":"I thought this film needed a few flying lessons.","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I will not say this is an entirely bad film, just not a really good one. It kind of straddles the middle of good and bad thus proving to be a somewhat neutral film. It has some good stuff within, but I feel that the end kind of makes it all fall apart. The story has a family moving into a new home and the next door neighbor is in charge of taking care of this boy whose parents were killed in I believe a plane crash. Do not quote me on that though as it has been forever since I last saw this film. Well you find out the boy has problems, though I do not believe he would be sent to a mental institution as they are not free and I am betting he does not have the insurance to pay for it. Still, he has problems, though he goes to a normal school. So he is so mentally unstable that he is place in a mental institution, but he can attend a regular high school? Well the girl that lives next door and is part of the family that just moved in sort of bonds with said boy and thus you have their strange friendship developing for most of the film. You then have an unexplained end as they should have remained a bit more obscure, but who am I to argue how a filmmaker should end his/her movie. There is a nice subplot involving the brother of the girl trying to get around the block and take care of some bullies that was rather funny and more interesting at times than said flying story. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I think the boy who could fly is one of the best and saddest movies I have ever seen. The acting in the movie was amazing, they did a great job. I haven't seen the movie in a long time but it is one of those movies that sticks in your head and one that you will never forget. Every time I think about the movie I just want to watch it over and over again. My whole family does. I would also like to ask if anyone knows where I can obtain a copy of the movie from? I have been searching for the movie for years now and have been unable to find a copy. I feel that this movie is similar to A Walk To Remember with Mandy Moore, that movie was great also. "},{"Title":"Not sappy enough to deserve less than 8 for the good parts","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILER INFORMATION**I couldn't believe it when I saw a 6 something for this movie!  Ok, so there are some sappy parts (mostly involving Fred Savage) and Mindy Cohn REALLY got on my nerves, the the genuine sense of love you can feel coming from the other actors more than garners the movie at least an 8.  Being of that persuasion, I was POSITIVE Eric really could fly from the start, but at that moment, when the took the plunge, my heart went with them, and when Eric knew he had to go or be studied to death, I think my heart broke for both of them. "},{"Title":"a great movie from the 80's","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Growing up as a child of the 80's (I was born in '82), this was one of my favorite movies...I watched it countless times, and still do whenever possible.  When I was about five, and still unable to cross streets without a parent there to hold my hand, I ran away to search for Eric, the male lead.  My running away, however, consisted only of circling the block for a couple hours, since I couldn't cross the street alone yet.  There are some lovely ideas present in this film, and lovely images.  I recommend that every one should see it. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorite movies","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched this movie this morning & fell in love with it all over again. I love the relationship with Milly & Eric. I've often wished that I could fly like Eric so that I could go anywhere in the world that I wanted to go. Other than the Not Quite Human series this has got to be my favorite movie with Jay Underwood in it. "},{"Title":"On target.","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Unusual, very moody fantasy. Great music score.  The LOVE SCENE in the sky above the hospital between Eric and Milly with the fireworks display with a great musical score playing during this scene makes it one of the most romantic scenes I have witnessed in any film. "},{"Title":"Great 80's fantasy movie","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I started watching this on Optus Greats yesterday and i liked it so i ended up watching all of it. I think its one of the best 80's family movies, and i'm not a big fan of 80's family movies. Acting was great, especially by the young kid playing eric. He even got to kiss that young chick Milly. She's not bad looking except for the hair. Fred Savage was great, i liked his first day at school. I can't believe this but i almost cried at the end of this flick, but it would have been worth it as it is a very heartwarming story. "},{"Title":"Memorable film from my childhood","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I practically salivated over this film as a kid. Mainly because the younger brother had all the G.I.Joe toys that we couldn't get in Australia. Shipwreck, Barbeque, Storm Shadow... He was a good man, but he got careless. Sniper got him. I also remember thinking the girl was hot. I haven't seen it since then so I'm afraid I can't give you a fresh perspective. "},{"Title":"A lovely, understated, original film","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Somehow it doesn't matter if this film is viewed as allegorical or as a literal telling of a fantasy story.  Can he really fly?  The story works well whether you want to believe that or not.  The characters are real, with just a touch of fantasy in them.  Fred Gwynne's character stops just short of farce, and becomes touching instead.  Does not fit any formula; should be watched quietly and without preconceptions.   "}{"Title":"Beautiful film, memories of nostalgia","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the movies I think of when I think of my childhood, you could not make a film like this nowdays. The performances are so authentic, and genuine, it makes for a remarkable experience.  Wow, I'm in awe of its beliefs.  Imagine if you had the ability to fly...... "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Of all the children's movies that opened while I was on vacation this month, Nick Castle's The Boy Would Could Fly is the only one of any distinction.Howard the Duck is unwatchable, an appalling waste of its $37 million budget. Flight of the Navigator is pleasant but undistinguished Disney fare, although it's better than what might have been expected of its director, Randal Kleiser (The Blue Lagoon, Summer Lovers). The Dirt Bike Kid couldn't attract enough audiences to last longer than five days.The only thing holding down The Boy Who Could Fly is its title. Ultimately it has to come to terms with it, to deny it or affirm it. Unfortunately, Castle makes the wrong decision, opting for fantasy after carefully developing a psychologically realistic study of a sensitive, uncommunicative teen-ager who is convinced that his arms are wings.But the last 10 minutes of the film can't wipe out everything that's gone before - especially the gentle, patient tone Castle establishes and the graceful performances by Jay Underwood as the isolated boy, Lucy Deakins as the neighbor girl who finds herself developing a serious crush on him, and Bonnie Bedelia as her exceptionally civilized mother. This is a genuinely nice movie about nice people, and it almost always avoids the maudlin.That finale is frustrating and makes it difficult to heartily recommend The Boy Who Could Fly. Still, if you've been looking for something to take the kids to, you could do far worse. "},{"Title":"Believe","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie when I first saw it and I've loved it every viewing  since. For me, this movie's message was that if you believe in something, or someone, or even yourself enough, anything is possible, even the impossible. It's a wonderful story for any child, and any adult who still dreams. "}]