[{"Title":"IS THERE SOMETHING THE MATTER WITH ME?","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"30 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is some years since I saw this film, but I definitely thought at the time it was vastly under-rated, and now that I have seen the voter's scores for this, I am surprised all over again.  Obviously, I have to log off and go to the video store to refresh my memory, but the story was great, the song Joni Mitchell contributed was one of her all-time bests, and how could Meryl Streep ever be in anything that wasn't worthwhile? By the way, the book was better, punctuated with recipes. It is an autobiographical tale, which bursts the balloon of the Watergate heroes and is definitely one of the most entertaining and realistic of the cinematic versions of life and love. "},{"Title":"The movie's just okay--but the song is outstanding!","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let's face it, these aren't the two most likable people on the planet, but that's only because writer Nora Ephron may have been a little too hard on herself. (Actually, she's hard on most everyone in this.) We care about this relationship, and the performances ofthe excellent cast make it intriguing at first, but viewers are just as likely to grow impatient with these characters as they do with each other. It's worth seeing, but a hard film to love.Now, some words about the Carly Simon song, Coming Around Again. I heard the song before I saw the movie and it no doubt affected my viewing of it. So many movies seem to just tack on any old song at the end credits, but this song really captures the essence of love and marriage and brings out all the emotions of a great film scene in merely a few minutes. I cannot believe the overblown Take My Breath Away from Top Gun (also overblown) won the 1986 Oscar for Best Original Song, and Coming Around Again was not even nominated! Perhaps this is why Carly Simon won her Oscar for Let the River Run two years later, to make up for this gross omission. (She would also duet with Streep during the end credits of Marvin's Room--an even better film.) The song alone is reason enough to see Heartburn. "},{"Title":"Uneven, but less manufactured than Ephron's subsequent films","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although somewhat artificial, the humor and heartburn of this Nora Ephron film seem more affecting and less manufactured than those in her more slick subsequent films, When Harry Met Sally... and Sleepless in Seattle. Perhaps the autobiographical slant helped.Meryl Streep and Jack Nicholson play a couple based on Ephron and Carl Bernstein. They meet, marry, settle in Washington, and have children. Streep's wedding-day jitters, it turns out, were amply justified; she discovers an affair between her husband and a social-climbing hostess.Streep is so luminous and so natural that one may not realize until the end of the film how completely insipid and devoid of any distinguishing qualities her character is. Rachel changes from a wan, nervous divorcee (before meeting Nicholson's character) to an obsessively devoted wife and mother who keeps babbling about how happy she is.Nicholson is well-cast as the rakish but (initially) endearing husband. The supporting cast reflects the expert hand of Juliet Taylor, Woody Allen's longtime casting director, who peppered it with many familiar faces, including Allen favorites Joanna Gleason, Caroline Aaron, and Karen Akers. Maureen Stapleton is particularly droll as Streep's shrink. Nineties audiences will enjoy seeing Kevin Spacey as a neurasthenic mugger.The comedy in the film is somewhat uneven, but often extremely engaging, as in a running parody of Masterpiece Theatre. And compare the spontaneous bravado of Nicholson's lopsided rendition of Soliloquy from Carousel (the comic highlight) to the forced quirkiness of Meg Ryan's tone-deaf Surrey with the Fringe on Top in When Harry Met Sally... "},{"Title":"Very Good Drama","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Heartburn is probably classified as a chick flick, but I don't care. It is a very good story about real people living in the real world. I'm sure there are many men out there that would probably fall asleep during this, due to lack of machine gun fire or kung foo fighting. But for women it is a great slice of life piece. I could watch it over and over again. It has some great comedic moments, from Mark (Jack Nicholson) and his friend Arthur (Richard Masur) several times as they have profound discussions about every day things in a Woody Allen type banter. One part that always touches me is when Rachel finds out about Mark's affair and confronts him. A few minutes later she is packing up to leave and we hear Carly Simon's song Coming Around Again on the soundtrack. If you listen to the lyrics of the song it perfectly fits the action that is going on at that moment. It helps the viewer understand Rachel's despair. Her idea of the perfect marriage has been shattered.Anyway, if you want to watch a movie with heart, then this is it. I think many of the people who say this movie is boring or garbage are too used to today's action standards and dismiss it too quickly. By the way, this is also a semi biographical account of now director Nora Ephron's marriage to a Washington journalist. The book is also a good read as well. If you think Mark treated her badly in the movie, it is nothing compared to the book.In summary, Heartburn is a movie for people who are emotional and intelligent.  "},{"Title":"All time favourite romantic drama!","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can watch this movie over and over again and will never get tired of it.Meryl Streep and Jack Nicholson at their best! I originally loved the book as well.The ups and downs of a marriage juggling carreers,pregnancy,adulterous spouses,social events etc is really brought up in a masterful but still truthful way.Streep was actually pregnant for real in the movie.The subtext she brings out in her acting and all the little details just make you love her more and more.Her culinary tricks makes you run for your notebook.I actually get so hungry for Carbonara whenever I watch this movie.It is full of tears and laughter and you can't help loving it.I take this movie to my heart forever. "},{"Title":"Poor Use of Splendid Cast","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When viewing this movie, I en visualized a film making challenge. It was almost like presenting a class of senior year cinematic arts students with a graduate project. Take Jack Nicholson, Meryl Streep and add a few seasoned comedic supporting members such as Catharine O'Hara, and produce the most boring movie imaginable.The set was dreary, repetitive, and depressing. Nicholson and Streep took to their characters well, but even their efforts couldn't save this one. The lackluster plot was commonplace and predictable. It played out like a slow moving expanded drama that replicates itself millions of times in American homes. In fact many of you could have watched the same drama unfold in the homes of your neighbors, co-workers or family. So why go to the theater or rent this DVD? "},{"Title":"Honey, we need to talk ...","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like a good relationship that goes sour, Heartburn is impossible to love but hard to write off entirely. Despite its fine cast and script by Nora Ephron, the film is disjointed and, ultimately, dishonest.Meryl Streep and Jack Nicholson play two Washington journalists who meet at a wedding, and &#151; seemingly in the next scene &#151; are saying their own vows. The developments that follow in their relationship are just as abrupt and just as believable. The rapid-fire pace of their many separations and reconciliations stretches credibility to the limit, and it's hard to generate any interest in these characters when it was never clear what drew them together in the first place.Streep does a fine job as magazine writer Rachel, but Nicholson's cad is all too familiar in his role of Mark, the womanizing columnist. Supporting players Stockard Channing, Maureen Stapleton, Jeff Daniels and Kevin Spacey, while uniformly excellent, seem underutilized and distract from the main plot.Heartburn is worth watching, if only for its strong cast, but it's as memorable as leftover lasagna. "},{"Title":"skin deep star package","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nora Ephron adapts her best-selling novel (a transparent dramatization of her failed marriage to reporter Carl Bernstein) to the big screen, but in the process falls into the same trap that snares too many filmed versions of popular fiction. In a nutshell, the movie is all dialogue and precious little depth, presenting a bare bones account of marital love and infidelity that skims lightly over the salient points of the relationship without ever scratching any dramatic surface. A large part of its appeal (if not its only attraction) lies in watching the not inconsiderable combined talents of Meryl Streep and Jack Nicholson, but the popularity of the two stars only undermines their ability (with a script this thin, at any rate) to effectively ply their trade. Viewers will see the actors, not the character each is supposedly portraying, and if proof were needed try to recall in detail afterward anything about their respective roles. "},{"Title":"Overall, not a bad movie","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Heartburn is a movie that admittedly requires little thinking or concentration, but I still found it very watchable. However, the beginning is a bit odd.*SPOILERS* Within the first 20 minutes Mark and Rachel have met, gone on a first date, had sex, agreed they never wanted to get married again, and then got married! I found it all very rushed and under developed, and I was tempted to turn off at this point. I was glad I didn't. Once all of this is over, Heartburn actually turns into a good movie. It's a very realistic, and often humorous account of an everyday marriage. Baby Annie is very cute! I was wondering how they managed to get a 2 year old to co-operate in such a way, but I understand that she's actually Meryl Streep's real life daughter? It definitely shows. Scenes between the two of them were really sweet and often very funny, and again realistic.But then, sadly, the ending lets this movie down. I found it very abrupt and un-explained, much like the beginning. It's a shame really, the centre of the movie is very enjoyable. I cannot understand why the producers didn't see the under-development of the plot at the beginning. And then nothing really happens at the end. Sure she leaves Mark again, but she already did that once and went back. So what exactly was she going off to do? Hmm, didn't really 'get' the ending at all. Cute scene on the plane though.*END SPOILERS* While all of this sounds relatively boring, I can assure you it isn't. Heartburn is a very pleasant movie, just don't expect any major surprises. "},{"Title":"great actors in mediocre relationship","Date":"20 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's a semi-autobiographical story from Nora Ephron about her relationship to famous Washington Post reporter Carl Bernstein. Food writer Rachel Samstat (Meryl Streep) is at a wedding with her editor friend Richard. She's immediately taken with famous reporter Mark Forman (Jack Nicolson). Despite reservations, she tries marriage again. They buy a rundown Georgetown home. She becomes a housewife and a mother. Richard pushes her to continue writing. Mark starts cheating on her and their marriage falls apart.Nora Ephron is probably too close to the material. She's not able to find the comedy or the tragedy in this. The marriage is so quick that they don't build any chemistry. I don't find their relationship compelling. It's basically doom to fail. Quite frankly, the movie is better off starting well into their marriage. I buy them more as a failing married couple. This movie does have plenty of talent and that saves it overall. Director Mike Nichols is better off trying to slash and burn the first part but he's probably too nice of a guy. There is some light humor but it only gets a few chuckles. This has some interesting moments but not so compelling story of a fatally flawed relationship. "}{"Title":"Oscar winners galore!","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I watch a movie I always find myself looking at the number of Oscar winners, for acting & directing, are in the movie. The Oscar winners could be for performances either prior to or subsequent to their performance in the movie I'm watching. This one features Meryl Streep, Jack Nicholson, Mercedes Ruehl, Maureen Stapleton, Kevin Spacey, Milos Forman acting not directing and Mike Nichols. Just goes to show that outstanding actors and directors need a good story and/or script to make a good movie. Although Nora Ephron has been nominated for 3 Oscars for screenplays she has written, this one just didn't do it for me and, from the tone of most of the comments, for many other people. Of course, I'd enjoy watching Streep & Nicholson reading the phonebook. "},{"Title":"Doesn't go down too easy...","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was expecting more of a drama than a comedy. Watching someone's life fall apart just isn't that funny. The only way you can really get any humour out of this is if the behaviour becomes too exaggerated, in a War of the Roses style... So the material was a bit of an uneasy blend, but having said that, Meryl and Jack are both such fine actors that the insight you get into pain from their faces alone is enough to compensate for some anaemic writing. It's worth watching to see how two talented people take something ordinary and make a little bit of gold from it. There is a flavour of bitterness here that Ephron has since tossed away for more commercial and uplifting formula. When working with performers who find themselves more at home in a light and breezy milieu, perhaps Ephron was wise to make the change. The two actors make this what it is. "},{"Title":"Waste of film, lifeless and drawn out","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You could say that the actors will make a movie, but this clearly proves that statement wrong. Most of the characters in this film lack anything to hold on to. They play the part of cardboard cut outs being moved about in predictable and uninteresting ways. The story is very simple. It could be summed up in a few words, but I'll hold back in case anyone reading does want to see this film.I had to fast forward the parts where Jack showed us how to be an obnoxious eater. I'd have to say that 70% of this film revolved around cooking, eating, or getting ready to eat. Quite frankly, I'd rather not spend my time watching Jack chew noisily with an open mouth. Personally, I could have done without the footwear references and jokes that pepper the first half of the film too.Outside of my own personal dementia, the film really lacked anything worth it's time. There were countless scenes and camera shots that felt like it was dragging. When something happens, the reactions of the characters are vague and dry.Best not to look this one up. "},{"Title":"Streep is boring in a boring story","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie was watchable while Nicolson was on the screen. However, I had to fight against passing out from boredom when the film depended on Meryl Streep to carry scenes without Jack; she was as bland as could be. The relationship between the characters was nothing special; these characters have been portrayed before -- and much better. It felt like a based-on-real-life scenario in the absolute worst sense 90% of daily life is boring, and not worth writing about or watching. Why Ephron felt her life and relationship with Carl Bernstein was interesting enough to write about escapes me. Perhaps she wrote it as therapy -- for many writers, putting an episode from their life on paper is cathartic. Fine but then why anyone in Hollywood felt this story was worth filming remains a mystery to me.  "},{"Title":"Even Meryl can't save this movie","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Meryl Streep and I have a deep respect for her and I like watching ehr movies but when I saw this movie I was disappointed. This movie is so boring and not the good acting and well directing can't save this movie. It's like you are watching to a soap or a tv-movie. It's tells the story of a two people who meet eachother at a wedding and soon they married get children but the woman finds out that her husband is cheating on her and she starts a new life. I think the most people respect Meryl and Jack but don't go to watch this movie with big expectations. "},{"Title":"Good but vague in purpose.","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Heartburn has Mick Nichols at the helm with Streep and Nicholson starring and an excellent supporting cast including a bit debut by Kevin Spacy. In spite of all that, the film has only managed lukewarm commentary from critics and public alike. Taking a somewhat cynical look at marriage as it follows one couple (Streep & Nicholson) from nuptials through the birth of two children including infidelity, this well crafted flick muddles comedy with drama to a nebulous end. An enjoyable watch for mature people who've been there, Heartburn will likely disappoint others because of its uneventfulness and lack of purpose. "},{"Title":"Men are dogs","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With the star power of Jack Nicholson and Meryl Streep topping the billing for Heartburn you would think you would have a major league item in their careers. Still this one is strictly Double A and won't make a top 10 list for either of the mega stars.Nora Ephron wrote the novel Heart Burn is based on and it's the story of her marriage and breakup with Carl Bernstein in real life. Streep is a food columnist and Nicholson a major Washington political columnist.Ephron wasn't about to give you a favorable impression of the personal side of one of the two men who broke the real story behind the Watergate burglary. The idealist who broke the biggest scandal of the last century is nothing more than a lying cheating dog. I'm sure that if Bernstein wrote his side of the breakup it might turn out differently. For myself Nicholson could do very little with what he was given. He's about 10 yards short of Snidely Whiplash.Streep does far better, but then the whole thing was written from the point of the wronged woman. Streep has that one down since she did Kramer vs. Kramer.As the parents of Streep, Steven Hill and Maureen Stapleton get honorable mention. I'm in agreement with another reviewer who said that Ephron was too close to write a really good telling of the tale. "},{"Title":"A Highly Underrated Film","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Am I blind, or did I just see that this film has an overall rating of 6.0/10 on IMDb and a 47% approval rating on RottenTomatoes? ActingAlright, so let me start this review by stating that I'm a die-hard fan of Jack Nicholson. So, I might be slightly transparent about the flaws of the movie, but there aren't many. This film is very hard to get a hold of actually. I stumbled upon a used DVD store and being a collector of Jack Nicholson's films and a huge fan, I immediately purchased it. I hadn't ever heard of this film until then and made a quick research on IMDb and Wikipedia about the movie. This movie's story is written by Nora Ephron and is loosely based on her life and relationship with real-life journalist Carl Bernstein. On paper, the story of the movie goes like this Divorced woman meets a sort-of heartless playboy, falls for him, marries him, has children with him, and leaves him after figuring out that he's been cheating on her. Sounds so simple, but in reality, it isn't. That's the reason why we have veteran actors like Nicholson and Meryl Streep on board. Meryl Streep is brilliant. Totally. Even in totally clichéd scenes, she performs to her fullest. Many people might be surprised, but this is actually the first film of Meryl Streep I've seen. I had always wanted to see her work ever since learning that she has the most number of Academy Award nominations for Best Actress or Supporting Actress, but never really got around to doing so. I wonder what her really brilliant performances would be like, if this was off the hook itself. Jack Nicholson plays the uber cool guy he always is and as we always have more often than not, there is a scene of him going totally crazy. But I don't want to give away too many things. You should check out the movie for yourself. This movie also marks the feature-film debut of Kevin Spacey, whom I was quite surprised to see actually, but it turned out that it was only a small cameo. Story, Screenplay and Direction Enough about actors. Lets get down to the story, screenplay and ultimately, the execution of the overall film. This film is ultra-realistic. Except a couple of teeny-tiny moments in the film, you'll be surprised at how super realistic that this film is. Being born in the 90s, I was able to get a slight sense of how life revolved in the 80s and was super-thrilled and totally upset in not being able to experience the US of that era. That is also where the film goes awry, in a sense. It is so realistic, that it loses itself onto you at a point where you wouldn't know what is going on. There are hints of Mark (Jack Nicholson) being a brilliant and a sincere reporter, but we really don't get to see much of that. However, we do get to see a couple of scenes of Rachel (Meryl Streep) working in her NY paper where she's a food journalist, but it doesn't go beyond that. Basically, the emphasis is so much on the character's emotions, especially Streep's, that the film kind of weighs down a bit when you reach the 58 minute mark. Other than this slight niggle, this film is amazing. Streep showcases her character's emotions so perfectly that you actually start to feel for her and get a tight sense of what her character is going through. Jack Nicholson shines in whatever scene he's in, as always, but is ultimately weighed down by a superb display by Meryl Streep. I was surprised that she hadn't gotten an Oscar Nomination for this, but hey, Nicholson didn't either, for 'The Shining (1980)', which was one of his best works in the 80s. Technical Work The cinematography is top-notch too, considering the fact that this was the 80s. I had initially thought that this was a Stanley Kubrick film, which always has the best camera work. But it was good to know that Mike Nichols also had an affinity towards great camera work and composition to each and every scene. Lastly, I had learned that this film had become even more popular because of the superb musical score by Carly Simon. 'Coming Around Again' is too good. Whoever you are, whatever era you were born into, you would surely have heard this song, even if you might not be able to recognize it just by reading the name. Overall, this is a brilliant film, with a very few cons. You should definitely watch it, if only for Meryl Streep's performance. This is a very, very highly underrated film. "},{"Title":"1986, a vintage year for things in general","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i've got an option facing me of moving my mouse along an array of ten stars that will as intended accurately describe my emotional and critical response to this film. so i'll save myself the trouble of nitpicking and bitshing about this and that and give it a straight ten.a vintage '80's movie , with scenes of eastern airlines and such , and a very nice closing scene of an eal dc-9 taking off whafting behind it a trail of burnt oil , to the soundtrack of carly simon's itchy bitchy spider (someone said joni mitchell, probably still under the influence of '60's acid). some movies you remember by little things like these - they have no direct influence on plot or screenplay, and yet they're worth gold , a photoflick you'll treasure. 1986 was a good year , and this film has an almost documentary value for those who appreciate the vintage. "},{"Title":"So so drama, and a hungry watch","Date":"14 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Two great actors like these deserve better material. I saw Heartburn for the first time this year. I did enjoy it, but it's not a good movie. Meryl Streep is, as always great. Here she plays a food critic who meets Jack, a columnist, at a wedding. Soon they're bedding each other, where she's feeding him Spaghetti Cabonara at two in the morning. That's love for ya. Only Jack is seeing other much younger women, while Streep falls pregnant with their first child. She finds out. He's in the doghouse. He swears he won't do it again. And you can pretty much take it from there, as we know Nicholson's a player in a few of his other films. The problem with the movie, isn't the acting. It's the movie. May'be the story was such a cliché or the characters weren't deep enough, I don't know. Still, like I said, I enjoyed it. If anything, Heartburn will make you hungry, as Jack and Meryl share a assortment of dishes. I actually got slightly jealous in the Spaghetti Cabonara scene. I almost wanted them to pass some of it through the t.v. Watch too, to see a younger Kevin Spacey, who mugs her, while at one of these marriage support groups in New York. Heartburn ends weirdly too. But I wouldn't want to spoil it for ya. Fair fair, but if you really love food, may'be give this one a miss. Carly Simon's soundtrack rules. "}{"Title":"Considering the talent it's a let-down it's not much better, but it's fine how it is","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You got (the now late) Mike Nichols, you got Streep, you got Nicholson, you got Nora Ephron adapting her own semi-menoir about her relationship with Carl Bernstein. Given the pedigree behind everything involved with the film - and, for me, I'm a sucker for a good infidelity drama - it's only a shame this isn't, you know, one of the top films of the 80's. It doesn't quite get there, but it's not for lack of trying on anyone's part. Heartburn is an entertaining picture, even as it doesn't quite move to a beat of a fast drummer, nor does it have very easy solutions to its dramatic conflicts. But that's a good thing here; Nichols and Ephron know this story has people who can't resolve or move on too easily, despite all signs pointing in a direction the audience can read.It's basically this girl and boy meet, boy marries girl - though girl doesn't really want to marry exactly, and one of the funnier set pieces shows Rachel stewing about in the bedroom adjacent to the wedding as friends and family come to try and support (sort of) this whole union - girl and boy find a real 'fixer-upper' house, girl is going to have boy's baby, things are happy... and then suspicion creeps in for the girl. A lot of this is not very much 'plot' driven, though Nichols knows how to tell his story.If there's anything 'off' it might be that the pacing is a little lackadaisical. Not quite the same as 'slow' exactly; you just have to be keyed in to the rhythm that's going on here. The filmmakers here are emphasizing character more. You get scenes, sometimes very funny, like when Mark just breaks out into a goofy song following the news that he's having a baby... and then breaks out into song again the next morning to wake up Rachel. A lot of the movie is more funny in a sly, observational way. It's not as 'LOL' type of funny as work Ephron was to do after this, and some might say like those other movies it's a little chick centric. I can't say if it can be so easily pegged, albeit there are piffy bits like Rachel watching the TV and getting messages about the infidelities going on.Nichols knows this material needs the help of its actors, and of course he has two of the best... ever, really. The charisma and combination just works, there's no doubt about that. And there's both real comedy and real drama to work on (probably more drama than comedy). And sometimes things happen in the movie that seem to be more incidental than anything to push it forward - i.e. Kevin Spacey's debut as a thief - but even this ends up kind of playing a part in the story, at a key moment, near the end. The actors make all these beats very, painfully, awkwardly, sadly and bittersweet-like real. When Rachel suddenly realizes that moment where things are wrong in a hair salon, the way it comes to her, how Nichols moves the camera (and, one of his gifts, knowing when NOT to cut), and how she looks and she goes from 0 to 60... it's wonderful stuff.Why not great? Maybe a little too loose in parts, and the Carly Simon score is grating after a while and dates the movie (the songs too). But all in all, Heartburn is a very good movie about this relationship and its peaks and valleys, but also about the nature of indecision, and how something as seemingly clear-cut as 'stay with your husband - or go' is a real, concrete, existential dilemma. Underrated, really. "},{"Title":"Yuppies Behaving Badly","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Heartburn succeeds much better as an autobiography than as a comedy. Real life isn't terribly funny (unfortunately), so the level of hilarity we expect from a true story isn't very high. That is especially true when the subject matter is the break-up of a marriage. Because it was written by Nora Ephron (Sleepless in Seattle) and directed by Mike Nichols (The Graduate), I assumed this was a comedy, but it isn't. There are some funny moments, but the funniest one - an homage to Soupy Sales, so to speak - comes nearly at the end of the movie.The acting is top-notch, as one would expect from the only man ever to win three Oscars for Best Actor (Nicholson), and the only actress to be nominated for an Oscar sixteen times (Streep).Heartburn is the quintessential chick flick, so heterosexual men can expect to be bored. But anyone interested in the marriage and divorce of screenwriter Nora Ephron and Watergate journalist Carl Bernstein, might want to take a look at it. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie but could be better.","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just recently, I watched the movie HEARTBURN after not having seen it in years. While I thought it was not a bad movie and there were some good parts to it, I did feel that it should have been better. As for what I did like, the acting was good over-all although I would have preferred Dustin Hoffman in the Jack Nicholson part due to his having played Carl Bernstein in ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN (of whom the character was loosely based on). I thought it was interesting how Meryl Streep's character is very happy after she is married and starts her family. Also, the contrast was good in Meryl Streep's reaction when she discovers that Jack Nicholson has been cheating on her. I could see the devastation in her face when she realized that her married life would never be the same again. The scene where Jack Nicholson goes back to New York to get her to reconcile showed how torn she really was about leaving him. I also liked the part where she was telling her friend how she was trying to be happy while making her husband dinner when she was not at all (hence her looking to find evidence of whether he was still cheating on her). Lastly, I liked the final scene where Meryl Streep puts the pie in Jack Nicholson's face while in front of some house guests at the dinner party as it showed the shocking reaction the guests had as well as the fact that Meryl Streep definitely wanted out of the marriage by that point and had had it with Jack Nicholson's fooling around.Now for the negative parts My strongest objection was that the movie just ended without any real conclusion. Granted, it was clear that the two leads were going to get divorced but I actually would have wanted to see them get divorced. The movie would have been stronger if it showed whether or not Meryl Streep's character and Jack Nicholson's character had had any regrets. Also, I think it would have been a better film if it made more use of the secondary characters because as is often the case with divorces in real life, friends and relatives often end up taking sides. I personally think it would have been a more substantial film if it showed whether any of the friends of the main characters ended up taking sides and why. Also, the boss and friend of Meryl Streep's character (Jeff Daniels) seemed to like her a lot. It would have been interesting to see if they ended up together. As for the kids, what would now happen to their lives? I also felt the movie had some gaps that were never answered. In the beginning of the film, Meryl Streep has reservations about ever being married again and she goes as far as to say she does not believe in marriage. Then it's like next thing you know, she is marrying Jack Nicholson despite his reputation as a womanizer. She is even warned about him by his friends on the actual day of the ceremony. Granted, I realize you can't show everything in a movie but why was this not answered? It seemed like a big jump to me. Lastly, I felt there were some scenes like the quasi MASTERPIECE THEATRE bit could have been left out all together. In conclusion, I would say that it is too bad the final product was rendered the way it was since the film had a great deal more potential. "},{"Title":"Cameo is worth it","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nora Ephron's usually the sultana of soft-spots and neurotic relationships. In this feature, she clearly puts her own emotional history on the line as it is an semi-autobiographical account of her failed marriage to Carl Bernstein. Although parts of this movie come off as a Lifetime Movie of the Week, there is some winner dialogue that sometimes even eclipses the movie stars, Nicholson and Streep. The heart-wrenching Carly Simon song is the main soundtrack and theme in this movie, and it will dawdle in your mind for weeks. But my most favorite part is the first big time movie experience for Kevin 'American Beauty' Spacey who has 3 minutes of face time playing a punk-rock homeless robber. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" We got to watch this movie in my cinema class this semester and I really enjoyed it. As a movie, it was very realistic and funny at the same time. Nicholson is hilarious and a lot of scenes are even funnier because people can relate (i.e. while reconstructing their new house, they run into a few problems with the contractor). In real life, women get involved all the time with men who cheat and still go back to them. It never made sense to me, but it still happens and I'm glad Meryl Streep leaves Jack Nicholson. Not only is it great in literary design (which it should be as Nora Ephron had two screenwriters for parents), but the visual design is incredible. For example, during their wedding, pay special attention to the proximic pattern (where the player is in relation to other things and where the camera is in relation to other things). Specifically, even in the beginning of the scene, Mike Nichols uses interesting images. It starts focused on an old woman who's fallen asleep, but even though she's the center and focus of the frame, what really catches the eye is the couple behind her because they're moving around a lot. Then, alas, they are the couple in the next shot approaching Streep in the bedroom to tell her they are Nicholson's oldest friends. They start out far away as they don't know her very well, but walk toward her as they try to get closer to her (which, I thought was good use of physical representation). Then, Nichols continues to use physical closeness for the rest of the scene to show her relation to each one. Streep's held in the arms of her father because they're close, her therapist is sits close to her on the bed but not as close as her father, and Nicholson holds her tightly as he would seem to be the closest. But that's enough analysis for one day. But I do recommend seeing this film--I had never heard of it before but it's actually very good. And one more thing, Yakov Smirnoff is always fun/funny to see. "},{"Title":"Miscast","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film's leads are badly miscast. Meryl Streep has the range to make her role work, as she can any role, but it still should have gone to someone else. And Jack Nicholson's talents are wasted here. Not that he doesn't have range, but he is just SO not right for the part. Perhaps I was ruined by reading Nora Ephron's book when it came out. This film did not do justice at all to that book. Grade D "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Heartburn is probably classified as a chick flick, but I don't care. It is a very good story about real people living in the real world. I'm sure there are many men out there that would probably fall asleep during this, due to lack of machine gun fire or kung foo fighting. But for women it is a great slice of life piece. I could watch it over and over again. It has some great comedic moments, from Mark (Jack Nicholson) and his friend Arthur (Richard Masur) several times as they have profound discussions about every day things in a Woody Allen type banter. One part that always touches me is when Rachel finds out about Mark's affair and confronts him. A few minutes later she is packing up to leave and we hear Carly Simon's song Coming Around Again on the soundtrack. If you listen to the lyrics of the song it perfectly fits the action that is going on at that moment. It helps the viewer understand Rachel's despair. Her idea of the perfect marriage has been shattered.Anyway, if you want to watch a movie with heart, then this is it. I think many of the people who say this movie is boring or garbage are too used to today's action standards and dismiss it too quickly. By the way, this is also a semi biographical account of now director Nora Ephron's marriage to a Washington journalist. The book is also a good read as well. If you think Mark treated her badly in the movie, it is nothing compared to the book.In summary, Heartburn is a movie for people who are emotional and intelligent. "},{"Title":"Heartless","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Streep and Nickolson. What could go wrong? Director-Mike Nickols. How could it go wrong?What was produced was a cold and emotionless movie. Boring at times and unenvolving. How could it happen?The opening of the film sets up the first meeting of the protagonists. No sex or desire, nothing. Then they are in bed. How can the film recover?Streep's make-up team did a good job of making her look like a bloodless vampire and Nickolson was given very little to work with.One scene of Nickolson arguing with a Hungarian builder is so bad that I could not believe it made it into the final cut. Nickolson looks as if he is about to corpse and the builder gives a I am so Funny performance.What a shame. Such Talent. "},{"Title":"Underrated!","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is my favorite movie and I believe it's incredibly underrated!! The story of the movie is not really as unlikely as it might seem at first... Remember this movie is based on Nora Ephron's semi-autobiography, so it can actually happen!Meryl once said that her daughter, Mamie, got a better review for her role as Annie, than Meryl did for her role as Rachel, which I really don't agree with. She did an excellent job as usual, and of course Mamie was outstanding too (I guess it runs in the family).Btw Meryl and Jack is a perfect match on the screen, they have such great chemistry! I could watch this movie 24/7!I love Carly Simon's song Coming Around Again. It's so perfect in the movie! That's all... "},{"Title":"Pointless piffle!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This should be a great film... Meryl Streep and Jack Nicholson co-starring as two newspaper writers. Mike Nichols directing. Uh uh. It's dull dull dull! Pointless and predictable! Slow and unfocused!It's a cookie cutter 'boy meets girl, boy marries girl, boy has affair, girl leaves boy' story. Now theres an original concept! After squirming through two hours (was it only two? It felt like six.)I wasn't sure whether it was a comedy, a romance, a tragedy or a soap opera. It was done in 1986. I'm sure all of us did things sixteen years ago that we rather would forget. I hope the damage to the reputations of Streep et al is beginning to heal and that the emulsion on the master is beginning to fade. It's not that it's such a bad picture. It's just that it's such an un-good one.    "}{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love many things about this movie - first of all the cast is complete perfection (so many Oscar winners!); the comedy is funny without being stupid; and the end is not sugarcoated in the least.  I love anything Streep does, and Nicholson really doesn't register that much.  I think he replaced another actor, but he certainly didn't take this part and run with it.  He doesn't even get to grin.  I also have to mention Catherine O'Hara, who is hysterical, and Anna Maria Horsford. "},{"Title":"Heartburn is a headache","Date":"6 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For I am not a Streep fan, sorry folks. She annoys me in her style of acting with all the fidgeting and eye movements. Is this supposed to be method acting? Realism? She is always having the look of gloom on her face. I prefer Jack in comedy which he is a master of. In this to think he would go for Streep is miscasting. They don't fit. There's something separate in their working together. She tries to to hard to find every thing she can about her character down to the number of blinks. He just goes with the flow, which I prefer. She seems to be studying herself while performing. He just does it. You get so involved with their acting that you don't really follow the script. Good supporting cast, wasted while playing table conversations.Next! "},{"Title":"Classic Meryl Streep at her best!","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I highly recommend this movie. Meryl Streep is phenomenal as Rachel. This film draws you in as you sympathize with Rachel as a expectant mother with a toddler who's husband is having an affair. And I can't get that Carly Simon song out of my head Coming around again. This is a must see film for the Meryl Streep fan. Jack Nicholson is good in this movie as well. As you watch, you will see so many actors that you've grown to love over the past twenty years. The vulnerability of Rachel who decides whether she can give her husband another chance and move on from his infidelity is so realistic. Warning, you may need a box of tissues. "},{"Title":"Miscast","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film's leads are badly miscast. Meryl Streep has the range to make her role work, as she can any role, but it still should have gone to someone else. And Jack Nicholson's talents are wasted here. Not that he doesn't have range, but he is just SO not right for the part. Perhaps I was ruined by reading Nora Ephron's book when it came out. This film did not do justice at all to that book. Grade D "},{"Title":"Subdued star-vehicle is pithy but disengaged...","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Screenwriter Nora Ephron and director Mike Nichols make an easy--if unsurprising--cinematic match with this dryly-wrought comedy-drama about a sensible lady (typecast Meryl Streep) marrying a known womanizer (typecast Jack Nicholson) who is unable to change his wandering ways after the ceremony. Ephron based the script on her own semi-factual book, an account of her failed second marriage to writer Carl Bernstein, and she employs a world-weary comedic approach to life's upsets that will strike many viewers as natural and funny. Unfortunately, Streep doesn't seem invested in playing this ordinary character, and she's all too cogent and condescending towards everyone involved (her comic timing is heavy-handed as well, though this may be Nichols' fault). Nicholson is typically appealing--he energizes the material--although his shambling about could be indicative of his feelings toward this project he ducks out of sight whenever the momentum drags. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"How can people hate this movie?","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It comes as a total shock to me that people truly can hate this movie. Sure,even I'll admit it had its slow points,but just because there weren't any special effects porno sex scenes or drugs doesn't make it a movie without any substance. Meryl Streep,as always gave a great performance.She makes you feel for her character.The part that really made me feel awful was the Itsy Bitsy Spider scene at the end. Think about it,would you have the courage to just get up and leave with two small children? Not to mention be able to sing about it. This is a movie that everyone should see before and after they get married,its nice to know that not everything in Hollywood is Hollywood. Thanks for a great movie "},{"Title":"Streep-Nicholson Minor Hit!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Heartburn (1986) Streep costars with the great Jack Nicholson in an adaptation of Nora Ephron's same-named memoir concerning the breakup of her marriage to journalist Carl Bernstein. Streep once again turns in an effective performance and it is to Ephron's credit that she allows Streep to portray her throughout much of the film as a clinging, smothering spouse.One scene in particular stands out. At a picnic, Streep admonishes Nicholson on his eating habits whereby Nicholson informs her that he already has a mother and doesn't need another. The handwriting is, as they say, on the wall.Though not a great film, certainly, it moves along quickly enough and knows when to end. The movie is highlighted by a hit song by Carly Simon. "},{"Title":"Pointless, but a great cast that makes it worth watching!!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie last night and I really didnt think it had much meaning, but there were so many appearences by well known actors that made it very fun!! Kevin Spacey, Jeff Daniels, Maureen Stapelton, Catherine O' Hara, Stockerd Channing, and Milos Forman all were in this film!! If you are a film buff, and enjoy movies with many well known actors, you should certainly check this out. "},{"Title":"A Must Watch!","Date":"2 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Heartburn', Directed by prolific filmmaker Mike Nichols, is A Must Watch, for many reasons. First being its solid script, excellent direction & flawless performances.'Heartburn' Synopsis Rachel is a food writer at a New York magazine who meets Washington columnist Mark at a wedding and falls in love with him. They buy a house, have a daughter, and Rachel believes they are living a fairy tale ending, until she discovers her husband is having an affair.'Heartburn', which is based on Nora Ephron's semi-autobiographical novel of the same name, which was inspired by her tempestuous second marriage to Carl Bernstein and his affair with Margaret Jay, unfolds on celluloid, interestingly. I really was arrested by this story, it was heartbreaking & yet at the same, interesting & progressive. I was looking forward to know what happens, and I must say, the final 30-minutes, in particular, are superb.Nora Ephron's Screenplay is solid, that offers compelling & heartbreaking moments. Mike Nichols's Direction, like always, is excellent. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are proper.Performance-Wise Meryl Streep & Jack Nicholson can never be doubted. Streep plays Rachel, flawlessly, she stands out in each & every scene. Nicholson plays Mark, competently, making the character likable & yet despicable. Stockard Channing does very well. Jeff Daniels appears in a very brief role. Milo&#x9A; Forman & Catherine O'Hara leave a mark. Kevin Spacey is noticeable.On the whole, 'Heartburn' is A Must Watch, because it gets it right on almost every level! "},{"Title":"Great director, amazing actors, great movie.","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great director, amazing actors, great movie. Mike Nichols shows us, once again, his mastering for describing the human passions and contradictions. Meryl Streep and Jack Nicholson are really amazing in their parts. The movie is tender, strong, real & cruel, just like real life. The casting is by Juliet Taylor (who works for several years with Woody Allen) and it is superb. Jeff Daniels (Terms of Endearment, James L. Brooks), Maureen Stapleton (Interiors, Woody Allen), Stockard Channing (Smoke, Wayne Wang & Paul Auster) and Kevin Spacey (American Beauty, Sam Mendes) are also part of this wonderful casting. Antonia Tejeda Barros, Spain. "}{"Title":"Well acted.","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The greatest actors of this generation are never attractive, the case in point Jack Nicholson and Merryl Streep. These are two actors does't need the help of Mike Nichols. The scene where JN, gets pie in the face is the best.The Screenplay by Nora Ephrem, the direction by Nichols make the movie a treat to watch. "},{"Title":"This is a good movie!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie many times the last time being years ago.  I thought it was an excellent movie that dealt with harsh realities in a relationship.  The acting was fantastic.  Come to think of it, it is time to see it again. "},{"Title":"Heartburn","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Tender film from Nichols, based on Nora Ephron's novel about love, marriage, babies, infidelities. Streep and Nicholson are stunning together.  "}]