[{"Title":"The Beginning","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  She's Gotta Have It was the beginning of an illustrious career for filmmaker Spike Lee. It starred Tracy Camilla Johns as the sex driven Nola Darling. Her three men were played by Tommy Redmond Hicks, John Canada Terrell and Spike Lee. All the three men had certain traits that stood out. Jamie Street (Hicks) is cool, calm and caring towards Nola. Greer Childs (Terrell) was the obnoxious, stuck up, rude pseudo black man that thought he was better than anyone else. And last but not least was Mars Blackmon (Lee), he was funny and outgoing. Annoying at times but his wit could win you over. This film is full of memorable one liners like please baby baby baby please and much more. This film was heavily criticized for it's depiction of women (like all of Spike's films), lesbians (the character Opal) and the reality of it. But nonetheless, She's Gotta Have It opened in 1986 to rave reviews and grossed 7 million dollars (not a lot but it is amazing compared to the thousands it took to make it). What made this film a gem is that you don't find characters like these anymore. They all had something about them that was hard to resist. Mars Blackmon became so famous that he was reprised by Lee in Nike Air Jordan commercials with the great Michael Jordan, airing from 1988 to 1995 (the Nola character also appeared in one Air Jordan commercial with Mars Blackmon, the commercial only aired once). She's Gotta Have It is a decent start for a young filmmaker and a must see for those that haven't seen it.She's Gotta Have It- Rated R *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Early Effort","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard about this film, I very much thought that it was going to be nothing more than a black t&a flick.  However, I this film turned out to be an interesting character study, which looks not only at black sexuality, but at the way people look at different stereotypes of men and women. You had sensitive Jamie, arrogant Greer and space cadet Mars all chasing after one of the first truly sexually liberated women to ever be portrayed on the silver screen in Nola. This film also shows how when a man has a lot of sexual partners, they are pretty much looked at a stud, but if a woman has a lot of partners she is looked at as a nymphomaniac.  This film pretty much takes those stereotypes and turns them around. The only negative criticisms I have is the fact that as the film goes on it tries to become a serious drama, especially in the scene when Jamie rapes Nola. Also, the film fails to address the idea of safe sex, especially since this film was released just as the AIDS crisis was really beginning to infect the black community. Other than those criticisms this was a pretty decent early effort from Spike Lee. "},{"Title":"A funny, feminist view of sex from Spike Lee","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a completely unique, humorous, sexy film from Spike Lee -- his first cinematic effort, using his friends from NYU film school as actors. He himself plays the role of eccentric Mars, one of heroine Nola darling's three lovers. Though I'm sure Lee wouldn't describe himself as a feminist, this film looks at so-called promiscuity from a distinctly liberated point of view. Perhaps women need more than one man, he wonders, because it takes several men to make up a complete person!  The film is set in a rarely seen milieu, that of artistic, well-educated, middle-class, quirky urban African-Americans (like the view of black Chicago in Love Jones). It would be fascinating from that standpoint, even it if didn't display such ruefully witty characterizations of egotistical, clueless men.You could spend an afternoon in far worse fashion than to rent this film, and view Lee's naked talent shining through in a film whose cost probably wouldn't pay the catering bill for one of his film projects these days. The fact that it is filmed almost entirely in black and white adds to its authenticity and charm. "},{"Title":"a tale that takes a feminist critique of a situation, and gives it a male viewpoint too","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I read one review on here that labeled She's Gotta Have it as Spike Lee's 'feminist view'. I would agree with this in part because he doesn't show anything- the characters really- on any one side. We see her follies completely. But I think there is a male view going on with his look at these characters too; after we see how a woman can be all liberated and free of being too restricted with who she wants to love/fool around with, there's more of a sympathy going on for the men too as the situation starts to come down to an essential thing- what does Nola REALLY want? By the end of the picture, no one can really say for certain, Nola most of all, but all the while Lee has given us a look at romance that is ordinary only in how some of the typical characteristics of men and women are portrayed at times. But really, it's also out of the ordinary on showing the little things that wouldn't get into the common romantic comedy. It's a little too loosely structured and the style isn't altogether great, but it has as much ambition as Scorsese's Who's That Knocking or Bertolucci's Before the Revolution, at least in trying to convey subject matter primarily through style. Not to say the substance is left unchecked- in fact for the most part it's one of Lee's sharpest satires on the troubles of the sexes, and the main characters are a bit more believable than those of the main white/black couple of Jungle Fever. Lee boils it downs to seeming essentials at first- Nola (Tracy Camilla Johns, not bad at all if not as strong as the main 'heroine' could be) is a magazine painter, but really its her romantic life that keeps her usually occupied. We see the various attempts of various male 'pick-up lines' (which is pretty hilarious, if dated), and then we meet guy #1, Jamie (Tommy Hicks, maybe the best 'real' actor of the group), who is really the nice guy, the kind that any reasonable woman would consider probably marrying sooner or later. But she also has male #2, Greer (John Canada Turrell, with a great, shallow look to him if not overall performance), who is a male model who is meticulously egotistical even with folding up his clothes before sex. And then there's #3, Mars Blackmon (Lee himself, in uproariously huge glasses and his name etched out in gold across his neck, surely one of his most wonderful characters played by him), who is the jokester, and word-spinner, and always takes a while to get around in a conversation.So around and around she goes, and it's really only until the last twenty minutes when Nola finally has to come down and make the decision- and it perhaps will have to come down to the 'right' decision- but for what she just can't tell. Part of it is that she just loves sex, which becomes a problem when she invites over the three men for thanksgiving (not a totally successful scene, mainly due to the dialog and pacing, but still a nice job in awkward tension). And also a problem when Jamie, the nice guy, makes an ultimatum for Nola. At the same time in the background there is the unusual tension of a possible lesbian affair with Opal (Raye Dowell, very good in her scenes), but nothing comes to it. Scenes like those, where the sexual and relationship-type boundaries come into question, are really interesting. The self-conscious talking-to-the-camera interview bits range from excellent to just OK though, and sort of mark the quality of the film down a peg, even as the characters get to share some of their inner thoughts (Lee's being the funniest).What then makes Lee's film a big step above any other number of films out there, primarily in the Hollywood mainstream, about a woman who has trouble deciding what to do with herself? It's two things; one, that the men are probably just as interesting with what they have going on as her, if not more so for Jamie, and two, the cinematic techniques imposed by Lee and cinematographer Ernest Dickerson. The latter of those two helps make She's Gotta Have it even more of a light-hearted picture than it might have been if just filmed as the script is. We get the images first put to Lee's father Bill's score, which is definitely one of his best after Do the Right Thing. Then the images get a lot of invention on such a small budget, unusually intimate and creative camera angles (I loved the bit when we see in slow-motion the extreme close-ups of Mars getting close with Nola), the lighting often very expressionistic, and sometimes the editing going to playful, odd lengths like the sex scene between Nola and Greer. Sometimes the playfulness and first-time filmmaker amazement is a little much, like the color film sequence, which is beautiful but almost better self-contained than with the black & white grittiness of the rest of the film. I also could've done without the last bit after the denouement where all the actors say their names with the clapper. Nevertheless the stylistic merits add a lot to make it a richer film in context and structure.But if you can seek it out, especially in widescreen (I saw it on IFC, though I wish I could see the director's cut to see what was cut out, however explicit it might be), it's well worth it. It's a small film, yet one that brings up some intriguing bits about what it means to really love someone vs. desire them, and what mind-games go on between men & women, men & men, women & women, and where the middle-ground could be, if at all. A minor independent/debut classic. A- "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's beginnings.","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The world was introduced to Spike Lee with She's Gotta Have It, about one Nola Darling (Tracy Camilla Johns) and her three lovers (Lee plays one of them). Everyone in the movie has their own kinds of shortcomings, but they're all honest people, all trying to make their way in the world. Spike Lee was clearly showing the talent that he would bring to his later movies.I should remind you that this is not a movie for people with short attention spans. Most of it is very low-key, involving a lot of dialog. But it's a very impressive flick at that. Maybe this is mainly a flick for film buffs, but I recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"yo baby, baby, baby please baby baby please","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee's directoral debut is classic. How can he go wrong with a black and white film... BW is the best. This film is made up of great characters(Mars) and perfect, orginal direction. I think Spike did a great job with the editing too.. oh I almost forgot his screen debut as and actor too, which was perfect as well. A smile came to my face every time Mars came in the mix, especially the Thanksgiving scene. I love those glasses Spike. 9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Best Spike Lee films","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee's low-budget, directorial debut She's Gotta Have It ranks as the outspoken African-American's helmer's best and least pretentious film. This modest but compelling portrait of single black woman Nola Darling qualifies as one of the greatest feminist films of the 1980s. The theme of women versus men dominates the action with the corresponding themes of women versus women and women versus society tangling for second place. The men fall back on the traditional precedents that society has established for women. Consequently, this melodrama exposes the sexual double-standard issue between men and women. Indeed, men cite dating multiple women as their masculine birthright, while a woman must only date one man at a time. She's Gotta Have It torpedoes that argument with its unorthodox heroine. Moreover, coming as it did on the last years of blaxploitation movie, Lee's film is refreshing different because none of the men are portrayed stereotypically as either pimps or drug dealers. The cast, headed by Tracy Camilla Johns, is largely unknown, but they perform well in this simple, but powerful 84 minute melodrama that asks the audience to decide if the leading lady&#x97;Nola&#x97;is a freak. In other words, is Nola a slut because she has three boyfriends that she has sex with in her apartment in New York City. Lee makes excellent use of the technique of breaking the fourth wall&#x97;when the thespians address the audience by looking directly into the camera at us&#x97;and taking their argument to us. The heroine has a relationship with a romantically inclined lover Jamie Overstreet (Tommy Redmond Hicks), a stuck-up, egotistical performer Greer Childs (John Canada Terrell), and young, snappy street dude Mars Blackmon (Spike Lee). None of the three guys likes each other as they struggle to please Nola. One of Nola's apartment house neighbors is an attractive lesbian Opal Gilstrap (Raye Dowell of Malcolm X) who tries without success to seduce Nola. "},{"Title":"Excellent Introduction to the Incomparable Spike Lee!!","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When reviewing all of Spike's work, this is hands down, probably my all-time favorite. This project introduced us to the incomparable Mars Blackman, Spike's oh so charming alter ego. She's Gotta Have It is a wonderful treatise on the art of love and war from interesting perspectives. On top of that, it is quite hilarious.It is a refreshing look at a black woman who insists on taking control of her sexuality rather than allowing it to be defined by men. There are general male observations, general female observations, and specific cultural outlooks on the art of love and war from an African-American perspective.Tracy Camilla Johns, beautifully portraying the wonderfully developed character, Nola Darling, is perfectly cast as the independent black woman who, in her quest to be sexually independent, realizes this is an uphill journey when dealing with men who still have traditional ideas about women and their roles. She was actively dating more than one man simply because she had adapted the attitude that no one man can provide everything she wanted/needed and furthermore, it was terribly unfair to label her promiscuous for doing so. Interestingly enough, Nola also found that her own reactions when coming up against the same attitude in men, were amazingly traditional.This was a very well-written statement on the ups and downs of love. It also introduces us to Law & Order's Divine Epatha Merkerson in a short but pivotal role as a sex therapist.Eeeeeeeeeeeeeexcellent movie!!! "},{"Title":"Love that movie!","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm a Spike Lee fan from way back but missed this one. Now I'm an old retired lady with plenty of time to catch up. All I can say is that this was a wonderful funny erotic comedy. I liked the way the characters introduced themselves, especially the former roommate who moved out because Nola was entertaining so many men, and all the men who announced their charms. If you wouldn't get a laugh watching Greer fold his clothes before sex, I don't know what would tickle you! Spike Lee himself as Mars reminds me of my Border Collie playful, obnoxiously demanding, adoring, and never understanding why he can't be #1.When Nola is convinced that she should consult a specialist for her addiction, she comes away with no resolution, but we are treated to a wonderful aside by the therapist.The only thing that keeps this picture from a 10 rating is the sequence in color, which I though was trite and out of keeping of the rest of the movie. "},{"Title":"Fine First Effort","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Spike Lee's fist, and in many ways his best work. Simple, elemental, insightful, and funny. Beautifully shot in black and white the film is a true New York/Brooklyn movie that makes the most of the City, it's streets, and landmarks; with a wonderful soundtrack by his Dad, Jazz legend, Stan Lee. You have to remember that this was a small budget Indy film from a director who would later enjoy big budget successes.When this movie first came out it had everyone buzzing about it and him; and it earned him the accolade the up and coming Black Woody Allen in the New York press. (a statement that implied a unique New York perspective on the world, his intellect, his talent, and his humor; hopefully not also a parallel to the two men being rather short in physical stature.... "}{"Title":"Spike Lee's Jewel","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A lot of people have probably not heard of this movie but since Spike went on to become world renowned, A few more might get to view this jewel in their lifetime.Spike is one of those iconic NYU students that created one of the funniest characters Mars Blackman.She's gotta have it... Created on an NYU budget, Filmed in Manhattan & Brooklyn, a psychological comedy about a women named Nola that dates three men for different meanings.This film is really a Spike Lee jewel(if can track down the movie) IT'S A MUST SEE !!!Spike is one of the most prolific artist of our time, thus Do the right thing "},{"Title":"good low buget film","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I remember when this movie came out. Not Spikes first film but first to gain him some attention.  A very refreshing black and white low budget movie, probably one of Spikes most dedicated and best work. All characters well developed and script carefully written. A good film to watch on a lazy Sunday, showing scenes of Brooklyn as it was in the 80s.  "},{"Title":"Very well done first effort about a sexually liberated young woman BUT...","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...for God's sake woman get rid of those candles! The idea of falling asleep with one hundred lit candles sitting directly on an extremely combustible wooden moon étagère would scare the crap out of me more than the idea of you needing more than one sexual partner! But I digress.This was Spike Lee's first directorial and writing effort. Since this was Spike Lee BEFORE he was a brand name, nobody was going to cut him any financial slack in his filmmaking. He had to cut corners everywhere. He got his family into the act - one plays main character Nola Darling's best friend, another plays Nola's dad. And Spike Lee even acted in the film himself as Mars, one of Nola's three lovers. He managed to shoot the whole thing for 175000 dollars and grossed almost eight million at the box office. Who knows what he's made off of it due to cable broadcasts and home video.The film explores the life of a young African American female artist, Nola Darling, living in Brooklyn, who has the same view towards sex and sexuality that many men have - she wants to play the field. She's not lying about anything, she just doesn't talk about any of the others to the one she is with at the time. Nola actually has three lovers - Mars - the fun and goofy one, Greer the sophisticate who hardly needs to eat because he is so full of himself, and Jamie, probably her soul mate. These guys rather meld into one entire man who is able to keep Nola happy. And then they find out about one another, with Jamie being the most wounded by the news.Years before The Red Pill and Men Going Their Own Way, that seems to be exactly what is going on with Nola, minus the bitterness. In fact, during the film she is torn between cutting herself off from men sexually for awhile - going her own way - and this Red Pill life in which there is no dishonesty but many lovers. Nola LIKES sex in and of itself, isn't looking to settle down, likes her Bohemian lifestyle.For Law and Order fans, S. Epatha Merkerson shows up as Nola's therapist. The film was unique for its time because it had a completely African American perspective, was shot in black and white, had the characters talking to the camera about what they were feeling at the time, and had no pat answers, no neatly sewn up ending. As for me, I would have picked Mars. All he needed was a little career direction, and he was fun. But then I've always been a one man gal. I recommend it. I think you'll find it fascinating. "},{"Title":"She's Gotta Have It","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is the directorial debut of Spike Lee (Do the Right Thing, Jungle Fever, Malcolm X, Inside Man), also writing, editing and producing, and it featured in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, so I looked forward to it. Basically Nola Darling (Tracy Camilla Johns) is a young, attractive, sexually independent woman living in Brooklyn, New York, she is juggling with three suitors polite and well-meaning Jamie Overstreet (Tommy Redmond Hicks), self-obsessed model Greer Childs (John Canada Terrell) and immature, motor-mouthed Mars Blackmon (Spike Lee). The three men all have their good qualities, which Nola is attracted to, but she refuses to commit to a relationship with any of them, each of them want Nola for themselves, but she cherishes her personal freedom. The carefree sexually liberated lifestyle of Nola ultimately comes to an end when Jamie, Greer and Mars meet and compare notes on Nola, Greer justifies her behaviour claiming that she sees them as a collective rather than as individuals, while the other two are bitter of how little she cares for the three of them. Jamie realises that Mars and Greer are too scared to force Nola to choose one of three of them and losing her, so he lays down an ultimatum to her that she must choose a lover, Nola mocks this idea, and returns to him days later for casual sex. Jamie anally rapes Nola and mocks her, asking if he is as good a lover as Greer or Mars, following this she has an epiphany, she realises her promiscuity has turned Jamie against her, so she decides to call his bluff, dumps Greer and Mars, and tells Jamie she is ready for committed relationship with him. There is a catch though, Nola believes her promiscuity is the source of her inability to commit to one man, she wants the relationship with Jamie for the time being to be celibate, he initially rejects this decree, but eventually agrees. However the reunion of Nola and Jamie and any happy ending is dismantled, in a monologue to camera Nola reveals that she had a moment of weakness vowing to be celibate and be with Jamie exclusively, she cheated on him and the relationship collapsed, but she is vague about specifics or whether or not she resumed casual affairs with Mars or Greer. Nola proudly proclaims that monogamy for her was a form of slavery and that the lifestyle of promiscuity is freedom in its purest form, however it is implied that Nola remains extremely unhappy deciding to leave Jamie, and the film ends with Nola going to bed all alone. Also starring Raye Dowell as Opal Gilstrap, Joie Lee (Spike's sister) as Clorinda Bradford, Terminator 2 Judgement Day's S. Epatha Merkerson as Doctor Jamison, Bill Lee (Spike's father) as Sonny Darling, Cheryl Burr as Ava, Aaron Dugger as Noble, Stephanie Covington as Keva and Renata Cobbs as Shawn. Johns is her debut role gives a great performance as the strong willed young woman who has to have it and refuses to be tied down by one of three men, Hicks gets some good moments, and Lee himself as a fast-talking persistent irritant of sorts gets many of the best lines, he directs this very slickly, and it has a fantastically witty and sophisticated script. Filmed in black and white, the only floury into colour is a lovely birthday themed observed dancing sequence, with simplistic interactions and discussions of sex and commitment, macho egos trying to compete and of course the sexual scenes, this film shows that you do not have to have arguments or traumatic material to make an entertaining film, I would certainly recommend this fantastic comedy drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"a new American voice","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In Brooklyn, Nola Darling dislikes commitment and she has three lovers at the same time. Jamie Overstreet is sweet and looking for a lifelong companion. Greer Childs is a self-obsessed model. Mars Blackmon (Spike Lee) is a loud-mouth childman. Nola, her friends and family narrate the movie talking directly into the camera. Opal Gilstrap is a lesbian who likes Nola. Her free-love policy runs into trouble when the three men discover each other's relationship with Nola.This is Spike Lee's first full-length feature as a writer/director and he is also a major supporting actor. This announces the arrival of a new American cinematic voice. It's inventive and different. Sure the actors are mostly amateurs but everybody has a good charismatic energy. Spike Lee is bringing a lot of different elements into this movie. Most impressively, he has turned the normal sexual relationship between man and woman upside-down. It is a great debut and an imaginative indie. "},{"Title":"Where it all began for Spike Lee","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So I finally got around to seeing the debut from auteur Spike Lee. I felt as though I knew the film before seeing it after reading  an interesting history about it in John Pierson's Spike, Mike, Slackers & Dykes. If you're a fan of independent cinema, you should check out both the book and film.Spike's familiar style and approach is evident in this early indication of a talented filmmaker. Whatever shortcomings that revealed themselves were largely unavoidable in such a low budget outing, and usually quickly forgivable.The film's testimony approach often gave characters some depth and clearly gave the film a more intimate relationship with the audience, but at times hurt the film with some unfortunate bad acting from names you never heard before and probably never will again. Again, not Spike's fault. It does include one of my buddy's favourite pick-up lines, Baby, I'd drink a whole tub of your bath water. I'm sure most women would appreciate that sentiment as the way to their heart.Spike's sister and father have small roles which must say something about the man's admirable family pride. Of course, with many of his films, it seems Spike can't resist the allure of the space in front of the camera while controlling all that's behind it. Not many directors divide their energy in such a manner, but some of the most notorious directors of our time do. Whether this divides their focus in a negative aspect or not is difficult to say. But if it's a distraction or handicap, Spike seems to be managing fineBut even now I haven't stated either way if it's a good, recommendable film or not. It's largely in black and white, which is a turn off for non-film lovers. I once overheard some one say of Schindler's List, It's a really good film, even though it's black and white. I'm sure with some films the inclusion of colour can enhance the enjoyment of the film, but some things are not meant to be in colour, some things are better without it. Films like this one are only possible in black and white due to budget restraints. Whenever I see the efforts of some colourization nightmare, it makes my stomach turn, but I digress.What can I say, I am a film lover, and I enjoyed it. If you fall in the same category, you probably will too. "},{"Title":"You Gotta See It","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Thoroughly enjoyable 90 minutes in the quirky company of Spike Lee and his cast of weirdos.  The male characters (Nora's three lovers) are all inadequate in their way, so it is hardly surprising that Nora needs several such men to satisfy her.If men behave the way Nora behaves, it is seen as a sign of virility, whereas Nora is more or less sent to the shrink because her behaviour is so out of line.  But this is mostly comedy so you can put aside the is it feminist, is it misogynist? stuff and enjoy it for what it is - an unusually good low budget movie. "},{"Title":"And he will give it...","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Ask the most anal cinephile you can find what kind of films Spike Lee makes and before you get an efficient answer your question will be modified properly. Spike Lee doesn't make films; he makes joints. Before every film and every directorial effort by the man you will see these faithful words, Ask Spike Lee Joint. Words of this nature are foreign to films of such a smart, dignified stature. How infrequently I see films with so much substance and subversive qualities be branded with a slangy phrase by a mature, well-conducted director.She's Gotta Have It, made in 1986 on a budget smaller than a shoestring and shot for roughly less than two weeks, was Spike Lee's first film,. showcasing potential and reliability from him in terms of directing and acting. In contrast to his later works, Lee doesn't seem as cynical or as bitter as he does collective and free-spirited giving us a unique look in the idea of a character who has contently formed a love triangle and how each character reacts to being that specific triangle.The film adopts a style Woody Allen would've utilized in the seventies and the eighties, giving us characters who have been ostracized as societal freaks and a bright script that contrasts the way the picture is shot. I was reminded of Allen's Annie Hall, a film that had a self aware tone with a muggy, saturated filming style. This film features a black and white color scheme for its entire run time, albeit roughly a three minute dance sequence, and this palette especially works in its favor as it reminds us of a 1950's drama. We centre our sights on Nora Darling (Tracy Camilla Johns), a charming black woman who has been in a number of relationships in the past and is currently juggling three open-ended ones. The men are passionate romantic Jaime (Tommy Redmond Hicks), narcissistic model Greer (John Canada Terrell), and daffy, hyperactive Mars (Spike Lee himself).She's Gotta Have It is conducted in a non-linear, fourth-wall breaking format, with character monologues delivered directly to the viewer and characters being introduced to the audience formally , with title-cards. We are introduced to Nora right off the bat, then meet the men in the above order and are shown backstory on how they and Nora met up in the process. The care and attention Spike Lee brings to each character is professionally handled in an unbiased form, assuring each one is developed and human. Not to mention, the characters are only complimented by the strong actors who've graciously embodied them.This is a professionally executed debut project, although it doesn't even begin to sum up what Spike Lee would go to accomplish in his two decades in the film industry. Four years later, in 1989, Do the Right Thing was released to critical acclaim and is among one of the starkest, most intense dramas I have yet to see and then went on to make the successful biopic on Malcolm X, casting Denzel Washington as the leader himself. Lee's directorial debut shows a softer side of the man. One who is capable of delivering welcomed character traits and a familiar storyline taken in a pleasingly unfamiliar way.Starring Tracy Camilla Johns, Tommy Redmond Hicks, John Canada Terrell, and Spike Lee. Directed by Spike Lee. "},{"Title":"rough around the edges, and better that way","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What Nola's gotta have is sex, and to get it she doesn't mind juggling three lovers, with an equal allowance of the same open, uncomplicated affection. The act of love is, for her, simply an expression of a healthy natural appetite, but for each of her men it's a distracting obsession they'd rather not share. Nothing is quite so foolish as an ardent male in heat, and writer-director-editor Spike Lee exploits that vulnerability with a shrewd eye for the idiosyncrasies of human behavior. Everyone is a target but no one is hurt; Lee even lampoons himself while playing the least conventional corner of the besotted trio. The film was reportedly made in less than a fortnight on a budget under $200,000, but with enough energy and originality to more than compensate for the lack of a professional budget (and a professional cast). In retrospect the shoestring production would have another, unexpected benefit, restricting the stylistic overkill that would mark Lee's subsequent high-profile features. "},{"Title":"Call me stupid I liked","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It left me with the fair and decent taste of realism and romance, sex and love, forethought and spontaneity, intelligence and some of the dumb situations that all less than people find themselves outside of Holywood (Hollywood haha). In places people actually can talk to you in public rather than posing and pretending they are gangsters and what they are not.A production about real people trivialized by any mention of a production budget, a script that which is so much alive and intelligent from the last urban bastions like Brooklyn which the SluBlubrias (Suburbia) of America and all the industrial world which sorely miss and find it difficult to compete on such levels.A classic in romance and thought which made me feel like I was there.Stupid white productions with budgets and no soul eat your hearts out.The acting was excellent, sad part is that productions like this are not so often show on TV. A great work on the humanism of the human spirit.TEN STARS "}{"Title":"Come out on DVD","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is a classic. It came out 3 months before I was born. It got to come out on DVD. I love the music. Especially, the scene where it was in color when the dancer dance to Nola's Tune. I see the movie whenever it comes on TV. I cannot believe that with a budget of $175,000,this movie made $7 million. I wish this movie was out on DVD so I can buy it and watch it as many times I want to. My least favorite characters in the were Greer Childs and Mars Blackmon. When Greer and Nola were about to have sex, he folded his clothes. Mars was just plain annoying. I do not know any woman who would invite the men she is sleeping with to Thanksgiving dinner. Out of the Spike Lee films, how come this one is not out on DVD yet. "},{"Title":" Hip, original and very watchable","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an assured debut from Spike Lee, with a witty screenplay and a wonderfully light, airy cinematic feel.  Since this movie was made in 1986, Lee has established himself as one of America's most truthful and innovative directors, scaling filmatic heights with movies like 'Do the Right Thing', but nowhere is his flair and sense of cool more evident than here in his first movie.  Daringly shot in black and white, this movie transmits a bittersweet humor reminiscent of Woody Allen's 'Manhattan', and like 'Manhattan' it is a very endearing, very personal portrait of New York City from a great director.  This movie was shot on a shoe-string budget and it rejects all film-making pretentions; it is all the better for this and watching it is like a breath of fresh air.  See for yourself. "},{"Title":"Spike's Best Film","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spike Lee's first and still best film.  It's filled with laughs, terrific characters and enough sex to fill ten movies!  This film and others made Spike apart of what I call 'The Three Princes Of New York Filmmaking'.  In other words, one of three premiere New York directors.  The three princes in question are Woody Allen, Martin Scorsese and Spike Lee.  High praise indeed!   "},{"Title":"Spike Lee pipe dream","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The she that the movie title refers to, played by Traci Camilla Johns, is a beautiful, intelligent young black woman that also happens to be a nymphomaniac.  While other people's beds are just places to sleep in, the lead character's bed is a shrine to be worshipped as evidenced by her propensity to adorn it with ceremonial candles.  Her main sexual partners are a nerd (Spike), a wanna-be playboy, and a earnest young man who is actually interested in a relationship.I appreciate that Spike helped blaze for other young black filmmakers with his very personal approach to film-making but I never could understand why luminaries like Terri McMillan were so impressed with this film.  It's a self-indulgent Spike Lee pipe dream, at best, with characters that I found it hard to care about.  Why would a woman as fine as Traci Camilla Johns include a character as annoying as Spike's character among her lovers? After two hours, I thought I would at least have a better understanding of why she has to have it, but alas that wasn't the case.The real value in watching this movie to me is observing how much the talented Lee has progressed since then.  It's not bad movie, just uneven. It's unfortunate Spike didn't really put the alluring Ms. Johns to much use in future films.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sexist Film","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am always so shocked that people give this film such good reviews. It has to be one of the most sexist movies I've seen to date. The movie is supposed to be told through Darla's perspective (she states this in the beginning), but then the rest of the film is basically the guys take on Darla. Greer constantly puts her down racially, claiming that he could leave her for a white woman, Mars (ironically played by Spike Lee) talking negatively about her behind her back every chance he got.She's distanced from all the women in her life (Opal, former roommate, psychiatrist) and is supposed to be sexually empowered. It is debatable if she really was, but she was put in her proper place at the end of the film. Jamie rapes her. It is this scene in the movie that is the most disturbing for me because many people just gloss over it and see nothing wrong with it. She said Stop! You're hurting me! That doesn't sound like a woman who's enjoying the intercourse she's engaged in. And aside from this disturbing scene, I certainly did not appreciate the borderline pornographic shots of her body. If you really wanna know what the film is about, listen to the lyrics of the song that the dancers perform to in the technicolor portion of the film.This pattern of sexist ideologies is present in several of Spike Lee's films including The Best Man and The Player's Club. Somebody needs to call him out on it and hold him to a higher standard. Just because he's a black director does not mean everything he does must be applauded. "}]