[{"Title":"Curious but entertaining","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"116 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find it interesting that people can get so many different feelings and experiences from one movie, but then; this is exactly the type of movie that would cause such disparity. The question really is, are you watching the movie for entertainment, or to critique it?  There are wondrous scenes of erotic intimacy here (unfortunately not as fully developed as they could be) - and glimpses into just what two people in lust will allow themselves to be led into...  The sensuousness of the relationship is the key - not the believability of the surroundings or the rest of the 'plot'. Is it believable?  It certainly is conceivable... Liz (Kim Basinger) studying slides at work, so distracted by her thoughts of intimacy with a man she hardly knows that she can't keep her hands off herself... John so taken with her that he will spend exorbitantly for a gift - to give a woman he doesn't know - but feels that he must meet. The passion and need for these two lonely people that lets them open doors to their inner selves and allow another in BEFORE thinking of the consequences (there are ALWAYS consequences, in film and life; for opening those doors). Is it believable that they would win the fight with the street thugs? No. Is it believable that the adrenaline rush, the release of the flight impulse and fear, the closeness found in 'defeating a common enemy'; could possibly lead to the intensity of sexual closeness and climax in a semi-secluded spot (under falling water at that)? Yes. Are the other scenes believable? It's entertainment, not a psychology class... They are conceivable, certainly. Ever been really mad at your partner, and that anger leads to words then breaking dishes then apologies then hugging then closeness then sex? How about anger leading directly to sex? It can happen, and it does. It is not so much a rape as it is a purging of desire. The scene with Liz blindfolded, and the whore coming in to the room - you share the tenseness Liz feels. Will she be stimulated? Of course. Will she let John know it turns her on? He already knows it does. He wants HER to know that he knows it will.This movie is a glimpse of what manipulators people are. The efforts made to manipulate another person into 'making them want what you want'. So much so, that it becomes their desire, not yours. So much so that the desire is to see if you can manipulate the other becomes more consuming than the original goal. Seeing if she WILL crawl across the floor becomes more important than seeing her actually doing so. And her feeling the depth of her self in what she will do - and finding she is doing it because SHE wants to, not because he wants it. Liz takes her pleasure from John, too.  What appears to be a rape in progress as John pushes Liz back on the table, ends with her crying because she was excited enough by it to climax. That is perhaps the 'real' rape; her discovery that even if she is initially violated, in her mind she realizes it arouses her enough to let it continue; and as it continues she finds herself clutching at her 'attacker'; and attaining orgasm. The rape as much of her mind as it is her body. It is her discovery of what she learns of herself. When she finally leaves the relationship, he finds he can't live without her. Who manipulated who?This movie, dated as it is, is still fresh because it is enough like life to be real. No, we may not be that rich or that attractive or that selfish or that spoiled. But we also may wish at times that we were... "},{"Title":"* * *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"85 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two successful, but lonely yuppies embark on a sexual odessey for 9 and a 1/2 weeks. All people seem to talk about when it comes to this movie is about the sex scenes and the nudity in the film. This film is not about sex and nudity in my opinion. It is about control and power. I found this film to be intelligent and stylishly done and yes very erotic. Rourke and Basinger make a steamy couple and the ending and the events that unfolded in the film lingered with me long afterwards and left me thinking for a while. This is one film that actually seems to have gotten better with time. "},{"Title":"Simply put, Amazing.","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"92 out of 135 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Probably one of the most misunderstood movies ever made, Nine and 1/2 Weeks to me is, in one word, amazing. Some call it soft-core porn while others call it meaningless. I call it a movie that shows the viewer what other movies do not show. The other side of relationships. The darker side, the side of people that most movies don't go to because they believe the average person would be turned off due to the fact that it is not the average love story. Yes, parts of the movie to some might seem slow, but if you let yourself get involved in the character, then you might just understand what this amazing movie is all about. "},{"Title":"Delicious!","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"55 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't know why I didn't see this movie until recently, as I am a big Adrian Lyne fan. Maybe because Mickey Rourke has become so repulsive in recent years. However, I found this to be a thoroughly entertaining film, with fascinating performances and all the 80's accoutrements - music, fashion, set decoration, etc. I don't know how anyone could call it boring, but we all see different things when we watch a movie.I thought the much-vaunted sex scenes were pretty tame, actually, but really, really fun to watch! Kim Basinger never looked more beautiful, and Rourke looked great, too. I disagree that there was no character development. I think there were depths to both characters that didn't come out until the end of the movie, which I found very poignant. Yes, I think it was more about power than sex, and when the moment of truth came for the balance of power to shift - as the Rourke character had planned for it to do - he had scared off his true love. Sad, and a true sequel could have been fun.I give it 8/10 and plan to add it to my video collection ASAP.  "},{"Title":"Kim Basinger makes this worth seeing","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"41 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What one realizes while watching this is how limited and ultimately unsatisfactory is a relationship based purely on sex.I imagine that the familiar dominance/submissive psychology at the heart of this visually stunning movie--and it really is beautifully shot--comes from the novel by Elizabeth MacNeil. I say that, not having read the novel, because the seduction of Manhattan art dealer Elizabeth (Kim Basinger) by the smooth and supremely confident financier John (Mickey Rourke) is so very well done with the expensive presents, the well-timed flower deliveries, little endearments, etc., that it amounts to a woman's fantasy. The partial debasement of Elizabeth and her eventual triumph over her darker instincts and her realization that there is a difference between love and submission is also something that one might expect to find in a woman's point-of-view novel.However when we get to the actual sexuality and how it is acted out, it is unclear who dreamed up the scenes, MacNeil or director Adrian Lyne or the scriptwriters. I say this because the scenes were so predictable and so ordinary, and when not ordinary and predictable, were bordering on the just plain dumb. Making love in the rain, at the top of a tall building (inside the clock tower), blindfolding the woman, making her crawl, feeding her strawberries, etc., bring nothing new to eroticism. And the scene requiring some imagination--baiting the gay bashers--was not realistically done. Why directors insist on allowing a man holding onto the hand of woman to outrun the men chasing them never ceases to amaze me. And then to have Elizabeth and John stop in the middle of the street to allow the bashers they have outrun to catch up was just plain stupid, not to mention the phony fight that followed.Not only were the sexual scenes predictable but clearly Lyne was in harness (and I am glad of that) since he stops well short of what might happen if this sort of theme were fully played out.Putting all that aside what makes this movie worth seeing is Kim Basinger. She is absolutely stunning, and it is clear that Lyne and his camera adored her. More than that Basinger does a fine job of acting in a demanding role.I was impressed. Before seeing this film I thought she was a rather ordinary actress, but her ability to combine grown-up New York chic with little-girl vulnerability and to make absolutely clear the psychological dilemma her character's heart faced really held the movie together.Lyne's insistence on whispered dialogue difficult to hear was consistent with the theme of the movie but not kind to these ears. But that was okay because much of the dialogue was secondary to the visual exploration of the woman's sexuality. The peek-a-boo and off center and shadowed shots of Basinger's face and her silhouette, and the studied smile from Rourke combined with the stark black and whites of their clothes and the furnishings served to highlight and emphasis the flesh tones of Basinger's skin while lending an appropriate artistic and fashionable atmosphere to the movie, which after all has an art dealer at its center. The many scenes that were began and suggested, and then cut away from, allowed a richer texture of experience for the viewer than would have been possible had the scenes been played out. And that was doubly good because again it is the visuals that make this movie worth seeing, not the originality of the story and its development.To those viewers who thought that this was some sort of high class pornography, I can only say you missed the point entirely, and indeed, you may be projecting your own sorry mentality. For those others who were not, shall we say, sufficiently stimulated, I can point you to a graphic novel with a similar theme (written by a man) entitled The Story of O which will NOT be coming to a theater near you anytime soon.See this for Kim Basinger whose sensitive and robust beauty dominated the screen.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"An ignored and Marginalized Film","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Except perhaps in Paris where, until recently, it played in a cinema just off the Champs Elysee.  This film has been condemned from just about every possible, so I will not try and defend it blow by blow.  There is much to appreciate here, particularly when the film is looked at in the context of it being the '80's Last Tango In Paris - perhaps even self consciously so. The opening shot of Nine 1/2 Weeks echoes the famous opening of Last Tango In Paris and there are many parallels, but never to the point of it becoming overt.If one accepts that form is to mirror content and apply that here it becomes clear that efforts were made to do so.  The visual 'look' of both films not only mirror their content (for 'Tango' a muted color pallette, yet somehow lush, there is a layer over everything) but also their era.  Both films deal with similar subject matter, in the context of the time in which they were made.Nine 1/2 Weeks IS the '80's in much the way that Last Tango... is the '70's - the obsessions of an era are embodied in the struggle of two human bodies.  Motions, touches are imbued with something beyond what is happening in the here and now.  Very much in question here is the internal landscape of the characters involved - something one, as a filmmaker, would rather expose in a visual way as opposed to having characters pontificate about it (though Brando TALKS in Last Tango... it is very often what he doesn't say, the silence between two lines of dialogue, that SAY more) - in Nine 1/2 Weeks there are many visual cues/pointers as to the characters' states of mind, i.e. their apartments, the manner in which they are decorated stark, all straight lines (John) vs. cluttered and dusty (Liz).  Elements like that make a film work.The only moments of relief that Liz experiences in the film are when she is away from the city, away from John, amidst nature with the painter - in fact, one almost never sees John outside, just like Paul in Last Tango... - all these little cues about character should raise the questions in the viewer's mind - what sort of person would?... "},{"Title":"Look Past the Porn","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This movie is known for its sex scenes, but it is much more than that. This movie is also known for the man exploiting the woman, but it is much more than that.The sex scenes are just a manifestation of what John (Mickey Rourke) believes to be the right way to have sex.  When Elizabeth (Kim Bassinger) comes along for the ride, she is doing just that.  She is coming along for a ride.  Her life is so boring that her meeting with john is just the excitement she needs to get out of her quite boring and predictable rut. Sure, John's idea of having sex can be seen as exploitation, but Elizabeth, until the end, is pretty gung ho about the whole thing.  But, as Elizabeth is in it for the ride, John, who is pretty used to the ride already, is in it to know Elizabeth.  Not Elizabeth's background or where she's from, but ELIZABETH HERSELF.This is a well-made film because of its subtlety.  The viewer isn't quite sure what to think of John until the very end (if they pay close attention). The best scene that sums up John's and Elizabeth's relationship is the scene where they are standing in the rain, John is under an umbrella and Elizabeth is wearing a hat.  She's playful and being herself, whereas John is serious and watching her.  She's riding, while John is trying to get to know HER.  The very last scene of the movie when Elizabeth leaves and closes the door behind her, and John hopes with all his heart that she will come back is telling.  The person who is hurt by the end of the relationship is the one who was in it for love--John. "},{"Title":"Arty, redolent of the 1980s","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although generally rubbished by critics because of the two lead actors, among other things, this was an interesting film in that it attempted to be artistic, something of a rarity for Hollywood.  Much of what is presented was designed to look sexy, even if it was unlikely to be if you tried it yourself. And to give it its due, those responsible for art direction and cinematography did a pretty good job and it stands repeated viewings to pick up on nuances missed first time around.  It is tantalizing but not especially erotic; a lot more is suggested than actually happens.  Anyone who can remember working in an office in the 80s will relate to the telex machines, phones with bell-rings, and no desktop computer for the manger, and no mobile phones.  The 80s apartment decor and fashions will also jog memories. "},{"Title":"Slow, Tedious, But Interesting Sexual Drama","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  9 1/2 Weeks, while containing a few sequences of sex and nudity, is nowhere near as shocking as it might once have been considered.  Kim Basinger plays Liz, an art gallery employee who meets Wall Street trader John, played by Mickey Rourke.  While their romance is at first sweet and romantic, things begin to quickly change.  John initiate a series of kinky sexual trysts involving food, a hooker, and an enticing striptease performed by Liz.  But the time comes for Liz to question the nature of the relationship and ask herself, Is this really healthy?  The movie is very, very slow, and in parts, very boring.  If your watching this for the much hyped sex and nudity, don't bother, besides the occasional glimpse of Basinger's breasts and butt, there isn't much here to see.  See it, just don't expect too much.9 1/2 Weeks is Unrated for strong sensuality and nudity, and for some adult language.NOTE  9 1/2 Weeks is available R-Rated or Unrated, which is one minute longer than the R version.  But the Unrated version is no more graphic than a regular R-Rated movie. "},{"Title":"underrated for sure","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I agree with the writer who mentioned that this film is too often underrated because it deals with a very dark side of sexuality that many people deny in society and in themselves. The relationship portrayed in the film is an adult one, and as such it is not a Little Mary Sunshine portrayal. It is a mature look at sex, not love, and it never pretends to be a romance. The characters find each other and they enjoy each other in a way that many people cannot accept, and therein lies the reality, the truth of this film, as well as the reason that it is consistently overlooked. For an established actress like Kim Basinger to accept this role and play it as naturally as she did speaks to her talent as well at to her willingness to explore alternate romantic ideas on film. Mickey Rouke has always been a maverick force in film. Look at him in Diner and you will see what I mean by that. He is much more talented than people give him credit for, and younger filmophiles should discover this early work and try to perceive him as an actor, not a joke. "}{"Title":"A fascinating study of sex and how it affects some people","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  May contain some spoilersWhat I find incredibly ironic about our society ( North American that is ) is how hypocritical we are when it comes to sex.  I mean let's face it, many people over the age of 18 have had it at least once and many people are consumed by it.  And as long as it is consentual, protected sex and intentions are never misleading, then what is wrong with sex, even if it is with someone that you are not in love with.  Sex can be a powerful thing. Because if you think about all the feelings that you can experience during the act, they really range perhaps more than any single act that you can think of. Everything from pure lust to passionate love can be felt at one time or another during sex.  And I find it funny that certain institutions or groups try to deny or at least restrict people from fulfilling one of the most basic needs they have as an animal.  Nine 1/2 Weeks explores the power of sex.  It examines it and doesn't shy away from what it wants to say. And for a film that is almost 14 years old, I have to applaud it for pushing the envelope of what is acceptable and what is loathed.Kim Basinger is a successful but lonely woman living in New York City. She meets a stranger who buys her an expensive item that she could never afford. But he buys it because he can.  This starts the intrigue between the two. He is the tall dark mysterious man that doesn't really reveal much of himself.  He is obviously incredibly wealthy, but it is not really revealed what it is that he does.  And that feeling of subserviance is paralleled when the blindfold scene is presented to us later in the film.  He controls his life by controlling others.  He has his world under his control and that includes his sexuality towards her.Some say that this film doesn't really have a point or that it has no plot but to show a lot of soft core sex scenes.  But look at it a little more carefully and you will see that it does have much to say.  It just has to say it about sex, and many people can't handle that.  Sex is topic that is taboo.  It is something that shuold stay in Pandora's box buried in some ancient Egyptian catacomb, never to be unleashed on mankind.  But Adrienne Lynne is a bit of a renegade, that, or he grew up in Europe where sex is like eating.  They are both necessary to live.This film also has a perfect mood setting soundtrack.  Songs like Slave to Love and Eurasian Eyes are just as important to the film as the lighting and the set design.  Then there is Joe Cocker's famous  You Can Leave Your Hat On melody that is the perfect song for Basinger's strip tease.  These songs heighten the mood and make you feel a part of the world that you are voyeuristically watching.I'm not going to comment on the plot and the acting and the direction or tell you what this film is about.  It is a film about a relationship that is doomed because of it's sexuality, that is all you need to know.  Judge for yourself how good or how bad it is.  I personally liked this film very much and I do recommend it.  It has a lot to show and a lot to say about our psyche when it comes to doing it.  But don't take my word, make up your own mind.  "},{"Title":"Ice-cold eroticism","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"29 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There isn't much about this movie that is warm or inviting. The central relationship between Kim Basinger and Mickey Rourke is there to be busted up, but director Adrian Lyne isn't very concerned with the characters anyway--his thing seems to be chilly atmospherics and stylish furniture. Sure, the first sex with the blindfold and ice cubes is tantalizing, but the scene seems chopped short (presumably so as not to offend us prudish Americans!). All the sexual scenes are like that the clinch, the brief flash of nudity, end of scene. Interest wanes after the viewer becomes satisfied with Basinger's milky beauty and Rourke's handsome panache, but their surroundings are sterile (his apartment, her gallery). There are two or three playful moments (such as the food frenzy in front of the refrigerator), but mostly it's all talk and little action, and unintentionally funny bits like Rourke attempting to get Basinger in the mood by playing Billie Holiday's Strange Fruit! ** from **** "},{"Title":"91/2 weeks","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie many times. I find it to be, not a sexual movie. It does have depth and symbolism if you are able to get passed the simple sex scenes. My favorite part is when Elizabeth goes to visit Fransworth, the artist.If you really think about it just as he is at the gallery opening of his show, so is she a fish out of water.It can't survive and in the end neither can she.I love the way this film was shot.This movie is more about stepping out side your comfort zone. You know about her family and life, but you don't learn about his until it is to late.People need to get passed the sex scenes and realize this movie is about human limits.All of us feel this inside, but are afraid, like Elizabeth to try it. "},{"Title":"A Film About the Destructiveness of Sex Obsession","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think most people don't understand this movie. This is not a love story, at least not in the conventional sense. 9 1/2 weeks is about sexual desire and intimate sensuality run amok and becoming the monopolizing forces in a relationship, and the ultimate demise of that relationship as a result. Certainly the physical pleasures and sensuality of sex are aspects that make a relationship fulfilling and gratifying but they are not the only facets. A relationship purely based on sexual desire is doomed to failure. At first it seems like a game, but later on the intensity is too much for the relationship to withstand, largely because if love and caring are sacrificed for the sex, it will die.You almost couldn't find more suitable casting than Mickey Roarke and Kim Bassinger. Roarke plays John, a sexually-driven finance executive who is not satisfied with winning over the woman he wants. He craves continual heightened sexual excitement from his lady friend. And he uses subtle coercion to achieve his goals. For Elizabeth, played by Bassinger, John is the ideal lover. He makes her breakfast, buys her clothes, brushes her hair. He takes care of her in an interesting role reversal. But nothing is free. In return, John wants Elizabeth to be in his complete control and engage in sensuous sex games. And each game is more intense than the last.At first the games seem innocent enough. He likes to blindfold her and play a touchy-feely game in which he introduces objects that she feels and/or tastes. But then the requests become more intense. He wants her to enact a strip-tease, to dress in a certain way without her consent, and to receive a spanking for being a nosey parker. They have sex in the oddest of places, sometimes engaging in intimate contact in public. At first Elizabeth enjoys the attention and the excitement until she begins to lose the sense of herself as the relationship intensifies. And John eventually goes too far. At one poignant moment in the film, Elizabeth speaks with an artist-recluse. Because her job is at an art gallery, she helps coordinate artists for exhibitions. When she finds him in a rural area, she asks him if he remembered that his exhibition is coming up. He replies that when he is hungry he remembers to eat and when he is tired he remembers to sleep. She has lost the simpler pleasures of life, and this old man reminds her of that. Late in the film there is an interesting scene where Elizabeth's former boyfriend comes to the place she works--not to see her but he is now dating one of her co-workers. He's a plain man who does not have nearly the sexual allure of Roarke. But he seems kind and honest. Liz watches her co-worker and her former boyfriend leave and there is an expression on her face that speaks volumes maybe she misjudged him after-all. For a moment, the two stare at each other from a distance, and you get the feeling that she was the one who left him. He is not the Mr Exciting that John is, but maybe he has other qualities that John could never have.This is quite a stunning film, certainly not for all tastes, and some of the steamy sex scenes could be misinterpreted as being only for pornographic sake. What saves it are the incredible and absolutely believable performances by the two leads, Roarke and Bassinger which strangely complement one another. Roarke plays his character right on the money, always enigmatic, never raising his voice, but always mysterious. His character is always just outside of reach. He constantly smiles, even when he is noticeable disappointed. Basinger is a perfect complement as one of the few actresses left who can be vulnerable and elicit a willingness to be under control that you don't see in many female performances anymore. Despite what may appear to be pornography, there is a point to the film I think, and that is that constant sexual control and nurturing relationships mix like oil and water. In the end you wonder if it was all a game. "},{"Title":"Incredibly Thought-Provoking","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie still rates high in my Top 10 Favorites. Basinger and Rourke have the right chemistry it takes to make this movie a success. I can't see anyone else playing either role. In this day and age of accepted nudity, 9 1/2 Weeks leaves enough to the imagination to make this movie highly-erotic by most standards. It leaves the imagination wide open to explore our own inner-workings and desires. Everyone of legal age should watch this movie, more than once. I've watched it at least a dozen times since 1992 and have gotten something 'different' out of it each time. Everyone will get something different from this movie, but it must be watched with an open mind. The movie had to end the way it did or it wouldn't have made sense otherwise. It's incredibly thought-provoking, and left me with various emotions throughout every scene. For anyone who hasn't seen it, it's worth every highly-charged minute. "},{"Title":"Dark Romantic Masterpiece","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this film again after 18 years since it release and although I was in my twenties back then and now I appreciate this film so much for what it is. I guess one could say this is kind of a Last Tango in Paris of my generation; maybe not as deep and bleak but Lynn packaged this film like one long music video or long commercial; there is so much eye candy shots and that is just to get your attention so he can draw into this relationship that develops slow into a kind of dark and sad area. The first time John and Liz meet each other; John takes her back to a boat house and while there he kind of gives a her subtle glimpse of his sadistic nature; and all the other scenes that follow are all like a building blocks of John's dark character who according to Liz She can't figure what he is about.There is a scene where John takes Liz to buy her the outfit that he likes and while paying the cashier Liz asks John, don't want to know what I think about it?and John smiles and says No. At his apartment he has her crawl to pick up the money because it pleases him and doesn't care what Liz feels about it; and yet Liz continues to let him push her into doing it. Each time she gives into his demands he goes further to manipulate her into something that he likes and that last request in the hotel room with the Hooker was the breaking point for Liz where she runs into a porn store and kisses a complete stranger to get a kind of even with John and yet deep in turmoil on the inside of what is happening to her.I think to me the last scene its still the very best part of this whole film; when Liz gets out of bed while John still sleeping and she is in tears. She begins to pack up her stuff and when John wakes up he tries to again in his subtle and manipulative way to stop her. He says he has never felt like the way he feels with her and some how he calls his feelings Love. I think what I like the best is what Liz says we both knew it will be over if one of us said stop, but you wouldn't say it, and I waited too long; she has had enough; as much as she is in love I guess there is a part of her that can still find reason and see the damage this relationship can do to her; I don't think the audience didn't expect this to happen or how it will end so fast in just 9 1/2 weeks, for most of us takes so much longer to realize how unhealthy a relationship is because we are too busy having fun and focusing on sex as love; this is where this film truly becomes of a substance and takes a huge turn by Liz ending it not John; this time she took control and left John hoping she will return as all others did when he counted to 50, this is how self absorbed his character was. When Liz leaves the apartment while walking and crying in the street there is one last shot of her turning back one more time maybe hoping John had followed her and then she turns because its over; this part still holds up today as it did 18 years ago when I first saw it and I still get the same feeling.This film really should have been longer and from what I read here it was originally about 3 hours and I like others would Mr. Lynn does someday release it as a director's cut. I never saw the sequel to this film Another 9 1/2 weeks which I hear was a disaster. Its sad really because this could have been like Before Sunrise and Before Sunset sequels; although Mickey Rourke may not as appealing or as popular he once was back in the 80's after his acting career took a dive to his boxing career but I still think he is a great actor and I personally would like to see another sequel with both Bassinger and Rourke to this dark romantic masterpiece...you never know it may still happen? "},{"Title":"Seems Like 9½ Years","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What's up with this movie? Does Mr. Lyne and his writers think that a sado-masochistic fling between two screwed up Yuppies can carry a feature length movie? Maybe if it had some comedic elements (which is doesn't, at least intentionally), or there were some additional dramatic elements (which there are not), or maybe if it was hardcore. No, it's simply the history of the affair; a chronology of a bunch of R-rated trysts. Ho-hum, who cares? Nine ½ Weeks deserves every Razzie nomination it got. It's a loser.And by the way, what's up with Roger Ebert and his rave review? Where was his head back in 1986?  "},{"Title":"very complex intense movie","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am very surprised reading several negative reviews about this movie. Probably this is not a movie made for the American audience, which many times react in a bad way when a movie push a little bit too much the envelope. This movies was a very big hit in Europe when first came out. It was the most talk about movie of the year because of his extremely unique and modern approach to sexuality in a film. I was very young when this movie came out, but i still remember the big fuss about it. The director is one of the best director, he challenged himself constantly, his movies are never boring or dull and he like to take chances which many directors are very afraid to do it. Nine and 1/2 weeks is a very interesting movie to watch, because it is about what is going on between this 2 people, in an emotional level. Which can be pretty scary for the intensity of that. It is not about sex, it goes beyond that. It is a very innovative movie that it would always be remembered for changing the rules about making movies that are considered erotic. Too bad that not everybody is Adrian Lyne, and the majority of the films of this genre are horribly bad. "},{"Title":"Still Powerful","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" S and M even suggested at is still powerful to people. This movie was a sexual control being erotic. Well we've all been there in some way at one time or another. The acting was amazing. The eating scene remains very sexy indeed. Rourke was hot, better than his just been hit by a truck look in Wrestler. This is in my top 25 best. I am sure this could have been made today and it would be more graphic. Some things are sexier when some mystery remains intact. I hope they never remake this. Would love to see more of Basinger. a woman ages and they toss her aside for these anorexic babies who still need acting lessons. They were both at the height of their physical prowess and beautiful and still remain in our memory as hot hot hot. Indeed "},{"Title":"Fun. A tease of erotic obsession that's tense and complex. A nice 80's visual.","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After all these many years I finally watched Nine 1/2 Weeks and clearly it is a dated piece that captured the times of the 1980's well. Also many may find the film a bit overstated for the way it tries to prove it messages of love and feeling. Still this is a film that is fun and very enjoyable to watch as it proves just how complex and tense that love making can be really this film showcased it as a dangerous and mysterious game of obsession.Set in New York City, with the hustle and rush of big city life you see Elizabeth(Kim Basinger) a young single and attractive woman who works at an art gallery showcase. Then one day while strolling the city by chance and fate she meets a handsome and strange man his name is John(Mickey Rourke). John is the perfect man who has a successful job as a wall street broker, he dresses nice has a nice place. Yet the big thing missing is love. He's just so emotionally empty that it hurts inside.When the relationship progresses the love making leads to extremes as their ways of pleasure are strange. The scenes where food were used as support were interesting! John had clearly showed a side of being a risk taker and that is seen as even being more evident when his erotic love making ways with Elizabeth push her limits and boundaries. You name it from blindfolds to whip creme to another woman for hot turn ons for John! This film really proved just how fun love making can be true it pushed the limits, but it showed just how far someone will go like the John character who was so emotionally and physically empty for so long. Yet in the end as with most cases the passion wears off as it couldn't last proving that love hurts and it must be a special kind for it to last. Overall good film that may be a little to dated, still it's a nice treat for it's take of pushing love making to new erotic and obsessive heights. As it proved love can be so complex and which passion feeds from one's emotions. And the on screen chemistry between Basinger and Rourke made it a watch. "}{"Title":"A great movie with a great 80's soundtrack!","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love this film and rate it as one of my all time favourites. Kim Basinger's character Liz works in an Art Gallery in New York and is quite lonely after having divorced her husband. Mickey Rourke (John) is a wealthy Financer in Wall Street. They meet, they hook up and before you know it, embark in a very passionate, sexual relationship. A lot of people misconstrue as to what the film is actually about - it's not just an excuse for us to have glimpses of Kim Basingers extremely sexy body, but in fact the movie is about control - simple as you say it. John is very controlling and he found the perfect partner in Liz's submission. However, once his controlling tendencies stretched beyond the 'norm' (him inviting a prostitute into their 'games' without her permission) she realised that this isn't who she is and that she had to get out. Unfortunately this was when John decided to tell her about his life - too little too late. The ending used to have me in tears because you felt for both characters by this stage. I absolutely recommend this film, not only for the great acting ability of Rourke and Basinger, but also for the great soundtrack. A must see. "},{"Title":"People are sheep!","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Look past the soft-core porn aspect.  I respect Adrian Lynne, his shots are beautiful, many stills from his movies could stand alone as paintings. But aside from that, the main character of this movie has stepped outside of society.  He answers to no beta boss, he sees a woman he wants to pursue and does not hesitate.  He is sexual, he is alive.  Have you ever felt like this- before 3 kids, a mortgage, yuppie friends you despise, answering to a beta boss every day of your life, sitting in a steel cage in traffic for half an hour twice daily.  (the recent popularity of such movies as matrix, fight club, american beauty all cater this feeling in us that there is something more to life than going to the mall and drinking lattes)I guess this movie starts on this positive note, this connection and infatuation between the two people, but than the fetishes dominate as the excitement of the relationship must sustain it's high, the relationship comes to an end as the two were not intertwined in society in a normal fashion.  Left to their own devices and primary character's revelation of his true self he comes to learn that primal sexuality alone cannot sustain a relationship.   "},{"Title":"Disturbing  story about the dark side of love.","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this film caught so much flack. This is not so much a movie about sex (although that's definitely the major theme of the story) but more about power and control and the ramifications of giving up that control. This is a movie that's definitely controversial and there are some pretty hard to watch scenes but this is by no means your typical sex and that's it movie, it makes a powerful statement.Anyone who's ever been in love-passionately in love-and had the feeling they'd do anything for that person even if that meant giving up their very self-even if that feeling was fleeting and only lasted 5 minutes-should watch this film. I believe it is based on a true story, though I'm not absolutely sure of that-but the question that this movie will have you asking iscould this ever happen to me?I saw this a long time ago and found it very tough to watch but fascinating too. There's a lot more depth to this film then people give it credit for. Not by far the best film ever made but definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Wow..","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It's interesting how both characters find themselves together, It's pure chance, you can see instantly that John is intrigued by Elizabeth, during the meeting stage you see that she is scared of him, because she doesn't know what to think. During there time together and there sexual games Elizabeth's desires entwine with John's and they head towards a disastrous ending... I was confused about the hooker part though... Was it about control? I don't know but you could see that Elizabeth definitely had enough I was gob-smacked about the ending, shocked really, It was only at the end that John tells Elizabeth about himself but she still leaves, I wanted her to go back so badly and I was stunned when she didn't... As I said wow great performances from both Kim Basinger and Mickey Rourke this is definitely one of my favorites left me with a mix of feelings... Wow is all I can say thumbs up to Adrian Lyne for this movie about A women spending 9 1/2 weeks with the perfect stranger... Amazing !. "},{"Title":"The Chemistry by the Two Leads Was Remarkable","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 9/2 Weeks based on an erotic drama that stars Kim Basinger and Mickey Rourke as Elizabeth and John who embark on a steamy and seductive romantic escapade that breaks the barriers of how far she will go. In sync to the title, the relationship is not long lasting, but the experience was unforgettable and utterly fulfilling. John has been smitten with Elizabeth the moment he has set his eyes on her while his flawless charisma is hard for Elizabeth to resist. As a no brainer, she naturally falls in love with John and while his behavior becomes more domineering and controlling, his seductive mannerisms are just so unbearable for her to let go. He continually pampers her with gifts even though that barely phases her romantically. It appears that what gets her juices flowing is his manipulative charm and his physical good looks. The most intimate moments came from a scene where Elizabeth is blindfolded in the kitchen and John starts rubbing her with ice cubes and feeds her while her eyes are blocked and they have sex in places we would have never imagined like a back alley or at a clock tower. Sure the eroticism is quite frequent, the scenes are overly done in terms of vulgarity as one might anticipate. It all comes down on its audience to draw their own interpretations. The actions of John is quite unpredictable as you just anxiously await to see if his raw emotions change this movies will try keep you at the edge of your seat. But throughout the movie, John succeeds to keep his calmness in tact even when he was controlling her, which makes this man a hostile individual with a subtle demeanor. In the case of Elizabeth her vulnerable desire is just to be loved no matter how much of a jerk, John can be. And sure she didn't like the games he played, she still went along and enjoyed what was given to her. The interaction of Basinger and Rourke's characters is so engaging you will want to applaud them one their names appear when the final credit roll. "},{"Title":"Mickey Rourke completely underrated","Date":"6 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What amazed me about this film was the underappreciation for Mickey Rourke's performance. After watching the film a couple of times I am far less fascinated by Kim Basinger than by Rourke's character Jon. Sure Jon was very aggressive sexually with Elizabeth, and many seem to understand this as being crude or offensive. Instead Jon strikes me as being more honest than slimy. While other men in Jon's position, a wealthy commodities broker, would try to use his position to win over Elizabeth, Jon just straight-forward lets her know that he wants her. I also don't think Jon merely wants Elizabeth for sex. Clearly he enjoys her company for more than just that, in fact he shares a great deal of his world with her. I think what is offensive about Rourke's character is that Jon is so unapologetically male. First, Jon has a high-powered job which at the time was extremely risky and lucrative. Yeah, while Jon lives in a fancy apartment and buys Elizabeth nice things, it is clear that he is not a trust-fund baby but a guy who worked his way to the top with determination and balls.That helps explain the most difficult scene in the movie. Elizabeth has been snooping through his stuff and Jon returns enraged and semi-rapes Elizabeth. Earlier that evening Jon had promised to take care of Elizabeth and provide for her every need, which is quite a commitment, and he leaves her alone for a short time but finds that he already cannot really trust her. His response to her actions is bizarre, first he wants to spank her then he forcefully makes love to her. Is it abusive? Yes probably. What the hell does it mean? Well, here you have a guy who is in an extremely competitive position where he has scrapped his way to the top. In his position weakness and vulnerability get you decimated in your job, and most women you meet probably only want you for your money. Jon takes a chance with a girl he meets randomly who he seems to have a real connection with, and almost from the get-go she compromises his trust. He forces himself on her because he is desperate to have connection with somebody who will be a refuge for him, yet from his perspective he already cannot trust her. The rest of the movie, all of the sexual escapades, including the sex scene at the end with the prostitute is Jon trying to determine how much he should really give himself to Elizabeth. The scene where Elizabeth shows up at his work is indicative of this. Clearly he is not happy at first that she showed up there. Judging from the size of his office this guy is at the pinnacle of success, and letting somebody he isn't sure he can trust into that world is very risky for him. Not only does it reveal himself to her, but it reveals to the other people around him that he is vulnerable. For men of power in that kind of position, vulnerability can destroy their careers.The prostitute scene at the end wasn't just some other kinky escapade. I think it was a final test for Jon so that he would know whether Elizabeth was really committed to him or not, or if she was only viewing their relationship as a sexual game. To him it was the only way to know how exclusively she cared about him. When she reacted by making out with the random guy in the porn theater, Jon finally understood that she really did care about him. By that point, however he had destroyed any trust she had in him.Basinger's character, Elizabeth in contrast, was far less complicated. She enjoys her friends, has a good relationship with her parents, and even has a decent relationship with her ex-husband. If you contrast the type of jobs the two have in the movie, it is easy to see the dramatic differences in their lives. Elizabeth casually jokes with her boss and co-workers, and the biggest pressure in her life is whether an artist will show up at a show. This movie was about all of the things that sex communicates, and ultimately Rourke brilliantly pulls off a complicated character who is unabashedly male and dying to be vulnerable at the same time. "},{"Title":"A+","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Every time I watch Nine 1/2 Weeks I just can't help crying. This movie makes me go insane. I can't sleep. I feel all the pain Kim had to live through while performing Liz. I admire her patience and courage. No one could depict the character so vividly as she did. Nine 1/2 weeks is one of my favourite movies and I wish people understood the idea of the film correctly. It's not just an entertaining show. It's more than an erotic nightmare. P.S. The music is great!  "},{"Title":"Obsessive sex. Not love or romance. Take it or leave it.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is another of Hollywood's many excursions into obsessive sex. It is not a great motion picture, but too many critics attack it because some shrink they read in best selling books, or listen to on radio tells them love is the answer to everything. Also there are the PC critics who can hail a movie showing a disgruntled woman trying to kill her former sex partner because that is supposed to show empowerment - but think a woman giving power to a male is degrading and criminal. Actually both type movies can be entertaining, and this one is. "},{"Title":"Still one of my favorite movies","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie over 15 years ago, and was impressed with the way it handled the complex human emotions that permeate all romantic relationships. I was curious if I'd like it as much now as I did back then. And the answer is yes, I did. Maybe even more so.For some reason this movie is loathed by many critics and viewers. I honestly do not know why. The interplay between the Type-A, controlling, cold power player John, and the lost, insecure divorcée Liz is palpable. Slowly, sensually, John begins to probe past Liz's defenses as he opens her up to things she'd never experienced before. The movie highlights how passion, while not always pretty, is an integral part of human emotions. And how once a person enters that dimension, it's necessary to keep upping the ante in order to keep experiencing the thrill that was so welcome at the start. If anything, 9 1/2 Weeks paints one of the most accurate pictures I've ever seen of just how dangerous that path really is. "},{"Title":"what a very seduction weeks!!","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One from our best director who always present sex and lust movie,Adrian Lyne.But,it'll be the great different style of erotica movie!!This movie told about so many dark(or beautiful?)side of sex that led to abuse and obsesive sex game.they played sex like a pinball game..so many hot and desire scenes.i really like it!if you watch it once,you could never forget... The Director so great and still brilliant to made another different of xxx-movie..and all star (especially) kim basinger and mickey rourke totally awesome in the game what they played it together!!kim basinger is hot.  "}{"Title":"this movie is a classic! it showed the world how to make love.","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" after having read some of the comments and seeing some of the votes cast for this movie, i must say that i am more than a little disappointed.  this movie more than anything else showed us the electricity,spotaneity, and the volatility that can be involved in a tumultous relationship. it also showed the desire for control that couples from every walk of life exhibit everyday. "},{"Title":"irresistable","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some people hate, some love it, I love it! I remember seeing this movie way back, in 1988. To be honest, I didn't like it at that time. Some time later I saw it again on video. From then on, I started to like it more and more! I saw it about 7 times. For me, it has become a classic in its genre. I was fascinated by the way Rourke played, as the cool seducer, who goes one step further every time. Basinger is also very good and sexy looking. I admit, the story is thin, but the acting performances from the leads, the photography and the exellent soundtrack, makes this movie...irresistable! "},{"Title":"is this excites you?.........YES","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie is a true classic of the 80's. Although i saw this movie only in 2001, 15 years after it was created, but it has affected me a lot. I liked the atmosphere, the soundtrack (especially Bryan Ferry - Slave to love), and mostly the acting........i think it was perfect. Mickey Rourke at it's best. I don't know what happened to him now, but then he was great, very impressive performance. Kim Basinger also plays very well. Mickey and Kim is one of the best's pairs in film's history. However the movie has some defects, but not so much. It's a great movie. Great Mickey, great Kim, great music. A must see for all Mickey Rourke's fans.9 of 10.  "},{"Title":"A must-see classic masterpiece","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a must-see classic and one of the greatest blockbusters in the 80s in Europe. Kim Basinger's acting and her striptease is unforgettable - a historical cinema moment. The film has a dramatic depth witch makes it the America's reply for Bertolucci's The Last Tango in Paris. I can't imagine why MGM has not came out yet with a director's cut. It'd be great to watch the harder scenes. They would make the movie even powerful. Unfortunately an American studio in the 80s was not brave enough to make a pharmacological sex drama harder. Nowadays these topics are much more accepted at least in Europe. If you've read Elisabeth McNeill's novel you can imagine what is missing from this movie. It's funny that they call it soft porn in the US. I hope that Adrian Lyne will make his own version on a DVD, this film deserves it. Kim Basinger once told in an interview that this movie was the hardest for her and made her stronger than ever. I can imagine. Painful, sensitive, intelligent with so strong contents... a masterpiece!!! "},{"Title":"Soft Focus, Soft Porn ... Soft Brains?","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"44 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Liz is a graceful beauty who deals in modern art.  John is a guy with money, which he makes from some vague financial dealing.  They are both lonely New Yorkers, and both ready for an affair.The central idea of the film (if 'idea' is the correct word) is that a woman is best wooed by engaging her senses.  The movie purports to show how John 'educates' Liz into enjoying sex through sensuality.  There is an edge of danger in everything that John does (stopping the ferris wheel at its highest point, feeding the blindfolded Liz a chilli pepper) and the nervous, insecure Liz has to learn to embrace the risks in order to augment the thrills.That's the theory.  What we get is Basploitation, with Kim Basinger having her nipples and bikini line rubbed with ice cubes.  Lacking the imagination to treat its subject seriously, the flim shows us scene after scene of Mickey Rourke shovelling food into Basinger's mouth.  Rourke's character is meant to be mysterious and alluring, but he is mostly just plain irritating.  Basinger's Liz is supposedly being titillated, but the titillation is aimed at the viewer, not the girl (molasses poured on a thigh LOOKS sexy, but actually FEELS yucky).  John, the guru of sensuality, can think of nothing more original than continually blindfolding Liz.The film desperately wants to be a badass New York movie-with-attitude. We are shown traffic and garbage trucks, and smart alec art critics at dinner parties.  Puddles compete with smoky, dark restaurants in Chinatown in a bid to convince us that this is all gritty and real.  John takes Liz to an eathouse where hoodlums were once killed.  Molly is a funny-and-sassy-but-vulnerable-jewish-New-Yorker who bashes the trunks of taxis which displease her.  The flower delivery boy bops to the rhythm of his walkman because this is New York and he's a crazy dude.  The more the film strives after image, the more it descends into cliche.  This isn't New York, it's a stereotype of New York concocted by West Coast film-makers.Details which are intended to persuade us that this affair is a wild, romantic fling simply don't work, for the simple reason that they are grindingly mundane (throwing Liz's hat into the air, a 'quickie' in the clock tower).  Rourke lacks the gravitas of a Don Juan.  He is supposed to be a wonderful cook, but all we ever see him doing is cracking raw eggs.Aspects of the film which tax our credulity include the fight with the street thugs, which John and Liz win so easily, the copulation under a downspout of freezing New York rainwater and the leg-spreading game on the department store bed.Is it fair that pretty blonde actresses are expected to get their kit off in this way?  Well, one imagines that there are plenty more pretty blonde actresses in work than plain ones, and the pretty ones don't seem to be complaining.  Basinger may rail against it all now, but she took the chance of stardom when it came her way.  In one scene, Liz crawls reluctantly across the floor, picking up money.  Maybe that is a metaphor.  "},{"Title":"Spend some really weird weeks with the powerful Rourke and lovely Basinger","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As 86 R rated flicks went, this was the most successful, and certainly a different kind of movie experience. Beautifully shot with style, the most weirdest, yet engrossing relationship between these two characters from two then hot stars, one of course whose looks have sunk, is truly something to behold. The enigmatic Rourke is way too weird for words, a bored stockbroker, who likes to play manipulative games, with his lovers, some which turn quite nasty. His new love Basinger, an assistant architect, truly bored with her job, like Rourke, just can't get him out of her head, her old lover, with who'm life was normal, but not exciting. Just wait til you see him, andR then you'll understand. Rourke makes the relationship, such a dizzying one, Basinger just can't think straight, so ultimately she has to let herself go. And that's alright for us to do that. Some scenes are so weirded out, one involving Rourke leaving Basinger on a ferris wheel while it's at it's peak and him and the operator go off for a coffee, whatever. One scene that stood out in my mind, okay, apart from the blindfolded one, involving all these condiments and fruits, whatever, was the one where she went out and saw that old artist in the country, an unnecessary yet beautiful scene, beautiful as how Basinger describes this old codger's work. Slave to love, a song I first heard in this, in the montage, was one I grew to love. We also have an adventurous scene with our two being chased by some drunken thugs. This sex drama, is well acted by everyone, a lot of the small players, particularly good, Rourke cool again in this role, as first coming across him in the electric action thriller, Year Of The Dragon, with Basinger, just as good, if a tad less. It's a film you wouldn't expect to be this well acted, especially if a first timer, seeing it today in it's near two hours running time. It's certainly something different, yet the same could of been said for Angel Heart. It's resolution caught me in a bit of downfall as to the expiration of the relationship, which in no way was ever normal anyhow. The film will affect you in many ways, as viewing relationships, or drawing on your own personal ones. Not as explicit as people have been led to believe. Haven't people heard of 1990's follow up, Wild Orchid. Followed by a totally pointless and terrible sequel. "},{"Title":"Still relevant today...","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie back in the 90's and rather dismissed it as a cheap thrill type of movie to watch with a partner when the mood was right. A few years have passed and i found myself watching this again recently.Gripping performance's and somewhat reflective of dating today, he sparks the attraction ,she responds ,their inner desires in full view.It's a modern day love? story with the sex and highlights the all too familiar loneliness one can feel in a big city ,regardless of wealth or position in life. Either the director was ahead of his time or nothing has changed...great film for anyone's collection. "},{"Title":"Too much focus on the now stilted sensuality takes away from any real story","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of erotic cinemas more successful outings, wonderfully captured in the mid-80's, nevertheless remained the glorified soft-core escapist piece of sexual indulgence it distracts us from acknowledging. Hoping the film would have offered more complexity, being it came from sexual-sophisticate Adrian Lynne, the screenplay, offered by (skinemax regular) Red Shoe Diaries creator Zalman King, should have been the first clue as to this film's carnal intent.Even so, what perhaps might have been considered red-hot back when Nine 1/2 Weeks debuted now only seems pink-hot when all the silly datedness is factored into the calculated sensuality. It is this objectionable line that feels stubbornly trampled over; when the film finally begins to find it's lust-craven stride it almost always becomes derailed by the over-inflated and self-conscious nature of these performers whilst on their, by now, textbook sexual adventure full of every clichéd endeavor that has likely been borrowed from this important, though also irrelevant piece of Hollywood sex history. Each of the two leads justify the film's staying power through their unique personalities making for unique chemistry, but the whole thing smacks of just some cheesy Hollywood casting gamble then anything more. Mickey Rourke seldom looked better, but remained consistently annoying and frustratingly underwritten, all in proportion to compliment the film's high-porno vibe I suppose. Kim Basinger also looked the part just fine, and you could tell Lynne knew just how to coax the notoriously shy star into one of her most naturally vulnerable performances. But short of excessive gazes that wear out their emotional meaning way too quickly, these two performers are not able to take anything to the higher level their actions desperately try to convince.To Nine 1/2 Week's credit, the film does becomes slightly more meaningful near the end. When all the increasingly unbelievable, kinky sex scenes have been exhausted, King's script finally has something to say about lust, relationships, and most importantly the male psyche. It is the ambiguously creepy tone in relaying Rourke's actions which will maintain any level of interest after any sexual repetition sets in. Whether the movie retains much purpose for the individual viewer will be questionable, but what is not questionable is that Nine 1/2 Weeks remains one of the classier soft-core escapades of modern mainstream film. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie and great","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was very interesting and had a great background story. I had never seen this movie before but I kept on hearing about it after nineteen years. I had to see the movie  Wild Orchid and I fell in love with Mickey Rourke. I wanted to see what he looked like before he had the implants in his cheeks. I thought he looked sexy and so did Kim Basinger.But it was Mickey that kept drawing me to this movie. The premise of the movie is about an art dealer named Elizabeth that was going through a divorce. She did not think very highly of herself and she kind of lost her sensuality. She meets this man named John and he buys her this expensive gift to start off their rocky relationship. The viewer can tell the man is rich but you really do not know what he does for a living. He wines and dines her. Before she knows she is doing things that she would not do. She lets him blindfold her to show that she trusts him and lets him buy her clothes. I love it when he says that he wants to cook for her, bathe her, dress her and etc. I guess it sounds very good that a man wants to all this but then you realize that she is a grown woman that can do all this herself. The second interesting part is when he picks out a suit for her and she says don't you want to know if i like it. he says no. It was all about manipulation all through the relationship. The breaking point was when he had her blind fold herself in this hotel, only to let a hooker try to feel her up. He was watching the whole time just to see if she was going to let this happen just to please him. Finally, she fights back and refuses to let this happen. She starts to leave and he starts getting it on with the hooker. Elizabeth breaks it up and tries to show him how she feels by going into a strip club to kiss a total stranger. But she does not have it in her to be like him. In the end she gets out of the bed in tears and starts packing her clothes.She is strong enough to leave this S&M relationship because it is not healthy for her. This movie surprised me in the end because I thought he was going to run after her. Mickey was very sexy and fine in this movie. He sold this movie to me. Kim was great at the feeding scene in front of the refrigerator. Even though this movie was not a block bluster movie it still has a good plot and point to the story. After really thinking about the movie I realized that he loved her in the end of the movie. Although he made her go through all these things, he was testing her on how strong she cared for him. During the movie,it portrays John as this heartless and mysterious man that you can not understand. But in the end you realized that he was a man that hid behind his games so he did not get hurt. John got hurt at the end even when he tried so hard not to. I highly recommend this movie because it was a great movie. "},{"Title":"maybe just about sex?","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i really enjoyed watching this film because of its many twists and turns. throughout the film i kept hoping that the two main characters(kim basinger and micky rourke) would find something deeper(love) but they don't except and it led me to believe that maybe this film was just about sex even though the people watching may have wanted it to be more. "}{"Title":"Seen it nine 1/2 times at least","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A daring film, considering the year it came out. The camerawork and setting are good. I think this film has been misjudged a lot. (eg. A dutch well-known film catalogue praised it at first, when sex was taboo much more than today, only to write it down 5 years later, because 'it doesn't show sex and remains an empty promise'.)Personally I think this is a film that very well succeeds in showing the power of sexual relations without becoming rancid. Both Kim and Mickey are credible in their roles. The music completes this film. I like it. Period. "},{"Title":"For Sex-obsessed Couples","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nine ½ Weeks is an erotic drama that features Kim Basinger and Mickey Rourke together with co-stars Margaret Whitton, Karen Young, David Margulies, Christine Baranski that play key supporting roles.The movie is based on the memoir of the same name by Elizabeth McNeill and it is directed by Adrian Lyne.The title of the film refers to the duration of a relationship between Wall Street arbitrageur John Gray and divorced SoHo art gallery employee Elizabeth McGraw. The two meet and have a volatile and somewhat kinky sex life involving a variety of sexual and erotic acts.Elizabeth is looking for true love, while John is searching for gosh knows what. His notions of lovemaking include blindfolds, ice cubes, chocolate syrup, and rolling around on spent peanut shells. When the allotted Nine 1/2 weeks are up, she has finally come to realize that he has been using her. We could have told her that twenty minutes into the film.The film details a sexual downward spiral as John pushes Elizabeth's boundaries toward her eventual emotional breakdown. He often manipulates her into getting what he wants during sex and sometimes abuses her.This is obviously an essential viewing for sex-obsessed couples.But overall,it breaks many taboos, not just fun naughty ones, but deep- seated cultural ones. There are some unforgettable scenes such as the striptease scene and a great soundtrack. "},{"Title":"9 1/2 weeks is an underestimated film","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film back in the 80's when it was released for the first time. I was 14 when I saw it but that didn't keep me from taking a deep look in the story and what was about. I saw a very nice drama and not a soft porno or a cheap music video (these things I've heard on the way). Rourke and Basinger are making the perfect shining couple. You just cant stop looking at them. The acting is good, not excellent but quite convincing in my own eyes. The magic about this movie is this sense of the beloved 80's that runs through it. Jack Nitzsche's music is excellent! The way it takes you in the story is really something else. Andrian Lyne makes you listen to the heartbeat of the storyline and guides his actors in a talented way. 9 1/2 weeks is a movie that left its mark and it's there 24 years now. "},{"Title":"9 ½ Weeks","Date":"21 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The exploits of a successful Wall Street business exec(..he buys and sells money)and the Street Gallery assistant who he meets in a little Chinese food store. He wishes to explore her sexual boundaries, seeing how far she's willing to go, until the game reaches a stopping point. It's all exciting and liberating for her, as she does let her inhibitions go to a certain extent, but when his demands become increasingly humiliating and uncomfortable, their 9 ½ weeks could come to an end.Like Zalman King, Adrian Lyne has always been a provocateur, his films dealing with sex and it's consequences on those who partake. It's all fun and games until the relationship begins to evolve into something more serious. All of a sudden, sexual challenges are frowned upon as burdensome, soon progressively disrupting the potential harmony which might've existed if the rules had been mapped out differently. As stands, the whirlwind romance is bound to hit a snag with feelings hurt, perhaps even damaged beyond repair. I figure I'm in the minority because I really liked this movie. While I don't think it's as racy has it's reputation, there are still a fair degree of eroticism. Lyne really devotes a great deal of time to NYC, it's variety of people and culture as O'Rourke and Basinger spend time running around, eating in various places, taking in the many sights to offer. Their lurid sexual relationship is explored exquisitely through the evocative lens of Peter Biziou's cinematography..his use of sunlight and various lights of the city enhances the mood and look of the film, particularly when Basinger's body is explored(..along with an obvious double). O'Rourke is O'Rourke..a handsome, confident, commanding presence who can speak more by saying less, a better performance than he was probably given credit for. Basinger, I felt, was really, really good, often her character is put through a great deal of emotional turmoil, from the celebration of sexual liberty to the throngs of distress when she realizes that her relationship with O'Rourke will not last, often questioning herself..I think she was treated too harshly by many in the critical community in what was a very difficult performance. It's a balancing act really for Basinger, and we see a series of emotional peaks and valleys as any relationship would take if it were like hers with O'Rourke. Very attractive leads lovingly presented on screen, I thought their work together generated a fair amount of erotic heat. I adored Basinger's little grins, attempting to hold them and unable to do so because she obviously drawn to her pursuers quiet advances. I also like her range of reactions, surprise and unease, when O'Rourke proposes certain tasks for her to perform. The film follows Basinger's life apart from O'Rourke, too, her ex-husband's budding relationship with her pal & co-worker(..also presented subtly, and interesting enough this relationship blooms because the demands are less potentially abusive) and the reclusive artist whose works she is able to get a gallery show for.I think what impressed me more than anything else was the titillating camera work showing a lovely woman's body turned on by her partner's various experimental methods(..such as the ice cube and honey ), also admittedly enjoying Basinger's performances for O'Rourke. This could be because I love how Basinger looks in this movie and the camera just worships her. But, most importantly, I loved how Basinger and O'Rourke often communicated with each other using facial expressions and limited words..it's this kind of communication that's often unappreciated when we look at performance by actors. "},{"Title":"at times quite sexy, and a cool look at Manhattan life, but it's also shallow and dated","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the perks of Nine 1/2 Weeks is that the stars, Mickey Rourke and Kim Basinger, provide audiences of male and female sexes to come together; they are both eye candy for each sex, and they didn't look much better than they did here. That's maybe part of the attraction for director Adrian Lyne, actually, the appeal on the surface of these characters. The only problem is that he and the screenwriters dance around some of the tougher questions that comes out of this intense relationship between two people who lust for each other but can't stop. As far as character development goes... I'd guess there was more in the book. We have prototypical 80s New York characters- Basinger an art gallery assistant and Rourke as a wall street broker of sorts (not quite, but 'sort of' as we learn)- and they meet by just chance and soon the seduction begins, and practically doesn't stop. There are some hot moments here and there (the food scene is a little too goofy to work, but the scene after the near mugging on the steps in the alley is quite sexy in a truly 'urban' way), but it's obfuscated by the dated manner of the presentation. Only once does the music correspond rightly with the action on screen, which is the aborted threesome towards the end, which is when the dark atmosphere is complemented. The rest of the tracks, save maybe for Joe Cocker's striptease bit, are all fodder for the soundtrack sales.You also want to hear these characters speak more, for the shallow/music-video style compositions and smoke-filled atmosphere to peer away and for us to see these damaged souls for who they really are. This only happens towards the very end, coincidentally when the characters have gone past the point of no return to normalcy. Rourke and Basinger are good in their roles, but there should be more than what's here. It's a slightly troublesome sign when there's far more interest in the environment they inhabit (we get the point towards the beginning of NYC's once former notorious state, when the typical shot of Basinger walking in a group of people on a sidewalk is disrupted only mildly by a purse snatcher and the chasers) than the state of the relationship drama. It's worth recommending, maybe, but not much for a repeat viewing unless for soft-porn fodder. "},{"Title":"From a paper thin pocket-book, Lyne takes a clumsy first draft script and makes an impressionistic masterpiece.","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember this film from the great and exciting cinema of the 80's, it quietly invigorates one, tethers the soul, and makes you ask the question, Where have all the thoughtful and powerful movies gone? 9 1/2 Weeks stars Mickey Rourke as John, and Kim Bassinger as Elizabeth, as a post-modern couple smitten with each other in New York City. Through a series of erotic adventures, the young and stunning Rourke manages to estrange Elizabeth, pushing her to the edge of her sanity and her emotional boundaries.What makes this film so great is the simple dramatic story, the fact that it is so visual, and that it is shot so well. It constantly uses close ups without seeming intrusive, the casting is superb, the montages are to die for, and the camera work is excellent, as is the cinematography. It is, I believe, everything one could ever want from a film; thoughtful, smart, visual, sophisticated, and very entertaining still. What 9 1/2 Weeks is also, is a thoughtful indictment of post-modern and consumer culture, not that it did any good. From a paper thin pocket-book, Lyne takes a clumsy first draft script and makes an impressionistic masterpiece.Through many modern abstractions, what constitutes modern living, the people in this film loose the connection to their core being. This is constantly being played with in the film, from the fish motif started in the very first scenes, to the art gallery showing toward the end of the film, which spreads out post-modern decadence and its foibles for us like a buffet.This film, by the way, anchors beautifully in the subplot of Elizabeth's friend, Molly, who, with her average looks, average intellect, and lack of sophistication, by the end of the film winds up in a better place than our protagonist. By contrasting the main theme in the subplot and paying off the script resonates more completely, adding another dimension to the theme. "},{"Title":"underestimated portrait of a delicate start of a relationship","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  '9,5 Weeks' is often refered to as an erotic movie, or as an-intended-to-be-erotic movie, as some would say. Though some scenes definitely can be described as sensual, the film is also, or even more so, about the delicate start of a relationship. The relationship isn't a very long one, but also not short enough for being one with a one night stand-character. Which is, agreed, a simple, but interesting theme. And no, there isn't that much depth to the story, but the performances are the more credible. The way Kim Basinger walks away from Mickey Rourke, after 9,5 weeks, in a long shot that lasts a minute or so, is definitely very worthwhile to see and not that easy to play as it might look. No lines, no information, just as their relationship was. I think this film is underestimated. "},{"Title":"I don't get it","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently rented this video, because I have heard so much hoopla about this movie.   I can appreciate that the film is now dated, and can therefore understand the box-office draw for the sex scenes.  What I don't get is the movie. I found it very disturbing that this supposedly intelligent woman would subject herself to a relationship like this.  To be so totally manipulated and controlled doesn't help her to unleash her sexuality, what it amounts to is physical and psychological rape which is in essence what Jon does to Elizabeth in their 1st real-sex encounter. I could even accept the film for exploring this type of relationship but what is lacking is any in-sight into these characters.  The viewer doesn't have any idea what would drive a man to be this controlling or a woman to allow it.  That bit of information would have helped.  Also there is no point in the movie where I feel or notice any type of affection from Jon for Elizabeth, although he says he loves her his actions prove otherwise. He never stops manipulating or controlling or scaring her. I just don't get it. What was the movie trying to say? "},{"Title":"A Senseless Exploration Of  Male and Female Lust","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The only reason I bought the DVD was to satisfy my curiosity about the scene when Liz (Kim Basinger) strips to the music of Joe Cocker You Can Leave Your Hat On! That was the best part of the whole film. Not because the scene was any good; only the song. I am not saying it was a terribly bad film just not that good. Disappointingly so!Especially when the exploration of male and female sexuality could have been expanded upon. Instead of expanding on the dangerous side of lust, obsession and infatuation and where it can lead to it drags its heels obscurely from one idea to the other. For example when John (played by Rourke) is able to leave her on the top of the Big Wheel, Liz (Kim Basinger) is unconvincingly rattled at the bizarre experience courtesy of John's sense of humor but less rattled at his sexual exploits involving the ever willing Liz; and like one reader mentioned, that for a woman to enjoy sex she has to experience the dangerous side is unconvincing. This dangerous side is not exploited enough in the film and one gets a sense of anti-climax from the view point that it all could go horribly wrong. The theme of bondage makes an appearance often but only just takes one to the brink of danger and then all goes well.Is the film sending the message out that this kind of foreplay is FINE! If the film was making a point about the pitfalls of bondage and by extension the ugly ramifications of sad-masochism then maybe it would make a good moral point. Instead the film awkwardly jumps from one sizzling scene of Rourke feeding Basinger and blindfolding her to another. In a film that could have been good it falls flat on its face because it does not expand and extend the themes the film is MAYBE trying to relate; thus for me it doesn't have a plot nor a theme just a mixture of ideas. "},{"Title":"Where He Puts His Hands is Her Business!!","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The eighties was a decade which gave illusion to the fact that old values were back, and, the sexual revolution was reminiscent of the values which were seemingly more pertinent to the radical, counter culture era of the 1960's! In 1986, Ronald Reagan was President, and the oxford clad camaraderie, which was indicative of the 1980's, sparked a resurgence in naivety!! The avaricious demeanor to the eighties evoked an interpretive translation to wanting everything, once the bedroom door closed, these same ambitions prevailed!! The fact is, that in the 1980's, novice sexual excursions with the non conventional were alive and well, and, the proverbial horse was let out of the barn for good and keeps!! The truth is, that after punching straight Republican ticket, this same person could have gone home and engaged in a wild orgy! Socially salacious isolation afflicts virtually everyone, and sexual proclivities satiate all walks of life, no one cultural stereotype is immune! This is what the movie Nine 1/2 Weeks dealt with! Suffice it to say, this film fascinated the core 18-32 movie market audience!!Mickey Rourke and Kim Basinger are WONDERFUL! in this movie! It is all about a ghoulish curiosity concerning the taboo!! What titillates the hedonistic carnal fancy? How far are we allowed to go? However far, let's go further! They might use the aspects of variational experimentation as a sophisticated subterfuge.. however, the fact remains.. these lustfully induced desires have made these two people no more civilized than timber wolves who happen to have a Fifth Ave clothing budget! The moral disengagement which has besieged both Kim Basinger and Mickey Rourke has left a bevy of unanswered questions that they are petrified of responding to! Kim Basinger's perpetual subservience to everything has welcomed in an onslaught of psychological repercussions which have precariously nurtured her overall insecurity! A dangerously lethal prerequisite to cosmopolitan living seems to encompass the element of intricate sexual detachment from day to day living...For both parties involved, New York City has provided a cold shoulder which is null and void of scruples! This objective imperviousness has accommodated these emotionless charades of sexual deviancy all too conveniently!! Mickey Rourke's callous gratification finally barrages him with recriminations!! At some point, he may not have his cake and eat it too!! (Literally!!) Those are the ground-rules!!I loved this movie!!! Kim Basinger is absolutely beautiful!! In so many of her films, she is so beautiful, that the rest of the movie usually seems uneventful!! This movie's double-entendre to so many food items, accommodates an intrigue to this film that captivates the movie goer, (particulairly if you are a man)... The bottom line is that this film illustrates how sexual depravity often times makes you uncomfortable with the type of person you have become!! By and large, your sense of immediate fruition is very dehumanizing.. For Mickey Rourke and Kim Bassinger, their dubiously intuitive dispositions seem to assuage their decrepit sense of moral imperatives! These two characters were victimized by their own indulgences, and decimated by the causes and effects of clinical debauchery, but once again, those are the ground-rules!!!Nine 1/2 Weeks is an Eighties classic!!! Conservative values were for magazine covers...Perversion is a candid activity for people who have had more than four drinks in an evening!! Terrific acting, and the artistic unconventional-ism to the entire genre of this film, makes Nine 1/2 Weeks totally fabulous entertainment!! See it if you have not seen it already!! While this movie is mild by today's standards, there is a mystique to this film that sufficiently quells the yearning to partake in the very macabre and nonchalant recreational activities associated with casual sex! Nine 1/2 Weeks expedited a myriad of deranged sexual mannerisms very effectively! Ultimately, 9 1/2 Weeks sufficiently conveyed its deliberately disconcerting message of The fact is, sordid sex, is indeed, an ersatz alternative to a healthy relationship!! "}{"Title":"Kim Basinger, what else to say?","Date":"9 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a movie that breaks many taboos, not just fun naughty ones, but deep-seated cultural ones. There are some unforgettable scenes (don't miss the striptease scene, which is amazing two decades later!) and a great soundtrack. The film's photography is gorgeous, using darkness and rays of light to set the shifting contexts of sensuality and sensation throughout. Rourke and Basinger are both superb in their roles, John who is painfully frozen in his incapacity to feel, and Elizabeth who grows visibly in self awareness over the course of the film.The chemistry between Rourke and Basinger is electric. You can practically see the sparks fly off the screen. Is Rourke's character a nice guy? Not really. However, is he sexy, and would he make most women melt? Yes he would without a doubt. The story is compelling and absolutely fascinating as you watch the couple's relationship spring up and then unravel. Highly recommendation for all erotic movie lovers.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I didn't watch well enough back then ...","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has been unfairly slated by people who were perhaps expecting something else. Re-watching it 30(!) years on, I notice above all the beauty of Kim Basinger, above all when she is apparently not trying to be beautiful. The range of expression she can bring to a scene just by looking is amazing; her hair often seems to have been brushed by a dog's claws, but there is something in her eyes which can take your breathe away. Mickey Rourke is above all effective as a guy who is willing to take risks and wants the woman to do the same, and I'm sure if I was a woman I would find him irresistible in this role ...A much-maligned film which deserves re-evaluation as a masterpiece of its kind. 1 point off because it seems a little too afraid of the censor at times ... "},{"Title":"Mickey and Kim Dazzle","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is worth watching just for the 2 stunning main characters - Basinger and Rourke - Basinger for her incredible figure (she never looked better in her suits/high heels) and John for his chisseled features. Of course Basinger's acting is also impeccable, although I believe that Rourke does brooding /introspective better than he does happy. I have to say that the sexual games do seem to come across as a little one-sided - always Rourke directing a game for Basinger - and not the other way. It would have been interesting to see a role reversal on occasion.This film has been compared to 'Last Tango' and the obvious similarity is that Brando and Rourke only open up about their personal lives at the end - and ONLY when Maria and Kim - DON'T want to know ,are not interested and are in fact ready to leave. Very interesting that Rourke says 'I love you' AFTER Basinger has left and the door is closed. (I have also seen Rourke in 'The Wrestler' and was wondering why he did not get an Oscar for that film and '9 1/2'. Probably due to him being not mainstream enough for Hollywood.) Margaret Reines. "},{"Title":"Captivating because of its attractive realism.","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Back in 1986, this film is ahead of his time .... and still is.It's a different and realistic look to relationships. Adrian Lyne's expertise is revealed in every shot. Sensual and full of detail, the film goes beyond the eroticism, or whether if it is about domination or not. Apart from persistent sexual references, the film centers (in a subliminal way) into the inner world of Liz. It is easy to identify with her, thanks to the importance given to gestures, looks, emotional reactions, her private life when she is alone, ... all this (and more) makes the movie has an introspective approach.Adrian Lyne has the ability to turn a banal situation into something beautiful and interestingIt is a portrait of a woman wanting to experience and let herself go, but also very sensitive and able to empathize. This can be seen in her interaction with the painter, who is an artist largely disconnected from the world, living in his house in the country. When she goes to visit him to remind him his appointment with the exhibition of his paintings, she sees and understands that it is a man who lives in another reality. This is confirmed and creates a parallel in the painting exhibition, when Liz is already broken because of her relationship with John, she sees and empathizes with the painter who is totally lost and baffled at the art gallery exhibition.I do not want to get into analyze what happens to the relationship between main characters (although actually it's quite simple) because like many of the films in which there is shown or suggested sex, we should try to see a little further.8/10 "},{"Title":"Mickey Rourke is sexy..","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After being mesmerized by Mickey Rourke's performance in 'Angel Heart' last week, I went on a mini shopping spree for some of his movies. '9 1/2 Weeks' was one of the choices.This movie kept me smiling and giggling throughout. It has so much sex appeal (as does Mickey) and the two of them have serious chemistry between each other!If you're looking for a movie with a serious plot line, don't bother with '9 1/2 Weeks.' But if you just want a movie to have fun with and really get your blood pumping, this is the movie for you! And this goes for both women AND men! "},{"Title":"See it for Basinger.","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This memorable sexual drama is an adaptation of a novel by Elizabeth McNeill. Kim Basinger stars as a character named Elizabeth, a divorced art gallery worker. One day, she chances to meet John (Mickey Rourke), a charming young Wall Street financier. She finds out that he likes to play sexual games, and realizes that she's vulnerable to his manipulations. Ultimately, she finds this strange relationship taking dominance in her life.Nine 1/2 Weeks is a largely two character film that is not degrading or pornographic as some people might have you believe. It's actually rather restrained, and even in its full length uncut version is never overly concerned with nudity or depravity. This may come as a disappointment to some potential viewers, but most of the time it's concentrating on detailing the evolution of this sex-based relationship.Unfortunately, we never get to know our two principals all that well. But since she has more to work with, Basinger definitely comes off better. Rourkes' character forever remains an enigma. Also, for a film running close to two hours, it doesn't seem to have all that much story going for it.The sex scenes will stick in the mind, even if most of them aren't particularly imaginative. The exception is the notorious food sequence, which was later parodied in Hot Shots!. But the choice of song in the sequence kind of kills the mood.Basinger looks positively ravishing throughout - the camera loves her - and she delivers an appealing performance. Familiar faces turn up - Margaret Whitton, David Margulies, Christine Baranski, Karen Young, Julian Beck, Dan Lauria, Ron Wood of The Rolling Stones, etc. - but the supporting cast has little to do in the grand scheme of things.Fairly interesting but not all that successful, this marked a stepping stone for former actor Zalman King (who co-wrote and co-produced); he went on to a prominent career as a soft core auteur.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"beautiful erotica but story is thin","Date":"9 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Elizabeth McGraw (Kim Basinger) works in a SoHo art gallery in the hustle and bustle of NYC. She is taken with confident Wall Street trader John Gray (Mickey Rourke). They begin a torrid sexual affair lasting nine and a half weeks. He's a commanding presence and she feels herself breaking new boundaries. Her best friend goes out with her ex.At least, this is better than 50 Shades. Mickey Rourke is simply a superior actor especially at this time period. He exudes the over-confidence of his character. Kim Basinger is beautiful and also very enchanting. The movie develops the world of New York. It's fun, a little wild and very alluring. The cinematography is beautiful. The food eating lit by the fridge light looks sexy and beautiful. At the end of the day, this is a pretty thin story. Despite the nice acting, there is not much more here than an erotica. The montages are beautiful but shows the lack of drama. Also the controlling nature of John Gray can be taken as misogynistic and very off-putting. "},{"Title":"Nine Weeks of Pure Bliss.","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nine ½ Weeks (1986) Dir Adrian Lyne / Cast Kim Basinger, Mickey Rourke, Margaret Whitton, Dwight Weist, Karen Young Erotic fantasy that spans memories that linger pain and pleasure. Kim Basinger plays Elizabeth, a beautiful woman who works at an art gallery. Mickey Rourke plays the mysterious John whom she encounters at an outside market. Their chance encounter leads to some pretty steamy sexual activity that are stylized with well placed lighting, locations, and innovative sex. Elizabeth is open to romance but is open minded to John's sexual world of blindfolds, public sex, dressing up, and even a scene at the refrigerator to the tune of Bread and Butter that is both erotic and hysterical. Things tense up when sexual levels rise and John begins do demand activity that boarders on abuse and demeaning. Elizabeth is surrounded by an array of interesting personalities at work. Margaret Whitton plays her co-worker and roommate who confesses to be dating Elizabeth's ex-husband. David Margulies and Karen Young round out the art gallery personalities. Dwight Weist plays Farnsworth, an artist whom they are celebrating but whose existence is sheltered. Adrian Lyne previously made Foxes and Flashdance but here he creates a stylishly explicit view of the more adventures forms of sexual activity, and after the tears dry, it is those nine plus weeks that spark memories never forgotten. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"A wistful story of yearning in beautiful cinematic detail","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ###This review may contain inadvertent spoilers###This is one of my favourite films and I believe that it never received the credit it deserves. The story is mostly seen as titillation at best and abuse at worst. Well, I think that this is one of the most beautiful films about wishful thinking that has ever been made. As far as I can see, it is the one good role that Mickey Rourke played. Kim Basinger - need I say more? Has a more dreamy woman ever walked this planet? The film's appeal lies not only in wonderfully cast main actors, the soft focus cinematography, great soundtrack and beautiful erotic scenes. It is a story of loneliness, of a search for human connection, a yearning for thrill, excitement and love - and a hidden sadness behind it all, a tragedy of circumstances and self-destructive behaviour which prevents people from embracing the possibility of love when it comes their way. I believe it to be a great depiction of the struggle between Eros and Tanatus that goes on in human psyche.It could be so bleak - as most of such erotic exploration stories so often are - fortunately, it stands out from the crowd with its funny, charming and silly moments as well as simply being beautiful and stylish. Even if it has no happy-ever-after this film is so well made that it can be watched again and again. The lack of dialogue is one of the main strengths of 9 and 1/2 weeks - the viewer can make of it what they will - a sensual erotica, a depiction of BDSM, a portrayal of exploitation or a tragic story of love that never was. "},{"Title":"Just  visual teasing doesn't make a good film!","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was rather a disappointment to me. It starts promisingly but fails to develop and becomes boring and unconvincing. I think that this plot should have been developed above all as a psychological drama. But it is exactly psychology that is missing here. Instead, it relies on visual teasing. But a film is more than mere photography. Rourke is totally inappropriate for this role. His sweet smile, being on his face time and again, starts looking idiotic as the plot develops. Elizabeth, who is the central character, is also unrealistic. What is it that drives her into this dangerous and humiliating relationship? Taste for danger and adventure? Loneliness? Greed to catch a Wall street man? Masochism? We are not told to the very end. This film is a very pretentious attempt to reveal female eroticism but I think it fails in this. I find this film very un-erotic, perhaps because of the hints of sadism and masochism presented. "}{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as people make it out to be","Date":"4 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If there is an 80s answer to The Last Tango in Paris, it's undoubtedly Adrian Lyne's stylish and engrossing erotic drama Nine 1/2 Weeks. Like its predecessor, critics and audiences were divided in regards to the films artistic value. Some saw it as exploitive, soft core pornography. Most audiences were evidently so distracted by the firestorm of controversy of both films, that they either side stepped around the artistic merit of Nine 1/2 Weeks, or they were simply distracted/repulsed by it and chose to dismiss its worth. Perhaps the most surprising aspect to me about this film was how tame it is. Perhaps our over stimulated, over sexualised, desensitised present day has numbed my inner prude, but I really fail to see how the sex in this film was such a big deal in 1986?At the very centre of this film is a love story without the happy ending. It's also a sentiment on surfaces, and how the 80s were all about appearance. This could not be more relevant in 2014, a time when we seem to have taken a few steps backward rather than forward in regard to artificiality, greed and vanity. John and Elizabeth could very much exist in today's world... John, a man motivated purely by money and sex, and Elizabeth - a lonely woman probably looking for an exit from her superficial life. Her exit is provided by John and an exhausting, passionate and at times aloof and disturbing affair begins. It's a relatively simple story, but its execution and performances are where it succeeds. One of the most amazing things about this film is its cinematography. New York City never looked so enticing with its fog shrouded, Canyon like rain swept streets, to its wet and misty alley ways, it really as important to the film as its central characters. Only in New York can a man meet a woman at a market in such a fleetingly brief encounter, fall in love, and have it all disintegrate in a matter of weeks. Forget about Fifty Shades of Grey, Nine 1/2 Weeks did it much, much better. "},{"Title":"An always enjoyable film","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has fine, highly satisfying qualities as a love story,and it is only spoiled by the erotic scenes. The first half hour of 9 ½ &#133; ranks with the finest. It is a proof of how fine a commercial movie can be.The film should of been made like a bitter love story, not as a tale of sadism. Rourke was beautiful as a lion. The movie itself was intensely savory and even amusing&#151;in its best portions&#151;and tearing. The erotica scenes are bizarrely bad and abstract, dry, uninteresting. But the interactions of the dressed Rourke and Mme. Basinger are ,on their own, excellent.Kim's role was delicious&#151;the best thing she ever did.9 ½ &#133; offers a large amount of Rourke's charm&#151;before he became what he should not have. And the lightness, the intelligent air, the luminous outer scenes &#133;.And also the infinite, inner tenderness and delicacy of several scenes, so well crafted &#133;.It's not an erotica movie;it is a good commercial movie,made with unrivaled gusto,and sadly polluted by some ugly, unnecessary erotic scenes that brought nothing.(I guess Rourke's dissatisfaction with the final product might mean this, or might refer to this.)I have seen the film countless times. "},{"Title":"More than meets the eye","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Although it's not obvious, due to the sex content, it's the adult relationship each of us experienced or will at some point. In a sense the 'starting of the wrong foot' kind of relationship. In this case the relationship builds up on sex games, and hence, the foundation finally collapses. At the same time (especially to the ones that only understand the sex content of the movie) it shows that even the most exciting fantasy (let's at least admit we all have them) falls into routine eventually. This movie is ultimately a condensed mature relationships chronic with its up's and down, and the realization that nothing lasts forever, but mostly with the conclusion that concepts like 'the one' are just a literary invention and relationships can be reduced(and mostly are) to some brief moments of grace scattered on the great loneliness of our daily lives. "},{"Title":"oh mickey","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was one of my very favorites not because of the story line which is quite weak but for the performances my the leading actors. Mickey Rourke was the best thing that happened to this movie however they should have never tried to duplicate the sex appeal of my favorite bad boy in the second and third installment. Mickey and Kim while acting their way way around the weak story that is obvious and drawn out seemed to give a sex appeal and mystique to the games played. It seems as if this movie was supposedly made for the erotic content. However, it should have been release in Paris where the full extent of the eroticism could have been portrayed with out insulting sensitivities of the quakers. Still, the movie is definitely a date helper ie the refrigerator scene and lets not forget the drag scene in the i guess the alley. "},{"Title":"Piano piece playing in the end...","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Does  anyone  know  where  I  can  find  it,  or  download it?  Jack Nietszche (sp?) composed the score, and I'm wondering why it isn't on the soundtrack.  Any help isgreat! "},{"Title":"Not as one thinks it","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hmmm. Sex creates confusions from lonliness. That is what I got from this film. Kim Basinger is great but the guy star of this is too sleazy. Sex can go a long way if you want it to, but the virtual plotless film of this should not have been made. Maybe some of that deleted footage people hear about would clear things up... "},{"Title":"Superior Soft-core","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ice cubes, strawberries and Kim Basinger masturbating. What more could you want!Possibly the only example of the Erotic Movie as Art genre.Adrian Lyne directs a stylish and well choreographed romp-fest. Both Rourke and Basinger suit their roles well, and turn in decent performances.Not much depth here - but a pleasing watch nonetheless. "},{"Title":"An amazing movie with style, sensuality and character","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While many romantic dramas look for the less character, less erotic and more family-friendly approach, 9 and 1/2 weeks takes it to the extreme. Lots of character build up and erotic scenes  throughout the film. I personally view this film as brilliant. The way it was filmed was a great way of showing just how much of a actor Mickey Rourke is and how Kim Basinger can really heat up a scene.  This movie is worth every cent you invest in it.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful love woven with the complexity of personalities","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful celebration of love woven into the complexity of personalities. The vulnerabilities and strengths of the 2 characters was genuine and their love a real erotic turn-on.  The flow of direction is superb, photography is exceptional.  No need for explicit scenes because of the artfulness of presentation.  Kim Basinger is gorgeous throughout.  Mickey Rourke' enigmatic personality and mysterious smile is captivating! The whole film is a true delight.  Looking forward to the sequel Another 9 1/2 weeks just out in video-cassette. "},{"Title":"Maybe too intense for you....","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very well thought out, with a very deep and disturbing plot. It is not just a  sex movie although from the box it appears so.  I think that the reason that many people have not given it a high rating is because it is intense, and many people may find it disturbing to watch it.  "}{"Title":"I enjoy living out fantasies too!","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The reason I enjoyed this movie so much was mostly because of the sensuality.  I feel a lot of us deep down inside want to try some of the things they did in this film but are afraid or shy. He taught her not to be afraid and to trust him...to let go of her inhibitions. It was nice to see how much closer they became throughout the movie.  I was only sorry the ending wasn't better. "},{"Title":"&#x85;before I count to 50.","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Misunderstood Movie that was Anticipated by the Skuttlebutt and Marketing Exploitation and was Received and Reviewed by Uptight Critics and Disappointed/Defensive Audiences. It is an Underrated Art Movie that is an American Film that has a Distinctive European Feel.Americans are Much More Comfortable with Violence than Sex. The U.S.A. Audiences are a bit Squeamish with Sex Scenes and this has a Number of Them. But they are Mostly Fun Filled, Playful, Erotic Displays with a Silky not Sleazy Appeal.This is a Beautiful Film Filled with Backlight Refractions and Penetrating Rays of Artificial and Natural Illuminations. This is Erotica and NOT PORN. Far from it. There is a Good Nature to the Bad Behavior as can be Witnessed by the Joy and Laughter from the Falling in Love Couple.There is a Downbeat Ending that Many may find Unsatisfying but is True to the Nature of the Female Character. It is a Film about Control and Submission and Their Relationship is Built on that Foundation and while it is Relinquished it is Right, but when the Blindfold is Lifted and the Servitude is No Longer Welcomed the Result is Inevitable.This Sleight of Hand from Director Adrian Lyne is Hypnotic and Mickey Rourke and Kim Basinger do Well Managing the Difficult Roles. The Movie is a Visual Treat and is Recommended for those with Curiosity and Concern about how the Sex in a Relationship can be both Emancipating and Heart Breaking. "},{"Title":"my thoughts","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always been crazy about this movie. I first saw it when I was 14 years old (in 1987, a year after it came out). At that time, my hormones were raging, and frankly I just got off on it. However, I also thought it was a visually beautiful film with a cool soundtrack. Not to mention, Kim Basinger and Mickey Rourke are great to look at. I think the acting was decent on the part of both, but stronger from Kim Basinger. You really saw and palpably felt her vulnerability and overall anguish. I personally think it is her best performance to date.My main critique of the movie has always been that it didn't strike me as all that severely shocking in sexual content. Even for 20/25 years ago, none of the sexual activity that took place struck me, even then, as so incredibly S & M. Most of the stuff they did is stuff that I'd like to do, and I'm a far-cry from being into S & M. The rape scene wasn't much of a rape, and I would argue that LOTS of women, even ones not into S & M, like the idea of being thrown on a table and a hot guy sort of forcing himself on you, especially if it's your boyfriend who you're attracted to but just happen to be mad at for that particular moment. The food in front of the refrigerator -- granted, not everyone gets that playful with sex -- but is it really so evil and dominating/submissive? Having sex standing up in a clock tower after running up several flights of stairs? Sounds great... Even her dressing up as a man...that seems more dorky than it is domination/submission. The fight they had with the thugs...didn't seem like something John planned in order to humiliate her or dominate her; it's just something they ran into.In essence, the film always left me thinking What's the big deal? I couldn't even imagine why she'd leave him, based on most of the stuff they did. (SOME things were out of line and scary, but not most...and the things that were a little shocking were things he SAID, not anything they actually did)I recently read the actual memoir by Elizabeth McNeil, and liked it a lot. It's an amazing book. Well-written and didn't strike me as outdated for being written in 1978. I loved it...It even reinforced my view that the movie was not anything jaw-dropping. The book is much more serious about the S & M activity. The movie was done much more like a romance, and that's okay, really. But even if you're going to turn the book into more of a romance, it still could have stood to be a little more faithful to the book as far as seriousness of sexual activity. "},{"Title":"You know, Mickey Rourke always creeped me out... until now D","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As much as I know that this is a pretty silly story that really makes mostly no sense whatever, but this movie was just so sexy, blah! I'm shallow! I'm sick! I liked it! Shame, shame on me! Mickey is just so hot in this movie, I couldn't believe it! He always creeped me out in his new movies, but once I saw 9 1/2 Weeks, he's just so beautiful. OK, I'm sorry, I just had to get that out.Elizabeth is a young beautiful woman who meets John, a smooth talking business man, and they hit it off naturally and passionately. They start a very intimate relationship pretty quickly and she ends up moving in with him, under the condition that he can take care of her have her to himself at night time. But of course since she doesn't know him that well and he keeps silent about his past, she begins to question him. Not to mention that the games are getting more and more scary when he's asking for more from her sexually.OK, movie wise, 9 1/2 weeks is no Oscar winning story, in fact, I even deny if there is a movie in here, but it was Mickey that drew me to the story... and that accent... and that hair... and that smile... Oh, God! I need to go watch this movie again before I give it back to the movie store.6/10 "},{"Title":"Once upon a time, I was not old enough to see this.......","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This came out when I was in high school. I remember they carded EVERYONE at the door of the theatre and as I was not 18 I could not get in to see it...DRATS! However, thanks to the birth of the VHS and Blockbuster Video, I was able to rent it the following summer. I remember myself and a group of friends rented it out of teen curiosity and well, because we could. Some of us had turned 18 by then and someone's parents were away for the weekend so...well....we did and for kicks......heck YEAH we were curious!! I remember everyone going OMG! They did THIS?? and OMG! He did THAT and SHE LET HIM? As the under agers we were, we watched and drank wine coolers and could not BELIEVE that this movie existed and we got our hot little hands on a copy! This movie made such a stink and raised sexual awareness up another notch. It was good, full of forbidden sex and drama and quite an eye opener to anyone under the age of 21 and starved for a taste of freedom. Mickey Rourke was hot; no argument on that one! If this were to premiere today, chances are that it would be rated PG13 and the kids would not be going OMG! THEY DID THIS??? I look at this now and think OMG! I cannot BELIEVE how naive, young and stupid I was to think that this was such a big deal!!! More like small potatoes now in my eyes. If you are hot for Rourke or Basinger, I suggest you rent it. If not, oh well....there is much more out there that is twice as raunchy as this was considered in it's prime. "},{"Title":"i saw this in 8th grade, and it rocked!","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  now now, let's not do too much thinkin.' lets face it, it's one of the last movies made during the time mickey rourke was still hot - and kim bassinger never looked better. yeah it's cheesey, but it beats The OC, doesn't it?and let us not forget, John Taylor was on the soundtrack - his first solo joint (after the Duran Duran mania - and the Power Station stint) I do what I do. Great video!i thought the movie was so good, i went and got the book from the library - the book was much better though. it made it pretty clear what a perv john really was.anyways, i just thought i'd put my two scents in about a movie that made me 're-think' whether or not i'd be offended if a man asked me to crawl across the floor and pick dollar bills. somehow mickey just managed to pull that off - and not too many guys can do that. and for that reason, i give it the old thumbs up - the perfect 'pre-teen' but sexually curious movie for young adults.  "},{"Title":"Very erotic","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know that many here think that this movie misses the mark erotically, but I disagree.  I find that the moody light textures, cinematic camera work, steamy soundtrack, mysterious edge of Rourke, and, of course, the alluring Basinger all mix well and make a sexually provocative film.  Not to get too descriptive but especially appealling for me were the slide show scene, the table scene (after the fight) and the alley in the rain scene. Simply put the film has libidinous atmosphere. "},{"Title":"One of the most erotic movies of recent years.","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Zalman King, the only American director who advocates women to be sexually adventurous and not end up ignominiously.  And what's wrong with that?  Kim Baisinger becomes obsessed with Mickey Rourke who then becomes obsessed with her.  How wonderful to be able to see Mickey Rourke before his face was all smashed to smithereens from fighting.  If you're in the mood for an erotic adventure to see on a weekend night with a new romance, this movie is for you.   "},{"Title":"Rather good, but it runs out of steam.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film often becomes the target of hostile and sarcastic comments; while it is no masterpiece, it certainly doesn't deserve that treatment. It's surprisingly thoughtful, with many offbeat touches here and there (which somehow never seem pretentious), and many realistic moments and everyday life observations that add dimensions to the characters. Maybe people are disappointed because the film doesn't really score in the erotic department Mickey Rourke is magnetic but Basinger just doesn't cut it - her only really hot scene is her strip-tease, which is also the least explicit one. Although the film suffers from a repetitive story, and eventually, exactly like its characters, runs out of steam, it still seems somewhat underrated.  "},{"Title":"where's the plot?!?","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seems to me that the only point in the movie is to put as much sex in a movie as can be done in an R movie.  There really is no high point, and the plot is non-existent.  This movie was clearly intended to be a shocker ewww I cannot believe they are doing that!! (The food love scene). Boring, Uneventful, 1/10. "}{"Title":"What could've been a great movie turned into soft core fluff","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kim Basinger and Mickey Rourke star in this controversial story of a wall street exec and an art gallery employee who hook up and begin a very experimental sexual relationship.While the acting by Rourke and Basinger is ok, the flim doesn't allow their characters to truly form. Allegedly there was a lot of film left on the cutting room floor that delved deeper into the characters and the effects of the relationship on them - Basinger's character considering suicide -  that would have made the characters more involved for the viewer. As is it is a glossy, well produced, with MTV style editing piece of soft core voyeurism.  4 of 10 "},{"Title":"Why didn't she leave him before.","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't really see how anyone can have any interest whatsoever in seeing this movie. A woman meets a man, he wants to play games, she too, but only until she realise what she's missing. She leaves, and that's it really. It took 9 1/2 weeks before Elizabeth (Kim Basinger) left John (Mickey Rourke). She should have left him after 30 minutes and ended our misery.  "},{"Title":"Queer Content & The Rape Scene","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Overall, I think this movie is sexually inventive, especially by 1986 Hollywood standards. The suggestive cues imbued in sounds, textures, and food, combined with actual nudity, is so hot. Basinger and Rourke are still hot, despite a radically changed fashion landscape. It's not the best movie of all time, but it wasn't painful, either. There's a few points that caught my attention 1. First, there is a scene in the film that definitely queers heterosexuality. Kim Basinger's character Elizabeth in one scene is dressed in (shabby) drag, and as she and John (Mickey Rourke) leave the restaurant, they are gay-bashed. The suggestion that straight people can be victims of homophobia, or that straight people involved in BDSM defy notions of normative heterosexuality, is a radical suggestion for a 1986 Hollywood film. In the following scene, a flamboyant man is talking, and he seems really gay, also, so again, there is another subtle suggestion...2. What's up with the little girl sitting on the stairs at the Chelsea Hotel? What does she symbolize? Someone on IMDb.com thought it meant Elizabeth was pregnant, but I took it as an expression of Elizabeth's power position in the relationship. She kind of became a little girl, but not so much that she was below patting an actual little girl on the head.3. When John throws Elizabeth down on the table, is he raping her? The ambiguity here is frustrating to me, especially considering that the 1980's were still full of actual cases where women were blamed for their rapes. It is frustrating to me that we cannot discern whether or not Elizabeth is being raped (and that ambiguity is projected as acceptable to an audience who might not otherwise be sympathetic to rape victims). It is also frustrating that if Elizabeth really is being raped in this scene, it ends with her enjoying it. Again, not the most socially responsible scene. For people who adhere to the safe, sane, consensual ethos of BDSM, it might be a hot rape play scene, but I think it's not really socially responsible to just sneak it in a movie that Joe Date Rape might go see. "},{"Title":"over-rated","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For years I had heard about this movie and how erotic it is, and in particular about the fridge scene.  We finally rented it, and I nodded of a few times (in the early evening).  It was a boring movie, with no apparent point to the story.  The plot went nowhere, and the sexy scenes weren't especially.  As for the fridge scene - YAWN. "},{"Title":"9 1/2 Winks","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mysterious man (read weirdo) keeps bumping into blonde woman (read bimbo) in greater New York City, so they decide to have an affair.Mikey Rorke and Dim Bayfinger are the puppets this time around in another of director Adrian Linn's patented misfires. Linn's use of photography, sets, editing, music, and continuity falls under the 'you've-seen-it-all-before' school of film-making. Concludes with the inevitable unveiling of the mystery man's true neuroses and loneliness. Boring supporting characters don't help.Unsophisticated rubbish trying to be sophisticated. Pass. Try a John Derek-directed film instead. "},{"Title":"poorly executed","Date":"29 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time without reading the book. I was familiar with the specifics of the story though so I knew what to expect. I was very disappointed in the movie though. I don't know if this is just the way 80s movies are or what, but there was so much potential for this to be a great movie but in my opinion fell way short.For one, I was majorly confused throughout most of it. They had all these little weird scenes with or without conflict and then cut away to another time with no explanation on what they were doing and why, or how the conflict was resolved. And the multiple wordless scenes with blaring music did not help.----->also in relation to this, every plot point was so subtle and shown in such a lack of detail that if I hadn't read a detailed synopsis and multiple book reviews with spoilers, I would have had no idea what was happening or why.Also, was I supposed to like John? Cause I didn't. I wanted to, but he was such an insensitive, insincere creep. I'm not sure if Mickey was trying to portray him this way or what....if he wasn't then I have serious doubts about his acting abilities. John always had that slimy fake smile on his face and never talked, and when he did it was so soft-spoken and hardly made sense. I don't know, I think the movie would've benefited with another actor, someone more charming and charismatic. I was really disappointed because I feel like this has the potential to be a really great, thought provoking, almost painful and beautiful movie, but almost every aspect of it fell short, from the writing to the acting to the editing to the music. They need to do a remake. In the mean time, I'll read the book and try to get the picture of creepy movie John out of my head while I'm doing so. "},{"Title":"The Breasts Of Kim Basinger's Body-Double Aside.....","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Meet John Gray, the incessantly smirking prick of Wall Street. He may have picture-perfect hair, but he sure ain't no Romeo.And meet Elizabeth McGraw, the ceaselessly pouting ho from Soho. She may have sexy, flyaway hair, but she sure ain't no Juliet.And, with that - He says Hi! She says Bye. He says Yes. She says No. He sends flowers. She's so delighted.She's a nosey-parker. He likes to spanky-spanky. He grunts. She groans. He smirks. She squeals.He pours on the honey. She farts in ecstasy. He cracks the whip. She picks up the money. He says Obey! She says OK. He says Where? She says Here. He says Mine. She says Yours. He smirks. She cries. He says Good day! She says Good-Bye! Tsk. Tsk. Tsk. And, with that, the Soho ho and the Wall Street prick live crappily ever after. Apart.Yep. There certainly goes 9 1/2 weeks of some of the dreariest sexual-obsession, soap opera that I've seen in a mighty long time.And speaking about creating a real cozy and chummy atmosphere - It totally killed me that Elizabeth's best friend and fellow co-worker, Molly, was secretly screwing around with Liz's ex-husband, Bruce, all along. (But, then, like a real trooper, she finally fesses-up to the treachery) Well, hey, what the hell are good friends for? If you can believe it - Back in 1986 this laughable, $17 million production, whose story was clearly 80% style over substance, was taken so seriously by its sexually-obsessed audience that it actually made back 6 times its initial costs at the box-office in no time flat.On a side-note - I think it's really scary to see just how drastically Mickey Rourke's looks have deteriorated over the last 26 years. Seeing him now and seeing him back then, you'd never, ever guess that these 2 screen-images of Rourke are, in fact, one and the same person. "},{"Title":"Sexual Fantasy, Manipulation, and Karma?","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Soft core porn that explores sexual fantasy, manipulation, and how there is always one person in any type of relationship that will be hurt even if you don't think that person is capable of being hurt.Kim Basinger was hot , Mickey Rourke before his surgery gone bad days. My only issue is they wrote him as if he was the ultimate alpha male that is untouchable with the twist he is but Mickey Rourke is not compelling enough to make me as a 30 something male wish I was like him. If anything it teaches what a man should not be. A real man does not play with and use a woman for his own game. Sexual or otherwise. In the end it serves him right to be played by his own game when she walks out that door and doesn't come back. That has to sting. Those were the days Kim was stunning. What a body. "},{"Title":"Erotic, Dull and Interesting!","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lyne's 1986 flick '9 1,2 Weeks' is erotic, dull & interesting. This filmmaker loves sex, as all his films are based on sex and lust between human beings. All in all this flick has pluses and minuses. A abrupt climax spoils the fun completely!Lets go ahead with the pluses first Mickey Rourke and Kim Basinger are Icons of Hollywood. This film is very old, both of them were young at the that time and both performed so well. Rourke is excellent. Basinger on the other hand, looks damn hot and delivers a classy performance.Minuses The climax is abrupt. Leaving the viewer unsatisfied and confused.On the whole, '9 1,2 Weeks' is a good watch. Go for this one, but watch it alone. "},{"Title":"Wanted it to end after nine 1/2 minutes.","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A woman who deals in art starts to have a passionate love affair with a man named John. They make love everywhere they go and they play sexual games. The problem I had was that was all they did. There was no plot at all to this movie or I just didn't see it. The hot erotic passion was the best thing about this movie but I wanted something else to happen. Perhaps he could have been a serial killer or she could have had a secret. I just needed something and all that there was was a bunch of love making scenes. Not that's it was bad or anything, I just wanted more things to happen in the movie. Perhaps a coworker was sleeping with him too. Anything! I was greatly upset that this was all that there was. Mickey Rourke was so hot back then. I wonder what happened. "}{"Title":"An erotic dysfunctional relationship","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I wasn't crazy about this movie. It was difficult to watch in parts, and I thought the acting was spotty...great in some places, and mediocre in others.Having said that, the plot is basically a good one. And the sex scenes are erotic and sometimes disturbing.I think the dis-functionality of the relationship disturbed me because I saw a bit of myself in Elizabeth, although, I would like to think I would get out long before she did.I can't really suggest this movie, even though I know it was actually fairly good. It was too disturbing in places, even if the basic message is sound. "},{"Title":"piano piece -background music.....????","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ever since i saw that movie, for nearly 20 years ago.i have from time to time tried to find that piece of music. That are played at the end of the movie.. it is a very slow and nice.. o) -yet sad piece... i think it might be played in the movie in short pieces.. it is played only on piano.. if not..? -it is the piano music from the end i am looking for.. I have found several places on the internet, stating it should be by Michael Hoenig (which not appears on the soundtrack) (-nor credited at the end of the movie..) i have search, and search literally for years.. and many of the young persons who work in the different music/CD shops, have never heard of that movie, so i keep on running towards a dead end do ANYONE out-there..!? -know if it is possible to get the piece of music on eitherCD, tape, free download, pay download..nicholas9k@ hot mail.com "},{"Title":"Mainly Hypocritical","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has a serious message which seems to be that objectifying sexual practices are about power over-ness and, in the end, exact harm on women. The trouble is that this truth is undermined by a too explicit enaction of these mainly sadistic practices. In other words, the movie too often gets off on what it opposes--much like films that purport to be against rape, yet linger too much over a rape scene.I don't wish to say that Nine 1/2 Weeks is always too explicit, but it is on enough occasions to merit the word hypocrisy or the term soft porn. These instances not only make the message a lie, but the movie itself suffers as a movie on its account. This film is a hothouse of fetishization--it is almost worldless. I mean who is this John?  For a half the movie we ask this but after that I mean does anyone really care about his mystery.  This said Mickey Rourke is very convincing as a controlling womanizer--his engaging eyes slowly revealing the perverse. Let's give credit to an excellent ending too--but maybe it should have started in the middle of the film and thus saved it from its central lie.  "},{"Title":"One long trailer for itself...","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seemed like a good idea at the time. More recently, advertisers in the UK have taken inspiration from some of the scenes, particularly that ghastly business by the fridge. (She might be Kim Basinger, but I'm not having a thing out of her kitchen again). Ironically, when you look back at the film, it looks more like an advert than the adverts now aspiring to copy it. Much like Mickey Rourke, it hasn't aged well. Erotic? It's about as erotic as a weekend in Peterborough (US equivalent- Peoria, IL) "},{"Title":"1980's erotic flick","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  SpoilersI watched this movie for the first time when I was a teenager in the late 1980's. After maybe 15 years or so I watched it over again. If you are looking for a good love story, or a more or less suspenseful erotic thriller (such as Basic Instinct), forget it. This movie features a number of sequences of sexual contents, the story is somewhat between them and plays a completely minor role in my opinion. The ice-cube scene lost its attraction, but the scene Kim Basinger stripping to Joe Cocker's You can leave your hat on is still pretty cool I think. Whenever I hear this song - it's actually one of my favourite songs - it has reminded me of that scene througout the years. The soundtrack is completely 80's stuff, so if you like Cocker, Eurythmics or J.M. Jarre, it will fit your taste. The story is too weak, though, because there is almost none.7/10 (because I like 80's stuff, else 4/10) "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the world.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here is more feels than erotic and more thoughts than acts. But this film is not about love it is about passion. This is a nice and sad story about relations between man and woman who dream and look for love. But their efforts are vain because neither he nor she aren't ready to give everything for another sake. And it's strange that their relationship went on only 9 and a half weeks and whole 9 and a half weeks. The relationship like their had to finish and to finish by break. Unfortunately they can't be together because both are single person, too independent, too free, they have to be alone.  "},{"Title":"one of the 80s greatness","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have watched this movie many many times , it  clearly shows why the 80s is so great . BUT the thing what makes this movie more great is the music . i have never seen a movie with such music that makes u so close to the actors in it. "},{"Title":"Kim looks hot, the soundtracks not","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie in junior high, i think, and i was in awe. I mean, Kim Basinger and that strip tease scene! Now, after watching it again, I think the movie was good ion large part due to her.  The little psychological nuances of teh film didn't really interest me, and i thought the cheesy pop songs throughout the soundtrack were vastly annoying. "},{"Title":"Boring by today's standards.","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For the time it was made, I'm sure 9 1/2 Weeks was the hottest movie on the market.  Now, it's basically boring.  It seems like the film-makers only partly realized how phenomenally hot Kim Basinger really is, because it could have been one of the best films of its kind if they had used her more. The hottest scene in the movie is the little strip-tease, and there isn't really any nudity.  In fact, most of the sex scenes don't have much nudity, and that's really a shame.  If this movie would be made today, it would be unstoppable, one of the hottest movies ever made.  Unfortunately, it was made in 1986, where showing a lot of naked breasts was more taboo than today.  What a shame. "},{"Title":"zzzzzzzz (1/10)","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely dreary and tedious to watch, I certainly did not find anything erotic about the film. Painful dialogue to boot as well. Avoid. "}{"Title":"Surprisingly good but notable more for the trends it sparked in American erotic cinema","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nine ½ Weeks is probably one of the most culturally and economically influential box office bombs in movie history. I t established that there was no real market for high class, mainstream erotica in American film, and also helped spawn and define a cottage industry of lesser quality, niche erotica that continues to this very day, primarily on cable TV. When you add in the fact that Nine ½ Weeks is pretty entertaining as well, you end up with an impressive motion picture.Here's the plot. A divorced New Yorker named Elizabeth (Kim Basinger) falls under the sexual spell of a mysteriously cool man named John (Mickey Rourke). They have a lot of sex of varying physical and emotional quality. Elizabeth eventually tires of their unhealthy union and leaves. The end. That's not an awful lot to sink your teeth into, but that's sort of the point. This was an attempt to make a legitimate movie about the sexual relationship between two people without delving into the realms of softcore porn. It basically uses their sexual encounters to tell us who these people are why they bond.Elizabeth is lonely and stuck inside the degenerate artifice of the New York City art crowd. If John had thinning hair and a beer gut, he'd be an obsessive, controlling pervert. Since he looks like what Mickey Rourke looked like in the mid 80s, he's like a fantasy figure come to life to liberate Elizabeth from her inhibitions. His need to command her and her sexuality at first lets her enjoy parts of herself she would never admit to. Eventually, his need to control expresses itself in more and more deviant behavior and Elizabeth finally rebels in order to hold onto the very awareness that John helped stir in her.Director Adrian Lyne did a very nice job her, though much of the look and all of the music of the film is about as dated as you can get. There's never any doubt what decade Nine ½ Weeks was made in. The scenes of foreplay and sex here are so stylish and powerful that they've been imitated in the sex scenes of countless movies made after this one. And Lyne effectively compensates for the paucity of plot by immersing the viewer into the rhythm of New York City street life and the adolescent culture of the New York City art world.Basinger and Rourke are stunningly attractive but neither becomes lost in their respective beauty. Basinger's silkily conveys Elizabeth's journey of self-discovery and Rourke is magnetically quiet and calm. What's best about their work here is that each always lets you see that their character is thinking about the games they're playing with each other and choosing to go forward with them.Stylish direction powerful performances and a good bit of media sensation weren't enough to make this film a hit. I t became a film in the 80s that a lot of people heard about but not that many saw and there's been very little in the way of high class, mainstream erotica out of Hollywood ever since. What did happen is that co-producer and co-writer Zalman King went out to make a few more erotic films, all dumber and much closer to softcore porn, then made his way into cable TV with Red Shoe Diaries. That was an anthology series that did a more prurient and less sophisticated version of this movie over and over again. It proved their was an audience of middle brow erotica, just not one that would go to the cinema.I quite liked Nine ½ Weeks. I also liked that Basinger got naked but it spared me any sight of Rourke's ass. If you're looking for a smart and graceful movie about two people getting it on, this is it. "},{"Title":"I agree it is soft core porn","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is more of a soft core porn movie than anything else. But I guess I knew that even before starting to watch this movie and that may also have been my real agenda. Still I tried to give it a chance. Waiting for something good to happen that will negate what other reviews say about the movie. But sadly that never happened. Finally I did go past the point of no salvage.After that it was just skipping the scenes and watching Kim Basinger. If you are coming for just watching Basinger in compromising positions, then this is a very good movie for that. There are a lot of memorable scenes. Playing with food, a bit of S&M, exhibitionism and a little gender bender. A little perverted but still sexy. Just understand that this is all you are going to get. It is made to appeal to male viewers. But I am hard pressed to guess the age. Basinger is too old for a young audience and the movie is a little juvenile for older audience. But I am sure this is still a lot of guy's cup of tea. "},{"Title":"Movies as psychotherapy?","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of many movies that were 'prescribed' to me by my shrink who believed in their effectiveness in therapy. At first I could not understand the connection between a film and a psychological problem. But then it became clear that both are about a 'fantasy'. Almost everyone in society is living a fantasy that can be as far removed or as close to reality as the person wishes. Of course, if the that person is a head of state dragging his country into war or running after Utopian dreams then the harm done is that much more greater.Now a film is also a fantasy, but it is the very exact and deliberate fantasy of the director. When we see a movie we are transported into that fantasy and we live it in vivid detail and color in all our visual and mental senses. We also live it in our subconscious senses as well, and herein lies its value. Seeing what has been thus far deeply embedded and intertwined inside us now on screen and out in the open helps begin the separation process (between reality and fantasy). Since the distinction between the fantasy of the movie and your current reality is very clear, and since you willingly entered the movie fantasy by your own choice until it overlapped with your inner similar fantasy; you can get to experience the willful 'exiting' of the movie fantasy that would subsequently help you to 'exit' your inner fantasy in the future. Well, it's a little more complicated than that, but this isn't the best place to discuss in deep psychotherapy techniques.Of course I'm not suggesting that, in and of its self, a movie would cure anybody of anything; that has to be the work of a professional, and it's his or her decision as to whether or not to incorporate it into the therapy process. But I am curious as to whether anyone else has ever 'used' movies in this sense or at least experienced their psychological effect either consciously or subconsciously. "},{"Title":"Glass more than half empty","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, the substantive nonsexual elements of this movie are not much.  Plus, the dialogue is trite and the characters other than the principal two are city-blah, certainly not compelling.  The smile of Mickey Rourke (he plays John) is intriguing but bores after a while.  As for Kim Basinger (Liz), her acting performance is not the best in the world.  The ending is not good, much is inane.  But let's grant the film the favor of commenting on what it is really about.Nine 1/2 Weeks is is an exposition on sexual fantasies, quite a variety of them, but strictly soft-porn -- more like soft-soft porn.  It really is not very revealing and does not have hot sex scenes.  The movie is about male dominance, female submission.  The assumption from many would be, yes a man can certainly get into male dominance, of course, although that is not all men either.  However, Nine 1/2 Weeks is seen by much of the intelligentsia of both sexes as something a woman can get into, too, while some women resent it.  But for one thing, I just think the movie, to fulfill its purpose, could have included some female dominance stuff too.  You know, men can get into that too, some anyway.  For women with their antenna out, that would not be so bad, would it?  But I guess it would, if the overall premise is criticized and consistency is observed.  Anyway, the movie could have been a bit longer to accommodate this desire for those who wanted it, with scattered nonsex junk cut as well.Another issue is camera work, camera choices (I won't say cinematography).  Readers can trust me, I hope, in saying it is not my fantasy for a women to crawl on her hands and knees, rear up, to me.  When it comes to food substances, perhaps there can be some broader-based appeal.  In other words, I am suggesting that, based on the variety of things it can offer, maybe more men would enjoy some aspect of wet and messy than they do a women crawling.  Maybe not.  But on this premise, I suggest that a problem with the scenes involving food--cherries, honey, other liquids--was that the photography was too close up.  Maybe the ice scene was OK as is.  But for the rest, it appeared the director wanted to be restrained--less coverage, no broader, more elaborate images.  No whipped cream (or other things one could think up), limited facial coverage, in these scenes, no nudity.  Like the lack of regular sex content.I liked the outdoor rain/shower scene, and the dance-and-strip (sort of) -to-music scene.  The spank rape scene?  Even if someone has some deep-seated fantasy resembling this in any way, I question whether anyone can be entertained by such a basic (or, base) and immediate presentation as was made here.   I also question whether most men like this sort of thing at all.  It is just not nice, and unimaginative.A similar comment on the blindfolds.  I did not like these scenes, and the close-ups again hurt.  Again, who knows what everyone's bondage fantasies involving ropes or string are?  But this was not explored.All in all, though, I think the main shortfall was that this was basically fantasy without much sex.  Lisa, with John, clothed, spreading her legs on a bed in the store in front of the middle-aged women was amusing, but also a metaphor for the movie.  Something more could have been worked in, and more thought (not just mine) could have been put into it, and, at least for me, some things could have been taken out.  The grade is mixed  good, bad, and incomplete.   Men will do better if they watch movies in the Ginger series or Shannon Tweed movies.  "},{"Title":"Porn flick trying to disguise itself as mainstream entertainment.","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Not much more needs to be said. The subject matter is something that belongs in the hidden, adult-only section of the video rental shop on the corner. It is merely a porn flick trying to pass as mainstream entertainment. Considering it was filmed during an era of irresponsible sex (at least in entertainment industry circles), it is almost understandable why the producers thought it was a good idea. Almost.Of course everyone finds sex enticing and this is the reason why everyone I know watched this movie. Only people in the entertainment industry might have considered the plot and character motivations realistic. (My primary purpose for watching this was to locate the performance of an extra who I personally know and was not credited with the cast.) "},{"Title":"Soft Focus, Soft Porn ... Soft Brains?","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Liz is a graceful beauty who deals in modern art.  John is a guy with money, which he makes from some vague financial dealing.  They are both lonely New Yorkers, and both ready for an affair.The central idea of the film (if 'idea' is the correct word) is that a woman is best wooed by engaging her senses.  The movie purports to show how John 'educates' Liz into enjoying sex through sensuality.  There is an edge of danger in everything that John does (stopping the ferris wheel at its highest point, feeding the blindfolded Liz a chilli pepper) and the nervous, insecure Liz has to learn to embrace the risks in order to augment the thrills.That's the theory.  What we get is Basploitation, with Kim Basinger having her nipples and bikini line rubbed with ice cubes.  Lacking the imagination to treat its subject seriously, the flim shows us scene after scene of Mickey Rourke shovelling food into Basinger's mouth.  Rourke's character is meant to be mysterious and alluring, but he is mostly just plain irritating.  Basinger's Liz is supposedly being titillated, but the titillation is aimed at the viewer, not the girl (molasses poured on a thigh LOOKS sexy, but actually FEELS yucky).  John, the guru of sensuality, can think of nothing more original than continually blindfolding Liz.The film desperately wants to be a badass New York movie-with-attitude. We are shown traffic and garbage trucks, and smart alec art critics at dinner parties.  Puddles compete with smoky, dark restaurants in Chinatown in a bid to convince us that this is all gritty and real.  John takes Liz to an eathouse where hoodlums were once killed.  Molly is a funny-and-sassy-but-vulnerable-jewish-New-Yorker who bashes the trunks of taxis which displease her.  The flower delivery boy bops to the rhythm of his walkman because this is New York and he's a crazy dude.  The more the film strives after image, the more it descends into cliche.  This isn't New York, it's a stereotype of New York concocted by West Coast film-makers.Details which are intended to persuade us that this affair is a wild, romantic fling simply don't work, for the simple reason that they are grindingly mundane (throwing Liz's hat into the air, a 'quickie' in the clock tower).  Rourke lacks the gravitas of a Don Juan.  He is supposed to be a wonderful cook, but all we ever see him doing is cracking raw eggs.Aspects of the film which tax our credulity include the fight with the street thugs, which John and Liz win so easily, the copulation under a downspout of freezing New York rainwater and the leg-spreading game on the department store bed.Is it fair that pretty blonde actresses are expected to get their kit off in this way?  Well, one imagines that there are plenty more pretty blonde actresses in work than plain ones, and the pretty ones don't seem to be complaining.  Basinger may rail against it all now, but she took the chance of stardom when it came her way.  In one scene, Liz crawls reluctantly across the floor, picking up money.  Maybe that is a metaphor.  "},{"Title":"Don't Kid Yourselves","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"13 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is high-gloss soft-porn; a boring soap opera concentrating on one thing sex. They actually made sex boring, sad to say, because I defy you to watch this casually and tell me what the storyline was. What this is, is an excuse for Kim Bassinger to show off her great body and for Mickey Rourke to smirk a lot. That's it. Rourke's smugness is so bad it's sickening and Bassinger, despite the great figure, looks cheap more than beautiful.Kudos to the photographer for some nice closeup shots and some wonderful color, but the story is so weak - no character development and no plot - it's unable to compensate. Let's face it this movie was made for only reason - to titillate male viewers. On that level, it probably succeeded. If I recall, it's why I gave it a look being a fan of Bassinger's looks, but I actually expected a story, too.Those trying to pass this off as arty and something deeper than soft porn are only fooling themselves. "},{"Title":"Soft-Core, Mainstream Style","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nine 1/2 Weeks (1986) ** (out of 4) NINE 1/2 WEEKS hit theaters with a storm of controversy following it as the filmmakers wanted you to believe that you were walking into the next LAST TANGO IN Paris. All these years later the film has pretty much lost the controversy and when looking at the film today you really wonder what all the fuss was about. The story is pretty simple as a man and woman (Mickey Rourke, Kim Basinger) enter a dangerous sexual game and soon it starts to have a toll on both of them. I've never been a fan of this movie and it's always shocked me to see how many great review it gets. I'm really not sure what the film is about so I'll be perfectly honest there. Is it about the timid female's journey into this erotic situation? Is the man a control freak with a certain fetish? Perhaps he's just someone who can't express love? I don't think it really matters because this screenplay really doesn't try to ask or answer any sort of question. I'll never figure out why they needed this thing to run 113-minutes because for the most part, outside the sex scenes, there is very little going on here. The film does try to flashback to the two's normal lives where they both sit around bored and just waiting to jump back into the sex. I really don't think this is saying anything overly deep as I'm sure most people sit around at their jobs wishing they could be somewhere else. What does keep the film moving is some flashy direction by Lyne as no one could argue that he doesn't know how to film a sex scene. As for the sex scenes, viewed today none of them are all too shocking but I guess you could say, for the time, Rourke and Basinger were brave for taking on their roles. I thought both actors fit into their roles perfectly as Rourke has always been great as playing that quiet, dark character. Basinger is the really impressive one as she perfectly captures the more shy side of her character early on and we believe everything she's going through on this journey. None of the supporting characters are given anything important to do so you really can't judge them on too much. This entire journey the two go on is just a sly way to say they end up having sex in many places. The most erotic scene is the one that's perhaps the silliest as Basinger dresses as a man and the two end up being chased when a group of thugs think they're gay. We then see the two get into a fight with them and then have sex in the rain. This film is pure soap opera from start to finish and if you take away the fine performances you're really left with nothing more than a rather boring erotic film that should be shown on Cinemax at three in the morning. "},{"Title":"I have seen better music videos from this period.","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I too find it hard to believe that this film was EVER found erotic or titilating. Its sense of place (NYC) is clichéd. The art direction is adequate but unremarkable. The abuse of whispered dialog was affected and annoying. I feel Rourke's considerable talents were under-utilized and Basinger was simply scenery. Hell, they even made extensive use of a body double for many of her exposure scenes!! I never believed for a second that she was really an art gallery owner. Her character lacked a sense of sophistication one would expect of a person of that world. And the drag scene -- how utterly ridiculous. Take the empty fashion/style mannerisms of American Gigilo and combine the music video aesthetics and body double practices of Flash Dance, with perhaps a faint, rancid whiff of Last Tango in Paris... better yet, just find a copy of Duran Duran's Hungry Like the Wolf. "},{"Title":"dialogue? what dialogue?","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The version I have of this is the dvd version and even with the sound cranked all the way up I still can't hear a bloody word much of the time. It's as if the sound recordist used a mic far away from the set. Plus the sex portrayed is totally un erotic. New York looks totally drab and grey and most of the scenes are terribly underlit. contrary to what others think of Kim Basinger's performance, to me it didn't look like she was able to show a complete range of her acting skills. She didn't light up the screen.Otherwise there are few positive sides of the film. I liked the editing and the music choices.Utterly boring! "}{"Title":"Vacuous film is just an excuse to get the lead stars naked... (MINOR SPOILERS)","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a perfect film for the 80's. Why? It's shallow, self obsessed and arrogant. Much like how I see one of its stars...Since making this film, Adrian Lyne has developed a reputation for tackling projects that explore a sexual theme with reasonable amounts of intelligence and restraint (Fatal Attraction, Lolita) The makers of this film would doubtless claim that 9 1/2 Weeks is an early example of that trend. Don't be fooled. I believe that my summary is a more accurate assessment.Contrary to Roger Ebert's opinion in his review, to me there seemed zero chemistry between Rourke and Basinger. Perhaps this is the fault of the director. IMO, to generate true sexual chemistry, you have to have a sustained build-up, where it is clear that both characters are attracted to each other but must control their urges. The restraint that the material requires is not shown by Lyne. To be a little crude, he seems to have the common problem of getting excited too early; and then the audience - much like the familiar frustrated female - is left whining Is that it? Contravening normal rules for a movie of this type, the sex scenes don't get more exciting, they get more DULL as the film progresses, despite Lyne's pathetic attempt to excite us by throwing in bondage and rape elements. To give you a better idea, I was 15 or so when I watched this, and instead of being aroused by the 'alleyway sex', I found myself laughing at the ridiculousness of it. It was impossible not to. There was the cheesy synth music in the background, the laughable idea that the rain would make the scene more sexy, the almost prudish cutting away every time flesh was exposed, the ripped 80's 'fashions'... I could go on. Needless to say, laughter is hardly the reaction you'd expect from a hormonal adolescent while watching a supposedly 'erotic' film...In criticizing the central relationship, I suppose I'm conveniently forgetting Rourke's obvious inability to convincingly portray a man in an obsessive relationship with anyone but himself. Is it any wonder his career went to the dogs? (EDIT, as of 2005 Having seen more of his work since, I no longer impugn his skills; but I still dislike his attitude... )Basinger has shown she's at least capable of being a good actress with 1997's L.A Confidential, and I suppose she's not awful here; but any thoughts that this role champions the sexual empowerment of women are ludicrously pretentious bearing in mind the quality of the material on show. The film was directed by and co-written by a man, so it's hardly groundbreaking 'women's lib' stuff. I'm not saying that men are incapable of being sensitive about these matters, but I would be willing to bet that the only people who have a true conception of what women want are other women, and even then in less cases than you'd think... !A totally hollow and not even very titillating flick that deserves a reputation... As an indisputably trashy movie. Avoid.P.S. To think, the 'ice-cube scene' showed such promise as well! Now that WAS sexy; pity that the rest of the film couldn't continue in the same vein. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A sadomasochism tale in which the most pain is inflicted on the audience. This is one truly awful movie. A woman meets a mysterious man who pushes her sexual boundaries. This mystery man is the dominant type and he leads the relationship into some dark places. He's manipulative, at times abusive. She goes along for the ride. Happily at first, less happily later. She gets emotional, he does some more stupid and bizarre things, and then the movie just fizzles out. Tension and drama are in very short supply. What little dialogue there is in the movie is mostly laughable. Basically the movie just careens aimlessly from one daring sex scene to the next. And while the film has achieved a somewhat notorious reputation it's really not that daring at all. Any of the really dark stuff is only hinted at, not seen. What's on the screen is not explicit at all, by today's standards it's downright tame. Watching people play with their food is not particularly erotic. Mickey Rourke turns in an atrocious performance, smirking his way through the whole thing. Kim Basinger comes off slightly better but she's not nearly good enough to save this dreck. How they ever stretched this movie to a length of nearly two hours is beyond me. There's not even enough story here to sustain a 30-minute TV show, much less a full-length feature film. On and on it goes with nothing interesting ever happening. This is about as bad as it gets. "},{"Title":"I'm one of the naysayers","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It took me 25 years to watch this film. I think in that time the movie has not aged well. Some of the stylish scenes seem embarrassing now. As for 'risky' acts, these seem tame compared to what European filmmakers (I believe Lyne is British) were doing in the sixties and seventies. There are attempts to make the story profound, but Lyne can't make a compelling narrative even with all his fast cutting and moody lighting (he's the granddaddy of all the ADD directors on MTV, like Michael Bay, etc). Tarkovsky can do it. He can make a compelling narrative with a minutes-long shot of one guy looking down a corridor full of rubbish. Lyne, unfortunately, can't. "},{"Title":"Hopelessly Pointless","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" From the novel by Elizabeth McNeill came this hopelessly pointless film from sexually suggestive director Adrian Lyne. Mr. Lyne had previously brought us Flashdance and would bring more titillation years later with Indecent Proposal. The 1987 hit Fatal Attraction still remains his best effort by far.9 1/2 Weeks is just a porno dressed up as an entertainment. It was responsible for much censorship and controversy, which only helped sell this drab tale, and most likely it is the movie which started America's national obsession with Kim Basinger's body.Friday, April 2, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"9.5 Weeks- Too Many Hours in the Day for this One 0*","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hard to believe that Mickey Rourke once looked as good as he did in this film. Of course, it has been 25 years since the film was made.This film is a difficult one to fathom as it deals with erotic sex drives between a couple. The woman (Kim Basinger) seems to have some sort of being hurt wish as she endures physical and emotional abuse while in a very sudden relationship with the devious Rourke. The picture is endless in going on and telling what is happening here. My question What really is happening here?The ending is also somewhat mystifying. Will Basinger really end this nonsense or will she come back for some more erotic gestures? My suggestion is that the audience not go back.While Rourke comes from a poor family, as he confesses at the bitter end, you'd think he was a gangster before the realization hits us that he is a stockbroker. Don't invest with him or this ridiculous movie. The latter lacks real motivation and the plot is practically non-existent. "},{"Title":"Pretty Awful","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My wife is out of town this weekend so I thought I would look at film I might like and she might not like. Well I was wrong on my estimate. This is the story of two people trying to feel something, so they play stupid games. On the first date, he tried to spook her, so she should have known better and run for her life. Instead she goes on a second date in which he abandons her on top of a wonder wheel while she is screaming--wow the basis of a meaningful relationship. She is obviously an educated women, so why she would put herself into this situation escapes me. I admit that there are many relationships I do not understand and this is one them. Save yourself 2 hours and (in my case) $2.99 and skip this looser of a film. "},{"Title":"9 ½ Weeks","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm going to be honest in saying that the only reason I decided to watch this film was because of the two leading stars and the highlights I had seen on TV, from director Adrian Lyne (Fatal Attraction, Indencent Proposal). Basically New York city art gallery assistant and recently divorced Elizabeth McGraw (Razzie nominated Kim Basinger) one day meets and is slowly seduced by mysterious Wall Street stock market worker John Grey (Mickey Rourke). He seems friendly and playful at first, but behind closed doors he shows his true lust for her by playing sexual games, starting with blindfolding and rubbing ice down her body. This continues with him asking her to crawl on floors, feeding her loads of food from the fridge with her eyes closed, and (in a scene I never saw apart from on TV) sex in the rain on a flight of stairs. Elizabeth can't help but be sexually lusting for John, to the point where she is almost reliant on him to do things, e.g. being fed, bathing her, but she knows the relationship is dodgy when a Spanish whore gets involved. She finally decides to leave him after nine and a half weeks, even when he says he will tell her everything about himself and not be a stranger anymore, but it's too late. Also starring Margaret Whitton as Molly, David Margulies as Harvey, Christine Baranski as Thea, Karen Young as Sue, William De Acutis as Ted, Dwight Weist as Mathew Farnsworth and The Rolling Stones' Ronnie Wood as Rock Star Party Guest. The three most memorable scenes of the film are Basinger having ice rubbed on her, being fed all sorts of food from the fridge and with honey on her, and her striptease to the song You Can Leave Your Hat On (the Joe Cocker version). I'm afraid to say that, apart from these scenes, Rourke being cool, and Basinger looking gorgeous with and without clothes, it is a terrible film with no real point and makes you feel weird, it's really only worth seeing the once. It was nominated the Razzies for Worst Original Song for I Do What I Do (Nine 1/2 Weeks theme) and Worst Screenplay. Kim Basinger was number 32 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and the film was number 6 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments. Adequate! "},{"Title":"cinematic self-abuse","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This skin deep tale of sexual obsession (cynically described in its ad work as a 'love story for the '80s') is almost entertaining, in a trashy sort of way, But underneath the glossy veneer is nothing but a lot of high-tech sleaze and pretentious soft-porn melodrama, without even the token intelligence to qualify as a guilty pleasure. Director Adrian Lyne, a veteran (obviously) of TV advertising, mistakes gimmicky photography for style, undermining the already skimpy plot and shallow characters by overemphasizing superfluous detail to no apparent purpose. Lost in the shuffle are the unlucky lovers Mickey Roarke smirks and mumbles; Kim Basinger flinches and pouts; but neither resembles a human being so much as a cardboard cutout, propped up to highlight the trendy décor. "}]