[{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's predictable. It's typical. It's very 80s. It's also very good. As was said before, the chemistry between the two stars is incredible. If you liked Beverly Hills Cop, you'll love this film (in fact, I just watched them both back to back, and enjoyed them both equally). It is non-stop one liners that drip with wit. As 80s cop movies go, this is among the best. There are tonnes of great scenes. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal but great fun","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wisecracking Chicago cops Ray and Danny tackle drug lord Julio Gonzales in a battle of wits across the city. Essentially the plot doesn't matter, this is just another buddy cop movie from the eighties. However it rises above others by being good fun throughout. It even takes a break from the action midway for the two to go and live on the beach and lay low for a while.The main reason it is so much fun is the chemistry between Hines and Crystal. It's very easy to believe that they are partners of many years. Crystal is especially funny but really they both make it good. Even chase scenes and action scenes contain witty dialogue throughout. Smits is not a great villain but he carries the role well and the supporting cast are impressive with other future big names Dan Hedaya and Joe Pantoliano.Overall it's not a classic - it's a buddy cop movie. But even now it still feels fresh and fun due to the partnership of Hines and Crystal. Watch it, like the characters, enjoy the action and laugh at the comedy - a wonderful example of how the buddy cop genre can be good when everything is just right. "},{"Title":"Good acting in this buddy-cop movie","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines are an unlikely, but successful acting pair. They make Running Scared an alright movie. Both are funny and play off each other very well. The plot in buddy-cop movies is almost always the same, its the actors that make a difference in this genre of film. Running Scared works because the two lead actors give great comedic performances. Oh, and if you're ever feeling nostalgic for the '80s, watch this movie! "},{"Title":"I liked the funny parts, and the car chase","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Danny and Ray are Chicago police detectives who are searching for information on Gonzales, a major drug dealer. In Snake's neighborhood, just driving a Mercedes is enough for probable cause, and Gonzales is guilty of that, but it's not enough. After a major development in the Gonzales case, the guys go to Key West on vacation. Aunt Rose just died (Danny almost missed the funeral, but his ex Anna didn't) and left Danny a lot of money. So perhaps it's time to buy a bar in Key West and retire.Back from vacation, Danny and Ray are back on the case, and their adventure includes an exciting car chase that involves the tracks of the El. Later things get REALLY dangerous.There was nothing great about this movie, though it was funny most of the time. A little violent, but not excessive for a cop movie. The language was cleaned up in this version, and there was a lot of cleaning up to do. Billy Crystal has been better, but he was still funny. Dan Hedaya was very convincing as the captain. Some highlights Danny announces to the tough guys in Snake's neighborhood how much money Snake has and how easy it is to get it, hoping Snake will agree to help get Gonzales. Also, the guys get held up by two hoods who aren't that determined.This was pretty good. It's really for those who are fans of this type of movie.  "},{"Title":"Very funny movie with inspired teaming","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Very funny cop/buddy movie that owes a lot to the inspired teaming of Gregory Hines and Billy Crystal. The script may not be much, but it has enough in it to keep the audience interested, while director Peter Hyams keeps the action and, more importantly, the comedy, rolling at a good pace. For it is the comedy that makes this picture.Hines and Crystal are in great form. They play off each other wonderfully, and their comic timing is perfect as they deliver some hilarious lines. Situation after situation will have you in stitches in this film. Writers Gary De Vore and Jimmy Huston certainly have a sharp sense of humour.Tuesday, July 7, 1992 - Video "},{"Title":"A Delight","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are films, when going in, you don't expect much and then are pleasantly surprised. This was one of those films. It was difficult for me to picture Billy Crystal as an undercover cop, but he was very good in this. The focus of the movie was mostly on Billy, but there was a wonderful chemistry between him and Gregory Hines. It is not a date movie, but is great to see with a buddy. If you are just a bit off center, and have a friend who is equally off center, but one who balances you, this is a movie that you can thoroughly enjoy.I thoroughly enjoyed the movie and hoped we could have a re-teaming of Crystal and Hines, but Gregory Hines untimely death robbed us of that.Watch it, and enjoy, enjoy, enjoy. Ohhhhh Nooooo! "},{"Title":"A GREAT AND OVERLOOKED FILM!!!!!","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is great movie for fans of (the late great) Gregory Hines or Billy Crystal.I not too big on Crystal,although Analyze this/that were funny.I like this performance more.He played a serious role,especiallywhen someone kidnapped somebody he loved.He and Hines cracked jokes and worked great together.It took me nearly 13 years to finally watch it,uncut,commercial free, unlike they show on TBS or TNT or any other.I have this thing about watching Movies on tv,(No Nudity,no cursing,edited scenes and commercials)You're not seeing the movie as it was intended.So even though i would glance at it for a second,Id turn from it.I rented it at blockbuster in 99'bought Vhs in 2000.Dvd in 2002.Even though,I knew of it and saw it at various video stores.I finally got around to it. I love the title song playing in the opening sequence with the city of Chicago and it's people. It had great music all around, especially the Michael McDonald classicSweet Freedom. Every time i heard it on the radio I thought about the movie.It had a music video go with it, that had Hines and Crystal singing,dancing,and acting funny. I wish the Dvd had put that and a director's commentary on there along with the outtakes. It had a bunch of funny scenes -too many to name.Having to give their pants up for Julio Gonzalez(Jimmy Smits)and the jokes that followed.Or when they're hanging upside down in a trash compactor arguing about $10 dollars-.I love the scene where Hines and Crystal get held up,but the criminals bolted in their car ,and i looked as if they got away,but the truck forced them drive back into Hines and Crystal.The smile those two give each other are priceless.When a kid at a house of a lady they're questioning keeps giving Hines the bird.The lady shuts her door.Hines knocks,the kid answers and Hines gives him the bird Yelling Yessssssss. Their vacation time in Florida had good scenery-motorcycles,women,fishing boat,roller skates, and the idea to retire from the cop business.Oh,yes and Sweet Freedomplaying through it.The Chase from the airport onto train tracks was awesome.The shootout in the building, in the last scene in the movie was good.These scenes are few of many, that stand out to me.This movie had action,witty dialogue,smart,intelligent-just plain great and funny.Now Hines and Crystal took different film routes after this. Crystal -comedies,So his one and only action movie he did a great job,.It was a physical role for him too.Running,jumping, shooting.He had a seriousness about him too.Hines went onto-action,and dramas .So in that time and space ,they were wonderful . If you liked Beverly Hills Cop,Bad Boys-one similarity is Martin Lawrence and Will Smith get held up for their car ,like Hines and Crystal for their wallets. The movie worked the same formula for the genre as those.Sad it wasn't as big at the box office like them.That's probably why a sequel wasn't made.Although the chemistry was there. Commenting on it- makes me wants to go and watch it rightnow!!!!!! I give it a 10 out of 10********* R.I.P - Gregory Hines  "},{"Title":"The original buddy-comedy action film","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Running Scared was released one year before Lethal Weapon. Followed by Tango & Cash, Last Boy Scout, and Showdown In Little Tokyo. Running Scared seems to be a forgotten 80's classic. Not many people mention it when discussing great buddy-cop films. But they should.The chemistry between Crystal and Hines is magical. Both actors bring a lot to the table and their comic timing is perfect. They make a great duo and it's a shame a sequel never followed. This film is ripe for rediscovery. Some great actors pop up in supporting roles as well. If you dig any of the buddy-cop movies that followed it, watch this film. Good action, good laughs, great movie. "},{"Title":"Hines and  Crystal, cops of the 80's","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Gregory Hines (Ray Hughes) and Billy Crystal (Danny Costanzo) form a cop-buddy duo who are after a bad guy called Julio Gonzales (Jimmy Smits).Running Scared (1986) is directed by Peter Hyams.Crystal and the late great Hines make a great pair as those two cops.And Smits makes a great villain.Joe Pantoliano also does neat job as a baddie they call Snake.Dan Hedaya is quite excellent as Captain.Darlanne Fluegel does very fine job as Anna Costanzo.Larry Hankin appears as Ace, and he's very good.John LaMotta is seen as Evidence Officer.Running Scared doesn't do anything that memorable to make it a classic, but it does entertain enough.The ending works, and the chase on train tracks looks pretty cool.To all those who dig buddy cop movies of the 80's this is worth checking out. "},{"Title":"When it's good, it's very, very good.... but when it's bad it's horrid.","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   Peter Hyams is a director who always delivers exhilarating action sequences but struggles to fill the quiet moments in his films with anything of substance. Yet again he has fashioned a film which is intermittently terrific - especially when the emphasis is on action - but during moments when plot and character development are thrust to the fore, things become decidedly mediocre. Still, at least Billy Crystal is on hand to provide some memorable verbal wit. Two Chicago cops, Crystal and Gregory Hines, are busily trying to put various scumbags behind bars for drug crimes. Their main target is Julio Gonzalez (Jimmy Smits), a big-time drug lord who constantly eludes their grasp. For a while, the guys leave wintry Chicago and sample the good life in Key West, Florida, but ultimately they just can't let unfinished business lie. Against their better judgement, they return to Chicago to finish the one job they've still got to complete.... the capture of Gonzalez. Hyams delivers one simply awesome chase in which the heroes pursue their quarry by car, but somehow end up driving on the city's elevated-railway tracks. He also manages to squeeze in a genuinely funny scene in which Crystal makes a wacky anonymous phone-call, complete with goofy voice. However, Hyams is let down - yet again - by the periodic lulls in his story. The whole Key West sequence is boring, even though it bears relevance to the plot. And on too many occasions, Crystal's marital troubles interfere with the story (again, they are certainly relevant, but are played in a very dull way). It's worth watching Running Scared once, but during subsequent viewings it might be advisable to fast-forward through the dreary scenes to get to the good bits. "}{"Title":"terrible Chicago film","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Sometimes there's a film so bad that you just keep watching in awe. This is one of those films. Of course I can't help that I'm biased. I'm from Chicago so I watched the scenes closely for accuracy and I don't find Billy Crystal funny at all. And I can't stand all that English style photography(Tony Scott etc) with the smoke machine working overtime and all the flourecent, soft lighting. I suppose we're supposed to believe that Billy Crystal is really from Chicago because he wears a Cubs jersey. Oh and the plot. If you really think about it, these guys should be locked up, not the bad guys, since they're more dangerous. And of course there's the cliché of the cops on the verge of retiring. But the funniest scene is the climax where the good and bad guys machine gun other to death in The Thompson Center(A state building!) Of course it's a cool building, but it's the equivalent of making a huge drug deal at the White house. "},{"Title":"Great dramedey","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I still enjoy seeing this film. Although it struggles a bit with the tug of war between trying to be a good action film and a good comedy, it ends up being a fun romp. It's kinda a less glitzy Beverly Hills Cop.Billy Crystal is good, as well as Gregory Hines. Thought there are a few blatant jokes, most of the humor is borne of sarcasm and the interaction of the characters.There are several good action sequences, including an original car chase on train tracks. The film also features a good soundtrack, with some very 80's music. The pace is still pretty good, even compared to modern 90's and 00's films which are now extremely face paced. "},{"Title":"Crystal and Hines are an awesome duo","Date":"6 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's a funny thing with Running Scared even though this is thoroughly a Chicago movie (with that cold winter atmosphere), it's the Key West scenes that spring to mind when this movie is mentioned. I can't explain it. This is a pretty by-the-numbers cop movie, with two wild man detectives bending the rules in the name of recklessness. It does have a pretty decent car chase (even taking a detour on the L), the shootout in the State building was surprisingly tense, and there's always the smokin' Darlanne Fleugel. But the real magic is the chemistry between the two leads. Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines make for unlikely pairing, but it totally works here (and the movie hinges on their camaraderie, at that). And seeing these guys work together is absolutely worth the price of admission. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good and unfairly forgotten action comedy from the 80's","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a sadly forgotten 80's action comedy . It's more comedy than action , but it's definitely an enjoyable and fun movie coming from not that bad director as other want you to believe - Peter Hyams. It's pure 80's fun that stood the test of time . The only thing that might be outdated is the super car chase (which I like) . The action scenes are done well and the final is really exciting . The movie is fast and funny.Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines have good chemistry together. It's fun to watch them arguing with each other. It's also refreshing to see they are already friends at the beginning of movie and know how to work with each other. They act like big kids and are adorable.It was good to see Joe Pantoliano (Memento) and Darlanne Fluegel (To live and die in LA) in supporting roles. The soundtrack is nice with songs by Patti LaBelle  I know what I want and Fee Waybill Running scared .Good fun from the era of best action comedies. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Funny, entertaining, unpretentious, if not totally believable action comedy","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie brings back a lot of memories for me. I was living in Chicago at the time this movie was being shot and it was on the news once or twice. I only saw it recently as I really did not want to see a movie with Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines as a couple of tough cops. Neither one looked like they can take down a girl scout let alone Chicago's toughest criminals. Neither one even know how to hold a gun properly. Plus at the time male cop buddy movies were a dime a dozen. The movie is about a couple (Crystal and Hines) of Chicago cops who suddenly find themselves on the trail of a big time drug dealer(Jimmy Smits). When the guy gets out on bail the boys are so mad that their captain tells them to cool off and they go to Florida. I'm not sure what their respite in the Sunshine state had to do with the movie but it was enjoyable to see Florida during the Miami Vice era again, complete with women in tiny bikinis. Anyways the boys get the idea of retiring and running a bar, but first they have to finish the case.Getting back to Chicago means it's time to get back to the case, which means there are going to be shootouts and car chases, typical of the buddy films of that era. The action sequences in the film are very good. They were fast paced and very well done. Not amateurish at all. There are several gunfight scenes, one in particular that really sticks out was shot in the then newly opened State of Illinois building. The car chase taking place on the 'L' or elevated train alone is worth putting this film on your Netflix list. It's easily one of the best car chases from that era. Casting Mr. Hines and Mr. Crystal as cops was a curious choice. As I said neither of them looked like they could take down a Girl Scout, but they sure do know how to deliver funny lines. Billy Crystal in particular certainly knows how to make things funny. When he was in shadows pretending to be an old lady and when he was pretending to be his boss on the phone. His comedic range is pretty good. Others in the cast played their role basically straight and really without much originality. They're all just straight men to the two leads.Running Scared is a good action comedy that has no pretension of being anything else. It's a funny and entertaining. I have to say I'm a little biased because I lived in Chicago a long time and seeing the city again brings back so much memory. I mean I remember having been in some of the locales. Also I have to say seeing this movie is a reminder how lovely Darlanne Fluegel was. She played Billy Crystal's ex-wife. She's as lovely as Sharon Stone was during this era and a much better actress. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Buddy-Cop Movie","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Even though I consider Running Scared a guilty pleasure movie, I like to sit back every so often to watch this movie which i like to describe as a poor man's Lethal Weapon. Although it's not the greatest buddy-cop film ever made, but it still ranks high in entertainment, witty dialog and to top it all off, the wonderful chemistry between the two leads (Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines). It feels as if the two knew each other since childhood, almost as if they were like brothers; they hug, they argue, they throw insults at one another, but most of all, they stick by each other especially when one or both are in danger. Most reviewers will tell you everything you need to know about Running Scared, but I'll just make it short and straight to the point. Ray Hughes (Hines) and Danny Costanzo (Crystal)are a pair of devoted cops who are willing to sacrifice their own lives and maybe even their own jobs thanks to their reckless ways and their rule-breaking tactics. After spending a quiet time from the mean streets of Chicago, to the sunny skies in Florida,by order of their boss, a major drug ring operation is in tact. A familiar face named Julio Gonzales (Jimmy Smits) who has tried to kill them before, puts our two heroes in danger who try to play it safe and to avoid being killed. In an unorthodox manner, they call for backup and start sporting bulletproof vests. From other reviewers, many like me, compare this movie to Lethal Weapon, and Die Hard which is a good comparison, but the genre is more reliant on action rather than comedy. Beverly Hills Cop is in the right direction, but the best connection to Running Scared is Stakeout starring Emilio Estevez and Richard Dreyfus which a buddy-cop comedy, with plenty of exciting comedy but the chemistry between Dreyfus and Estevez is very much like the chemistry Hines and Crystal depict here. But overall Running Scared has the chemistry between the two cops that can't be compared which is what makes this buddy-cop movie extraordinary. It deserves at least one look. "},{"Title":"final Jeopardy is on!","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" yes the plot is implausible,and so politically incorrect that you can't believe.but the film does what it sets out to do-entertain.this is ground that has been covered before(Beverly Hills Cop as an example),but never in a way that is as much fun.the screenplay is o.k.,with the best dialogue reserved for Hines-Crystal banter.the other characters are basically filler.but generally well done(Joe Pantoliano as Snake is great).there are a few dead spots in the film,but these are usually rescued by Hines and/or Crystal,who seemed to be having a lot of fun.there is a fantastic chase scene late in the movie that alone makes it worth watching.altogether this '80's buddy movie still holds up.mostly because of the insanity of the two leads. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Chemistry","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was one of the first R-rated movies I was allowed to see, thus I have a special fondness for it. However, the on-screen chemistry of Hines and Crystal transcends such sentimentality and makes this a gem. While the writing may be weak in some respects, these two consummate professionals overcame it. The supporting cast is outstanding, though I still see Nick Tortelli in the Captain. Furthermore, it's wonderful to see how far Jimmy Smits has come as an actor, though his role here is fun to watch.It is shameful Hines and Crystal did not do anything else together of any notoriety. "},{"Title":"Uncle Rico !","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As others have said ,it's a very dated movie but entertaining just the same.I grew up in the 80's so the tacky clothes bring back some fun memories.I think I may have owned a few of those outfits and shorts they were wearing .Great song by Michael McDonald during the vacation montage 'sweet freedom' .Lots of character actors that have since gone on to bigger things are in this.Uncle Rico(John Gries)from Napolean Dynamite who plays a cop on the same force as billy & gregory.Joe Pantoliano who has done a lot of movies over the years including playing 'Ralphie' on the Sopranos ,As well as Jimmy Smits,Dan Hedaya,Steve Bauer,etc .Gregory Hines R.I.P.  ( "},{"Title":"After 20 years Running Scared isn't running on empty....","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The story centers on two Chicago cops, Hines and Crystal, who, after too many years on the job, are burned out and questioning their own mortality. They are forced by their Captain to take time off to regroup and end up in Key West, Florida. After spending nearly two weeks in the sun filled, bikini paradise, the two decide to retire their positions and open a bar in the Keys. They only need to live out two more weeks on the job. That's when things get interesting. The duo are drawn back into the fast-paced violent streets to bring down their long-time nemesis and Chicago drug dealer, Gonzales (Jimmy Smits). Will they survive the two weeks and make it back to the Keys or will the Windy City save two of Chicago's finest from themselves? This movie remains a benchmark for all Buddy Cop Movies' ever made or ever to be made. The dialog, much of which was improvised, between Hines and Crystal is fast, funny and simply brilliant. Many lines from the movie have been embedded into our everyday language and you too will be quoting this movie for years to come. Ooooh Noooooo Hines and Crystal have a chemistry which has never been equaled. The only flaw in this production was that the two never had the time or opportunity to make a sequel. "}{"Title":"Terrific Movie","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Yes, it suffers from the same implausibility and shallowness of virtually all 1980s movies, but if you can't laugh while watching this you have no sense of humor. Gregory Hines, who is a very underrated actor, put in a sparkling performance, proving that he was more than just a good dancer, and Billy Crystal, well, he's Billy Crystal. Add to the mix a very early Jimmy Smits appearance (as a criminal, ironic in light of his future role on NYPD Blue) and a good performance by Joe Pantaliano and you've got yourself an entertaining evening for adults of all types.Given that it doesn't try to be something that it's not (which is a great buddy movie), I give it 10 out of 10. It was definitely the best of its genre. "},{"Title":"Great 'Cop Buddy' Movie","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies that I can watch over and over again. It was funny and had a little action in it also. Crystal ans Hines were very convincing as partners. Saw it twice on it's opening night. I still call my best friend(whom I saw it with) and recite the scene when they called Julio on his car phone, (oh Noooo!) And they bathroom scene at the beginning was classic. No need for intricate plots here, just a fun movie to watch. I wish they would have made a part 2 to it. It also was the first time I ever saw the breast on the T-shirts. That was funny. As an added thing, the song 'Sweet Freedom' is a great 'on vacation' song by Michael Macdonald. This movie actually made me want to go to Key West! "},{"Title":"Billy & Gregory - Thoroughly Entertaining!","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Running Scared is a movie that didn't seem to generate much interest at the time of its release.  Why it didn't I do not know (I may also be wrong about that, but the hits of the 1986-1987 movie season doesn't seem to include this movie).  Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines play Chicago detectives trying to shut down the man who strives to be the first Hispanic godfather (Jimmy Smits), by trying to nab him before he kills them.  In the process, our stars endure a forced vacation to Key West, recurrences of old love and comedy and action galore.This movie, starring, two extremely talented men, is hilarious!  Billy Crystal, with or without a script, is one of the funniest men in the business.  Gregory Hines, known as a superb dancer, shows a comedic side with his wonderful acting skills.  Besides being extremely funny, the story's action will leave you on the edge of your seat.  This type of movie is one that I really enjoy humor with action, and Peter Hyams had done a great job of combining both. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the cop/buddy genre...","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This comes under the category of Why they didn't do the sequel to this, instead of all that other stuff? Crystal and Hines are given a raft of characters to work with--the cruel gangster, the scared stoolie, the estranged wife, the drug-running priest and nun (okay, that last one isn't entirely accurate)--all extremely well cast. Most importantly, Crystal and Hines work well together. I love the way they play off of each other; their comedic dialogue is impeccably timed and you get the feeling that they're probably the same way off of the soundstage.Just bought the DVD, which has some outtakes which I haven't seen yet, but I'm looking forward to watching them.And if you don't agree, I say look who I'm talking to--Mr. SATs here... "},{"Title":"Great action+excellent chemistry Outstanding action comedy","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For a time between the humorous Beverly Hills Cop to the more serious Lethal Weapon, Running Scared is a great action comedy with a very unlikely paring of Gregory Hines and Billy Crystal. The soundtrack is excellent as well. Definitely consider a sequel to this one. "},{"Title":"best cop buddy movie ever!!!!","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was one of the first 'real' movies I ever saw in theaters with my father. Even though I was only 10 or 11, i knew then that this was a classic.Every cop movie since this tries to copy this format that worked so well for Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines. The dialog is hilarious. The jokes back and forth make this a perfect 10.This is one movie that I wish a sequel had been made. What would have been better than watching Ray and Danny arguing with those drunks, rousing some hookers and occasionally getting lucky and being robbed while running that bar in Key West! I can watch this movie over and over and the jokes never get old or boring.This is what a real cop buddy movie should be. "},{"Title":"The best film ever...","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Having read some of the other comments left about this awesome film, I felt that I had to write one myself. Running Scared is my favourite film of all time (and I have seen a lot!), so how anyone can say it isn't funny, or that it was boring, is beyond me. The chemistry between the actors in the film is fantastic, you really get the feeling that the two main characters genuinely like each other, something that is hard to come by in film. Though I wouldn't class Running Scared as an out-and-out comedy it does have many funny moments in it, and I find that the dialogue is some of the best in any film of the genre... You are the detectives, go and detect! Sheer quality. I'm not going to spoil it for anyone who hasn't seen it, but take my advice... Watch it as soon as possible! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fabulous","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies we all want drinks of all times, the break in Florida was so real and funny and how can one forget the great Michael McDonald singing Sweet Freedom. julie, I come from a place far far away... How can you people out there say that this movie sucked. What do you do when you go to the movies, ESCAPE, LAUGH AND BE ENTERTAINED. if you think this movie was horrible, I want a birds-eye view of your life. come in here and I will arrest you. for what? says the lawyer, then Ray says I'm on a stake out the lawyer questions in the bathroom how bout this line oooh, I can feel the tension I just wanted the world to know that when this came out in 1986, I laughed so hard that I hurt my ribs. I have seen this movie (obviously by my knowing the lines) over 200 times in 20 years maybe more times but..it still remains ONE OF THE BEST. and...one of the best comedy teams since Abbott and Costello. "},{"Title":"One of the best cop-buddy films if not THE best.","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Running Scared is a very funny crime fighting duo movie. Gregory Hines and Billy Crystal have chemistry as hard boiled Chicago cops. They are partners and best friends. They grew up together. They do everything together especially crack jokes. The action scenes are original and funny. Of course with any cop movie there has to be a really mean villain. Jimmy Smitz is good as the heavy. He plays a drug dealer who wants to kill our two heroes Hughes and Gostanza. They ways he tries to kill them are pretty original.The real fun in this movie comes from the chemistry between Crystal and Hines. They are nearing middle age and act like adolescent teenagers. You'll have loads of fun with this film. "},{"Title":"The Deteriorating Cop-Buddy-Flick Formula","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In case you dear readers never heard, this movie was the main inspiration for last year's Samuel L. Jackson-Eugene Levy clunker The Man. This 80s-drenched buddy action-comedy pairs short 'n stubbly Billy Crystal and the late Ethiopian Shim-Shammer Gregory Hines together as some witty Chi-town cops who don't play by the rules. That's pretty much the extent of the movie. Interest is somewhat peaked by Hines' line delivery that is spookily similar to Will Smith's and by cameos of now-more-famous actors like Memento's Joe Pantoliano and NYPD Blue's Jimmy Smits. My favorite scene is, I dunno, the car chase on the tracks, I guess. Basically, I just view this movie as a major helping hand in the demolition of action buddy flicks. Well, this and Lethal Weapon 4... and Rush Hour 2... and The Man... "}{"Title":"Funny buddy cop duo","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Danny Costanzo (Billy Crystal) and Ray Hughes (Gregory Hines) are streetwise Chicago cops. They are surprised to see drug dealer Julio Gonzales (Jimmy Smits) out on the streets so soon after sending him to prison. They catch his associate Snake (Joe Pantoliano). They use Snake in a sting on Julio who seems to have new cash and trying to be the new Al Capone. It's a trap. Snake is killed and the guys are almost killed when Julio's associates turn out to be undercover cops. They manage to capture Julio but Captain Logan (Dan Hedaya) orders the guys to go on vacation for their sloppy work. They are enchanted by their Key West vacation and plan to open a bar there. They give their 30 day notice but Julio manages to get bail. They vow to get Julio before their time is up but Danny starts to be careful. The captain thinks the guys are short timers running scared and make them teach those undercover cops the ropes. Julio kidnaps Danny's beloved ex-wife Anna Costanzo (Darlanne Fluegel).I love the duo of Hines and Crystal. Their banter is hilarious and I love the 22 muggers scene. They've got great chemistry and I wish they could have made a sequel. At least, they should have made another buddy comedy. There is a great car chase onto the train tracks. I must admit that I didn't get the title when I was young. I kept thinking it's the bad guys who are running scared. "},{"Title":"very bad script","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I like Billy Cristal and I discovered Gregory Hines in this movie, he is a great actor. I also usually love Buddy movies that's why I was terribly disappointed by this one. First of all, the plot starts really late, around 25 minutes of the film, when we learn that the body in the street was a cop's one. Before that, we just knew who will be the bad guy, not really how and why. So the first part, even with funny moments, is kind of plot less and a bit boring. Then, we are finally interested in the plot, the heroes scr*w it on the boat with two other undercover cops (who aim like sh*t)and then we lost another 10 minutes of the movie with a plot less 80's montage + scene about heroes forced holidays just to learn they decide to quit (maybe it was still original at this date) and to buy a bar (that will never be a real dilemma for them, we Spectator already know they won't really quit and it doesn't seem to be really important to them either). So, back to the action now, many script problems will occurs - Bad guy or antagonistic forces are not enough dangerous or are well portrayed. we never really care about them, we never feel danger for the Buddy cops so we never really empathized. - Love story is totally cliché except the one with Hines that is funny. - Investigation and cocaine story is poor. - Action scenes are really poor and danger or dilemmas never really present so we're not really involved in the movie as the way they succeed in danger is not really rewarding most of the time (what was the rope scene at the end by the way???!!! Why did he climb just for that??!!) - Lot of strange things like fake snow or the way they throw bullets in the car, clearly aiming for the head, while smiling. Of course, there are nice jokes here and there, the movie is full of good will and it is a real positive movie but it doesn't make a good movie. And I'm the first to be sorry for that as I enjoy watching Buddy movies. 5 out of 10 (but it could even deserve less than the average note). "},{"Title":"Good of its type.","Date":"9 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A sharp star duo, solid supporting cast, and some well done sequences help to make this fairly standard buddy-cop action comedy satisfying if nothing exactly special. It's Billy Crystal, as detective Danny Costanzo, and Gregory Hines, as detective Ray Hughes, that really make the difference. They truly work nicely together as a pair of veteran but still somewhat immature guys on the Chicago force who are hellbent on righteously busting drug kingpin Julio Gonzales (Jimmy Smits). When they almost get themselves killed working the case, their boss Captain Logan (Dan Hedaya) tires of them and orders them on a vacation. They decide to check out Key West, Florida, and enjoy it so much that they think that maybe it's time to retire. (Another factor in that decision is the fact that Danny has come into a $40 K inheritance.) But when they get back from the vacation, and hear that Gonzales is still on the streets, they become more determined than ever to take care of their nemesis.Competently staged by director Peter Hyams (who serves as his own cinematographer), those aforementioned entertaining scenes include early ones with Danny and Ray making life miserable for the aptly named lowlife Snake (Joe Pantoliano), their intense pursuit of Gonzales that eventually leads to the Chicago El tracks (this is far and away the highlight of the movie), a sequence with a garbage truck, and the finale in Chicago's State Building. Danny and Ray aren't the most capable detectives you'll see in this sort of thing, and adding to the merriment is their constant humiliation of a pair of obnoxious rookies, played by Steven Bauer and Jon Gries. Bauer and Gries do a good job of being the butt of some jokes. Beautiful ladies Darlanne Fluegel and Tracy Reed are quite appealing as Danny's ex-wife Anna and Maryann, an object of Ray's affections. Other cast members include the always amusing Larry Hankin as talented mechanic Ace, and actors John DiSanti, Don Calfa, and Robert Lesser, all of whom have been regulars in Hyams' movies.The steady parade of pop songs are all very '80s sounding, but as is often the case, this only adds to the entertainment factor. Overall, this is a reasonably fun flick - a tad overlong, maybe, but still easy enough to watch while it lasts.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Running Scared","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The plot is simple two veteran Chicago cops, Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines, are set to retire but before doing so wish to take down drug dealer, Jimmy Smits (and he's a force to be reckoned with, too). Peter Hyams always had a directorial flair, and the gritty streets of cold Chicago are his playground; better still, he has a duo with an undeniable chemistry, so comfortable with each other their work on screen doesn't feel forced but quite natural, as if the two have been actual partners for quite some time. This is the cop buddy comedy with lots of guns firing, bloody, bullet-ridden bodies, and wise cracks. In other words, this is the kind of movie right up my alley. Hines and Crystal are the kind of team that constantly, lovingly ridicule one another, while causing their boss (played by Dan Hedaya, enjoyable to watch as always) more than his share of migraines. I loved how they're forced to apprentice young cops, Steven Bauer and Jon Gries, and do so with quite a bit of reservation. Darlanne Fluegel (To Live and Die in LA) is Crystal's hot love interest, with the likes of Joe Pantoliano (Bound), Don Calfa (Return of the Living Dead), and Larry Hankin (Armes and Dangerous) turning up in a fantastic cast. This is the kind of cop actioner with lots of familiar faces in its cast offering colorful bit parts that just makes investing in the hunt for Smits all the more worthwhile. But Crystal and Hines together is the obvious reason to watch this little movie&#x85;they're too much fun. There's just nothing like seeing Crystal and Hines stuck in a yellow taxi cab (equipped with bullet-proof glass even), lifted off the street by a garbage truck, telling Smits (looking up at them from a comfortable position as they seem precariously trapped and ready to be crushed inside) that he's in trouble! Of course they escape within an inch of their lives. There's this big scene in a mall that has plenty of gunfire and bloody wounds. I like this one particular scene where Hines and Crystal find themselves absent pants (in their long johns!) rescuing an innocent from certain harm when captured by an intense Smits (with a machine gun); forced to return to headquarters without their pants, their fellow cops get a good laugh at their expense. I don't think it is necessary to establish that the script is loaded with profanity--as the audience for this sort of film and the actors in it should know what they're getting into--and the comedy is rather salty, with plenty of street talk (this does take place in the city and is populated by urban characters). One of the funniest scenes to me has a priest and nun, familiar with Smits for his contributions to their ministry (!) under constant smack by Hines and Crystal who think they're imposters posing as members of the Church! Hyams understood the audience for this kind of movie and gives us what we want, and he doesn't interfere in what Crystal and Hines do best. "},{"Title":"Great 80's Action-Comedy!","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Gregory Hines, Billy Crystal, Darlanne Fluegel, Dan Hedaya, Joe Pantoliano and Jimmy Smits star in this 1986 action-comedy. This takes place in Chicago, Illinois during Christmas time where we meet wise-cracking cops, Ray Hughes (Hines) and Danny Costanzo (Crystal). They try to pursue drug-dealer, Julio Gonzales (Smits) and are almost killed. They're forced by their Captain (Hedaya) to take a vacation and go to Key West, Florida where they think about retirement, but decide to wait to catch Gonzales. Fluegel (To Live and Die in L.A.) plays Danny's ex-wife, Anna and Pantoliano (The Goonies) plays Snake, a thug who deals with Gonzales. This is a great 80's flick, Crystal and the late, Hines were great together and I also like Michael McDonald's song, Sweet Freedom. If you enjoy buddy-cop flicks, definitely check this out. "},{"Title":"Bad guys get the cool cars....","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Danny and Ray are two street wise cops in Chicago. When they are almost killed on a case, they are forced to take a vacation by their captain.Key West offers a substantial change over frozen Chicago. They decide to quit and open a bar in Key West.Upon returning, they find that Julio, the drug dealer who nearly killed them has made bail and is trying to complete a giant drug deal.They decide to complete their case against Julio before quitting, but then begin being careful.Their effectiveness drops as they find they can't operate the way they did before if they don't have the edge of a long time commitment....This is another one of those movies that disappeared without a trace, and has never really popped up on TV for nearly fifteen years.It's not the best buddy cop movie of the eighties by far (thats Lethal Weapon), but it's still fun movie while it lasts.Crystal and Hines are the best of friends and this is clear because Crystal always walks into Hines' apartment when he's getting down and dirty with the ladies.They laugh and swear and get into scrapes, and take a vacation. This is a strange scene, as it just shows them as a pair of awful awful people, and the worst thing about it is the fact that Crystal is all oiled up and flexing his muscles.And then it's back to basics, Jimmy Smits is back on the street, and the guys must get him before the end of the film.We are then treated to a coupe of car chases, with a few one liners and an impressive final set piece.It's a shame i've seen this film quite a while after it was made, because I have seen so many buddy cop movies since and they have been a lot more slickly made and are a little more entertaining.That said, it's choc full of eighties cheese and Crystal and Hines are great together. "},{"Title":"Classic, from the Golden Age","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is from when real good, watchable movies were being made. One of my all-time favorites, but you really do have to be from that age group to appreciate. My younger friends just don't get it... A great, action/comedy, from 2 really good comedians of the time. Billy Crystal & Gregory Hines make a very good duo, and the story line, while a bit predictable, provides for some very good action. Contains some exceptional one-liners from both main characters. Enough humor to keep you laughing, and enough action to make it interesting to watch. Someone called it an old-school version of The Other Guys. It's WAY better than that, but it's not a terrible comparison. The guy that plays their Captain (Carla's ex-husband on Cheers) could have been much better, but he did an adequate job, as did the rest of the cast, backing up Crystal/Hines. Highly recommend! "},{"Title":"Who knew being a cop faced with constant death could be so amusing?","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If the multi-hyphenated 80s buddy-cop action-comedy Running Scared is to be believed being a lowly paid cop charged with keeping the peace in a scungy, rundown area is one of the biggest laughs possible. A shootout with drug dealers is simply an opportunity for frivolity and mirth, and a heavily armed criminal hell bent on ending your existence is merely a chance to crack wise and enjoy each others company.Even a family funeral is a non-stop chucklefest&#x85; Danny (Billy Crystal) and Ray (Gregory Hines) are the opposite of the usual 'mismatched' partners (think Mel and Danny, Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker, Arnie and anybody), they are so very 'matched' that they don't chat as much as riff. They're so close they even 'clink' donuts.But all good things must (nearly) end, so after a career mis-step the duo are forced into vacation (I told you nearly being killed every day is fun, they don't want to leave!), and they head South from the snowy, drab ghettos to sunny Miami beach.A few days, several margaritas and some scantily clad beach babes later and Danny and Ray decide that perhaps booze filled sex-fests might just trump sludge-covered death traps, and they decide to retire from the force and buy a bar in Miami.But first they decide to do the right thing and head back from vacation to hand in their notice personally, giving them one last chance at the local drug kingpin &#x96; and their nemesis &#x96; Gonzales (Jimmy Smits). Come on they couldn't retire without taking down Gonzalez could they? Running Scared is lighter than Paris Hilton's head, and some of the jokes are as well worn as the contents of her pants. But that aside Crystal and Hines barely pause for breath between japes, never letting up regardless of their circumstance.The film definitely emphasises the 'action' in action-comedy, but that said the shootouts and chases heat up in the latter stages of the film. Running Scared also boasts a few classic lines and a couple of memorable images in between the yuk-yuks. While it isn't an all-time classic as a film, it must have made for a good 2 minute trailer in the late 80s.Final Rating &#x96; 6 / 10. A decent, albeit forgettable buddy-cop effort with wall to wall jokes that fly by alongside the bullets aimed at the indefatigable ever cheery duo. "},{"Title":"A Cracking Buddy,Buddy Flick","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ray Hughes The much missed Gregory Hines and Danny Costanzo Billy Crystal are a pair of wisecracking Chicago cops. In an effort to bring down Drug Baron Gonzales, (Jimmy Smits) the pair unintentionally blow the lid off an undercover operation, Their superior Officer Dan Hedeya orders the pair to take a vacation where whilst upon vacation in Florida they sample the good life and plan to develop a further taste for it, but the pair decide to try and take down Gonzales, 'Running Scared' is a terrificly paired Comedy thriller from Peter Hyams, the director of other such great films as 'Capricorn One' 'Outland' who most film buff's neglect to mention these days! "},{"Title":"1980s excessive film that hits the mark, ironically!","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a really silly movie, but I don't think that I would have done it any other way. The scene in the Florida Keys is right out of a teenage fantasy. No one picks up beautiful women that easily. No one goes around acting beyond the law. And yet, maybe that was a point to this film. At times, Billy Crystal is obnoxious. For example, who is imitating while speaking on the phone in the drug dealer's car? It's annoying. Yet, you see a full range of Billy Crystal. Both Hines and Crystal act as if there is no camera rolling. The film is just fun. They are very laid back and machoistic. And this somehow makes this film into a memorable film. The scenes are ridiculous. You can't drive a car on the el tracks like they do, but this is a film. Films can be lots of implausible fun.The supporting case is very dedicated to portray the decadence and bleakness of cops versus drug dealers. Joe Pantoliano is a nerd, but very elusive. He knows how to pretend to be a pushover, but beneath that is great slyness. Jimmy Smits is convincing as a single-minded drug dealer. Dan Hedaya is great as an authoritarian, yet diplomatic precinct captain. The two rookie cops are funny as arrogant and self-serving who have the nerve to think they are better than veteran cops. All these supporting characters are very good at showing how cops never believe that they have accomplished enough in their job to gain respect. This is displayed whenever the Hines and Crystal characters show up at a crime scene. Although recognized, the beat cops clearly look down upon undercover cops. There is another big reason I like this film. Many of the actors speak in a visibly New York Italian lingo, rather than Chicago Italian lingo. Still, the actors appear to want to showcase Chicago. It is the bleakest time of the year - probably January or February. It is grey. It is the city I knew and loved during the 80s. It was in-between the decline of the city during the 60s and 70s and the revival of the city during the 90s. It is Chicago in the 80s that I remember so well. That's why I recommend this film. It brings back memories of Chicago was like 20 years ago. "}{"Title":"A great Chicago cop film","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I had the opportunity to revisit this fun film last week and enjoyed it just as much as when I saw it first-run 20 years ago. For me, there are two things that make it such a winner the match-up of Crystal and Hines, which was unfortunately not repeated, and the Chicago scenery. Adding in Darlanne Fluegel was just icing on the cake. And speaking of icing, any Chicagoan will laugh frequently during this film at the pitiful imitation snow, which looks more like frosting than precipitation (especially when you see it laying on top of very green tree leaves).Crystal was hot at the time after his year on SNL, and he manages to work in some of his character shtick here without sidetracking the plot. Hines had recently done White Nights and Cotton Club, so he was also on a roll. The two of them work naturally together in the funny AND serious moments of the film, and the dialog is crisp and clever. There are loads of buddy-cop clichés here, but for some reason they work well. Peter Hyams deserves credit for his snappy direction and good camera work, and for making good use of the locations.Speaking of the locations, let me add my own comments about the Chicago scenery. Gregory Hines' apartment is a building at the SW corner of Franklin St. and Institute Place. Lots of HILL STREET location work was also done on Franklin St because of the L tracks above the pavement. That building is also one block from the Chicago Avenue L station, which is a favorite of filmmakers because of the S curve of the tracks (you can see this station in DOZENS of films and TV shows). I used to work a block from there and everything was very familiar! There are some disconnects in the car chase scene. They leave O'Hare and turn off at River Road, and next thing you know, they're on a surface level CTA track, which I'm guessing is somewhere on the Ravenswood line (but nowhere near the airport). Next thing you know, they're entering the subway, which is quite far from where they started. And in the subway scene you can tell (thanks to DVR) that the tracks are merely painted reflective lines on concrete. (I never spotted that in the theater!) They pass through the Chicago avenue station, and what appears to be the curve by the Merchandise Mart station, and the crash takes place at the LaSalle/Van Buren station, which is at the south end of the Loop. (I'm 99% sure I could read the sign during that scene, as well as a billboard for the Channel 5 news team.) During the chase on the train tracks, you'll notice how cleverly Hyams intercuts low POV shots (not showing cars) with the shots of the cars themselves. Also, in the final ride to the State of Illinois building they head south on Franklin (follow along on Google maps!) then turn left (east) on Grand at the big Zimmerman liquor store. Next time you see them, they're crossing the river on Michigan avenue coming south by the Wrigley building, a shot obviously inserted for scenic value only. Why? Because any Chicagoan with half a brain would have turned down LaSalle Street and gone straight to the goal, rather than driving all the way to Michigan just to cruise the shops on the Magnificent Mile! But, who cares? I love Chicago! And I love this flick! "},{"Title":"Two cops go for a big time dealer without using the book and still find time to plan their pensions","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Two cops are on the trail of a big drug dealer, Gonzales, They pressure some small crooks. Get into some action. Are forced into vacation, get some plans for their pensions and have a last try to bust the bad guy.I can't say there is anything that makes this movie outstanding but it is great anyway. It's got sarcasm, irony and cynicism. Humor is everywhere and still you get action that's not senseless violence or goes on to long. The acting is alright and there are enough plot changes to keep your attention. The only things I don't like are the semi-romantic scene on music when they first arrive in Key West, it doesn't fit and the chase on rail, it takes to long.The movie has got happy ending stamped all over it but still I think it is not given enough credit "},{"Title":"How funny is this film!","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What a funny film! I saw it years ago on VHS when it was first released & just watched it on TV tonight. The on screen chemistry is fantastic & it was released the year before Lethal Weapon & I think the black cop- white cop partnership is funnier in this film. Good to see Joe Pantoliano up to his usual bad guy mischief. Some excellent one liners, Crystal is on top form.There are lots of appearance's from well known faces including Dan Hedaya & Steven Bauer who add to the realism on 80's NYC.The story sometimes seems to get in the way of the double act, but well worth a view. "},{"Title":"`How come the bad guys always have the good cars?'","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Badly dated 80's buddy cop film (the soundtrack is pretty awful, although some of the clothes the guys wear in Key West take the biscuit), which I always enjoy thanks to the great chemistry between Gregory Hines and Billy Crystal. The two just ping off each other, their lines sparking back and forth and the jokes flying thick and fast. It also helps that there's also a few familiar faces in the rest of the cast (Joe Pantoliano,, Dan Hedaya). If you think about it the whole thing falls to pieces (a lot of the stuff these two get up to would probably put Vic Mackey to shame) but since it's played for laughs it's all ok (isn't it?). One thing did confuse me though. Just how exactly did Julio Gonzales get the trousers on while he's trying to escape?  "},{"Title":"Great Pieces, Great Overall Film","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When you look at the actors involved -- Hines, Crystal, Pantoliano, Hedaya, Smits -- this  film would have to have struggled to be bad, and it doesn't. The writing, and Hyams'  direction, and the backdrop of the city of Chicago, all come together to make a classic  film.   "},{"Title":"Great Pieces, Great Overall Film","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When you look at the actors involved -- Hines, Crystal, Pantoliano, Hedaya, Smits -- this film would have to have struggled to be bad, and it doesn't.  The writing, and Hyams' direction, and the backdrop of the city of Chicago, all come together to make a classic film.   "},{"Title":"Aging well, pretty funny","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out, and just saw it on DVD this weekend, and it is actually better than I remembered. Crystal and Hines do work very well together, and the plot doesn't get in the way of any of the action! I was struck by how part of this film seems to have become the entire premise of Die Hard.Watch it and see if you think so!  "},{"Title":"Real Chicago Stuff","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a very enjoyable movie.  At the time this movie was filmed, I worked in the government building where the finale takes place.  I thoroughly enjoyed watching the Christmas decorations get shot up.  One thing, however if I ever meet Billy Crystal, I would like to tell him that in the Midwest, including Chicago, we say in line and not on line as he did in the cemetery scene.  This is a dead giveaway that the character was not a genuine Chicagoan (but rather a new yawkah).  Also, the fake snow was a hoot.  But all in all, a great showcase for a great city.  "},{"Title":"Gotta love Billy Crystal","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Billy Crystal had the best one liners in the business ) I saw this film whilst babysitting a long long time ago and have only just rediscovered it. I actually think it beats the pants off , Lethal Weapon , Beverly Hills cop et al Definitely worth checking out  "},{"Title":"Pretty Funny","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a pretty funny movie for an old movie I tought they made  great partners. This movie was about two cops who have to catch a drug dealer when they do the boss tells them to go on vaction so they do they go to Florida and love it there they by a bar and decide to quit being a cop after going back to the police station to tell the boss he says the guy they arrested bailed out so they have 30 days until they can quit so they are gonna try and get this guy in 30 days there are some good lines in it when they get mugged and the guy goes  give me ya wallet and Billy Crystal goes we dont want to give you our whole wallets just the money the street guy goes no the whole wallet know than the other cop goes  we dont want to give you our ids our snapshots our bages funny if u like Billy Crystals and 1980's comedys you will like this  "}{"Title":"Very, very good.","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One of the best films in my collection. Unfortunately it was stolen. And even more, I'm not able to find this movie in Moscow in any quality. Bad luck for such a good film. 50% of the movie is the text. Good interpretor is more then necessary to get the point. It's not so popular in Russia. It's a pity. "},{"Title":"Non-stop laugh riot, not to be missed Billy Crystal Classic.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Non-stop laugh riot, not to be missed Billy Crystal Classic. This is a genuine fun buddy film filled with great laughs and super one-liners. Jimmy Smits as bad guy, Julio, is entertaining as well.  Crystal would do well to do a sequel to this movie, just don't let him write or direct it. "},{"Title":"what's with the fake snow????","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Overall, the film was ok but what I just couldn't get over was all the fake snow!!!!  You can obviously tell that a poor snow machine was used and apparently, when the scenes were shot, you can see it just laying there---no fluffy stuff, just kind of slimey and very sporadic (for Chicago winters that is).  You would think that they would have done the snow better or just left it out all together.  Crystal and Hines work well off each other. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, if not totally original, cop-buddy film.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Made shortly after the mega-success of Beverly Hills Cop, this action-comedy has many similarities to that film.  Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines are a duo of Chicago cops on the trail of high-rolling drug dealer Jimmy Smits. The pace is pretty good, punctuated by one-liners and light action.  Final thought sure bet for cop-buddy fans.  "},{"Title":"Wisecracking and gritty--welcome to Terry Pratchett's 1980s Ankh-Morpork.(10/10).","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Running Scared(1986) belongs in a marathon of 1980s wisecracking buddy-cop films, starting with Trading Places(1983), the Beverly Hills Cop- and the Fletch franchises. Peter Hyams' approach remains fresh 20yrs later, impishly winking at his audience. This is what great comic movie-making is supposed to be like. Every scene advances the story, frequently with a joke.Stylistically borrowing from Trading Places and Miami Vice, the opening street montage of a frozen Chicago pumps engagingly with a Harold Faltermeyer-sound-alike theme, quickly drawing us into the personal world of two crazy undercover detectives.Ray Hughes and Danny Costanzo (Gregory Hines & Billy Crystal) battle crime with a schtik gleefully overanalysing, they b!tch-and-moan at the danger.As Capt.Logan (Dan Hedaya)'s best undercover detectives, Ray & Danny don't dare to get careful because careful gets you killed. So their Captain often growls encouragingly You're the detectives; go, and DETECT. Dan Hedaya's tough-guy history makes him pitch-perfect as the gruff-and-growling father-figure; his characterisation was so good that he was still performing it as Cher's father in Clueless(1995).The film cements the clichés for buddy-cops and police captains, while Gary Devore and Jimmy Huston's wonderful screenplay is also a semiserious and crazy education in policing poor neighbourhoods where civic duty is a tough sell. In places like that it's your own neighbours who commit the crimes or turn up as lumps on the sidewalk; but everyone hates the cops. In the '60s-'70s it was because they were so corrupt they didn't do any policing, but additionally, police exist outside the neighbourhood's black (ie secret) economy, yet they're expected to clean up its uncaring detritus. Welcome to a modern US version of Terry Pratchett's Ankh-Morpork.Still crazy but in their 30s, it dawns on our heroes that nothing they do ever makes a dent in all the fresh crime. When they're forced to recapture a local crim they'd recently put away, they jokingly decide that his (Merc)Gonzalesmobile constitutes probable cause, and impound it. They let Julio Gonzales' escalating ambition to be the next Spanish godfather of Chicago get personal.Unfortunately in this tough part of Chicago the community protects Julio against the police. He enjoys an undeserved Robin Hood-reputation even with clergy who think he's a fine young man for sponsoring their trips to Colombia.....of course he does.Gonzales' lowlife associate Snake(Joe Pantoliano, aka comic Joey Pants) steals the show. He just gets funnier as he's put into one bad situation after another. When Ray cuffs him to their car while they investigate the pancake, Snake entertains himself with the radio mic Calling-all-cars, calling-all-cars, UFO landed on Michigan Avenue. After they punch him out, he's dragged in handcuffs to Danny's Aunt Rose's funeral. When he whines that he 'can't go to no funeral looking like this', Ray quips I'll get you a shovel--you'll fit right in. Finally, Snake gets himself arrested just to escape his 'enterprising' neighbors (one's a dead ringer for Bruce Campbell) who've heard he's carrying some serious cash.Crystal does his best Yiddish-old-man accent during Snake's wacky lineup ('Det's him! You behsted!'); they've grouped him with four UNIFORMED cops, one being a short, rotund woman. Sadly, Snake is a bad guy as Julio's henchman; his clowning doesn't last.The film shifts gears when Ray & Danny take a(n enforced) vacation in Key West. Their Captain orders them out of Chicago after they accidentally screw up an undercover DEA drug bust by two gerbils, although Detectives Sigliano(Steven Bauer) and Montoya(Jonathan Gries) are just younger versions of Ray & Danny. Capt.Logan is grooming them to take over the turf ('You Teach them everything you know. You Don't let me find you ever doin' anything they teach you'). It turns out Gonzales is a big-enough fish to interest the DEA too, but to Ray&Danny he's just their turf scum.Upon their return to freezing Chicago (to give a month's notice), they find Gonzales out on bail and the 'two gerbils' on the case. Outraged, they vow to re-arrest Julio before they retire, wherever he is 'We find Gonzales, we find a crime', declares Ray hotly, continuing the proud policing tradition of Terry Pratchett's Watch books.The film's solid reputation is built on its breakneck car-chase along Chicago's El tracks, but the comedic setup for it is even better. Julio Gonzales is, of course, smuggling Colombian cocaine using clergy as (possibly) unwitting couriers. His decoy shipment is sh!t, according to the on-site police chemist. -It's good sh!t, right? asks Ray. No, I mean it's bad sh!t. -Bad sh!t?.....Like, this sh!t is bad? It's sh!t sh!t. This sh!t isn't worth sh!t. There's barely enough sh!t in here to attract the dogs, complains the chemist; so Ray&Danny go off to surveill other flights from 'CoLOMbia'. They spot Gonzales hugging some clergy, and it's at THAT point that the mammoth car-chase ensues, right onto the tracks in their Ace (Larry Hankin)-designed invisible undercover car.Peter Hyams' best achievement is that the film never sags in tone or humour. Crystal's fake voices continue to trick the gerbils into arresting the wrong suspects, and their own evidence officer into releasing 20kg of Julio's cocaine; but the shenanigans turn truly deadly as Julio kidnaps Danny's ex-wife.Gregory Hines(1946-2003) never looked so in-the-zone or charismatic as an actor, before or since. Running Scared(1986) stands as a warm memento, imprinting Hines as the best version of himself smart, fast, and with acute 'earring.(10/10) "},{"Title":"Billy Crystal wearin' a Cubs jersey???","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I DON'T THINK SO!  He's MR. Yankee, for God's sake!Throw all believability out the window, and you just might like (I won't say enjoy) this sub-standard 80's buddy flick.  But you'll have to get past the fact that Billy Crystal's a cop, which we all know is a hard swallow.  I mean, can you EVER picture him actually muscling any thugs and/or wise guys?   Didn't think so again...Apparently, movie producers wised up too, as we've pretty much seen him playing neurotic wimps since then (see CITY SLICKERS, FATHERS DAY, and ANALYZE THIS/THAT for proof).Also, Joey Pants' psychedelic hair style seems a bit out of place for a guy who supposedly makes his living on the sly, don't 'cha think?But if this shows up on the tube on a rainy afternoon, it might be worth a peek.  Hines (R.I.P.) is okay, but he's definitely funnier in HISTORY OF THE WORLD PART I. "},{"Title":"My coke!  My cooooooooooke!!","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Oh sure, there are PLENTY of movies about running.  And then there are movies about being scared.  But if you are looking for the one movie that combines BOTH, then this one is for you!!  Actually, this is just another buddy cop movie along the lines of 48 hours.  What more do you need to know? Nothing spectacular, but it makes fine entertainment at 2 in the morning. Watch Billy Crystal make funny voices and laugh. "},{"Title":"What chemistry!","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this in the theater and loved it! Yes, as cop-buddy movies go, it wasn't bad. But I feel that the chemistry between Gregory Hines and Billy Crystal is what made this movie so good. They work so well together - like they've known each other forever. And that's how it's supposed to seem. Yes, Smits was very good as the villian, and the other actors that filled out the movie were good as well, but this was Gregory's and Billy's movie and they ran with it. Even if they don't make a sequel, I would love to see those two together again. "},{"Title":"Predictable and lacked chemistry","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" May I start off that Gregory and Billy really lacked chemistry that a buddy cop movie should have? It just didn't seem right and they couldn't really feed off each other. And for the most part you could only really laugh at Billy's jokes. Not to mention just how predictable this movie was. Because let's face it, you've seen one buddy movie, you've seen them all. But I would like to still say that there were some pretty funny moments in the movie. I especially loved when Greg and Billy took the villain's car and the villain calls the car phone and they just shrug it off. For some funny moments, I would recommend, but if you are very serious about films, you might want to skip this one.5/10 "},{"Title":"a must see","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  now, this is an awesome movie! one of my dad's personal fav's. everything in this movie rocks, from the humor to the action. just about every line in this movie can be used in real life, making this a great experience. overall, running scared is one cool movie. "}{"Title":"Running Scared","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Fun pairing of Crystal and Hines make this buddy buddy cop film a good video rental. Both stars play cool undercover officers who try to put drug lord Jimmy Smits out of business permanently.  "},{"Title":"How can a movie that cost so much be so bad","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I watched the first half of this movie before dinner and the last half after dinner. It kept getting worse and worse. And I am a fan of Billy Cystal.It must have cost a lot of money to make this flick. and there were a some funny scenes . The cops chasing the bad guy in a car on the train tracks. Asking a woman who is watching a sunset in Florida what happened. But for a comedy I found very few things that even caused a smile... What it did cause was boredom .I am a fan of Billy Chystal and was surprised at how unfunny this so called comedy was. It must have cost a lot of money to make this movie, They should have made a shorter movie and spent the money on the dialog.I give it two stars rather than one because of the photography. "},{"Title":"Solid hit!   What a cast!!","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have had people comment to me over the years on this movie, nothing but good. Including an F.B.I agent, how funny is that?! I saw Running Scared in the theaters in 87' and loved it. I then not only met but worked for the man who wrote the movie (DeVore) he treated me very well while I was doing work for him at his home, he was very generous. He was an inspiration for me as well. One day while I was working he had some guests out on his back deck that was right on the beach. He asked if I wanted to be introduced to his friends, Mr. Hyams the director of Running Scared and a producer friend, I declined the introduction however and felt like a fool later. He didn't tell me to start writing, but because of him I started to piece together a movie treatment, and went to show it to him a few years later, but he was busy on a project and about to leave town. When I heard how busy he was I thought, 'I'll just catch him when he returns.' Simple enough,I heard on the news that he had was killed on the way back from his trip. I was mostly sad to lose a cool friend. I mean, we didn't talk a lot and we were not close like buddies, however he treated me well when I worked for him, and for that I am always grateful to him. The movie itself has total chemistry and a super cast of players, who went on to other big hits too!! I enjoyed the man who wrote it and his creation, to me he has a brilliant side to him as well as friendly. Thanks Gary and Wendy, too- Sincerely, your friend Benjamin Wolfe "},{"Title":"Disappointingly dreary, unfunny buddy comedy in the vein of Lethal Weapon and Red Heat...","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There isn't much running in Running Scared. In fact, there isn't much of characters being scared, either. Surprising, especially considering the fact that the title involves both of those two words. Perhaps that's why my disappointment in the film is quite strong--instead of original material (running scared), we're subjected to Lethal Weapon humor and two buddies with low chemistry.Yes, this came out a year before Lethal Weapon, but it's not as good. I have yet to truly enjoy a film by Peter Hyams, and this does not improve my feelings for his direction. Although the real problems with the film lie in the script by Gary DeVore and Jimmy Huston. It's just not always that funny. Amusing, yes, but not very funny. Here's my thoughts on what should have happened Two Chicago cops (Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines) witness a Mafia murder and flee to a Pacific island in hopes of escaping from a pack of hitmen on their trail. Once there, they find out that they still haven't lost the murderers, so they basically (a) run and are (b) scared, hence the title.Here's the real plot Two streetwise cops (Crystal and Hines) are hot on the trail of a drug lord (Steven Bauer). When they get too close, he gets away, so basically they chase him around throughout the entire film. But when I say chase, I don't mean run--there's the mandatory car chase (including the ol' vehicle-on-the-train-tracks cliche), the ex-wife who gets in the way, and the big explosive ending where the two buddies rescue the hostage and save the day.Puh-lease.Really, I don't understand the title of the film. After seeing a snapshot photo of Crystal and Hines outside a pool in short-shorts wearing sunglasses under the bright sun, and reading the plot description in my TV guide, I expected the plot would be a refreshing twist on the buddy formula--buddies on the run. My expectations were too high.It's not about running buddies at all. It's about two stupid buddies with no chemistry who make wisecracks and do some pretty dumb things, not to mention they have some pretty dumb things happen to themselves. They don't seem to be very real at all--at least not in a Riggs and Murtaugh type of way. After being faced at gunpoint in Chicago against two young criminals, they start cracking jokes and showing the two kids their police badges. Then they start taunting the kids to shoot them. If I were a cop making an arrest in a bad area of Chicago, I wouldn't be so confident in my rather unbelievable choices.I'm overreacting. This is a buddy movie anway, right? Not to be taken seriously? Of course not. But sometimes it gets annoying when a film is rooted primarily in stupid antics and insults and gags and wisecracks that get old after a while. That's why a series such as Lethal Weapon remained so very fresh--it didn't rely on stupid buddies cracking pitiful jokes all the time.I can't express how disappointed I am that I did not enjoy Running Scared. I love cheesy comedies from the 80s, as many people who read my reviews probably already know. I like the homey little low-budget, forgotten comedies of the 80s featuring famous actors before they became famous, in films their fans don't even really care about. I like to sit down at two in the morning on a Friday or Saturday night, curl up and watch a really cheesy, bad movie from the 80s.Running Scared fits the bill, but the humor just isn't there.I give this film a recommendation based solely upon the fact--as silly as it may seem--that Billy Crystal does a Dan Hedaya impersonation. Where is his partner, hmm? he barks into the phone. Classic bit of tongue-in-cheek self-referential filmmaking. I loved that scene. I wish the entire movie had been like that.3/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Disappointing for a Billy Crystal Flick","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I watched this on video recently and well, it did have its moments but I was mostly disappointed that Billy Crystal didn't use as many one-liner jokes that he usually does in his other movies.I was hoping he'd say funny stuff like he did in Forget Paris but gosh, even his funny lines (or were they supposed to be) weren't that funny.Plus, the crooks seemed like real imbeciles, even the main one, and clueless as to avoid the cops.I'll give it a 5 1/2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"OK I guess","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" - The beginning is pretty good and funny.- The film becomes a bit cliché (story) and overdone in the middle (jokes)- The end is as far as jokes and cliché's are concerned not only average but on the edge of VERY stupid- I still credit the film for the beginning6 out of 10 "}]