[{"Title":"The girl's gone, let's play poker!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"63 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm surprised by the number of people on here who don't like this movie. Like a few of the positive reviewers I'd have to say this is one of my favorite, contemporary classics. The story is exquisite, who wouldn't want to go back to a time when things were a bit simpler and someone was there to take care of you and make you feel safe? Whenever I stumble upon it, I end up watching it. Too many scenes start the old water works for me.Peggy seeing her little sister for the first time, going into her old bedroom, and hearing her grandmother's voice on the phone are all quite touching.Call me crazy but I just love the moment where Charlie takes Peggy down into the basement and confronts her about what is going on. When he leaves, Peggy opens a music box, pulls out a cigarette and lights it.Another special moment happens when Peggy smokes a joint and talks about what she'd like to be when she grows up, as she turns around and around under a starry sky.This is quite a good movie, filled with many special performances and scenes along the way. "},{"Title":"A warm and underrated movie","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"50 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Kathleen Turner is great in this movie, she more or less pulls off her task and is very believable as the teenager who gets to relive and, to some point, change and correct her past. Francis Ford Coppola knows exactly where to draw the fine line between heart warming and pathetic and does so with great artistic knowledge and taste. This movie is filled with memorable quotes, like No more jello for me, mom! and is altogether very funny. Great performances from a pile of familiar faces, Nicholas Cage is irritating at first, but is likeable at the end. A great score, a great and heart warming story, solid acting and nostalgia make this movie more than worth a second viewing. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Delightful Romance About Reevaluation of Life","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"44 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In the reunion of the twentieth-fifth anniversary of high school, the former popular student Peggy Sue, who is facing a divorce of her husband Charlie Bodell (Nicolas Cage), faints and wakes up in 1960. The experienced Peggy Sue decides to change and improve her life in this new opportunity.Peggy Sue Got Married is a delightful and charming fantasy about reevaluation and a second chance in life. The story is very beautiful, the production is very careful and I am really surprised how underrated this movie is in IMDb. I do not get tired of this film, and it is among my favorite romances. Kathleen Turner is extremely beautiful in the lead role, and watching this movie in 2005, it is a great chance to see names like Jim Carrey, Joan Allen and Sofia Coppola twenty years ago in the beginning of their careers. In Brazil, unfortunately this movie has not been released on DVD. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Peggy Sue &#x96; Seu Passado a Espera (Peggy Sue &#x96; Your Past Waits For You') "},{"Title":"Comfortable as an old shoe...","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is definitely on my Top 20 list of all time favorite movies.  Whenever I come across it while channel surfing, I end up watching it again-and I hate watching movies that are edited for TV!As others have pointed out, it showcases so many talented actors.  Joan Allen is great here, as is Catherine Hicks.  And the amazing Barbara Harris, whom I adore for her work on the stage, is excellent and dead-on as Peggy's mother.  Jim Carrey is here as well and surprise, he's overacting in most of his scenes!  While I've never completely figured out why Nicholas Cage was encouraged to employ the weird-ass voice that he did, his performance winds up being very likeable.  Barry Miller is also great as Richard.The premise is cool.  Who among us wouldn't want to have such and opportunity (OK, maybe not the passing out in public part)?  As a person that grew up in the 60s, I'd love to return and see some of the sights and sounds that filled my innocent, pre-Internet world.  And the scene when Peggy hears her Grandmother's voice on the phone makes me cry every time.I likey!  "},{"Title":"a classic - in the same mold as Field of Dreams and Frequency","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"34 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented this film the other night when I knew I would be alone - that's just the way I have to watch this, alone - guess I'm not comfortable with people seeing me cry.  I cried when it was in the theatres in 1986 and I've seen it maybe 10 times now - and it gets me each and every time, as if I were watching for the very first time!  Sorry to drone on, but it has just the right touch - you've heard a lot of comparisons with Back to the Future - believe me, it isn't!  If you liked the two movies I mentioned in my header, especially Frequency since it is about to be released on video - you will love this film!Kathleen Turner was excellent - I have seen Debra Winger (originally scheduled to play the title role) in several films, including Terms of Endearment and though I respect her as an actress, she just couldn't have done this part justice.  Nicolas Cage was great in his role - the whiny voice was a bit much - but it's hard to believe he was only 21 when this film was made.  He plays a high school kid and a guy in his 40's equally well - he's always had a gift for that.  Jim Carrey - then mostly unknown - displays some of the physical slapstick routines that would later earn him praise and renown.  Then there's Joan Allen - as I saw this movie for the first time, I thought how much she resembled former first lady Pat Nixon in her earlier years - and sure enough, that's who she played in Oliver Stone's Nixon.  Helen Hunt portrays Kathleen Turner and Nicolas Cage's daughter - ironic, since she is older than Cage!  It was one of her beginning roles as well.Without a doubt, the scenes with Peggy Sue and her grandparents are the most touching in the whole film.  Think about it - if you had the chance to see someone again who had died long before, what would you say to them?  What would you do?  This wonderful film gives us the chance to find out.Will Peggy Sue Got Married ever be available on videocassette for home purchase again?  I hate to have to rent it each time I want to see it! "},{"Title":"A Very Special Movie","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Every time I see this film, it leaves me thinking about it for days. The subject of time travel is a fascinating subject and this is the only non sci-fi film that I can think of that revolves around the subject. Kathleen Turner is wonderful as the 40-something year old mother of two who is in the process of getting divorced from her husband(Nicolas Cage), but gets hurled 25 years into the past when she passes out at her high school reunion. This is a truly touching film about going back in time and being able to experience your youth and priceless times that you will never be able to experience again. One of the most touching scenes is when Peggy Sue gets a call from her long dead Grandmother and doesn't know what to do or say. Also, be sure to watch out for some very early bits from Joan Allen, Jim Carrey, and Helen Hunt. ***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Does nature or nurture determine our future??","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In the 1986 film, Peggy Sue Got Married, a question is asked during the 25-year class reunion, and Peggy Sue answers, If I knew what I know now, I'd do it a lot differently. So, she faints, her heart stops, and she wakes up in 1960, with a chance to do it all over again. Would she still get pregnant at 18 and marry Charlie, who grows up to be a cheating husband, bringing her much misery?She seems to try hard to do it differently. She spends lots of time with Richard, the high school geek, helping him understand the types of things that will come - man on the moon by 1969, pantyhose, small computers, large radios! She asks, Is time travel possible? He says, Time is like a burrito, folds over on itself. She laughs when her father brings home a new Edsel. Richard says, Change your destiny, marry me. No, she says, Peggy Sue got married, and that's it. (Thus the title of the film.)Later, when Peggy Sue wakes up in 1985 again, in the hospital, we must ask ourselves, was this just a dream? No, it wasn't, because Charlie shows her a book classmate Michael had given her, a book he wrote, that he dedicated to her, based on a one magical night they had together, which had not happened the first time through. During the dream, she had suggested he write a book based on that night.Thus, the movie answers, at least for Peggy Sue, the question of doing it all over again. In the end, she still did the same thing, but the future somehow looked brighter for her and Charlie. The right conclusion, I think, because it has become well-established that nature is more important than nurture in forming our adult tendencies.It was fun seeing all the fine actors, most before their prime. Of course Kathleen Turner (Peggy Sue) was already established at age 32, with hits like Body Heat (81), Romancing The Stone (84), and Prizzi's Honor (85) on her resume'. Nick Cage (real name Nick Coppola), who plays Charlie, was 22 and in his 9th film, but the first with a featured role. Jim Carrey was only 24, still 8 years before he was noticed with Ace Ventura, Mask, and Dumb/Dumber films, all in 1994. Joan Allen was an old 30, playing a high schooler, in her first theatrical film, and 9 years before her defining role in Nixon as Pat. Helen Hunt, Peggy Sue's daughter, was 23 and already in her 28th film, 3 years after Quarterback Princess, but 6 years before the hit TV series, Mad About You. And then there was Sofia Coppola, 15, who played Peggy Sue's little sister, in her 7th film. Had she either been attractive, or a good actress, she might not have become a director (Virgin Suicides, Lost In Translation).I was a teenager in the 60s, and this film for me is nostalgic, especially hearing all the original songs from that time. My only complaint about the movie is Nick Cage's voice. Something about it at age 22 made it very irritating to listen to. Now that he has grown up, I find his voice much more pleasant. Had he not been the director's nephew, I doubt that he would have gotten the role of Charlie. Overall I rate this one 8 of 10. I like it a lot. "},{"Title":"The Wizard of Oz in Sonoma County, California","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Maybe I am a bit prejudiced about the greatness of this film; I grew up in Sonoma County, and the sight of Peggy Sue Kelcher standing on the senior steps at Santa Rosa High School (where I drop off my granddaughters every morning) gives me a great thrill. When I drop them off, I often say, If you see Peggy Sue, tell her I said hello. And they respond--We will, grandpa. (And they no doubt think What an old cornball.) What a beautiful school! And it still looks just the same as it did in the 80's (or the 60's, for that matter). The place seems to be in a time warp. In a certain sense, taking this movie to heart has mythologized my world. Francis Ford Coppola's talent for finding the perfect settings for his comic philosophic masterpiece is unerring throughout--even if he had to paint the streets in Petaluma purple just to get the exact effect that he wanted.Peggy Sue would be very high on my all-time top 100 film list, if I had such a list. The film is not only funny and soulful, it also directly addresses what is perhaps life's central existential question If you had the opportunity to relive your life, making the same mistakes and suffering the same consequences, would you do it? Remember, in making your decision, that your children's lives, and the loves and friendships you have experienced in your lifetime, are contingent upon your answer.When you watch Peggy Sue, notice how the film parallels The Wizard of Oz. Like Dorothy, Peggy Sue goes 'over the rainbow' into a magical world. It is in fact the world of her own past, but everything has been enchanted and transformed by her adult point-of-view. The Wizard himself, who must contrive to return Peggy Sue back home, is Peggy Sue's kind old grandfather, with his wonderful bogus lodge magic. Her friends at the reunion have their counterparts in the over the rainbow world of the past, just as Dorothy's friends on the farm have their counterparts in Oz. When Peggy Sue awakens from her trip, her old stale world and her old disappointing husband appear in a new light. Like Dorothy, Peggy Sue awakens and learns that there is no place like home, and the time-worn cliché is suddenly vital and alive. Like Dorothy, she is once again back in Kansas, but it is a Kansas in which the characters, and she herself, have assumed new depths of meaning. She is now ready to step into her fate--her new enriched life (and there are also nuances of It's a Wonderful Life in the film).One last comment nowadays, I cannot watch this comedy without tears in my eyes through pretty much the whole movie, and much of this effect is due to the masterful performance of Kathleen Turner as Peggy Sue. Turner is usually on the hysterical edge of breaking down, and her proximity to the precipice is a knot in my gut through the whole movie. It is a shame that she did not win the Best Actress award for this performance. "},{"Title":"fascinating and funny","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has a lot going for it. First, there's a superb acting by both Turner and Cage. Both embody the 60s. The cars, settings and attitudes are fully representative of the era and bring back memories of a seemingly simpler time. But, in this movie, things are complicated by the culture of a later period. I found this movie enjoyable and thought-provoking. It is fun, also, to see Jim Carrey in what must have been his first (or nearly so) role. The mannerisms and cartoonish characteristics that would make him a super-star are evident. In this movie there is character, with one theme about how people treat others, especially thoise of us with personality or other challenges. Good stuff. "},{"Title":"Makes You Think, What If......","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I can't remember anybody who didn't like this movie when it came out just over 20 years ago. It was very popular, and justifiably so. It had a lot of charm to it and romance, comedy and time-travel seem to be a good mixture.Also, it had an intriguing premise and made us think about it. If you could go back in time, knowing what you know now, would you do it and what would you do? I'm not talking short periods like in Groundhog Day (which was done seven years after this film) but if you could do it ALL over, from a certain point, like high school. Anyway, it's fun to think about.Nicholas Cage and Kathleen Turner were fun to watch. If you view this film today, be prepared to be shocked how young Cage - and Jim Carrey - look in here. Turner isn't so shocking only because today we don't see her in films regularly as we do those two guys. In fact, Turner was a big star in the '80s and most people remember her looks from that period, beginning with Body Heat (1981). She is the star of this film, too.When I last watched this, in the late 1990s, I found it wasn't as good as I remembered, but it still has a lot of charm and sentiment to it. It's nothing super, but it is more-than-decent entertainment. It helps to be fascinated by time travel, which I am.I had forgotten this was a Francis Ford Cappola-directed film, which is a bit of a shock because most of us associate him with The Godfather films and Apocalypse Now, not some fantasy-romance-comedy. However, it comes together a little more when you realize Cage was his son. Cappola also finds a small role in here for his young daughter Sophia.If you are a film buff, you'll be shocked at all the familiar faces in this movie, from veteran actors like John Carradine to a young Helen Hunt. Check out the names in this cast! If you haven't seen this film, you owe it to yourself. I'm not saying it's terrific, but it's definitely worth your while not just for the actors but the thought-provoking subject matter. "}{"Title":"Oh, Ma...Chanel No.5 Always Makes Me Think Of Home - Peggy Sue","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What a great movie! Originally intended for Debra Winger, but Kathleen Turner is wonderful as the title character Peggy Sue. It's a time-travel movie about a 42 year old woman who gets transported back in time to high school (circa early 1960's). Who wouldn't love an opportunity like that, not to mention being 18 again?? My favorite scene is when she walks back into her house, & sees her mom young again, while that beautiful music plays on the soundtrack. It's so touching & heartfelt. This movie has it all. Great acting, comedy, drama, fantasy, & a good story. Nicholas Cage can get annoying at times, but he felt this was the best way to portray his character (Charlie). He gets to sing in this movie too (He Don't Love You). Look for a very early performance by Jim Carrey. The cast also includes Helen Hunt & Catherine Hicks (the mom on the TV show 7th Heaven). "},{"Title":"A fun film!","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In this time travel spin a woman (Peggy Sue) at her high school reunion has a heart attack and while lingering between life and death, is transported back in time to her high school days. Peggy Sue knowing that her boyfriend Charlie will turn out rotten after she marries him, is determined not to repeat the same mistakes of the past. Peggy Sue tries to distance herself from Charlie and has an affair with a rebel/philosopher student to try to change things. While doing this she learns about Charlie that she never knew and ends up falling in love with him all over again.I really enjoyed this film and it shows that Peggy Sue with all her future knowledge and superior attitude is still unable to change what originally occurred. "},{"Title":"Essential Time Travel movie","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This has to be the only female lead time travel movie in history. Men and boys have dominated this premise since H.G Wells, but Kathleen Turner takes it back following the success of 1985's Back to the Future. Turner looks like a hot mom and then a hot high school senior. How is that possible? Casting and probably some fairly rigorous exercising. Nick Cage really is a youngster who looks more 18 than 40. But the story is all about Peggy Sue and the strange situation she finds herself in as she relives her 1960 senior year and gets the benefit of perfect hindsight. I think all will agree that the scenes with Peggy Sue's grandparents (who are of course long dead to the 40 year old Peggy Sue) are very touching. It's inconceivable that a film marketed for a teen audience would include these scenes. Just the mention of grandparents to a 15 year old is enough to get them heading the other direction. But even when I watched this as a 15 year old I was moved. Only an adult would truly appreciate the wisdom of their elders. But by the time we are adults our grandparents are gone. It's as true as the sky is blue. But Peggy Sue gets to take advantage of her time travel and seeks her grandparents out. The brilliance of the writing is apparent as the grandparents end up playing an important role in the plot and general moral of the story. Imagine that! There are a few gimmicks in the script such as the Beatles song and Hemingway references and the Edsel car, but these are minor. The bulk of the story is firmly planted in Peggy Sue's ability to change her 17 year old decisions based on 25 years of disappointments.So she isn't actually going back in time (occupying the same space as her 18 year old self) as actually RELIVING the past with the memories of her adult self. There is a big difference. She's got the experiences of a 43 year old woman but is now in the body of her 18 year old self.But Francis Ford Coppola gets the credit for absolutely brilliant directing. From the opening mirror shot to the closing mirror shot his framing and editing choices are superlative. They are miles apart from what most directors were doing in 1986. This guy is a genius with the camera. There are so many cinematic references in here I can't begin to name them all. Charlie's spooky shadow a'la Lon Chaney as he sneaks up to Peggy Sue's bedroom is one that stands out. And check out the shadows in the Physics Lab. That's no accident. Make no mistake about this movie, it is a real work of art. The premise is not as serious as Apocalypse Now but the execution is just as direct and effortless. That's what strikes me about this movie every time I watch it Much effort went into the execution of these scenes even though the scenes themselves don't merit much effort. We're talking about kids at a party singing Doo Wop songs. Why go through the bother of blocking and multiple takes and multiple angles? This is marketed for children and Coppola is spending production dollars. But I'll be darned if Turner didn't get nominated for an Oscar for this role. Give Coppola the credit for not making a disposable movie.The score is employed well and the attention to details pays off on an emotional level. Turner isn't weak because she ultimately can't go through with her radical changes, she basically surrenders to a destiny that she can't escape from. Her children will only exist through her decision to stay with Charlie. Her surrender is what ultimately sets her free. But did she actually relive her life? Or was it a dream? You can speculate either way. The important thing is the lessons she learned from her experience. It can be summed up in one word Strudel. This is one of the few movies that is guaranteed to make me cry. "},{"Title":"Kathleen Turner's Comment Right On the Mark","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I wondered why I didn't like Peggy Sue Got Married more than I did, when it first came out in 1986, with all the hype. Somehow I found Nic Cage's character off-putting. Way off-putting. Then the plot didn't seem to make sense. Then by the end of the credits, the question came to mind What point was this movie making? What was it saying? The answer, unfortunately, was not much, if anything. I really don't think this movie aimed at making a statement; unless it was your life is your life, you're gonna make the same mistakes no matter what, so keep your eye upon the doughnut, and not the hole. Not a very profound statement, and I'm sorry, not profoundly made in this movie. The writing simply isn't that good. The direction is uneven, and is strangely overblown at times. Kathleen Turner was the best, and in my opinion, only worthwhile thing in this movie, and performed something of a miracle creating a whole character despite bizarre, unexplained circumstances, with a script that had no apparent statement to make. She also finally cleared up the mystery for me of the main reason I didn't enjoy this movie more. She states in her autobiography that Cage made a point of fighting his uncle Coppola's direction every step of the way, doing it his own way (not a good idea for a new actor), and putting on a goofy voice she called stupid. His voice was annoying, abrasive and unnatural, and his character was obnoxious and overbearing as a young guy. I understand what he was attempting to do play a young-guy hot shot who is not as hot as he thinks he is, setting up his own karma for future failure. But he goes overboard, the way he does it is abrasive, not effective, and if he had listened to his uncle instead of fighting the Man, we would have had a more enjoyable film. Cage slips a little with his obnoxious voice stylings in the movie and occasionally sounds like a real person, and those scenes are more watchable than others. But if I had to watch the movie through in its entirety, I would find myself wanting to pay someone in L.A. to pour a bucket of water over his head during some of his more affected (put-on) scenes. The movie doesn't aim for a statement, doesn't make a point, is great to look at except when Cage is doing a demented Elvis impression (but without the voice), and is, ultimately, confusing and a waste of time. Given all this, Kathleen Turner surely deserved an Oscar in this flailing mess of a movie. I can't recommend anyone spending two hours watching this, unless you like Turner and have a remote to pick out all her scenes. Believe me, you will miss nothing plotwise by skipping the other scenes, and it will make just as much sense. Kathleen Turner is getting a lot of flak from critics regarding her Cage comments, which proves that she's strong enough to be honest, and to hell with other people's comments. You go, Turner! I'm not particularly a fan of this actress any more than I am of any other first-rate actor or actress, but her candor is refreshing. Cage's acting can be good to annoying, and here it doesn't work. At least, in this film, now we know why. "},{"Title":"A great film about love and life","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you have seen Back to the Future (1985) you may think this Francis Ford Coppola film is a bit of a knock-off, at least that's what I thought. But then I watched it. The beginning is fairly normal, Peggy Sue (Kathleen Turner) goes to her high school reunion and is complemented by her peers, even though she feels her life is a wreck because of her cheating husband. She wishes she could go back and do things differently, and when she wins the title of class queen, she faints, and wakes up in 1960.She soon realizes she actually does have the chance to make some changes in her life, and starts out trying to break up with her boyfriend whom she will marry in the future, Charlie Bodell, played by Nicolas Cage. But she keeps falling for him, even though she experiments with going out with the town poet, treats the class nerd better and asks for his help in getting back to her time, and tries to develop a better relationship with her sister.In the end, she gets back to her time to realize not much has changed, and she ended up marrying Charlie. But now she realizes she can't go back and merely fix her past problems, she needs to work them out with herself and her family.The entire film is very entertaining and feels a bit like Back to the Future, only less flashy and more serious. I enjoyed all of it, but a part near the end, involving Peggy Sue's grandfather and his lodge friends sending her to 1986, is very strange and a bit out of place. All of the actors do a great job with their roles, Kathleen Turner received an Oscar nomination, but I think Nicolas Cage does the best job. It's hard to tell if his character is genuinely in love with Peggy Sue, or if it is just a teenage infatuation, but in the end he tells her how much he wants them to work things out. Some people may find his voice strange and annoying, but I found it at times funny and sad, and it made his character seem just like the adolescent he is. He gives a truly Oscar worthy performance.Overall, Peggy Sue Got married is an excellent drama with some great comedic moments. Francis Ford Coppola deserves credit for taking a story that could have been a rip-off of Back to the Future and turns it into a great story about love and life. I highly recommend this film and hope it becomes a bit more well known. "},{"Title":"This movie just keeps getting better and better","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Kathleen Turner has never been better than she was in those 1986 film. A much more touching time travel film than Back to the Future -- Turner's character (an unhappy middle-aged woman) has the chance to re-live her high school days and do things differently only to end up making the same mistakes she made before. Turner is a gifted comedienne who has the ability to convey the pathos underneath the comedic layer.Nicholas Cage is grating at first but the character grows on you after awhile. A then unknown Jim Carrey has a small role as does Joan Allen.Francis Coppola may have just been a director-for-hire on this film but he is never an uninteresting director. Look closely he adds many small touches to the film. I especially liked a scene where Barbara Harris (as Peggy Sue's mother) is having her jewelry appraised when Peggy Sue walks into the house. Mom lies to Peggy Sue and tells her the man is taking an election poll then tells Peggy Sue she will vote Democratic in 1960. The scene is never explained any further but it is interesting to note that 1960 was the very beginning of the women's movement. Perhaps Mrs. Kelcher is beginning to see that there is a life outside of being a housewife and mother. She wants to but is afraid to assert her independence. Hence the jewelry appraiser. Since Mrs. Kelcher has no skills outside of the house it is comforting for her to know that should it come to it she would be able to support herself temporarily by selling her jewelry. Her nest egg so to speak should she decide to leave the nest.  "},{"Title":"Charming and amusing, just avoiding being sickly and sweet","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It is her high school reunion but Peggy Sue is a bit down about going. She is divorcing her high school sweetheart Charlie (a minor local celebrity) and she knows that the only thing people will ask her is about him. Secretly she knows that, if she could live her life again she would do things differently. When she elected queen of the ball she is emotional and passes out on stage. When she wakes up she finds herself a teenager again, with the chance to do things all over again. Disorientated and confused by this strange occurrence, will Peggy Sue really chose to do things differently or will she come to appreciate the life she has lived? Whenever the man who made The Godfather produces a light little romantic comedy/drama, it is no real surprise that people tend to look down on it in a way that they may not have done if it had been made by someone else. So it is with this film, which is nothing that special but is enjoyable for what it does do. The time travel plot is a real stretch but it just about manages to pull it off by being consistently amusing and rather sweet throughout. It is a shame that it cannot manage to avoid sentimentality but when it does fall into it, it still manages to be amiable enough and not too sickly. The tone is consistently comic, which does help support the film well and I was quite surprised by how this rather sentimental story managed to charm its way into me! Turner is a big part of this happening because she carries off the absurd role with charm and humour. Cage is good, I suppose, but it is hard not to get irritated by his rather nasal delivery. Support is good from Hicks, Allen and several other recognisable faces, including a young Jim Carrey, but the show belongs to Turner and although it isn't a classic performance, it is still charming enough to carry the material.Overall, if you are adverse to sentimentality then I would suggest that you give this a miss since it is rather sweet and charming, even if it just about manages to avoid being sickly. It is amusing and rather charming &#150; both things I would say about Turner's performance. This just about saves it from being cloying and sickly (although it is close) and I found it to be just the right side of that and came over as enjoyable and quite a pleasant viewing, even if it is nothing that special. "},{"Title":"Time Travel with Peggy Sue!","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A woman (PEGGY SUE) whose husband just left her for some younger woman, goes to her high school reunion, faints, but ends up 25 years earlier in time with friend, family, and her philandering husband as high school boyfriend-in 1960 high school! Should she break up with her teen boyfriend-and change her future? Should she run off with the mysterious beatnik poet??? Or,should she just stay in 1960 and discover the Beatles early, invent pantyhose, and make lots of money?I LOVED watching this movie because I remember 1960 as a little kid. My BABYSITTERS (and their boyfriends)---some older cousins, some younger aunts/ uncles - talked and acted like these 1960 pre Beatles and early Rock & Roll teens in PEGGY SUE GOT MARRIED.Who does Peggy Sue see in 1960??? The girls in ponytails, shirtwaist dresses, plaid pedalpusher shorts (not recommended for women with a larger mom butt but cute on teens), transistor radios, big plastic pointy cornered eyeglasses...the boys with ducktail haircuts, white sox and penny loafers - her own YOUNGER looking parents, her currently ESTRANGED husband as her teen adoring boyfriend...and...- the long dead but still loved - GRANDPARENTS whom Peggy Sue will go to for help in leaving 1960- so Peggy Sue can return to to her future, her kids and - her repentant HUSBAND.************** Buddy Holly, an early Rock and Roll teen idol, wrote and performed the title song Peggy Sue back in 1960. A fun nostalgic film. Turner's character has that bit of mature woman's lite cynicism which keeps this film from getting sentimental EXCEPT where she is comforted by her grandparents. There she doesn't act as a teen, but is the middle aged woman asking her long dead (but still loved) grandparents for advice! A kind of women's Back to the Future but with no DeLorean needed. "},{"Title":"Back to the Future Romance","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I consider Peggy Sue Got Married as one of the all time great movies. Kathleen Turner and Nicholas Cage both do a superb job in this one. The Orchestra Music, I believe was by John Barry was also wonderful. Reminded me of the kind of great music in Out of Africa and even a one song in Doc Hollywood. It really moves you and you'll never forget where you first heard the songs. The main theme is Peggy Sue's Homecoming, or is it Somewhere in Time by John Barry; its one or the other, for sure . I wish that Hollywood would bring out more shows like this...some romance, nostalgia, no real violence, no swearing AND yet it was a hit! Wonderful! I must admit that I'm a nostalgia fan and movies like this one, all the back to the future shows have me fascinated. Perhaps it's because we often find ourselves daydreaming of the good old days and simpler times...far removed from the hectic pace of today. Heck, I even love watching reruns of the Waltons! I would highly recommend this movie to everyone...cozy up to your TV with a good friend, make some popcorn, put a fire on and ENJOY! How could anyone NOT love this movie! "},{"Title":"A very good film made better by the exquisite Kathleen Turner","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Having now seen the film on its Australian release and then bi-annually since its release on video, for me, I believe the film has stood the test of time. Yes, it's great to see Cage, Hunt et al in one of their earlier movies but for me, Turner was, as usual, wonderful and elevated the film considerably. I cheered for her on Oscars night as I felt she'd already been unfairly denied a gong for Crimes of Passion. The woman is not only beautiful, she can act. Her stage experience is obvious. I'll stop now before I get carried away. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is definitely in my top ten.  One reason is Kathleen Turner's acting.  She does a wonderful job throughout the movie, even though she may look older than a teenager when she goes back in time.  (However, have you noticed how teenagers in high school through the years look younger and younger?  My mom's high school yearbook appears to be filled with 30 year olds.)  Another reason I love the movie is that it makes my brain ponder on what I would do if I could go back to high school.  Peggy revisiting her young mother, seeing her baby sister, and being able to see her grandparents again one last time is just a beautiful thing in itself.  I guess I just like reminiscing about my childhood, which is probably why I like this movie.  (Even though I'm a child of the 80's.)  Very few things bother me in this movie.  And no, it's not Nicolas Cage's accent!  That didn't bother me that much.  )  It was the fact that Peggy's son Scott is not seen in the movie, but is mentioned several times by Peggy and a character for Scott Bodell is in the credits at the end of the movie.  Also, at the reunion, Rosalee, the girl in the wheelchair responsible for inviting people to the reunion and close friend of Peggy's, is also not seen in the time travel back scenes.  I wish the DVD had some deleted scenes that may explain these disappearances.  But to end this review on a good note, the soundtrack was superb as well!  The music is just beautiful and is one of my favorite movie scores to date.  Way to go John Barry!  I recommend this to anyone who thinks about going to a high school reunion or wishes they could go back in time to do some things differently. "},{"Title":"No More Jello...?","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a classic.  But like several of the other reviewers, I agree that more care and thought should have been taken with several elements of this film.  Nic Cage, although a great actor, is I believe totally miscast as Charlie.  He's too young to bring the maturity necessary to pull off this part the way that Kathleen Turner did.  To make up for his lack of experience, he gives his character a gratingly irritating voice that takes the viewers attention away from the performance.  He has a decent singing voice though.  I also agree that the scene where her grandfather and his cronies try to send her back to the future with a bizarre incantation is unnecessary, and way too far fetched even considering the subject matter we're dealing with here. Still it's a fun and interestingly different take on the usual comedy, and definetly worth seeing at least once.  It has some great one-liners in there...No More Jello For Me Mom was really great.   "},{"Title":"If I Knew then What I know now, I would do a lot of things differently!","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Peggy Sue Got Married is a time travel movie you wish you could actually do.  Who wouldn't want to go back to high school and change at least something.  This movie has so many scenes that touch your heart, such as Peggy seeing her old room again after 25 years. Visiting her grandparents who she hasn't see for a long time! Seeing her children in her Locket and knowing Charlie is worth it, and that she really does love him!   Kathleen Turner is outstanding in this movie!  She really does make you believe she is a teenager and an adult at the same time! Turner and the rest of the great cast really do make this movie one of the best movies of all time. After watching it you'll really start to think If I knew then what I know now, I would do a lot of things differently! "},{"Title":"Sweet, sentimental, and tripping all over itself. Misses beat after beat.","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Peggy Sue Got Married (1986)There is something fanciful and lighter than air about the intentions here, with a strain of something else very serious. And I respect a director (Francis Ford Coppola) trying to find a new airiness and unreality in this photographically real medium, especially with resorting to outward fancy. On the outside, this is a realistic film with acting meant to be at least as real as a good soap opera. And I mean that in a pertinent way...it is over the top interpersonal drama, and improbable.So what goes wrong? I think that might be definable by some doctoral student, and it's some combination of editing, which is either awkward or merely functional, and the basic story itself, which is stretched thin over two hours. Other movies play with an existential trip while winking, but they keep the mind-bending part of the problem changing and moving, and that doesn't happen here. The final nail in the coffin is the weak acting, even from Nicholas Cage (Coppola's nephew). At times it seems it's supposed to be farcical and comic booky, but it isn't quite plastic or silly or believable enough to work. The one exception is the very real and compelling lead, Peggy Sue, played by Kathleen Turner. The biggest bummer is that it's such a sweet idea, such a wistful, wishful idea, and it just doesn't fly. "},{"Title":"are u drunk?   just a lil.","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" it starts off Peggy sue is fixing to get a divorce from her high school sweetheart because he started having affiars. her and her daughter are going to her 25th high school reunion and during it she passes out when she wakes up she in 1960 (the year she graduated). and then Charlie (husband) comes in and she trys to get away from him as soon as she can. and she enjoys a day at school and then goes to her girlfriends party with Charlie and finds him cute and charming. and she realizes she didn't know him as good as she thought she did. she also helps the school geek with inventions such as pantyhose, big radios, and so forth. in the end she realizes her 2 kids are her and Charlie and the marriage was worth it. this is a touching movie like when she hears her grandmother and when she sees her sister. my favorite parts was when she got drunk, when Charlie is singing, and when she wants to have sex. i love how Charlie is so in love and isn't gonna give up on her. don't we all wish we could find a guy like that! lol i mean i could watch this movie all day long. its a movie for all ages and if you like back to the future and movies like that you will love this! and its really great seeing all the now famous stars such as Joan Allen and Catherine hicks just starting out. and Nick cage and kathreen turner are great in this movie this wouldn't have been so good with out them. i find it amazing a 30 something can play a 42 year old and a 17 year old! one of my top 5 i don't see why it isn't a classic!! "},{"Title":"underrated and destined to be a classic","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Peggy Sue Got Married is one of those movies  that did okay when it first was released and got generally positive reviews. Today it shows up, occasionally on the Comedy Channel which is ironic because the movie has more tears than laughter. It tells the story of a middle age woman who mysteriously, travels back in time, to her high school days where she attempts not to make the same mistake twice, i.e. marry her high school sweetheart and  end up with an unhappy marriage.The movie never fails to bring me to tears in its poignant moments as Peggy Sue revisits her past- an early scene in which she speaks to her long dead grandmother on the phone is heartbreaking as is the scene in which she begs her soon -to-be husband, to give up his dreams of being a rock and roll singer because it will bring him grown up frustration and disappointment. The movie connects into feelings about mistakes and choices  we make in life that make us who we are. Turner's performance is easily her best and  even Nicholas Cage's performance which was criticized heavily at the time, grows on you(he is attempting to create a character who is sometimes silly and unlikeable and it sometimes throws the film into a different direction). Many critics disparage this as one of Francis Coppoloa's movies for hire- i.e. not a personal film. For me, Peggy Sue is one  of his triumphs. The tears and emotions it evokes are well earned and the truths it plucks from the human condition are well worth exploring.   "},{"Title":"Kathleen Turner Got Stuck in a Bad Movie","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Did Francis Ford Coppola have a brain aneurysm some time after directing Apocalypse Now that made him absolutely incapable of making a good movie? You have to wonder what the director of The Godfather and The Conversation was thinking when he made this flabby film. It gives Kathleen Turner a starring vehicle, playing a woman who travels back in time and gets to redo her adolescence knowing all of the things that life as an adult has taught her, and Turner, the trooper that she is, does what she can with it, but this movie couldn't be saved by anyone.It doesn't even have any style to it, and, given its director, one would expect that even if it had nothing else, it would have that.Grade C- "},{"Title":"Fun idea. (spoilers)","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Fans of the time traveler genre and the teen comedy might enjoy this Copola-directed comedy. Kathleen Turner plays a middle-aged newly divorced mother attending her high school Reunion. After an unexpected collapse, she wakes up in the 1960s and is teenage Peggy Sue all over again, except that she knows everything that she knew in the future. What at first seems like an incredibly awkward dream (especially if you have to repeat all of the silliness of your high school years), turns out to be much more. She solicits the help of high school brain, Richard (Barry Miller) to help find a way to get her back. In the meantime, her reunion with the past allows her to change her future. (Yeah, one of those...).Though often a hilarious comedy, it may be one well suited for older audiences, since the tackiness of both the middle-age attendees of their 1980s high school reunion and their 1960s teenage counterparts may seem cheesy to your modern teenager (which will, probably, in turn seem cheesy to future generations). But, still, the movie offers good laughs mostly from Turner. Look for a very young Sophia Copola as Peggy Sue's younger sister, in addition to many familiar and some then-unfamiliar faces (Jim Carrey) in supporting roles. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film with a relatively simple but very effective premise","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this film for the first time two or three years ago and was decidedly underwhelmed. However, as with The Dark Crystal and The Lady Vanishes, I adored it on the second viewing. Kathleen Turner is excellent in the title role, playing the world weary 43-year-old Peggy Sue who finds herself in the body of her 17-year-old self to perfection. Nicolas Cage, the nephew of the director Francis Ford Coppola, is every bit her equal as her future husband Charlie. This is a very successful example of nepotism, something for which the Coppola family is well known. In recent years, he's become almost a parody of himself and has starred in some awful films but this is one of his best ones.The film has a very strong supporting cast with the exception of Sofia Coppola, a less successful example of nepotism. What's really interesting about it is that it features three actors (Cage, Jim Carrey and Joan Allen) near the beginning of their careers who went on to bigger things in major or supporting roles and lovely cameos from three elderly actors (Leon Ames in his final film, Maureen O'Sullivan and John Carradine) at or near the end of theirs. Coincidentally, I've seen the latter three in films from the 1930s and/or 1940s in the last few weeks so it's fascinating to see them in later life.The premise of the film is relatively simple but it's extraordinarily effective, extremely relatable and timeless. We all wonder what it would be like to live our lives over again knowing what we do now and we all wish that we could see dead parents, grandparents, etc. so we can tell them how much we love them and miss them. I'd give anything to see my grandparents again. "},{"Title":"Wow, what a difference twenty five years can make!","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I was very inexperienced, as far as relationships and everything else. The movie bugged me, I did'nt appreciate it at all. But tonight watching it as someone who has now lived through much of what Peggy Sue did, I totally enjoyed the movie. The main message of this movie is to live in the present, and not to think so much about the future. Unfortunately in our current world, we tend to think about the future too much, to the point of not living in the moment ever hardly. This is why this movie resonated with me so much this time around. But I did find it irksome how old everyone looked, most of the cast were well over twenty playing teens. But their performances were pretty good. I remember really not liking Nicholas Cage for around ten years after this movie, I found his nasally falsetto voice very irritating. Now days he is one of my favorite actors. He still seems to be pretty much a regular guy and that is a quality I think a lot of the stars lose pretty quickly after a certain amount of time at the top. "}{"Title":"Very cool movie","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A very cool movie, though a bit slow in places, both for guys & dolls; another movie worth a look. Nicolas Cage was wrongly cast as the hunk interest, he looks & sings for all the world like an American Idol filler-act. Other than this the movie is very enjoyable to watch on ones own, with that special partner or even a girls-night in.One of a number of time-travel movies PSGM leaves the primary character initially confused with being aware of both the past, in which they are now living, & the future they have apparently left; 13 Going On 30 is a much better example scoring a perfect 10.PSGM holds together well for an old movie & should form part of your DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Charming, but.....","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a delightful, wistful film about someone having the chance to change their past. Kathleen Turner is excellent in the lead role, playing giggly drunk at seeing her father's new Edsel, and crying at the sound of her dead grandmother's voice. Unfortunately, the film has flaws. Nicolas Cage's portrayal of Charlie is a classic example of overacting, only outdone by the short appearance of an actor playing a friend of Peggy's grandfather, a fellow member of a secret society (like the Masons are portrayed in the UK). This actor's Welcome Peggy Sue speech is short, but grating. I also suspect that some editing was a bit of a hatchet job. All through we hear about Peggy Sue's TWO children, Scott and Beth. Yes, we see Helen Hunt as Beth, but the role of Scott ended up on the cutting room floor (if Scott was irrelevant, or the actor so bad, the story should have been re-written with Peggy Sue only having the daughter). This may seem like unfair carping, but what is a very enjoyable film could have been far better with a bit more thought. "},{"Title":"If I knew then, what I know now...","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If given the chance to go back in time, would you do anything differently? There are many books and films that deal with this question. The most popular of course is the 'Back to the Future' series. At first glance, 'Peggy Sue' might seem like a knock-off, but this is not the case at all. Whereas 'Back' involved a teenager seeing his parents at his age, Coppola's film has the main character enter her teenage body. What transpires is a thoughtful and heartfelt film about love, acceptance and second chances.Pros Great performances. Beautifully scored. Steady direction. Thought provoking story. Often funny. Fabulous costume and production designs. At times moving. Well paced.Cons Some unresolved threads. Ending seems rushed.Final thoughts 'Peggy Sue Got Married' could have easily been sappy and forgettable. Fortunately, it was made by people who wanted to give viewers more than pure sentiment. There are plenty of layers to the characters and story. One moment it'll have you laughing, the next weeping. Be there, or be square.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Charming, insightful and heart-warming coming(back)-to-age story ...","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" After I could transfer them to DVD format, all my childhood films were finally available, and what a night I spent two days ago, I laugh, I cried and I meditated. I showed my family to my wife, the way it was and the way I was. But the film was slowly filling my heart with melancholy especially the sight of my parents. I couldn't believe how young, how baby-faced they were &#x85; and seeing myself so little, so innocent, so full of premises, I couldn't help but focus on all the stuff I would have made if only I knew how tough life would be, If only I knew.But no one ever knows. At least we all deal with the same rules, and maybe that's what makes life worth living, but imagine just for once, if we could. Haven't you ever wondered what if you could get back to the past, and provide one piece of advice or two to yourself? Or haven't you simply wished to travel back to time if only to speak a last time to the people who left you? Francis Ford Coppola's Peggy Sue Got Married is a sweet and tender fantasy film that explores all these thrilling possibilities. Indeed, that's the kind of delightful plot lines no one could possibly resist because it carries many premises on both comedic and dramatic level.I suspect the idea grew in the mind of a clever screenwriter with all these 'what if' interrogations. And although it is probably inspired by the high school/ nostalgia/ coming to age wave characterized by the success of Back to the Future and Howard Hughes' teenage films of the 80's, the film borrows also some elements to a very defining movie of Francis Ford Coppola's generation, American Graffiti. It's set in 1960, it has cars and rock'n'roll and it encapsulates the youthful innocence of the pre-Vietnam, pre-Kennedy years. No wonder, both Roger Ebert and Gene Siskel made it in their Top 10 lists, they loved American Graffitti, they loved It's a Wonderful Life, how can't they love a film that borrows crucial plot elements to both, and still remain original.And Kathleen Turner is the Capraesque heroine; she plays Peggy Sue with a wonderful mix of childish enthusiasm and adult poignancy. The performance, rightfully Oscar-nominated, is so endearing that any consideration about her looks as a teenager are pointless. Peggy Sue is a woman in her 40's, with two grown-up kids, divorcing from her high school love Charlie (Nicolas Cage). She's victim of an emotional strike that causes her to faint during the 25th celebration of her high school promotion, and suddenly, she wakes up in 1960. She's still the same Peggy Sue but trapped in her teenage body, at a time where everything is possible &#x85; again. Is it a dream, a parallel universe, a time loop or a life-changing experience? The film leaves many questions unanswered because it needs to keep a focus on the essential the relationships. In her mind, she's either dead or dreaming, so she tries to live this 'resurrection' to the fullest, starting with her family she's thrilled to see her parents or to play with Nancy, her sister. She's less enchanted though with her soon-to-be husband Charlie, wannabe singer but future TV actor. The generation gap between Peggy and Charlie inspires one of the film's most memorable moment when she disconcerts him by delivering what he calls a guy's line. Cage displays a true level of insecurity and vulnerable youth in that particular moment, he almost steals Turner's show, and on her side, she's so great that she doesn't turn her character into a sort of one-dimensional role, sometimes she's even too rude by blaming Charlie in advance for faults he hasn't committed. It's for these kinds of scene that Peggy Sue Got Married was probably designed and it had also the intelligence not to avoid the theme of death, with the heart-breaking and powerful moment when she talks to her grandmother in the phone. She knows that's an aspect of her life she can't change, and while she tries sometimes, like when she gives Charlie the lyrics of a Beatles' hit song (a reminiscence of Back to the Future's 'Johnny B. Goode'), she understands very soon that her life is her story, she had kids with Charlie and she misses them. My father often wondered what if he didn't do this or that, I generally suggest him not to ask such questions because maybe if he had succeeded, I wouldn't have existed, and my brothers wouldn't. I guess the wisdom is still to resign to what we have done, to conjugate our lives in the future and not turn it into a bunch of 'would'. It's hard to deal with, but we have no choice, and maybe it's better that we can't, imagine Peggy Sue's spell in the hands of malevolent people. Peggy Sue Got Married handles its material with relative intelligence and tenderness. Yet the movie is not without flaws and this comes from a fan of Coppola, some casting choices are much debatable, notably those guided by his fatherly instinct, and a bunch of jokes fall flat. Yes, there is a reason why the film isn't as highly regarded as Back to the Future or Groundhog Day I guess if it weren't for Kathleen Turner's extraordinary performance, it would have been easily forgotten. But well, if there is one thing we learn from the film it's that what is done is done and we should deal with it and consider the essential, the heart and the message. On that level, Peggy Sue is still a charming and heart-warming coming(back)-to-age story conveying an irresistible bittersweet feeling. "},{"Title":"THE YEAHS TO OOHS WAS TOO Hilarious.","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I rather enjoyed this movie seeing two later to be famous actors named Nicholas Cage and Jim Carrey. This is a comedic reflection of what it might be like to return to high school after twenty-five years. With a brilliant performance by the beautiful Kathleen Turner, a total babe. The movie started a little slowly, but quickly picked up the pace. The irony of the movie is when Peggy Sue decided after the going back into her past that she should not have ever married her high school sweetheart (Cage). Which seems to be pretty good advice these days. The tension between the two main characters was at times pathetic and pulling. There were times when I wanted to just yell and say quit your bloody whining you stupid git to Cage's character. My favourite part of the movie is where Katheleen Turner's character Peggy Sue, who travel back into her past gives to Cage's character the lyrics to acclaimed song She Love You by the Beatles whereby he chooses to change the Yeahs to Oohs is too hilarious. That's like changing the Rolling Stones song lyric Jumpin' Jack Flash to really passed some gas. From Liverpool I rated this movie an eight because it is a fun movie whilst eating ice cream. "},{"Title":"I absolutely love the movie.","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It makes you reflect on what and how you would do things over. For instance, when she sees a different side of Michael that she didn't see before. How many people like that would you go back and try and get to know. Peggy Sue is so much more appreciative of her mother when she goes back and the scenes about her grandparents were quite powerful. The film gives you the freedom to think of what you did wrong and then allows you to think about how you'd correct that. During the movie you seem to see almost all your friends and acquaintances. I found myself saying several times, oh that's so and so and there's my best friend and also there's the weirdo kid.I'd like to know if anyone knows the strictly instrumental theme song played throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie-it suspends time until the credits roll!","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my top 10 movies of all-it suspends time until the credits roll! Kathleen Turner is very believable as the 30-something who goes back in time during a near-death experience and sees the cause and effect of what her actions would be in the future!I know someone complained about the voice Nicolas Cage used in the film-but it works!  Charlie never grows up until he almost loses Peggy Sue!I cry almost every time I see this movie-I wish I had five minutes of the time Peggy Sue had to change the losses in my life-but if we can't have that-at least we have these wonderful images! "},{"Title":"More 1986 than 1960","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It is curious to note from the perspective of 2003 how this movie continues to draw attention to 1960 rather than to the time of its production, 1986. The fact that relatively few persons have offered that thought here, and that the overall rating is rather low in spite of generally good reviews, is also remarkable.Actually, the very good production values and strong performances (young Cage to the contrary notwithstanding) merit better results in viewer ratings, particularly since many of the comments offer hints that the nostalgia factor overcomes defects in plot, credibility, or editing. This is not Coppola at his best, but neither is it one of his clinkers.As someone who was there at the time and place, and at the right age, I too appreciate revisiting 1960.  But it is unnerving that this film looks at 1960 very much through the prism of 1986, when everyone of my generation seems to have been going through a mid-life crisis.  That -- and not any of the anachronisms in the story line -- is what bothers me most.  As for 1960, the film American Graffiti gets it right, as this one does not.Contrary to what some viewers belonging to a later generation seem to believe, we may have been ignorant in 1960 of what the future actually held, but neither were we naive stereotypes clueless as to the enormous potential of future developments in technology and popular culture.  The fact that so many of us grew up to become the vapid neo-con morons of the 80's and later in no way suggests that Peggy Sue and Charlie were victims of some overarching cultural deficiency in 1960.  What it does suggest is that real events -- especially after 1963 -- warped our sense of reality.So it was nurture (or lack thereof) and not nature after all.  "},{"Title":"Handles time travel movie in a very compelling and emotional way","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There's something about Peggy Sue Got Married that really stuck with me. It's like when the premise and way the movie was made is written on paper, you think There's no way this is going to work but then it does. I was really surprised with how much this picture affected me emotionally.Kathleen Turner plays Peggy Sue Bodell, who is attending her 25-year high school reunion with her daughter Beth (Helen Hunt). Peggy Sue married right out of high school but now she and her husband, Charlie (Nicolas Cage) have separated. It's awkward enough answering the same questions over and over to the people that haven't seen you in decades but then her husband shows up and things go from bad to worse. She is nevertheless named Prom Queen and accepts the award, but when on stage, she faints. When she wakes up, she discovers that it's once again the spring of 1960. With her memories of the future, she tries to alter her past for the better. The film follows her as she rediscovers who she was at the time and tries to find a way to return to the present.There's something about this movie that really hits home. Travelling back in time and altering the past is a desire that in a way, everyone has. Sure people tell you that they wouldn't go back and fix their past mistakes because those mistakes made them who they are but come on, we all know the day you wake up in your high-schooler's body, the first thing you're doing is buying Baseball cards to stash away, warning people about 9/11 and meeting Elvis in person, before he gets fat. Peggy Sue seizes the opportunity to do that stuff right away, but then gets side-tracked when she realizes that this trip back in time can be a very emotional experience. With the body of a teenager and the mind of a mother, she reacts very differently to her own parents and realizes how much she missed being a teenager, or being in the same house as her mother, father and sister, or her grandparents (who have in present day been dead for some time). There's something really touching about that and it makes you think back at your own teenage years; if you could go back, who would you be nicer to, who would you appreciate more, who would you stand up to? Yes it would be awesome to return to a time where you could amass money and power, or change history for the better, but there is also something uniquely appealing about just being able to interact with the people from your own past and get a new perspective on what the world was like back then.One of my favorite moments in the film is when Peggy is talking to her then-boyfriend Charlie (Nicholas Cage). This isn't the same guy as he is years later. He's a nervous kid who is doing everything to impress her and is completely in love with the woman. He's anxious and vulnerable too. Check out the scene when Peggy, who now knows the man better than he does finds that she is once again, falling in love with him. She tries to initiate sex with him in his car, but the guy is so taken aback that he refuses and kicks her out. Isn't that what would really happen if you were confronted with someone that was 25 years older than you are, but was disguised as someone your own age? It's little moments like that that really make the movie because it doesn't feel contrived despite the outlandish premise, it feels absolutely genuine.Another element that really helps make you buy into this whole situation are the performances. With excellent costumes and makeup, we have Jim Carrey, Nicolas Cage, Joan Allen, Catherine Hicks and others playing both adults and teenagers and the effect isn't perfect, but the performances sell them. Some of the people I was watching with found that Nicolas Cage as Charlie had a pretty irritating voice when he was 18, but I found that it was very believable that he would have a goofy, nervous voice when he was younger. I'm pretty sure if I looked at any recordings of myself at that age, I would have been pretty annoying too. The actor that really needs to have the spotlight on her is Kathleen Turner, who does a fantastic job. There's almost an implication that while inside the body of her 18-year old self, her mind goes back and forth between the maturity of her older and younger self. She pulls it off not with words, but with subtle changes in her face. Any scene where Peggy Sue is interacting with her mother contains many subtle nuances and although it seems impossible, the 32-year old actress convincingly plays a teenager. It's a spectacular performance and you're an aspiring actor/actress you need to check it out and study this film so get yourself a good DVD and start wearing out that fast forward and rewind button.It might take a bit of time for you to warm up to it, but there's something really special about this film. I love any story that has to do with time travel because of the moral implications, the possibilities and the dangers that are associated with it. In this case, it made me think about traveling to the past in a whole new way. I still think I'd go back in time to stop Skynet first, but I'd certainly make a point to visit my past because of my experience watching the film. This is the kind of movie that you watch and enjoy both for the technical aspect and the story. I'm eagerly looking forward to seeing it again. (On DVD, January 28, 2014) "},{"Title":"What's your scene Miss Majorette?","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Every blockbuster has its inferior clones. Peggy Sue Got Married follows the line of 1985's massively successful Back to the Future, with its protagonist travelling back in time a few decades to a world of rock 'n' rollers and high school dances. The similarities end here though, as Peggy Sue swaps Back to the Future's action comedy basis for a sweet romantic fairytale.Kathleen Turner stars as the titular heroine reliving her own youth. She gives a strong dramatic performance, never faltering in her conviction. She emphasises overwhelming emotion of seeing her past brought to life over a sense of surprise, and the character is all the stronger for it. The only trouble is, being in her early thirties she no longer had the appearance of a teenager, but then nor does she quite come across as the knowledgeable older woman. Nicholas Cage by contrast chooses to ham it up with a silly cartoon voice, although funnily enough he does capture the essence of a dopey teenager, albeit in a daft caricature. He's also quite convincing when aged up for the 1980s scenes. Towards the end there are some lovely cameos by veteran performers Leon Ames, Margaret Sullivan and John Carradine. Ames and Sullivan are just wonderfully steady and relaxed, with Ames managing to give eye-catching presence without actually doing much. Carradine is on screen for just a few seconds but he is really memorable with that old familiar voice of his.The director is Francis Ford Coppola. Although his post-70s projects have tended to be disappointing he still has talent as a moviemaker, with the elaborate yet subtle visual compositions that are his forte. The early scenes at the school reunion look fairly random, but notice how Coppola is carefully drawing our attention to various figures who will reappear in 1960, even relatively minor ones like the one played (then-unknown) Jim Carrey. A good example of Coppola's cunning arrangements comes after Nicholas Cage comes off stage after his performance at the party. The camera is behind Kathleen Turner's back, and we back away with her as Cage advances, moving their half of the screen round beside a pillar. The shot looks very natural and unforced, but it's subtly manipulating us and making us share in Turner's slight sense of revulsion.The problem with Peggy Sue Got Married, as with most of Coppola's 1980s output, does not lie in his direction or the efforts of his cast, but in a substandard screenplay. A major fault is that no explanation is given for Turner's time travel jump. Granted, a story like this doesn't need a science answer like in Back to the Future, but even something as light-hearted as a fairy godmother would have sufficed to give things a bit of sense, and would have been a whole lot better than that corny speech about time being a burrito that you fill with memories. The basic idea of the movie is a cute one, and it's not without its emotional tugs (greatly enhanced by a tender musical score), but the story lacks the cohesion and the characters lack the depth to make it a real tearjerker. Peggy Sue Got Married may be only an indirect reworking of Back to the Future, and yet it is as mediocre and dissatisfying as any cheap rip-off. "}{"Title":"Better every time!","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is so good it's ridiculous.  I remember seeing this movie when I was a kid and enjoying but the older I get the better the movie is.  I have to give huge respect to Francis Ford Coppola for this one.  The movie is so soft (music, colors...) and so beautiful.  I have heard people talk bad about Nicolas Cage in this movie but I think he is awesome.  Cage has proven himself since this Peggy Sue with Raising Arizona, Bringing out the Dead, and especially Adaptation.  Great job all around.  Beautiful movie.  "},{"Title":"A thought provoking time travel film","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I did not see this film when it came out. I should have because it is a solidly acted and entertaining movie. Turner was great, but I have to say that Nicolas Cage's voice was kind of irritating. I let my annoyance go and thought his self-absorbed teenager act was OK. This movie had a lot of good quotes and the one I liked is--- Peggy Sue(while sneaking a drink of her father's liquor) Hell, I'm probably dead anyway.This movie asks the question what would you change if you had knowledge of the future. A solid 7/10 that might get higher on repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"Better with every viewing","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a captivating fantasy, with one of the best performances of the 80's  Kathleen Turner is a delight.Who wouldn't want to go back to his teenage years armed with knowledge of the future?  Now Peggy Sue is able to recognize the turning points in her life and, this time, she has the opportunity to make different choices.The film's one minus is Nicolas Cage's overacting.  But to his credit, there's something about his moony, goofy mugging in the Do-Wop section that sum up the era's Fabian-Avalon notion of a teen idol.  And the script is excellent at revealing the self-absorption of someone his age and sex. He never understands Peggy Sue's point of view.Production values are outstanding, with a real feeling for the period.I'll watch Peggy Sue again just to hear  Dad??  You bought an Edsel??!! "},{"Title":"A one-actress show, but what an actress!","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was a charming time-travel look at how one may revel in the past, rebuke the past, and yet maybe not change the past!I loved Turner in this movie, as I do with most of her work. Her character intensity is too much for other actors to handle (see Cage in this movie) and too little of her talent is seen anymore.As he usually does, John Barry provides a lushly-glossy melodic theme that adds to the whimsey of this movie. Any movie with one of his scores automatically jumps at least two notches on the imdb scale for me!  "},{"Title":"One of the better time travel movies","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the better time travel movies. This movie is cute, funny and has that something we can all relate to. Who wouldn't love to go back and change things when they were in high school? It's also sad in way, because she doesn't really change anything, and goes and faces the future she knows. I really like Kathleen Turner especially during the 80's, and this one is one of my favorites. I gave it a 10, knowing it's not Gone With the Wind or such, but it's just a good movie, plain and simple. "},{"Title":"Coppola writes the book on how to make a movie","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I can't understand how this amazing film is rated so low. Yes the plot seems insignificant, it's almost as if Coppola is doing a Spielberg film here, some even dared calling it Coppola's back to the future - it's not. It does take place in a small town, and has some weird fantastic plot twist at its base but that's just the superficial skin deep external features of the film. Coppola was never so masterful in his command over cinema. Have a look at the opening scene see how the camera moves - the camera movement speaks, it tells you every thing about this movie in the opening sequence with plain camera movement, it doesn't shove it down your throats but lets you see it and get it on your own. I never loved Coppola as much as I did with his three smallish movies - Rumble Fish,The Outsiders and this one which for me is the cherry on top of the icing. It's acted superbly see if you notice Helen Hunt and Jim Carrey without looking them up at the credit list. Summing it all up it's a small story of a woman unhappy about the way her life turned out - but it's done so well and it's such an example of pure cinema, every movie lover should have a look at this masterpiece -just do it with an open mind. "},{"Title":"Despite it's flaws it's still a very good film","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this recently because I saw the review Siskel and Ebert gave of the film on youtube and since those guys were always pretty much on the spot I decide to watch it, and I was pleasantly surprised.The movie revolves around Peggy Sue Bodell, a beautiful woman on the verge of divorcing from her high school sweetheart Charlie Bodell played wonderfully by Nicolas Cage, who after fainting at her high school reunion finds herself back in time to the year 1960 when she was still a senior in school.The movie works so well because Kathleen Turner is such a fantastic actress and she really channels the character of Peggy Sue. This is unlike any character she'd played before. Not sultry or sexy, but bubbly and quite funny. But the real standout here is Nicolas Cage. His unusual voice is only one of the more brilliant things about his performance. Charlie has a whiny kinda high pitched voice which tells us a lot about his character even before we get to know him. But it's not just his voice, it's the heart he gives to his character that makes us see why the beautiful and popular Peggy Sue falls for him.The film also features great performances by Catherine Hicks and Joan Allen who play Peggy's loyal friends, Carol and Maddy. And it also introduces us to newcomers like Helen Hunt and Jim Carey, who are now household names. Also outstanding performances by Barbara Harris and Don Murray as Peggy Sue's parents.The rest of the cast is also great including Sofia Coppola as Peggy Sue's little sister Nancy, it's not much, but it's way better than her trainwreck performance in the Godfather III.Great direction by Francis Ford Coppola, who usually directs more serious stuff, but still makes an enjoyable comedy. If the film has any flaws it's perhaps in the script. Though there's great dialogue some of the stuff felt forced like when Peggy Sue visits her grandparents, and her relationship with Kevin J. O'Connor's character. It sometimes felt like they were trying to cram too many things together and the end felt a bit rushed and disjointed, but apart from that it's still a very good film and a very funny and effective comedy. It's definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Peggy Sue...Change Your Destiny!","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Almost every film director has taken a strange route during their careers and end up making movies very unusual of they're used to do. Peggy Sue Got Married is one of the best examples in Francis Ford Coppola's achievement but if you look closer and examinate the story of the film you're gonna understand why he decided to make it almost if it was a retrospective look to his life and how things worked for him in terms of personal growth facing an incredible success in the 1970's and some failures in the 1980's. In 1985, during a school reunion Peggy Sue (Kathleen Turner, excellent) collapses in front of all her friends and schoolmates after being selected as queen of the prom and strangely travels in time back to the school days in the 1960's. She was queen of a similar prom back in those days when she was a very popular teenage girl, dating the also popular Charlie (Nicolas Cage). The two got married but he had an affair, she was trying to divorce him and all comes back to the reunion in 1985. Resembling Marty McFly from Back to the Future series, Peggy changes some of her attitudes towards her best friends; her boyfriend Charlie (always remembering that someday he's gonna cheat on her); her parents (trying to enjoy more time with them); the future richer guy Richard (Barry Miller) who was a nerdy and underestimated guy (she approaches him telling the truth about her time travel and all the scientific things about to come in the future); and also she's gonna make some significant changes in her destiny, and one of these things is to know better Michael Fitzsimmons (Kevin J.O'Connor) a mysterious student she had a little crush but always were afraid to get close to him.But she's still trying to get some possible answers about her relationship with Charlie in this new past, torturing herself every time she stays with him, remembering all his love for her and then how things became so unbearable to her. Peggy can change her destiny? She's gonna make the same path twice and marry with the guy who's gonna be a great husband and a father but also is going to deceive her? What about a possible future with the future millionaire? Or even with the strange and poetic Michael? Despite its fiction theme it's a very down to earth movie about the things we do in life, our decisions and the way we deal with it. It was very interesting the way the movie expressed a message about giving value to what we have, and even more, by focusing that this is our only shot, our only chance to live and we must forget little barriers and discover new things, have new friendships and don't care what other people say. Peggy realizes that changing her attitudes is a great thing but changing her destiny is little more complicated, because she can't regret at all marrying Charlie because she cared about him and about their sons (although in the first minutes we look at her with the sad (not bitter as it might look) expression that says marriage ruined my life. A possible answer for Coppola wanting to make this movie, I think, comes from his response for what was happening to his life and career when first he had one hit after another with The Godfather series and Apocalypse Now, and then noticing that he seemed to have lost his public appeal in the box-office in the following decade after some more personal movies. Just like Peggy who analyzes her good times that later would become some disappointing times and not fully understanding what happened they both know that people always has a chance to get up and make things work out right again. The result was a great movie, his biggest hit in the 1980's and the first one after Apocalypse Now. The mix between a reflectional drama and comedy is brilliant; and all the performances are great except Sofia Coppola who remembers a similar character she made in Rumble Fish (also directed by her father). Kathleen Turner was nominated for an Oscar for her excellent performance as the title role and I think it is one of her best films ever. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Lightning in a Bottle","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Directed by Francis Ford Coppola, Peggy Sue Got Married is one of those movies I saw in theaters as a teenager, and though it's a movie about time travel, it really is so much more than that. It's a movie that beautifully directed, scripted, acted, just everything about this movie is exceptional.A movie with such a great cast Kathleen Turner (Romancing the Stone, Who Framed Roger Rabbit) as Peggy Sue Bodell, Nicolas Cage as her estranged ex-husband Charlie, Catherine Hicks, Joan Allen, Jim Carrey, and Helen Hunt.The What could've been story about Peggy Sue, who always wondered what went wrong, and what could have been, when she finds herself back in the 1950s at her high school reunion. Now Peggy must come to terms with her life, and maybe find the peace of mind she'd longed for all her life. A story that hits all the right notes.This movie is so full of great lines, particularly when Peggy first finds herself back in 1960, gets drunk and exclaims to her father You bought an Edsel! and, I'm going to Liverpool to discover The Beatles. "},{"Title":"Happy Birthday Francis","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There are more obvious choices for viewing Francis Ford Coppola as a director, but this little gem is worth viewing a Kathleen Turner's best movie, in my humble opinion.For me, it is probably the ultimate fantasy (except for being the one who makes Halle Berry a happy woman). Peggy Sue (Turner) is living a crappy life and facing divorce from Charlie (Nicolas Cage), who was her high school sweetheart. She gets to travel back to her high school days with a present awareness. Seeing Charlie deal with the adult Peggy Sue is a riot. As this would be my era, I thoroughly enjoyed the trip. Can she change the future as she tries to get back? You'll have to get this yourself to find out.Jim Carrey fans will enjoy his performance in one of his early films.Coppola does a fantastic job of directing and shows why he is one of the very best. "}{"Title":"Reasonable film, but lacks real risk-taking.","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I rather took to this film, in a way. Particularly in the early sections where Turner has just been transported back. Back indeed to that staple era of American idealistic nostalgia; the 1950s... or more accurately, 1960, still effectively the 1950s in terms of culture and music, for example, but with Kennedy on the horizon.We are presented by Coppola (big time player in U.S. film, turned oddly to smaller fry since 1979...) with a view of the picket fence securities of this America nearly as tempered by nostalgia as so many other films depicting this era. A shame we don't perhaps get more of the music... doo-wop and the likes of Dion, as that stuff is sublime.Certain elements are glossed over and presented a little too easily and predictably; the 'beatnik' figure, Michael Fitzsimmons, played by Kevin J. O'Connor, is involved in some fair but overdone scenes with Turner; trying to convey the subculture with an archetype. It is almost played as comedy, which is a little smug with its 1980s hindsight (who wants that?).The acting is fairly competent overall; the problem of having the same performers playing both ages younger and older does arise. Principally with Ms. Turner's problematic central role of Peggy Sue. She does not really look 18 or 43, but in both parts pretty much the thirty she was when the film was made. There is little effort made with make-up to convey this; and there is thus a credibility problem with this rather mature 'teen' going around uncommented upon in the 1960 sequences. It may be a niggle, but it is a tangible one I feel. Kathleen Turner is very good however in portraying this difficult part; in conveying the emotions and mind set of such a person, thrust into a real _Twilight Zone_ situation. It's perhaps a shame there's not more depth given to the present-day part of the film, in able for one to get to know Peggy better. I've not seen many of Turner's films, but I gather she is one of the most impressive of 1980s leading ladies; there's certainly scope here to applaud her performance in a role that could have gone badly wrong. That brings me very nicely onto Nicolas Cage and his Charlie Boy character. Put simply; a misfiring piece of acting and conception. The part is farcically cliched; the wide-eyed, joking, common guy turned 'heart-throb' of small American towns in the mythologised, eulogized 1950s era. An air of total absurdity is added by Cage's adopting a grating, ludicrous voice; that itself should render the character a laughing stock. Turner is well and truly 'too good' for this buffoon; a teenager who is meant to be charming, folksy and endearing, yet who just plain annoys.Oh, and I didn't notice Jim Carrey at all; only found out he was in it through this site. _Peggy Sue Got Married_ is a very pleasant little film, but it is too little, one can't but help feel. The potential was there with this scenario to make a magnificent film, yet the 'fairly good' quality is settled for. Tricks are missed, gags are passed up... too much time focusing on that bloody Charlie character. Something more radical, with Turner really deciding to change her destiny would have interested me more. One hell of a dark film could have been made with the implications of this plot - time travel is so ill-served by films, generally. It's a shame Turner is never really tested and prone to major dramatic or comic conflict in the film. There are moments and scenes that are well thought of in this way - some of the stuff with the 'lovable nerd' type played by Barry Miller, the odd bit of Turner cheating with her foreknowledge of events - but really not enough stuff central to the film. Having the farcical (but not entirely played as such) scenes of the time travel 'lodge' end up in absurd failure and then black comedy, as Turner realises she is stuck in the time, to live out her life again, would have been *far better*.As I say, this film missed numerous tricks. But indeed as failures go, it is a very passable viewing experience, besides the cringeworthy nature of Cage. It is good to watch a mainstream film that has a non-usual plot (well, post-_Back to the Future_) and genre. Yet, the genre is too subordinated to the earnestly romantic comedic (I use that word very loosely). This film could do with less of the traditional and more of the surprising. _Peggy Sue_ is enjoyable, if predictable viewing, that leaves one in mind of its missed chances and yet there one is given to a lingering favourable impression of the thing.Rating- *** 1/2/***** "},{"Title":"Still a Favorite after many years","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie on WE today, and I have to say it's still a favorite after many years.  In retrospect, I think this was the best time travel movie (several others came out about the same time...Back to the Future Big, etc) of the time.  It doesn't rely on special effects, it's driven by the characters.  Kathleen Turner is a favorite of mine, and her performance is the center of the movie.  Also, Nicolas Cage is awesome, as usual. "},{"Title":"I really disliked it.","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Francis Ford Coppola has been one of my favorites. He has crafted a number of spectacular movies, but this is not one of them. Turner is dull in the lead performance and the story has nothing new to do or say. It does not even find a way to recycle the clichés. It ends up uncreative and dull. The supporting performances are just as bad, lots of campy acting. Never has a Coppola movie ever been so boring or so stale in its conveying of plot elements. It tries to be likable but ultimately falls flat on its face. do yourself a favor and watch any other Coppola movie- even Jack over this one. Sofia Coppola is just as miscast as she would later be in The Godfather Part III. "},{"Title":"Funnier to watch the cast than the story...","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Recap Its the 25 year reunion from high school. Peggy Sue is about to divorce her high school sweetheart Charlie Bodell. But at the reunion she faints and suddenly wakes up in high school, but with all the memories from her life. With this knowledge, she is given a second chance to guide her life in another direction.Comments Now, twenty years after its release, its kind of like watching a reunion of sorts with stars like Kathleen Turner, Nicholas Cage, Jim Carrey, Joan Allen, Helen Hunt and Sofia Coppola in early roles. And although it is a fairly sweet and cute romantic comedy, it is this flashback that entertains me most. Cage and Carrey are barely more than kids, very different but also very much resembling themselves today. In fact, it is funny to see the reunion when all the young actors been dressed and wearing make-up to look old.In itself, the movie is just average. Sweet and cute, sure, but nothing extraordinary. A few smiles is all it produces. Mostly it focuses on relationships and the choices Peggy Sue has to make, and it does not make good comedy. Romantic? Nah, not really either. In all it is pretty average, and so it gets an average rating from me.5/10 "},{"Title":"Must see for Coppola fans!","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" From the same mind that brought audiences the Godfather trilogy, Apocalypse Now, and Tucker The Man and His Dream, comes the stylistically similar Francis Ford Coppola film, Peggy Sue Got Married. Telling the story of a woman on the edge, Peggy Sue, and her high school reunion, Peggy Sue Got Married proves a nice time portal for all of us to walk through and meet our former selves. Not many things bring back such pure unrelenting nostalgia like one's senior year of high school. The transformative stage in which we are discovering who we are and who we want to become is purely illustrated in this Coppola film.Dreading going to her 25th reunion occurring in the midst of her separation from her high school sweetheart due to infidelity, Peggy Sue (Kathleen Turner) dons a dress reminiscent of the type of dress she would have worn all those years ago. Returning to the reunion as only half of the class couple proved daunting for Peggy. After wading through the subtleties, a few of her former friends asked outright about her absent husband, Charlie Bodell (Nicolas Cage). Depressed, and somewhat longing, Peggy goes through the proceedings of the reunion. After catching up with her well-intentioned former best friends, Catherine Hicks (Carol Heath) and Rosalie Testa (Lucinda Jenney), Peggy remains disconnected and starts to question all that didn't happen in her life. After being named class queen; Peggy succumbs to her doubts, faints, and awakes in her senior year in 1960, with the chance to do differently everything she wished she could.Peggy Sue Got Married proved to be a much more emotionally raw film than I ever expected. The nostalgia presented hits on a level any audience member can relate to and feel deeply. Coppola does an exceptional job shooting scenes in which Peggy stands out in her high school days, as she well should having the mentality of a 42- year- old woman. I felt that was this film's greatest strength. Not much was done to Kathleen Turner to make her look more like a teenager when she went back in time. The point of the film, however, is that Peggy goes back to a time in life in which we live in the moment only, with the feeling that what is going on at that point is the most important thing in the world and will shape the rest of our lives. Peggy, however, comes to this time with an extra 25 years of experience and foresight. She noticeably sticks out in the crowd because she is different from the crowd. She learns the lesson, which even she needed to learn, the choices you make in high school do not have to define your life. "},{"Title":"Great idea. Kathleen Turner is excellent. Nicholas (Coppola) Cage RUINED IT!!!","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of those movies where you know the script was AWESOME. The title character/actress knocked it out of the park. The rest of the cast/crew was spectacular... And then because of Hollywood nepotism at it's absolute worst, they add a HISTORICALLY POOR DECISION at the other key cog to the movie. Honestly, what was Coppola/Cage thinking??? Kathleen Turner, although 32 at the time, was fabulous as Peggy Sue. She morphed perfectly between the two ages in the story. She had the prototypical high cheekbones and energy needed for the 1960s time-line, as well as the world-weary look of middle-age. It's easy to see why she was the homecoming queen - twice. And her laugh at her dad's Edsel -- priceless!!! She was brilliant. The rest of the cast (with the glaring exception of Cage) was also spot-on with their characters. It was fun, light, nostalgic, intelligent, whimsical, romantic... and then THAT VOICE ruined it all.Seriously, what a disaster for the rest of the ensemble. Uncle Francis Ford Coppola should be truly ashamed of himself for allowing such a juvenile, grating, fingers-on-the-chalkboard voice to be part of this ethereally classic story. Casting your (underwhelming and overacting) nephew as the choice male lead is one thing - this is btw a full decade before Leaving Las Vegas when he actually COULD act. But then to bully EVERYONE into accepting and acting around that Pokey voice???... OMG, talk about arrogance and no touch in reality. Your AUDIENCE has to hear that?!?!? I'll admit I'm not a Nicholas Cage fan, but he literally ruined every, single scene he was in. Unwatchable. He alone is the reason I've dropped my rating of this 8.5 movie down to a 6. I'd go lower except the rest of the movie is worth a higher rating.The movie is fine. Would have been an easy 8.5-bordering on 9 with one, VERY key character having been re-cast with a capable (re ANYBODY ELSE!!!) actor playing the male lead. Kathleen Turner is perfect. The setting was perfect. The story was near-perfect. It was an excellent effort everywhere else.Nicholas (Coppola) Cage should never again be allowed that sort of carte-blanche on a set. He not only completely missed the point of the character for his own ego, he ruined a fabulous movie with his heavy-handedness. Shame on him. Shame on Francis Ford Coppola. And special kudos to each and every cast member who put up with Hollywood nepotism at it's absolute worst.Enjoy the movie. It is worth watching. The only tip I would give Watch with the subtitles ON. EVERY TIME Nicholas Cage appears on screen, MUTE your television. You will thank me tomorrow. Well done, Kathleen Turner and company. I'm thankful for your efforts -- and patience. -) "},{"Title":"Who was the first (tv)","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" So, in 1985, there were 2 time travel movies back to the sixties. Sure i could play the game of similarities / differences between this movie and « back to the future » but i think it would be more important to know who was the first to have this idea between Coppola or Gale / Zemekicks ? This first one had really discovered a big gold nugget but if it was Coppola, he doesn't get rich with it because his Peggy is very disappointing  Turner doesn't look like a teen and thus, she is a disaster for the part. As soon as this main casting is flawed, the whole movie is put on wrong tracks. Next her adventure is depressive, too adult oriented. Cage looks totally ridiculous except when he sings. Finally, except the wardrobe, the props and the sets, there is not a lot of fun here. "},{"Title":"Would you change anything?","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Peggy Sue Bodell attends her 25 year high school reunion, only to collapse and be transported back to 1960, her senior year. The more she wants to change things, the more she discovers that she makes the same choices as she did before, with a few adjustments. Although she starts by wishing she was a free spirit, and the desire to run away with the local bad boy, she discovers he wants to be a polygamist writer whose wives would take care of chickens for their income. This is at odds with her personal values and she realizes that she is not what she thought she was. There is more self-discovery in this movie than there is learning about those around her, but she does pick up some lessons from them along the way.A side note I noticed on one review that I read someone was using the scene with Peggy's mother having her jewelry appraised to indicate that she was becoming an independent woman in the early days of the women's movement. I interpreted it that Peggy's parents were dealing with the same problem that led to Peggy and Charlie's problems, which she says herself - house payments! Her father owns a hat shop, a business which is surely on the decline at this time, foreshadowing family financial catastrophe in the years ahead. Did anyone else think this, or was there something else going on in your opinion? "},{"Title":"A superb film with an excellent performance by Turner, BUT....","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I agree with many of the comments about the worthiness of this film, with one caveat. Turner is spectacularly believable as a 17yr old and as an adult; the performance is subtle and a delight to watch. Evidently she and Coppola connected because he extracted what I consider an Academy Award performance. The scenes where she is seeing her family again as a teenager is singularly powerful. Luckily I was sitting in a theatre with only two other people quite away from where I was seated so I wasn't too terribly embarrassed at the emotional reaction it evoked. Oh, the other amazing thing about Turner is that she was able to stay in perfect character while having to deliver lines next to Nicholas Cage who evidently was out of his mind during the filming of this wonderful picture.Although reminiscent of OUR TOWN; the tone of the film, on the other hand is much more upbeat than the very dark feeling of the play. PEGGY SUE has some very welcome comedic relief, but I wouldn't characterize the play as a comedy as has been marketed.But now here comes the caveat. Nicholas Cage. What could Coppola possibly been thinking to go along with Cage's bizarre, totally unbelievable characterization? What could Cage possibly been thinking to come up with vocalizations and facial contortions that were weird to the point of distraction and as far as I am concerned, totally ruined ever scene he was in. What, were he and Coppola on freaking crack? I have revisited this film over the years, once in a theatre and a few times on DVD, trying to see if perhaps I just wasn't getting it or in the right mood, but no, Cage's performance is simply as awful a performance as I've ever seen and it gets worse every time I see it. Now it takes a Herculean effort of the mind for me be able to watch this film because I have to force myself to simply ignore his character whenever he is on screen. If only someone could rotoscope him out of the film entirely or at the very least, overdub his ridiculous vocal caricature.That said, I still recommend the film to any and all who don't mind being moved to tears by a beautiful story and a superb performance by Kathleen Turner.Oh, BTW, I vow I will NOT go to see WORLD TRADE CENTER, as much as I want to, solely because Cage is in it. "},{"Title":"time is on her side...and Jim Carrey's","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Peggy Sue Got Married is nothing special by any stretch. It portrays unfulfilled 1980s housewife Peggy Sue Bodell (Kathleen Turner) going to her high school reunion. While there, she passes out and wakes up in her high school days. Now she has a chance to do everything differently - possibly even choosing not to marry Charlie (Nicolas Cage) - but will she do things differently? For the most, this seems like your average time travel story, but there is actually a difference here. For starters, it's more like Peggy Sue gets transposed to the former era, rather than travels there. Also, it's neat when she arrives in the former era and Jim Carrey is present (uh, does that count for anything?).Anyway, PSGM is an OK way to pass time, if nothing else. Not the sort of movie that we usually expect from Francis Ford Coppola (the brains behind the Godfather trilogy and Apocalypse Now), but acceptable. Also starring Catherine Hicks, Joan Allen, Lucinda Jenney, Barbara Harris, Don Murray, Sofia Coppola, Maureen O'Sullivan and Leon Ames (yes, the Mister Ed neighbor). "}{"Title":"Well worth a second look","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was 14 when I saw this in the theatre. I thought it was just another Back to the Future rip- off. Well I was at the rental store and decided to pick it up and watch it again. I am glad I did. This movie was very compelling and really a touching would-be classic.There were so many scenes that went right over my head in 1986. But as a gay man now in my 30s, and who recently went through a divorce of sort with my high school love, this movie was heartbreaking. The scene in the basement where Peggy Sue is trying to let him go, and pleading with him to give up his silly youthful dreams just had me in tears. That scene was electric, and Turner was perfection. To be able to go back to a sheltered world like high school with all the experience and knowledge of an adult in order to make better choices is something I would do without hesitation if I could. There are some not so good points. Nicholas Cage was awful sad to say, but I was able to look past his performance. The seance at the end was unnecessary too. Overall I'd highly recommend this to anyone who has ever looked back and wondered what might have been if they made a few choices differently.  "},{"Title":"Like a fine wine?","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Felt a need to write a review of this film because it keeps drawing me in to watch it... over and over again. I don't know whether the film improves with each viewing or it's simply a case of in the land of the blind..., it's refreshing to see competent filmmaking. I also dearly love the decidedly determinist bent the film takes. Our choices really aren't our own... even when we already know the results. Cage gets less grating with each viewing and I wonder who else could have pulled this role off? "},{"Title":"A Time Travel Fantasy with no Pay off","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Kathleen Turner's performance in the title role is the primary selling point of 1986's Peggy Sue Got Married, a somewhat charming comic fantasy that I have to constantly remind myself was actually directed by Francis Ford Coppola.Turner plays Peggy Sue Bodell, a divorced mother of a daughter (Helen Hunt) who goes to her high school reunion and shortly after being crowned reunion queen, faints, bumps her head, and when she wakes up, Peggy Sue is back in her senior year in high school.Unlike similar time-travel stories like the Back to the Future trilogy, instead of making sure the past happens the way it supposed to be, Peggy Sue decides to run with this opportunity, utilizing what she knows about the future in order to change it, her primary focus being the re- thinking of her relationship with her ex, Charlie Bodell (Nicolas Cage), which began in high school but Peggy Sue finds getting people behind her knowledge of the future is a lot more difficult than she imagined.The film is entertaining for the most part and provides some light laughs, but the whole thing just has an emptiness to it that doesn't sustain the length of the film. The screenplay is very talky and makes the lead character come off as kind of a smart-ass, which is a real detriment to the proceedings. We're supposed to be behind Peggy Sue but the screenplay is fighting her all the way.Kathleen Turner works hard in the title role and actually received her only Oscar nomination for Outstanding Lead Actress, though I think she has definitely done better work. Nicolas Cage turns in one of his worst performances as Charlie Bodell, using a high squeaky voice that just grates on the nerves. I don't know why Uncle Francis allowed him to get away with this. The rest of the cast is solid though, especially Don Murray and Barbara Harris as Peggy's parents and Barry Miller as Richard Novick, the school nerd who actually believes what Peggy Sue is trying to sell. Future stars Jim Carrey and Joan Allen can be spotted in small supporting roles and that's future Oscar-nominated director Sofia Coppola, the director's daughter, playing Peggy Sue's little sister.The film provides some entertainment value, but the whole thing just seems pointless because Peggy Sue's journey doesn't really change anything. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Movies of All Time","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film is so well thought out and touching, it is one of my favorite films ever and I watch it any time I find it on TV. I am not one to watch things repeatedly so that says a lot. I think one of the things that makes it so special is the heartfelt acting by Kathleen Turner. Being able to go back and experience all the things you take for granted as a teen only from the mindset of an adult changes everything. Who among us hasn't wished we could do things differently? appreciate our parents when they were younger, spend more time with now lost loved ones, remember why we fell in love with the person we have been with so long we sometimes forget who they used to be? Remembering what it felt like, our innocence, our idealistic view of the world, all the dreams we had for ourselves and our future. So many parts are sentimental and make you tear up, and yet it still has just the right balance of comedy, seeing how silly we really were and how dumb so many things we worried about were when we were kids. Looking back, I realize there are so many things I would like to have done differently, I wonder if it would have changed anything, and Peggy Sue gets to do that. Imagine reliving your high school time with the wisdom and knowledge you have now. I think anyone over 30 can find plenty to relate to while watching this but I find that the older I get, the better this movie gets. This movie makes you think about how you lived your life and maybe, it will also make you think about how to live the rest of your life. I just love this movie on so many levels. "},{"Title":"I thought it was good...","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" First things first, I do not think it is Francis Ford-Coppola's best film, but it is not his worst either. Peggy Sue Got Married is a flawed but very likable film, that I feel doesn't deserve the back lash it gets. There may be some weak spots in the script, Coppola occasionally overdoes it with his direction and the pace sags in the middle. But what makes the film watchable is the lovely cinematography, memorable soundtrack, engaging story, a nice mix between the funny and sympathetic and the acting. I know that Nicolas Cage's performance has been slated here, but actually, I didn't think he was that bad. Irritating at first, but I think that is more the fault of his character, but he is quite likable at the end. Jim Carrey also appeals in an early role. But it is Kathaleen Turner's movie. Enigmatic, charming, beautiful and funny, she is wonderful in the lead. All in all, far from a masterpiece but it doesn't deserve burying. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Turner and Cage in Two Different Generations","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" POSSIBLE SPOILERS; Peggy Sue (KathleenTurner) is the 40-some year old mother of two who is about to divorce Charlie (Nicholas Cage), her high school sweetheart, when she attends her high school reunion at which she collapses, awakening in bed at her parents' house, still in high school. Remembering her future, Peggy Sue sets out to prevent repetition of her mistake by destroying her romantic relationship with Charlie. She doesn't succeed, however, and comes to in her hospital room in real time to find that Charlie is there, really concerned about her health, and their love is restored. This romantic comedy has enough romance and enough comedy to fulfill the requirements of the genre, but what chiefly interested me is that this may be Ms. Turner's best known movie after Heat, Though she's more convincing as a 40 year old mom than as a teenager, she shows more acting ability than she displayed in other films and one wonders what might have happened if she hadn't been typecast as a sexpot because of Heat and allowed instead to develop in other directions, including comedic. Nicholas Cage, incidentally, is more convincing as a high school kid than as the husband, but that didn't interest me much. His talents, while limited, are not in dispute. "},{"Title":"entertaining despite the obvious flaws","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" At her 25th High School reunion, former Prom Queen Kathleen Turner ponders the same question we all ask at a certain age if I knew then what I know now, what would I do different? But unlike the rest of us she gets the chance to change her destiny when a fainting spell sends her back to the year 1960, where she is reunited with the past while retaining a full memory of her future, which will include a failed marriage to her High School sweetheart. It might draw unfair comparisons to 'Back to the Future', but this is no dumb farce; it's a sentimental and sometimes touching comic drama about the powerful attraction of nostalgia. The script includes the usual comic anachronisms of all time-travel plots, and ignores the familiar paradoxes (why doesn't Peggy Sue remember as an adult at the beginning of the film the second adolescence she is soon to experience?). A confusing climax further stretches credibility way beyond the breaking point, but even with these few, nagging drawbacks and dubious central casting (Kathleen Turner looks too old for a teenager; husband Nicholas Cage is too young to be convincingly middle-aged) the film still marked a welcome return to Earth for director Francis Ford Coppola. "},{"Title":"And Peggy Sue Got Married...","Date":"26 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Peggy Sue Got Married is nominally a time travel story about Peggy Sue, a woman on the verge of divorce to her high school sweetheart. She passes out at her 25th high school reunion shortly after commenting that if she knew then, what she knows now, she would have done a lot of things differently, starting with not getting married. She wakes up back in 1960 during her senior year of high school, armed with the knowledge of future events and a determination to change her destiny. Over the course of the film, she finds out that things aren't quite as easy as that.What makes this movie is Kathleen Turner. Her performance as Peggy Sue is excellent and moving. She takes what could have been a very sappy story and makes it endearing. You can see why she was nominated for an Oscar.The supporting actors also do a wonderful job, believably playing both older adults and teenagers, along with Maureen O'Sullivan and Leon Ames as Peggy's grandparents, and Barbara Harris as Peggy's mother. The one weak link in the movie may be Nicholas Cage, who gives a competent performance, but nearly takes down the movie with the almost falsetto voice he chose to use as Charlie. Otherwise, you have a wonderful movie, as well as a nice trip back to a believably recreated 1960. "},{"Title":"Being young is just as confusing as being old.","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It is a classic theme and a very used situation in the movies time traveling. Yet it has never been so poignant, so refreshing than it is in Peggy Sue Got Married, a classic high school movie from the great American director Francis Ford Coppola.What Coppola does here is put a spin on the classic Frank Capra-type story of using nostalgia and the past to bring deep emotions and feelings to the surface. Unlike Back to the Future, there is no explanation for why Peggy Sue travels back in time, she just does and we follow along because we want to see what will happen. Another great element Coppola must have added was to have Kathleen Turner play Peggy Sue as an adult even when she is a teenager. It is not necessary for her to look young, only act young because this is told from her point of view and she knows what she looks like in the future but everyone around her sees her as she did in 1960.The acting here really brings everything in balance. Turner is remarkable, going against her usual sultry-type femme fatale to be a bright, independent and lovable girl who gets a rare chance to try it all over again and indeed does do some things she didn't before including making time for the people she loved most. With her for many humorous and touching scenes is a very young Nicolas Cage, showing here that he was destined to become one of the very best actors of his generation. He has a strange voice, an unusual walk and goofy hair. But he is tender and sweet; everything a good teenager should be and we feel for him and everything he does. There is also a young Jim Carrey here and a young Helen Hunt, proving Coppola has always had an eye for talent.As I think back to this movie, I smile. That is the basic plot and premise of this movie; to make you happy and understand the importance of every little action we do. Of course, we know that it is impossible to travel backwards or forwards in time. So, we need to be careful and play our cards carefully. For these many movies have shown us that everything we do in the past affects the future. And unlike Peggy Sue, you cannot get a do-over. But then again, you might not want to. "},{"Title":"Change Your Destiny!","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Peggy Sue Got Married doesn't belong to classics but still it's decent romantic comedy by Francis Ford Coppola. I don't know why but I love those comedies from eighties thats why I find Peggy Sue more enjoyable than many of todays comedies.Story is about in midlife woman who is gonna be divorced. She gets small heart attack in school's reunion party. Then she discovers herself back in high school. She knows how her life is going to set so she tries to change her destiny. Quite simple story but it's not played out like typical comedy. It's more like relationship drama.Kathleen Turner was stunning in her role(I think the Oscar nomination shows that as well). Also I enjoyed Nicolas Cage as officious teenager. I personally think it was one good performance by Cage. You also can see many other todays stars like Joan Allen, Helen Hunt and Jim Carrey.Good and entertaining flick. "}{"Title":"A leap back in time","Date":"2 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Peggy Sue Bodell, 43, goes to her 25-year high school reunion.He goes there with her daughter Beth for she's divorcing her high school sweetheart Charlie.At the reunion she faints and wakes up in 1960 as a 17-year old youngster.She has to wake up for school again where she meets all her old friends young and Charlie is her singing boyfriend.She wants her life to be a little bit different but keeps making the same mistakes.Francis Ford Coppola's Peggy Sue Got Married is a fascinating film from 1986.It's a slightly different time travel themed movie than, say Back to the Future with Michael J. Fox, which was made a year earlier.In this one we can't be sure whether the protagonist has actually travelled back in time or is she only dreaming.The role of Peggy Sue is played by Kathleen Turner who does a steady job.Helen Hunt is her daughter.Her best friends Carol and Maddy are played by Catherine Hicks and Joan Allen.The parents Jack and Evelyn are played by Don Murray and Barbara Harris.The legendary Maureen O'Sullivan is her grandmother and John Ames Grandpa.Nicholas Cage, the nephew of Francis Ford Coppola, plays Charlie Bodell.We also see his daughter Sofia Coppola, who later became a famous director, playing Nancy Kelcher, Peggy Sue's sister.The bullied kid Charlie Norvik is portrayed by Barry Miller.Jim Carrey is in his early role playing Walter Getz, the class clown (surprise, surprise).Kevin J. O'Connor is Michael Fitzsimmons.It's most fascinating to watch this grown-up person going back in time, trying to make things right this time.This movie has moments that are funny and moments that are touching.It's funny when Peggy uses her knowledge of the future like saying she's going to England to discover The Beatles.It's a heart-stirring moment when Peggy speaks on the phone with her grandmother, who is dead in her present time.I think we all, at least a big bunch of us would like to get the opportunity to go back and see ourselves younger again.At least for a while. "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"16 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this movie hundreds of times and it never gets old! I LOVE this movie! Kathleen Turner at her best! I fell in love with Nick Cage in 1986 when I saw this movie. I love it that now I recognize so many of the actors and actresses that where in this movie. The idea of going back in time with all of the knowledge you possess now, who couldn't identify with this movie? I first watched this movie when I was 11 now I am 30, I own the DVD and I never tire of watching it. I wish all movies could be so timeless. It makes you think,would I do things differently if I COULD GO BACK? Or would I do them just about the same because there are things or people (kids) in my life I would do it all over again for. "},{"Title":"What would you do if you went back to high school?","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I think that's the part about this movie that I liked the best. It made me wonder what I would do or say to people in my high school class if I knew what I know now? I think we'd all have a little fun.I'm really not sure why, but I did kind of enjoy this movie. It reminded me a little bit of Pleasantville and Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion. The acting? You have an A-list cast here ladies and gentlemen. Kathleen Turner, Nicolas Cage, Jim Carrey, Joan Allen, and Helen Hunt. They all did a great job and were very convincing.I think over all it was the plot that caught my interest. What would I do different? A lot of things, but I guess I'll have to wait for my faint at my 25th reunion. D 7/10 "},{"Title":"Nostalgia for hopeless romantics...","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw PSGM again this evening and to echo the sentiments of a few other reviewers, it keeps ya comin' back for more. It's like a dessert that's not too sweet, not too filling...really not too anything -- and that's why you keep yearning for more. You think the next time you have it, you might experience something new you might've missed the last time.Much ado has been made of Cage's voice as an teen, but I think it was a well orchestrated, strategic move by Coppola. Just about that point where Cage's character's annoying voice grates on you -- and you're tempted to throw the remote at the TV -- we see a glimpse of vulnerability that begs for another chance. So we give him one. Wouldn't you give a pathetic fool in love another chance...? It was his most endearing quality.Kathleen Turner...was great! True age didn't matter as much as true emotion and in Turner, I think we saw someone managing their time well. I mean think about it -- can you imagine the stimulus overload you'd feel if you were inexplicably transported back in time??? She pulled it off and she was true to character. Her character possessed enough aloofness to not be overwhelmed by her new surroundings, yet grounded enough to make sense of it all. No wonder we loved her. In fact, overall, the casting was excellent IMHO.So why is this movie so infectious that it keeps you coming back for more? Because it had us believing -- if only for a fleeting moment -- that somewhere, in some time or place, we can reconnect with a sense of lost innocence...and that true love is pure. If you watched this movie and felt a sense of yearning, now you know why.Maybe fantasy is just a reality that hasn't happened yet... "},{"Title":"Kathleen Turner turns in a great performance!","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great movie! Yes, Nicholas Cage's voice is a bit irritating, however, Kathleen Turner's performance more than makes up for it.A few posters have mentioned how KT doesn't look young enough to be a teen, and judge this as a problem. I think that this is being a bit shortsighted, afterall, Turner isn't supposed to be a teen - she is supposed to be an adult, who is reliving her teen years. As such, I think that Turner is perfect - she looks like someone who has already gone through all of that stuff, but has matured and sees it for what it is. Judging it from this perspective I found her to be completely believable in the role and indeed, thought that she turned in a wonderful performance. The scenes where she interacts with her grandparents are simply brilliant. What a cool concept - the idea that you could skip a generation (your parents) and discuss all of the insights that you've learned as an adult with your grandparents and catch them up on what they missed and how much they meant to you.  Those scenes always bring tears to my eyes - I absolutely love them.It isn't a perfect film, but then how few are? However, it is a VERY enjoyable, and well done film, with some great performances (Kathleen Turner is superb!). If you go with the story, I can't believe that you won't find it highly entertaining. "},{"Title":"A touching look at life, past and present","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie deserves more credit than it got. It is very tender and includes a number of poignant scenes, despite the erratic performance by Cage. Kathleen Turner is brilliant in her dual role of middle-aged divorcee and teen-age bobbysoxer. The interaction between Turner and her grandparents is especially warm and rewarding. "},{"Title":"Derivative fun","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a movie that has a lot of fundamental problems, but that manages to be just entertaining enough to pass for a good film. Certainly everything in the proceedings is beneath Francis Coppola's best work. It's easy to forget that he directed it at all, except that his nephew Nic Cage is all over the film.What we have here is a female version of Back 2 the Future, and its script is a basic paint by the numbers mixture of sentiment and situational humor. There are figures in the film that are analogous to all the Back 2 the Future characters -- for instance, there's a geeky student who talks science terms to lend the film vague believability like Chris Lloyd in Zemeckis' film. The device they conjure up to get Peggy Sue back to the 1980s is truly thin. In no way is this film nearly as much fun as its prominent forebear, and it piles on the sentiment as if to make up for it.Kathleen Turner is a fun actress to watch but in no way should she have been the first pick for a role like this. Physically she is not really convincing as a high school student, although I suppose you really could say the same for Nic Cage. There are some fun moments for her, like when she starts belting back drinks in response to her weird predicament. Nic Cage has more of the emotional meat of the film in his back pocket anyway.The film seems to reach a little bit for the nostalgia of Coppola's great production American Graffiti, but doesn't try hard enough. I'd like to have seem a more aesthetically impressive sock hop and to have heard more of the actual period music.Probably this was never going to be a really good film, but it's almost insulting to see Coppola attached to it just a few years after making what I feel is his best film, Rumble Fish (which also showcased Cage, though to a lesser extent). Probably he did make it a better film than it could have been in lesser hands, but it was a bad sign of things to come for the director. The film itself is enjoyable but not particularly memorable, and I can see now why I haven't bothered to rewatch it in 20 years. I could gladly wait another 20, but I wouldn't say it's a horrible film in the end. "},{"Title":"Should have been dynamite...instead it's a pallid sitcom","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Francis Coppola's strangely unaffecting, unrewarding comedy-drama with nostalgic leanings, all about a depressed wife and mother (Kathleen Turner) who suffers a breakdown at her high school reunion. She takes a trip back in time to her bobby sox days, when her father drove an Edsel and her future ill-suited husband was a crooner in a doo-wop group. Despite her obvious age, Turner is well-cast in this sentimental scrapbook, and she does very well with the transformation. Not so Nicolas Cage playing her spouse; apparently trying to come up with something eccentric in this by-the-numbers cad of a husband, Cage turns the guy into a off-putting geek (with the voice of a twelve-year old). Disastrous as he is, Cage isn't the weakest link of the picture--that would be the screenplay. Promising much more depth than it can deliver, the script takes Peggy Sue around in a circle, and the journey isn't an amusing, appealing or memorable one. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Nancy? It's Nancy?!?!","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is in my top 5 of all time. I love it. I can't stress that enough. It's beautiful and original. It is destined to become a classic.Kathleen Turner is amazing in this film, with her Academy Award nomination to proove it. She perhaps should have won the damn thing.There are so many scenes that I could choose as my favourite. I'll have to go with the scene where Peggy sees her sister Nancy for the first time. Nancy? It's Nancy?!?!So many excellent lines. After her friends drop her off home and one girl says I'll call you tonight then Peggy replies Yes, let's keep in touch.The scene where Peggy gets drunk, when she sees her mom for the first time, her grandmother on the phone, getting high with Micheal, the test scene. I could go on and on. And the score. My God this is brilliant! This is perhaps the greatest score for any movie. It captures the film and the ideas behind it perfectly.I have to buy this on DVD. I can't stop thinking about it.10/10. This is what film making should be! "},{"Title":"Attractivemusically and  in parts but globally unsatisfying !","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The strongest point of this film is undeniably its beautiful haunting theme tune which I went out and bought on cd the moment I heard it. I remember seeing this film in 1986, in Versailles and the outside temperature was -18°C. For this reason, this film is forever associated with cold. I was expecting a far better story and remain smitten with emotion when 1) Peggy Sue hears her grandma's voice on the telephone and almost faints and 2) when she actually travels to see her grandparents, towards the end of the film. These emotional moments apart, and apart from the general idea of travelling back in time which has always excited me, I found the film to be a bit of a disappointment. True, the 1960's dresses and automobiles are fun to watch. But Nicolas Cage's character is absolutely pathetic and annoyed me withing the first fifteen minutes. I don't like the actor at the best of times but in this film it was a nightmare every time I saw him appear. Unfortunate, really, as he is one of the main characters in the film. I also had a slight, though perceivable prejudice against Kathleen Turner as I always remember her as the bitter, evil-faced wife in War of the Roses. So basically none of the 2 main protagonists are my favourites and apart from that there are passages in the film which are frankly chatty and boring. I did enjoy Peggy Sue's short scenes with the scientist when she was speaking of the future but there again I got annoyed when she spent time with some freaked-out left-wing hippy who was even worse to listen to than Nicolas Cage. Only the scenes with her mum and dad provided some relief but they were rather flat, dialogue-wise, and Cage inevitably turns up to spoil things. I thought with such a brilliant idea and brilliant music, what a waste of a film. Also I cannot fathom how Peggy Sue was perceived by her family - was she seen by them as a 20 year old or a 45 year old. And if she was seen as a 20 year old, there is duplication in the time frame which means for each day in the film she lived the same day twice ! It's totally illogical and frustrating for a time travel lover like me. I have watched the film several times since 1986 and do have it on DVD, hoping that each new viewing will make me like it more but alas I always end up liking the same parts plus the music but remaining frustrated with the general body of the film. The only way out of this frustration is to imagine the whole episode as a dream ( dreams don't have to be logical ) and to scrap the time-travel thing completely. "}{"Title":"Insane Movie!!!","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is awesome! Kathleen Turner was amazing as the title character who faints and goes back in time into the early 60's. In that movie she looked really young. She really did look like she was 17 even she was 42. Nick Cage was pretty good as her husband Charlie. All I knew was he never gave up trying to win back Peggy because they were divorced. Turner deserved that Oscar nomination that year. I was mad that she didn't win it. It made people question does time travel really exist? It was really thought provoking. Also, Peggy had unresolved relationships in her life. That added a lot it. I feel that is the most important message in the movie. It made me wish that I can go back in time and bond with relatives and I do have some unresolved relationships in my life. Like, my grandmother Thelma Jean Davis. She died in '81 and I was born in '87. I always wanted to hear my grandma's voice instead of looking at her pictures. This also made me develop a huge crush on Kathleen. All I can say is, it was insane! I love you Kathleen!! "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The basic concept behind the film is very familiar, and it has certainly been done better before, but despite the predictable and obvious nature of the material, the film surprisingly manages to be pleasant enough viewing. Francis Ford Coppola and his cameramen have selected a number of interesting angles from which to shoot the film, the music soundtrack is great, and there quite a few good performances delivered by the cast, with the best bits coming from Barry Miller and Kevin J. O'Connor. Still, Nicolas Cage is an odd pick for his part. Overall, the film is not nearly as deep or original as it could be, but yet it possesses some very amusing moments. For that, it is worth checking out, as long as one does not expect a film on the same level as Coppola's best 1970s work. "},{"Title":"Sweet in places.","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Actually, I like this movie. Corny in places, maybe - but very sweet too. I especially like Peggy with her grandparents and can't watch the scene when she is visiting them without tearing up. With the life's experiences of a 40 year old adult, it's interesting and entertaining to see how she reacts to being a teenager again and back in the very early 60s. The past is the same as it was, but she is very different. Kathleen Turner is quite obviously a bit beyond where she should have been in years, herself, to make a convincing teenager but Nicholas Cage pulls it off. Ten years her junior, he is a hoot as Charlie, Peggy's boyfriend. I read the director or producer wasn't too fond of the voice he decided to use in his depiction of an 18 year old, but I liked it. He almost sounds like a teenager. He too comes across as very sweet. Perhaps a chick-flick but a movie worth watching and judging for yourself. "},{"Title":"Peggy Sue Got Married","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" From director Francis Ford Coppola (The Godfather, Apocalypse Now, Jack), I knew two of the up and coming stars of this film, so I was looking forward to seeing them well, and the film itself. Basically Peggy Sue Bodell née Kelcher (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Kathleen Turner) is now forty three year old, married and has daughter Beth (Helen Hunt), and is attending a high school reunion. In the evening she is voted the queen of the reunion, alongside king Richard Norvik (Barry Miller), being the most popular high school student, and in her excitement she faints. When she wakes up, Peggy Sue is younger and has been somehow transported twenty-years into the past, 1960, back to high school, and she has apparently woken from donating blood. After initially being very concerned that she has died and wants to get back to her own time, she tries to settle to her past surroundings and change her future. Besides helping maybe one or two of her friends with what will determine their futures, Peggy Sue's main concern is changing her future with the man who will be her husband in a miserable marriage, Charlie Bodell (Nicolas Cage, Coppola's nephew). Peggy Sue may know the future, but she at times really questions whether she should change it for herself and others, especially as she is discovering why she fell in love Charlie in the first place. After many encounters with some past events and friends, including Carol Heath (Child's Play's Catherine Hicks), Maddy Nagle (The Bourne Supremacy's Joan Allen), Walter Getz (Jim Carrey) and Nancy Kelcher (Sofia Coppola), there is a low point and argument. In the end though, Peggy Sue goes with the future she initially chose with Charlie, but in a much understanding way and aware of daughter Beth, and of course she wakes up back in 1985 where she belongs. Also starring Kevin J. O'Connor as Michael Fitzsimmons, Barbara Harris as Evelyn Kelcher, Don Murray as Jack Kelcher, Maureen O'Sullivan as Elizabeth Alvorg, Leon Ames as Barney Alvorg and The Howling's John Carradine as Leo. Turner does well as the leading character, but most of the time I was keeping an eye on the young talent of the time, especially Cage and Carrey. As for the film itself, there is a comparison to Back to the Future, released a year earlier, and the love story element has its predictable moments, but this is a likable comedy fantasy. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography and Best Costume Design, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. Good! "},{"Title":"No more Jell-O for me mom!","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Peggy Sue Got Married can be summed up in one word cute. You know that no one can ever travel back in time but you just go along with it since the movie is funny and a little dumb at times but the cuteness over powers it. Peggy Sue goes back in time and tries(?) to fix her past by telling off the loud mouth girl, sleeping with a boy she had a crush on, and figuring out where her marriage went wrong. Peggy Sue Got Married is a quirky time travel movie that is of course cute. I give it an 7. "},{"Title":"Sweet weird movie","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Peggy Sue (Kathleen Turner) is a middle age woman getting divorced from her husband Charlie Bodell (Nicolas Cage) who has a young girlfriend. They were high school sweethearts, but now she's going to the 25 year high school reunion with only her daughter Beth. She has regrets. Despite promising not to, Charlie shows up at the reunion. Peggy Sue gets selected as Reunion Queen. She faints and wakes up back in her high school days. She sees her schoolmates with new eyes, and change things for the better.The other casts include Catherine Hicks, Joan Allen, and Jim Carrey. It's an enjoyable movie from director Francis Ford Coppola. Nicolas Cage is doing a crazy wacky voice. It's also a little weird to see some of these older actors in their 30s playing teenagers. I think it's OK for Peggy Sue to be older because I see that she's mentally in her 30s. The rest really should be much closer to being teenagers. This movie is very charming with a couple of really nice laughs. "},{"Title":"Out of time","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I wanted to enjoy this time-travel fantasy a lot more than I did, being a fan of all things time and space, taking in J B Priestley's Time plays, Dr Who, Back to The Future and the recent successful BBC TV series Life On Mars. Beautifully shot with wonderful period decoration, (particularly the cars!), the engaging Kathleen Turner in the lead and Coppola at the helm, all this and it just failed to engage me as I expected.Yes, I was turned off by Nicolas Cage's goofy performance but more than that I felt the film dragged too much after its interesting set-up in the first half hour and failed to properly inject winning humour into the narrative (unlike Back To The Future, for an obvious example). There were also too many characters with too little substance, parts of the dialogue were too clunky, in fact the whole just seemed over-written to me.Turner tries her effervescent best but pairing her off with two much younger males starts seeming weird after a time, plus I think a more invigorating ending would heard served the piece better. Comparisons with BTTF aren't helped either with a replay of the college prom scenario and the same reliance on the musical abilities if one of its leads, to name but two of its shared ideas.In the end the most convincing evocation of youthful innocence which the film tries so hard to re-capture doesn't get any better than the plaintive Buddy Holly title song which gets the film underway. It's downhill from there, albeit with some mildly diverting stops along the way. "},{"Title":"Not Easy to Ruin Time Travel, but This Film Does","Date":"23 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Time travel stories, the good ones, have their own inner logic. Once you accept the idea of travel through time, you expect the story to follow certain rules. This is true in most books and movies, no matter how preposterous the mechanism that enables a person to travel through time.Among the rules of time travel stories--rules that enable us to suspend our disbelief and enjoy ourselves--are these 1)The traveler from the future doesn't casually allude to things to come when talking to people in the past without expecting to be questioned. And 2) The time traveler does not make changes in the past without expecting the future that he or she came from to be different as a result.But of course in this movie Peggy Sue does both--often. Besides trying not to marry the man she was married to in the future (thereby obliterating her future children), she reveals the secret of her time traveling to a brainy schoolmate and gives him a list of inventions to come, inventions that had never even been dreamed of, from Sony Walkmans to pantyhose.It gets worse, because while she is in the past, Peggy Sue spends much of her time worrying about romantic problems. So much for the sense of wonder that usually makes time travel stories fun.Two poor performances also make the film less enjoyable. Nicholas Cage is a garish caricature as Kathleen Turner's teenage boyfriend, as is Kevin J. O'Connor as the school hipster poet.There are some funny moments. In fact, the scene with the Edsel would have been even funnier as a sight gag, without Peggy Sue's reaction.In my opinion, it's hard to ruin a time travel story. But this movie succeeds in doing so. "},{"Title":"Time travel or a dream?","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Loved this film. Turner stole the show as she got off some catchy one liners, playing the part of a teen with an experienced mind to perfection. Very smooth and well done film with good performances by the entire cast. Captured the feel of the high school set all the way, except some of the teens looked closer to thirty. I liked Cage, but his whiney voice grated on my nerves - made me want to slap the p**s out of him. "},{"Title":"Uninspired","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" At a high school reunion, a woman gets an opportunity to travel back to her school days. The theme of time travel was tackled with far more success a couple of years earlier in Back to the Future, a film that is not great but is fun. This one is not fun. With its uninspired story and clichéd characters, it quickly runs out of steam and drags on far too long. Turner, in the midst of a fabulous first decade to start her career, is terrific, but the acting is otherwise uneven. Cage is the worst offender. He not only looks and acts goofy, but sports an annoying voice that sounds like a cartoon character. The familiar cast includes veterans O'Sullivan and Ames (his last film) as Turner's grandparents. "}{"Title":"Well meaning movie, misses the mark.","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember looking forward to the release of this film when it came out in 1986.  I thought that the premise was good, with the right director and actress in the lead.  Perhaps I looked forward to it a little too much, because in the end I was very disappointed.Much of that disappointment had to do with Nicholas Cage's performance. He was just awful.  Perhaps he was just to young (I believe he was 22 or 23 at the time). In real life his age was not too far removed from his character's in the dream sequence. Why he chose that annoying voice (it sounded as though he had a perpetual stuffed-up nose), I'll never be able to figure out. His performance here turned me off to his films for a number of years afterward.Coppola also misses big time.  While the movie has an air of nostalgia, it never really feels as though it's 1960. I think that Diner captures the feel for its period much better than this movie.  He also casts many actors that do not even come close to looking the right age for their parts, either in their younger or older versions.Kathleen Turner gives a strong performance. But because Cage is so weak, we never understand what she is attracted to in the first place, or why she would want to stay with him.Other good performances are turned in by veterans Don Murray and Barbara Harris. Joan Allen and Barry Miller give their usual strong performances as well. And Maureen O'Sullivan is simply wonderful as Peggy's grandmother.  The scene between her and Turner are the highlight of the film for me.A good idea with some good performances + a lousy Nicholas Cage = a movie that should have/could have been much better.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Would you do it all over again","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A lot of people fault Cage for his interpretation of this role, but actually his twist on a 50's teen is refreshing. Also Turner did a nice job a playing both the young and mature Peggy Sue. This movie is both funny and sad.   "},{"Title":"Okay, but flawed","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A sweet, little time travel comedy/romance. Kathleen Turner plays a woman attending her 25th high school reunion. She's embarrassed at just having divorced her high school sweetheart (Nicolas Cage), but she goes through with it anyway. While at the reunion, she faints and awakes in 1961, just before she turned 18. She has fun revisiting the time period, and decides to take things a different way, knowing that her relationship with Cage is due to fail. This film is messy as Hell. The script feels sloppy and the performances are all over the place. Nicolas Cage is at his most Nicolas Cagey - if you think he only got weird lately, well, he didn't. Turner really isn't very good at all (somehow she got an Oscar nomination - I don't get it). Everyone else is basically fine, but when your two lead performances are this bad, you can't expect the final results to be that good. Thankfully, the movie has a sweetness to it that's often endearing, even when it's not being particularly good. There are some very funny moments, too. Nicolas Cage talking about his whang (there's no h in that word, Nic) has to be one of the funniest lines I've ever heard. "},{"Title":"An Odd Coppola...","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Coppola seemed out of his element in this kind of film.Either his touch was lost, or the project was too much of a departure from his usual work, but it seems to me he injected way too much laughing gas on the set during the making of the film.I have never wanted to throw a video cassette across the room farther than I did this one, especially when Cage was on the screen. This film was made when the boy couldn't act. Turner is okay in her role, but the script has her giggle and goo-goo and ga-ga and it made me want to gag...gag some more.  "},{"Title":"What a load of rubbish.","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This was advertised in my newspaper when it came on TV the other day as being a good film. It got four stars out of five, so I was quite looking forward to it coming on. However, after seeing it, I was left very disappointed. I thought the acting was terrible (especially Nic Cage) and the plotline was farcical. I love time travel movies, but this was awful. Nothing will ever come close to 'Back To The Future'! One question? Why does Nic Cage feel that he has to put on a different strange voice with every film he makes? I saw 'Con Air' the other day and his voice annoyed me, but in this film I nearly had to switch off because of the stupid, nasaly whine he put on. "}]