[{"Title":"Great comedy adventure","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I personally love this movie. I think the interaction between Norris and Gossett is hilarious. Quite a few of the fight scenes are really funny, while still showing good action. One of the best things about this movie is that Chuck Norris isn't perfect in it. His character fights very well, the karate sequences are excellent but he can't hit the broad side of a barn with a gun, and isn't particularly bright. For those that hadn't figured it out, this is intentional. I found the imperfect Chuck to be a delightful part of this movie. I thought it was a great spoof of the treasure hunter movies. and it's tongue in cheek approach was very refreshing. "},{"Title":"Grab a beer, lay back, and enjoy this confused but very entertaining ride!","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Here I come, knight in shining armour, to rescue you, Firewalker!!I don't see why so many people gave it not only low rating but also very negative reviews. On the other hand, maybe after reading this review many people might think that I am an utterly hopeless... person (but I doubt that I am if I may say so myself ;-)I virtually love this film! I even baught it on VHS!! So there! ;-DYes it is most certainly some kind of Indiana Jones story, but hey?! How many of you out there who love the I.J. movies do not think that there are far too little such movies ever made, the true adventure stories in an undiscovered world! Next thing is that this movie is certainly not trying to be better than I.J. because it is quite clear it can never be, but what it does is open its own realm so it can co-exist with whatever you want to compare it to.Anyway, I think Norris acting is rather bad and clumsy. He plays like a frozen brick (unless its in the fighting scenes). Louie... I think he gives the movie what it deserves. But what I just did is something you shouldn't really do with this movie - look at each actor at a time. Because both actors form a greater whole than what they individually could create! They are a real acting team in some way, both are somewhat lost in the world, they don't seem to really belong in that adventure business, they should have rather stayed at home and become park rangers of the smallest parks they could find... but since they didn't all what they are, do and represent turns into some kind of comical base for the movie. What is comedy? Mostly that you find something in a place where you wouldn't expect it! That is the case with those two dorks out there in the jungle! They don't even know how to fire a pistol but they do it anyway!This movie is in a way innocent and easy going. It is not so much about having a mission and being unbeatable and hard as iron on your way to your goal. It is rather about not being sure how, but going there anyway without even really being prepared for it so to speak.No, for gods sake, don't take it seriously, just turn off your sensors and let it fill your brain with all the nonsense, the many very nice humourous scenes, the sometimes flat but charming dialog, the playfulness and the situations where the heroes are in trouble but where you know they're gonna make it eventho they are a bit stupid but they manage anyway because they just hang on and have a bit of luck (which they definatly need).This is a very easy going, fun and entertaining movie. Rip-off or not, it has it's very own style, pace, and most certainly a LOTTTT of charm!  "},{"Title":"I disagree with the  one who said Pathetic","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I actually think this movie is Norris's best effort to date. I enjoyed it. The interplay between him and Gossett was good stuff and it didn't have much of the martial arts nonsense I hate so much. I give it a 9 out of 10. I liked the story and to me, Chuck was funny. He's a far better actor than Seagal, but then, who isn't? It's kind of a pity Chuck didn't continue along the lines of this movie and went in other directions. None of which, in my opinion, were as entertaining. As a rule, I never watch any movies made by Martial arts people turned actors but I made an exception for this one and was pleasantly surprised. Not a classic by any means, but worth watching. "},{"Title":"A great Chuck Norris flick","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to say that I thought Firewalker was one of Chuck Norris's best films. I know many don't agree with me on that, especially my movie critic partner, Bryan, but truly, if you look past the cheesiness at some times, the movie was quite entertaining. It's actually one of my favorites too. I guess I could never explain thoroughly as to why I think that it's a great movie, but maybe being a Chuck Norris fan is one. The movie is no longer in print, so the only way to see it, is by renting it at a movie store. I actually got lucky enough to find a copy of it at Best Buy about 4 years ago. If you haven't yet seen it, I suggest renting it and seeing for yourself. "},{"Title":"I actually like this one.","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  No matter how bad a movie may be to most people someone is going to like it, and I like this one.  Not the greatest film ever made by a long shot, for me it has a certain charm to it.  I think Chuck Norris and Louis Gossett Jr both do great jobs and work well and complement each other.  The story has them going after a bunch of gold.  Along the way they run into many obstacles.  This movie for me has a nice combination of action and humor, and it is definitely more fun if you don't take it too seriously.  Despite the fact it is rated so low though I saw it is worth a look...but you may want to read the other reviews here first. "},{"Title":"What are the odds...","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...of running a Jeep into a huge water-hole in the middle of the desert?I don't know, but Chuck Norris did in this surprisingly funny flick.  It seems people either like it or hate it.  Granted, it's no classic, but it is funny (not hilarious) and the whole family can watch it together.  It has some pretty good gags (like our two heroes dressed up in priestly frocks) and one liners (You'll still be bald).  It's a good example of efficient 80's film making.  Don't expect a bloated CGI filled Speilberg epic.  Firewalker is just plain fun. "},{"Title":"One of Chuck's Best Performances","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Firewalker is more than a bit of a mess. Like most movies from the Cannon studio, it's not low budget enough to dip into Ed Wood land, but not well done enough to rise to a major studio production. The sets are cheap and the story is not much more than a vaguely connected series of scenes referencing better films--but I think the filmmakers were well aware of these and other shortcomings and set a self effacing, tongue in cheek tone from the start. Though as sloppy and slapdash as most of director J. Lee Thompson's other 80's efforts, Firewalker shows Thompson turning these attributes to his advantage and giving us a breezy, goofy, self-aware-yet-totally-clueless, low budget pop culture gem. I don't think anyone was under the impression that they were making the next Raiders of the Lost Ark, they just wanted to give us some old fashioned fun. I mean, an Academy Award winner costarring with CHUCK NORRIS? How could it not be great in its own way? And while we're on the subject, this is one of the few films where you couldn't call Norris Old Stone Face. In this film Chuck gives one of his liveliest, most natural performances ever--almost charming. Too bad he didn't work with Thompson more often. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable adventure","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The special effects for this one are (what can I say?) missing, but the story-line is interesting, and the cast obviously had fun making this film.The problem most viewers would have with this is that it's not a karate flick (sorry).  No, this one is an adventure comedy.  As for not being Abbott and Costello, nobody but the incomparable Bud Abbott and Lou Costello could be.  What we have here are reluctant, but trusting, partners.  This story revolves around a long-lost mythical treasure (Romancing the Stone?), guarded by a demigod with supernatural powers (Jewel of the Nile?).Take the kids and have a good time. "},{"Title":"Great Cheesy Fun,At It's Best, Chuck Norris,Louis Gossett Jr. and Melody Anderson Were All Fantastic In This!","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is great cheesy fun at it's best!, Chuck Norris,Louis Gossett Jr. and Melody Anderson were all fantastic in this!. I can't believe this only has a 4.0 rating on IMDb i found it to be a great film,with awesome characters, and a great cast, plus Norris and Gossett Jr. Had excellent chemistry together!. Yes it's somewhat of a Raiders Of The Lost Ark rip off, however it also has it's own ideas, and it has lots of funny moments, plus the ending was hilarious. The finale is pretty exciting, and it had some cool dialog, plus Chuck Norris and Louis Gossett Jr. were simply amazing in this. Critics panned this, however i don't see why, it's exciting, funny has a great cast, and great performances, just turn your brain off while viewing it!. It's very well made, and it will never bore you not 1 minute of it, plus the opening was very cool. This is great cheesy fun at it's best, Chuck Norris, Louis Gossett Jr. and Melody Anderson were all fantastic, i highly recommend this one!. The Direction is very good. J. lee Thompson does a very good job here, with great camera work, great angles, and keeping the film at an exciting pace!. The Acting is awesome!. Chuck Norris is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, hilarious, had awesome chemistry with Gossett Jr. and Anderson, and was surprisingly suited to this role! (Norris Rules!). Louis Gossett Jr.is also AMAZING as always, he is very funny, had awesome chemistry with Norris seemed to be enjoying himself, and was perfect for this part! (Gossett rules!). Melody Anderson is fantastic here, she is stunningly gorgeous funny, had good chemistry with Norris, and played her role extremely well!, where is she now?. Sonny Landham is decent as the main villain, and was somewhat menacing at times i guess. Will Sampson is good in his small role. John Rhys-Davies is also good in his small role and seemed to be having a ball. Rest of the cast are OK. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"I'm convinced that Firewalker was a pleasant comedy.","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I just got a kick out of the Firewalker movie. I enjoyed the comedy very much as well as Chuck Norris's fights. I also enjoyed the roles played by Louis Gossett, Jr. and Melody Anderson. The adventures of those three were very impressive as well as the variety of rolls played by them. I also got a kick out of the rolls played by Will Sampson as well as John Rhys-Davies. I enjoyed Chuck Norris's role in that movie much more than some of the very serious roles that he has played in many other movies. I purchased that movie on a DVD a relatively short time ago and have enjoyed it so much that I've watched it many times. I also have a couple of Chuck Norris's other movies on DVDs but did not enjoy them nearly as much as Firewalker. "}{"Title":"Excellent Adventure Film","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I thought this movie was an excellent buddy - comedy - adventure film . It may not have been a big budget movie but that does not stop you from enjoying it .Chuck Norris is excellent and hilarious he gives one of his best performances as the tough guy and loyal friend who knows how to fight as shown in the bar scene where he defeats an entire bar full of men single handedly but can't shoot straight .Louis Gossett Jr is great as his his sidekick and Melody Anderson as Chuck Norris' love interest . People may say that it is a copy cat spoof of Indiana Jones and Romancing the Stone but I disagree I think it stands alone and is just as good . I personally think that it is better than those two movies and I thought it was funnier and a lot more enjoyable . It is *****/***** "},{"Title":"Lets look for treasure!","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Max Donigan and his partner Leo Porter are two soldiers of fortune. Leo is thinking of calling it quits, but when a young lady, Patricia comes by with a map and asks for their help of finding a lost treasure. They take up the task with adventurous results and must face El Coyote, a descendant of Indian priests.What a team! Chuck Norris, Lou Gossett and Melody Anderson gave this buddy flick much-added spark with their cheerful banter and charismatic persona. Firewalker does go for that Raiders of the Lost Ark appeal, but only in small doses and in a very cheap foray. The comic book premise is outrageously silly and pure corn, but it's an eventful ride with spontaneous actions making it unpredictable and the mockery was a nice touch. It even walks a fine line between the supernatural / superstitious elements. There's not doubt it's quite childish, far-fetched and it might not be a successful blend, but director J Lee Thompson makes great use of the fiery performances, easy-going script (even though it will make you roll your eyes for most part) and stunning locations, which kept me involved. It took a while before Norris released those infamous skills he bestows, but when in the flow. Watch the damage occur! As Norris is on the job. Gossett chips in with nice array of wisecracks and the two formed a great, side-splitting and believable team. Anderson simply radiates in her quirky role. Sonny Landham makes one hammy villain with a hokey evil laugh. At best these are cartoonish characters with a lot of charm and a growing appeal.It maybe wasn't as fun as I remembered it to be when I saw it ages ago, but it's a enjoyably lightweight and unpretentious romp with Norris kicking in with his slow motion jump kicks. Oh yeah! "},{"Title":"two fortune hunters go on an adventure","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is probably one of the best Chuck Norris movies there is. He is actually funny in this movie, and it has some very interesting themes in it. The fight seen in the bar is very good. This is probably one of Chuck's last really good movies. Besides the average TopDog. Louis Gosset Jr. also does a great job in this movie. He adds to it in many ways. Without him it probably wouldn't be funny at all. My favorite seen would have to be the very first one when they are tied up in the desert and ol' chuck uses the glass bottle to cut them free. Mean while louis gosset jr. has scorpions crawling up his trousers, waiting for Chuck to get them untied so he can get them off of him. People say this was a ripoff of Indiana Jones...so what its still a good movie to watch. Plus they may be right! It does have John Rhyes-DAvis in it. "},{"Title":"a delight from start to finish","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've always been a fan of Chuck Norris and this is my favorite of his films.  Someone once said he is the only truly sucessful terrible actor since Audie Murphy, but they need to see this film. He delivers a wonderful comedic performance and he and Louis Gossett Jr. are the best buddy team since Newman and Redford. The camradarie between them is awesome and its a shame they never made another film together. This film is the best treasure hunt film since Sierra Madre with Humphrey Bogart. Melody Anderson is delightful as the mystery woman and she and Norris have several hilarious exchanges. Of course, there are several karate fight scenes excellently staged. It sort of reminds you of Raiders of The Lost Ark because it throws things at you so fast you don't know when to duck and you enjoy every second of it.  One of my favorites and I hope future generations realize what a great film it truly is like they did with Citizen Kane. "},{"Title":"I think it's good","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a pretty good exploitation flick, made by the Masters of the Genre over at Cannon. (Get the joke? Cannon made Masters of the Universe). It has a now middle-aged Chuck Norris cranking out another of his action films that he loved doing in the eighties. He departs from his other films by cutting back on the kicks and increasing the yucks. It invokes the occasional laugh, but mostly just makes me chuckle (sometimes unintentionally). On the whole I like this movie and hope to one day see it on DVD. The cast were all believable in their roles. Lou Gossett Jr. and Chuck Norris definitely have a real chemistry.My rating two of four stars. God Bless! "},{"Title":"A Roller Coaster Ride For The Whole Family","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In addition to being for the entire family, Firewalker is a roller coaster ride that will leave you wanting more. Hold on to your seats, folks, because this movie's actions sequences will leave you breathless. It has it's highs and lows -- it's ups and downs. And at the end, you may not be able to say that you can walk through fire, but at least you'll be able to say that you've seen the firewalker.And don't take my word for it! The Sixty Second Review called it Dazzling and Action-packed.Go out and rent it today! "},{"Title":"Raiders of the Lost Budget","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Chuck Norris and Lou Gossett, Jr. play a couple of soldiers of fortune who have lots of forced banter and get into wacky adventures. Look out fellas because blonde cutie Melody Anderson has a treasure map and is looking for partners. Cannon's entry into the adventure film boom of the '80s. But this is no Indiana Jones or Romancing the Stone, no matter how hard it tries to be both. Norris and Gossett give their best Hope & Crosby impersonation but it doesn't work. Gossett fares slightly better than Norris at the comedy but not by much. Both are embarrassing. Looking pretty is all Anderson brings to the table, though she certainly brings a lot of that. Cheap production values (it was Cannon so you knew that would be the case), lame dialogue, and derivative plot. Still, time has granted it a charm of sorts that many '80s films have. Nostalgia I guess. Love the cave painting that appears to have been done in crayons. "},{"Title":"Spoofing the Stone","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the '80s Golan Globus made many action oriented movies that were entertaining and easy to enjoy. This one is another one of their movies that features Chuck Norris.These guys sure had the formula down. They were the Asylum of those days, borrowing ideas from other A list movies and making a spoof. The quality of this one is one of the best out of all the movies they've made. There's plot, there's story, and there're the actors.If not high on seriousness, the movie is high on entertainment value. World really looked different in the '80s. Things were much more light hearted. I'm not sure if the world we live in today is better than it was back then.Nice effort on the part of the producers, and the actors did just fine. One of the better Chuck Norris film from the '80s. "},{"Title":"One of the best Chuck Norris efforts","Date":"9 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Firewalker is like a limbo on Chuck Norris career, it isn't one of the most well-known (like Missing in Action or The Delta Force) neither a cult-classic (like Lone Wolf MacQuade or Invasion USA) but in my opinion it's one of Chuck's Best Movies (tied with Code of Silence). Directed by veteran director Jack Lee Thompson (The Guns of Navarone,MacKenna's Gold) who was directing low-budget movies for Cannon Group in the 80's (King Solomon's Mines) and starring Cannon most proeminent star,Chuck Norris, here different than the usual Chuck, smiling,more relaxed,with spot on comedy time with his co-star,Louis Gosset Jr. (Academy Award Winner actor for An Officer and a Gentleman) the best sidekick that Chuck ever had The two can rivalize even Gibson/Glover team, and Firewalker was made before Lethal Weapon, Melody Anderson (Dale Arden from Flash Gordon) was good to look at and she was having fun playing the role, Sonny Landham (Billy from Predator and Ch!nk from Lock Up) was menacing as usual as the villain, British Actor John Rhys-Davis (Raiders of the Lost Ark,King Solomon's Mines,Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade) cast again in an epic adventure movie, was great as always and Will Sampson (Poltergeist II) was funny and stole his scene in his last film role. Fans of Chcuk Kill'em all bad guys Norris will be disappointed, there isn't much violence or killings in this movie, but instead we got a nice adventure/comedy/action movie, pure fun and escapism in the footsteps of Romancing the Stone,King Solomon's Mines and the Indiana Jones movies. Chuck and Louis on-liners were priceless! and we can see a glimpse how Chuck can act better if he have a decent director and a talented co-star (Gosset'faces and reactions to the Norris' acts were the best in the movie). Had the movie did better at the Box Office and Cannon Group itself din't had bankrupcy a few years later, Firewalker 2 could have seen the light of the day. "},{"Title":"Not for the serious of heart","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Honestly? You can't give it a ten. But for just down right fun, for an afternoon with nothing better to do you can't beat it. For those that are looking for a Chuck Norris movie, or expecting Chuck Norris, you might want to stay away. I don't know what people think comedy is, and this doesn't fit in that category. It is light hearted with some good-natured banter, if you are looking for slapstick don't bother. Go get Dumb and Dumber. Take it for what it is, two bumbling sidekicks who get in way over their head, but some how manage to muddle through. So suspend your disbelief, sit back and just have fun, believe me, there are plenty of adventure movies that are much worse.Tom R. "}{"Title":"Insane but fun","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Chuck Norris, playing very much against type, and Lou Gossett, appear to be having a ball in this semi-Romancing the Stone ripoff. The two play a pair of soldiers-of-fortune/treasure hunters that are hired by a lovely Melody Anderson to help find a fortune in gold. Directed by J. Lee Thompson of various Charles Bronson movies, and Battle for the Planet of the Apes, the movie does not take itself at all seriously, and Norris and Gossett look relaxed and energetic as they tear into the ridiculous script. Hey, it even has a great role for Jonathan Rhys- Davies as Corky, the greatest Englishman ever! It's got Martial Arts, it's got gun play, it's got a psychotic Chinese general in a golf cart, it's got Rhys-Davies singing...I mean really, what more could you want. This is one of those movies that gets reamed for being bad, when all it's trying to be is a fun diversion with scenery-chewing aplenty. Go on, watch it. I won't tell... "},{"Title":"Entertaining and light comedy/adventure in which a trio of adventurers set out  to find a hidden cache of gold","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Fun and amusing comedy about a pair of down-and-out fortune hunters cash in on high adventure . As a duo of adventurers , Max Donigan (Chuck Norris) along with his friend Leo (Louis Gosset Jr) set off on a treasure hunt . Both of whom are hired by a gorgeous girl called Patricia (Melody Anderson of Flash Gordon , whose hair perfectly intact throughout) . The girl and mercenaries set out in search for a treasure she's imagined exists . Along the way the way , they kill Native Americans attempting to protect sacred Indian grounds . The trio confront risks , dangers and other obstacles until achieve their objective . All of them try to track down an ancient Aztec/Mayan/Egyptian/ Apache horde of gold as they end up in a Mayan temple of Doom besieged by Coyote (Sonny Landham) .This is an average quality film plenty of adventures , brawls , fun scenes , a few bar fights , humor with tongue in cheek , fantasy and results to be amusing ; however , some moments being boring . Chuck Norris character is a blending between known Indiana Jones and his popular role as a tough , two-fisted man and fellow mercenary played Louis Gosset -not too distant Oscar winner for ¨An official and a gentleman¨- is very well . Both of them have great chemical as a duo of soldiers-of-wacky misfortune who take several dangers that are able to overcome with ease . In a hand , if you enjoy funny stories and have a soft spot for attractive characters and scenarios, you are in for a great one ; in other hand if you don't like Norris kicks , silly humor and bemusing situations , then this one will not be for you and get bored . Passable production , medium budget by Cannon films , Menahem Golan-Yoram Globus , and poorly realized . Producers left room for sequel but as a box office failure was never carried out . This is Aaron Norris' , Chuck Norris' brother, last film as a stunt coordinator , he began his career as a director with his next film, his brother's Braddock Missing in action 3 (1988) . Anti-climatic musical score by Gary Chang , being composed by means of synthesizer . Atmospheric though dark cinematography by Alex Phillips filmed on location in Durango , Morelos, Puerto Vallarta, Jalisco, Mexico Torreón, Coahuíla, and Churubasco Distrito Federal , Mexico .The fare was regularly directed by J. Lee Thomson . He previously had a nice track record in the English cinema from 1950 until 1961 , directing good Western ( McKenna's gold , White Buffalo) and all king genres as Sci-Fi (Conquest and Battle of planet of apes), terror (reincarnation of Peter Proud, Eye of the devil), adventures (Flame over India ,Kings of the sun, Taras Bulba , Tiger Bay) and Warlike ( Guns of Navarone, Von Braun , Chairman , The passage). His two biggest successes turn out to be ¨Guns of Navarone¨and ¨Cape Fear¨. Thereafter , the filmmaker's career subsided in a morass of slickly realized but middling films. He moved into the field of international spectaculars , at which point his filmmaking seemed to lose its individuality . J. Lee Thomson working from the 50s in England, finished his career making Chuck Norris (Firewalker) and Charles Bronson vehicles (Caboblanco, Evil that men do, Messenger of death, Death Wish 4  Crackdown, Caboblanco, St Ives). Firewalker rating  Mediocre , but it will appeal to Chuck Norris fans . "},{"Title":"Great parody","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't know why so many people down rated this movie. I guess they have NO sense of humor. This movie is a riot as far as I am concerned. It is a parody of almost everything Chuck Norris has done. Chuck and Lou Gossett are two fortune less fortune hunters driven by Chuck's characters eternal hopeful attitude and Lou's constant pessimism. Sure this movie appears to be kind of dumb but one must look beneath the the surface to appreciate all the interwoven comedy. This movie actually is a very well done parody with what I think is excellent humor. Melody Anderson is pretty and plays a naive idiot very well, I love when she is lying on the alter with the skull over her face. "},{"Title":"The best thing about this is the doors...","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Chuck Norris and Lou Gossett are a couple of down-on-their-luck adventurers in this pale imitation of comedy-adventure movies like India Jones and Romancing the Stone. After their latest close escape from death they encounter a young lady in a down-at-heel South American bar who persuades them to hunt for some treasure or something. I don't know, I sort of lost interest at this point even though we were only ten or fifteen minutes into the movie. Firewalker is bad in all kinds of ways, none of which combine to make it a complete stinker, but which sort of sap you of the energy required to pick up the remote and switch channels. One thing that struck me as I watched was how chuck Norris managed to remain a fairly bankable action star for so long when even Lou Gossett's performance exposes his lack of acting ability. And how do they build those doors in mountain caves that slide up and down without anyone touching them? "},{"Title":"Better watch &#x84;Raiders of the lost ark...","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Or Indiana Jones and The Temple of Doom . Or Indiana Jones and The Last crusade . Or Romancing the stone. Or Jewel of the Nile . I just gave you 5 better movies to watch instead of this piece of crap. It's not that I was expecting a masterpiece. I would be happy with a decent adventure movie . I like Louis Gossett Jr. . I don't mind Chuck Norris. J. Lee Thompson is a director of famous Cape fear . It's not strange that I hoped for some quality. It was also a chance to see Norris outside of his standard type of action movie.Firewalker  is a cheap movie . Cheap humor , production values , uninteresting action and lame dialogues. I think that even the awful Indiana Jones and The Kingdom of Crystal skull was slightly better than this . Watch it only if you're a fanatic of adventure movies.I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"You can watch this movie. . .but you'll still be bald.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Look, don't take anyone else's cynical word for it, this movie is an all out gut buster.If you need a totally mindless romp through a veritable jungle of bad one-liners, awful action sequences, and basically two very wooden, ultra-manly actors in a pseudo-homo-erotic relationship that usually leads to violence...well look no further.This is sheer, unadulterated, eighties moviemaking.  On a scale of useful expenditure of American capital, from importing Pokemon (0) to Feeding all of the starving children of the world (+10000), making this movie rated about -50.Thus, if you want a movie that is so completely devoid of any promise that it can't help but be good, then this is the one.(Oh, and make sure to imbibe plenty of painkiller first, the one-liners are only funny if you shut off enough braincells to understand them). "},{"Title":"Ideal for younger people who display an interest in action.","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Max Donigan (Chuck) and Leo Porter (Gossett) are two adventurers/world travelers/fortune seekers who haven't been having much luck in the treasure hunting business of late. When Patricia Goodwin (Anderson) approaches them and invites them to find the ancient gold of the Mayans (or maybe Aztecs...or perhaps American Indians...we're not really sure), Max and Leo agree, and off the three of them go into deserts, jungles, caves and other exotic locations, and encountering plenty of perils and pitfalls along the way. Will they get the gold...or will constantly-oiled-up baddie Tall Eagle (Sampson) prevent them from achieving their goal? Firewalker is an old-fashioned, Saturday afternoon-style adventure film, not strictly an action movie. It's a PG-rated tale, and Cannon probably figured they should break into a younger demographic. This way they could create new Chuck fans at a younger age. Like a drug dealer hooking them in while they're young. Chuck certainly took the opportunity and ran with it, showing off his goofier side. He's a little less wooden here than he is elsewhere, as he chomps a cigar and generally has plenty of good-natured one-liners at the ready. His interplay with buddy Louis Gossett Jr. is a highlight of the movie, as they work well together, and Gossett's charisma helps paper over some of Chuck's deficiencies in that department. They're backed up by some solid supporting players such as Ian Abercrombie of Mr. Pitt fame from Seinfeld, the always-great Sonny Landham, and John Rhys-Davies, who puts in a robust performance as a small-time dictator whose accent changes from Spanish to British to Southern throughout his appearance here. Additionally, fan-favorite Branscombe Richmond did stuntwork on the film and has a very brief cameo as well. And, they spell his name wrong in the credits.As Leo and Max (aren't they The Producers? Maybe Firewalker could become a hit Broadway musical) get into and out of their many scrapes, there's a lot of tongue-in-cheek comedy, silly fight scenes, and supposed Indian mysticism. The enjoyable music by Gary Chang certainly helps this along. Many people have pointed out the similarities between this and the Indiana Jones movies, but another influence seems to be the big, sprawling work of Sergio Leone. But like Gold Raiders (1983) just making the movie lengthy doesn't mean you're automatically in Leone territory. Leone can justify longer films. Chuck Norris cannot. It's not fair, but it's an ironclad rule of filmmaking.And while the movie is fairly fun and upbeat, it's just too long and poorly paced. J. Lee Thompson is an old-school director whose career goes back to the 1950's. We think that accounts for that. He's known in action circles for his work with Charles Bronson, and he does have a grasp for classic Hollywood-style derring-do. On another behind-the-camera note, Aaron Norris was stunt coordinator here, and one of the stuntmen under his charge was Dean Ferrandini, who would later direct him in the unfortunate Overkill (1996).Released on the great Media label on VHS in the U.S., Firewalker is harmless, reasonably entertaining, if bloated, and ideal for younger people who display an interest in action. "},{"Title":"Poor adventure film.","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Firewalker starts as a woman named Patricia Goodman (Melody Anderson) ask's two adventurers for hire Max Donigan (Chuck Norris) & Leo Porter (Louis Gossett Jr.) to join her on a trip to an Indian reservation where she believes there is a fortune of gold. Using a treasure map she has they travel to the location & find a gold sacrificial knife & clues to where the rest of the treasure is hidden, they decide to team up & set out on an adventure to find the treasure overcoming all sorts of problems & dangers along the way...Directed by J. Lee Thompson one has to say that Firewalker is crap, I thought it was utterly devoid of any action or excitement & the story sucked too. The script by Norman Aladjem, Robert Gosnell & Jeffrey M. Rosenbaum is like a poor man's cross between Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) & Romancing the Stone (1984) with it's mixture of ancient mystic temples & magic along with it's basic adventure to find the gold at the end of a treasure map type story. Obviously meant as a buddy buddy mismatched partner comedy action adventure with a touch of fantasy Firewalker pretty much fails at everything it does, it amazingly unfunny with plenty of dumb dialogue, there's hardly any action in it with a few fights about the sum of it & the mystic elements are also crap & seemingly there purely for the hell of it. I was watching this last night & despite only running for about 100 minutes it felt like it went on forever, the narrative is poor as the trio stumble their way across Central America & unlike an Indiana Jones film where there is plenty of relevant action there's hardly any in Firewalker. The film feels like a travelogue at times such little happens as we follow the protagonists on their (boring) journey through a jungle.Director Thompson is a very experienced action film director & I expected more here, the bad guy is nominal, the action scenes are bland & sluggish & it's as boring as hell. Apart from a few fights there really isn't any action at all, there's no car chases, explosions, anything original or shoot-outs & the violence is also minimum. As a whole it's a surprisingly dull & just downright poor film & I don't know what else I can say about it & it comes as no surprise it was produced by Menahem Golan & Yoran Globus under their Cannon Group & this is just the type of flick for which they have such a bad reputation & why they went bankrupt.Technically the film is bland, I wouldn't have thought Firewalker had a big budget & it's a largely uneventful film. Apparently shot in Mexico. The acting is poor, you would have thought a film starring both Chuck Norris & Louis Gossett Jr. would be good but they both turn in poor performances & isn't in the so bad it's good category but the so bad it's bad category.Firewalker is a really poor action adventure type film that I was extremely disappointed with, I just can't see anything positive in this film at all & I didn't like one little bit. Could have been fun, as it is it's crap. "},{"Title":"So We Meet Again (At Another Bad Chuck Norris Movie)","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Chuck Norris and Louis Gossett Jr. star in this pale imitation of Raiders Of The Lost Ark. Melody Anderson is the girl that persuades the would be adventurers to search for hidden treasure. Sonny Landham plays a villain so overzealous that it would be more appropriate to find him in a 1930's serial. J. Lee Thompson directs this mess, as if he already had one foot in the grave at the time. There is no suspense, tension, or drama, and very little humor in this Raiders retread. There are only two things the film has going for it. The first is the welcome supporting players that show up like Will Sampson, John Rhys-Davies, and Ian Abercrombie of later Seinfeld fame. The other thing is the quick scene changes that occur. It seems that very few scenes last longer than ten minutes before the location changes. The reason for this might be we are able to point out the many continuity and logic problems otherwise. We have a gun that disappears and then reappears when convenient among the many problems in here. Some of the dialog and acting (especially Norris) is embarrassingly bad. Norris calling Anderson a fruitcake is supposed to generate anything more than a yawn from us? Perhaps the most ridiculous scene has Norris running around in a cornfield wearing a full length cassock in disguise, and if that isn't enough, we get to see him delivering his patented kicks while still wearing it! Norris had already been typecast by the time he played in this his first comedy. If he would have been better directed, had better actors surrounding him, and had a better script, maybe he would have been more successful. But we could say that about every bad film, couldn't we? 1/2 star of 4. "},{"Title":"Bottom-of-the-barrel? Heck no - Firewalker is buried about ten feet BELOW the barrel!","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Can you believe that this film was made by J. Lee Thompson, the director who brought us all-time greats like Ice Cold In Alex, The Guns Of Navarone and the original Cape Fear? Here, Thompson gives us a Raiders Of The Lost Ark variation that is truly as awful as a film can be. Firewalker is supposed to be Chuck Norris's attempt to break out of the martial arts typecasting that he had been drawn into, but his efforts at comedy are lamentably wide of the mark. What's worse is the way that good actors like Lou Gossett Jr and John Rhys-Davies are dragged down to standards way below what is expected of them. Everything about this movie is terrible - the only Indy-offshoot I can think of that is worse is the unutterable Allan Quatermain And The Lost City Of Gold.Ineffective soldiers of fortune Max Donigan (Norris) and Leo Porter (Lou Gossett Jr) are drowning their sorrows after yet another unsuccessful enterprise when they are approached by the sexy Patricia Goodwyn (Melody Anderson, from Flash Gordon). Patricia has a treasure map to an Aztec fortune and wants Max and Leo to help her get there. However, there are others who want the treasure too.... and to make matters worse, the treasure is supposedly guarded by the legendary Firewalker of the title.Norris mugs away embarrassingly as the inept hero, giving the kind of performance that scores points for sheer unintentional hilarity. Gossett mugs too, which is disappointing considering that he had not long since gained an Oscar for An Officer And A Gentleman. Anderson - the third point of this wacky trio - has nothing to do but look cute, which she does with all the inexpressive woodenness of a kiddies' doll. There are continuity errors galore for those who enjoy spotting such things (for example, one eye-patch-wearing villain can't seem to decide for sure which eye he's blind in!), while the sets look so cheap and fake that one wonders if they were borrowed from a school theatre props department. Usually films of this type at least have stirring music or adequate bursts of action, but Firewalker can't even manage those - Gary Chang's score is utterly bland, and the action is either farcical or boringly predictable. Firewalker is an utter catastrophe the absolute low point in the careers of everyone in front of and behind the cameras, and the kind of film that makes you wonder if being a movie fan is worth the effort. "}{"Title":"A well intentioned but misfiring attempt for Norris to branch into something new","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" STAR RATING ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits Max (Chuck Norris) and his partner in crime Leo (Louis Gossett Jr.) are two buddies who have dedicated their lives to going on treasure hunts, often to little avail. But after their latest failed mission, they are approached in a bar by an attractive lady who shows them the lay-out to an ancient Aztec ruin. But she is apprehensive about the fabled 'coyote' named the Firewalker, who may not be so happy that they get it.Poor old Chuck. I can see what he was trying to do here by branching out into more family friendly adventure films but it seems he would have been better off sticking at what he did best, because Firewalker really doesn't come off as a very successful film at all. The story feels very uninvolving, at times even ludicrous, and there's not much in the way of action or excitement either (despite one or two tasty scenes where Chuck shows off his Karate prowess, with a bar room brawl sequence and even flying through mid-air in amongst some over-grown plants to knock out a bad guy from behind while in a priest's uniform!) The film is also badly lit, really giving it more of a video feel in a time when Chuck's films were still going to theatres. And to cap it all off, it's overlong. I've seen worse films by Norris, but the hefty length really made this less enjoyable one too much of a slog to see through to the end and it ended up being the first Norris film I ended up switching off about an hour or so into it.Although he was trying to draw in a bigger audience, I think the idea backfired on him and after this film I and no doubt other fans can see why the tone in Chuck's films really started to lower from the serious, dynamic (though not necessarily good) hard-edged action thrillers he'd made earlier in his career like The Delta Force, Code of Silence, Missing in Action and An Eye for an Eye to more light-weight fare and where his career really started to wane. A misfiring attempt at something new indeed. ** "},{"Title":"Walking on fire...","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Chuck Norris and Louis Gossett Jr star as two adventurers who find themselves running after the Firewalker which leads to a cave of huge treasures (Which look like brass) and along the way they are joined by a nutty blonde (Melody Anderson) who hires them out to help find the cave. While Sonny Landham stars as a big buff Native American with an eye-patch that switches eyes (Which then vanishes altogether in the climax) who is El Coyote the main villain of the peace. Firewalker was awful back in 1986 and is even worse now. The sets are laughably unconvincing and because the movie is PG it lacks R rated action. Worst of all is that it tries to be comedy and Norris is too humorless to make the transition. Louis Gossett Jr overacts and Melody Anderson gives a typically moronic performance (Remember she was the worst thing in Flash Gordon) and it basically is a dull rip off of the vastly superior Romancing The Stone. (We will not even compare this to Raiders Of The Lost Ark) The only good thing about the movie is, uh, the way a guy throws himself off a cliff after seeing Firewalker That was priceless in its unintentional hilarity.* out of 4-(Bad) (And i'm being generous...) "},{"Title":"Melody Anderson looked cute...","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ... and that's really about it.  This is listed as a comedy-drama, but I have trouble seeing much of either comedy or drama in this one... it isn't funny and it isn't dramatic (no real tension).  It is very lightly entertaining, but requires the thinking switch be set all the way off.  The presence of cute Melody Anderson doesn't hurt, although they could have booted out Chuck Norris and Lou Gossett Jr. completely and just have given her all the screen time.  You won't remember anything about the plot after the credits roll, and you really won't want to.See it if it comes on cable, and you truly have absolutely nothing better to do... otherwise, I'd give this one a firm miss.  4/10. "},{"Title":"Raiders rip off","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Golan and Globus clearly had a thing about Indiana Jones since they persistently tried cheap rip offs,starting with the two deplorable Allan Quartermain pictures with Richard Chamberlain and Sharon Stone,and then moving onto this lacklustre spectacle.They even regularly found roles for John Rhys-Davies, here inadequately playing a mercenary leader in Central America Chuck Norris and Louis Gossett play two soldiers of fortune without a fortune who are engaged by Melody Anderson to locate a treasure in central America which is also coveted by an evil Native American shaman.The two battle the elements,crocodiles and the bad guys over the course of a not very exciting 90 minutes or so The movie strives for a comedic tone in the banter between the pair but since Norris has no comedy finesse whatsoever this falls flat and the normally dependable Gossett sinks to the elephantine acting style of his partnerNorris is as ever convincing in action scenes but this is not enough to prevent the picture drowning in its own mediocrity "},{"Title":"I kept waiting for it to get funny!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I sat all the way through this film waiting for it to get going.  Lou Gossett Jr. and Chuck Norris gripe and bitch at one another like an old married couple all through the film.  Melody Anderson had impossibly perfect hair.  The music sounded like a cheap synthesizer.On the up side, the photography was pretty.  The color was vivid and the images were sharp and well-focused.Chuck made a mistake when he signed on to this film. "},{"Title":"The Road to Diminishing Returns....","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If Hope and Crosby had ever taken karate classes, the result MIGHT have been Firewalker, except for one thing - it would have been a good movie.Try as he might, Norris is about as successful at light comedy as I would be at karate.  Gossett is far better as his constantly grumbling sidekick, but he won an Oscar, for crying out loud!  What's he going in a Golan-Globus flick?!!  And Melody Anderson is just about the death knell for any movie she's ever been in.  I'm sorry, there's a slight story here.  Seems Anderson wants to find the treasure her father was looking for before he died, so she hires Norris and Gossett to help her find it.  Of course a huge evil guy known as El Coyote (Landham) wants it, too, and he has some kind of magic powers to help him, and he wears an eyepatch and casts an evil spell once in a while and....  Yawned, sorry.  And Rhys-Davies pops up (as he did in Raiders of the Lost Ark.  Coincidence?) as a comrade briefly.  There are a couple of fights here and there and some derring-do that doesn't look all that derring.  And for those who care, Gossett pulls the same kind of trick here he did near the end of Iron Eagle (if you saw that film, you know what I'm talking about).But this is supposed to be a comedy.  Yeah, Chuck Norris in a comedy.  This is about as funny as receiving one of Norris' roundhouse kicks to your jaw.  Any comedy would be in trouble if, while you're watching it, you can think up ten better gags than the one you've already seen onscreen. This one is in BIG trouble.One star, since Gossett by himself is as close to humor as this mess gets.  But play it safe walk on by Firewalker. "},{"Title":"Bob & Bing They Ain't","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Heck, Abbott & Costello they ain't.  Norris and a very desperate Gossett have nothing in common, as their characters slouch along, bitching incessantly at each other.  They've been hired by a dim-witted woman on the trail of some mythical treasure that's Aztec...or Mayan...or Apache...or Egyptian (really!) somewhere in Mexico...or Central America...or South America (it's hard to tell).  Light humor is not Norris' forte, but even his martial arts sequences are few and far between here.  They're remarkably inept at almost everything., and seem to win out due to sheer perseverance and an in with the screenwriter.  A vague, incomprehensible mess.  "},{"Title":"PRETTY PATHETIC","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My memory of this Cannon clunker, which shows up periodically on late-night TV, is that is it a poor-man's RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK. It at least gave Norris a chance to do comedy, but he is not funny and this is one of his worst efforts. For the record, he tried one more comedy a few years later, starring opposite a small dog, and that film was infinitely worse. Such a sad, bad film from the director of GUNS OF NAVARONE, yet! "},{"Title":"Yeech","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Movies like this killed off Norris' theatrical career. How could he not see movies like this were pure garbage? Cheesy to the max, and with bad performances. Not even for die-hard Norris fans. "},{"Title":"Poor mans Raiders of the Lost Ark","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rented this film when an old buddy JD came in from Edmonton.  This film is a poor mans version of Raiders of the Lost Ark.  I gave it a five, would not watch it again.  Its funny in spots, and I may watch it for 5 minutes on TV.  This film is no Indy with the crack of his wip. "}]