[{"Title":"Very likeable and amusing","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit that these days, I can't stand Demi Moore. It seemed almost as soon as I 'discovered' her (and developed a squirmy adolescent crush on her) via this film, her career went stellar, the films got worse and she turned into just another boring megastar. Life sometimes really sucks. But ONE CRAZY SUMMER doesn't suck. It's a very amusing and eminently likeable teen comedy that doesn't stoop to bad taste gags or gross-out schtick for its laughs (Farrelly brothers, take note) and relies on its very eighties feelgood charm to win you over. I watched this one over and over again on VHS when I was a kid, and I must've driven my parents and friends insane with my constant cries of Chilli dog!, This is a love story, not a Rambo bloodbath!, Hi Cookie! I'm Egg...gemini! and all those other little bits of treasurable dialogue. The cartoon sequences are brilliant, nicely subversive in a Ralph Bakshi - Robert Crumb way, and the cast are perfect. Bobcat Goldthwait really turns the spastic nerd persona up HIGH here, and one of the most killingly funny moments in his career occurs when someone playfully throws a beachball at his head, only for him to yelp That really smarts, that went in my eye! Trust me, it's so funny. I want to go to Nantucket Island some day and find a cute rock chick who prefers shy cartoonists to buff studs with hot cars and have a bunch of zany adventures with some wacky friends, but until I do, I'll just watch ONE CRAZY SUMMER again. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Bring Back Savage Steve Holland","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the eighties, Savage Steve Holland put out three movies, two of which are classics of what seems to be a very small genre, absurdist teen comedies. The third How I Got Into College does not measure up to Better Off Dead and this one, mainly because of it's lack of John Cusack and Curtis Armstrong (Except for a tiny cameo).One Crazy Summer is an underrated movie, with lots of great characterizations and gags. As I recall, Savage Steve's movies were vilified as being brain dead at the time and after three movies he drifted into children's TV. We could use more movies from the likes of him. "},{"Title":"One Crazy Summer","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The always likable Cusack collaborates with Better Off Dead director Holland again in this comedy about a struggling cartoonist who helps a singer (Moore...And boy does she sing badly.) save her family home from a land developer on the island of Nantucket. Goldthwait is his usual maniacal self and adds some laughs to the picture. A film that has loads of fun with itself. Completely harmless.   "},{"Title":"Saturday Night at the local...","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Thus starts One Crazy Summer, the evil twin of Better off dead... How can any movie be bad when the opening lines are sung by David Lee Roth?This movie is a total blast. Pairing again John Cusack with Curtis Armstrong, but this time adding Bobcat Goldwaith to the mix has great, funny results. Hyperactive Bobcat grates the nerve of everyone around, Curtis Ak Ak is the son of a deranged military with pacifist tendencies, and Demi Moore (with natural breasts... wow!) as the love interest of, once again, chronically depressed Cusack.The story is, well, simple enough. The laughs are there, but both Savage Steve Holland films have a certain quality to them... they are funny, but they are also sweet. The scene where Curtis finds a blown up doll in the target practice beach, and begins musing about how a little girl won't be able to sleep was dumb, funny and touching. The animation used throughout is quite surreal. The Boat is hysterical (complete with Watsamatta U. sail and Odie plush doll). Overall, a fun film, though not as good as Better off dead... "},{"Title":"'One' of a kind!","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Upon seeing ONE CRAZY SUMMER for the first time many years ago, I wasn't very impressed with it. I thought it had some decent laughs, but I was overall disappointed. Then I saw this again movie last summer when it was on VH1 and my opinion instantly changed. I loved it. If there is one movie genre that really stuck out in the 1986, it was goofy comedies. From ARMED AND DANGEROUS to POLICE ACADEMY 3 BACK IN TRAINING, 1986 was full of wacky comedies. Perhaps the wackiest of them all, ONE CRAZY SUMMER, like all of Savage Steve Holland's movies, is a classic. Hilariously insane and inventive and loaded with great lines, 'summer' is John Cusack's best movie to date. According to a recent interview I read with Savage Steve Holland, Cusack really hates this movie as well as BETTER OFF DEAD, his previous collaboration with Holland. What Cusack could possibly hate about both movies is beyond me. Both are comedic masterpieces. However, ONE CRAZY SUMMER is the better of the two, mainly because it has a better cast. The cast does a terrific job (Bob Goldthwait has never been funnier). Simply a classic! **** "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An outstanding Cusack movie with an incredible supporting cast of Demi Moore, Bobcat Goldthwait & Curtis Armstrong (Booger from Nerds). I'm not even a Bobcat fan & he is hilarious in this movie. Also a good performance by the late Tom Villard as Bobcat's twin. The DVD also has a commentary with Bobcat, Curtis & the films director Savage Steve Holland (Better Off Dead). You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Hoop's crazy summer adventure","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. Why you ask, it's because this movie has a very basic storyline guy finds girl, guy disses girl, guy wins boat race so she can buy back her home, girl and guy find romance.  Bobcat Goldwaith steals this show. Rare that I can say that, but his Godzilla impression really magnifies the wild humor to fantastic movie. Rent it now. "},{"Title":"Not that good in my opinion","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ^ 4.5/10 I found this film to be very similar to Better off Dead in terms of premise and cartoons. However, Better... was so so much better because it was really interesting and the gags worked better. This film just seemed to drag on and on even though it was only 1.5 hours...it literally wouldn't end. Most of the characters were under-developed except for John Cusack who was great as usual. Those two Calamari characters were so damn annoying and really got on my nerves.All in all the only things that stood out in the movie were John Cusack, the soundtrack and the animated cartoons were really fantastic. Otherwise boring film and I would rather watch Better off Dead "},{"Title":"One Crazy Summer-Bring on the Winter! 1/2*","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is beyond stupid. Two high school graduates travel to Nantucket for the summer and find situations there that are absolutely revolting.Demi Moore co-stars in this one. As the film was in 1986, was Ashton Kutcher just a babe in the woods at that time?Moore's grandfather has died and his home is on the verge of being sold to ruthless people with a father and son who bring a new meaning to the term mean.Bobcat Goldthwait, with that obnoxious voice is in the film, as well as two brothers, who make dumb and dumber look more and more intelligent.The writing is absolutely ridiculous. Highlights of the stupidity are where one person says to the other Did you ever notice that when people die, they go alphabetically in the papers? I rest my case. "},{"Title":"I liked it better when it was called Better Off Dead...","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is exactly the same thing as Better Off Dead... Think about it. It's a romance-comedy starring John Cusack as a near-mute (Cusack didn't start talking in his movies until High Fidelity) cartoonist, whose cartoons come to life, made just one year after Better Off Dead... POSSIBLE SPOILER Both involve a competition at the end of the movie so that Cusack's character can get what he wants; naturally, Cusack wins. NO MORE SPOILERS So why does Better Off Dead... work so much better? I have no idea. But I would recommend skipping One Crazy Summer unless you really, REALLY loved Better Off Dead... "}{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Probably one of the most under-appreciated comedy/drama films out there, this is a really good movie.  It's actually got a plot (bit of a goofball plot, but a plot nonetheless), and you can't beat the sailing scenes!  "},{"Title":"A total gut-busting riot","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Affable aspiring cartoonist Hoops McCann (a wonderfully engaging performance by John Cusack) and his best buddy George (the deliciously deadpan Joel Murray) go to Nantucket for the summer following graduation from high school. Hoops, George, and several newfound pals come to the aid of Cassandra (Demi Moore at her most charming), a singer who's family house is being threatened with demolition by the greedy Beckersted clan. Writer/director Savage Steve Holland offers an often hilariously wacky and zesty nonstop barrage of admittedly broad and dumb, but still very funny jokes. The constant madcap lunacy has a real giddy, good-natured and infectiously inane vitality to it that's impossible to either dislike or resist. Moreover, the lively and enthusiastic acting from a fine game cast adds immensely to the zany merriment Bobcat Goldthwait as the spastic Egg Stork, Tom Villard as his goofy brother Clay, Curtis Armstrong as the sweet Ack Ack Raymond, Mark Metcalf as evil rich jerk Aquilla Beckersted, Matt Mulhern as the mean Teddy, Kimberly Foster as the fetching Cookie, Joe Flaherty as the gung-ho General Raymond, William Hickey as cranky Old Man Beckersted, Jeremy Piven as smug preppy bully Ty, and John Matuszak as hulking biker Stan. Isidore Mankofsky's slick cinematography, the hip thrashy soundtrack, Cory Lerios' cool rockin' score, and the funky animation are all uniformly excellent. Single funniest scene Egg in a Godzilla suit terrorizing a posh dinner party. An absolute hoot. "},{"Title":"Good, but not quite as good as Better off Dead","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is from much of the same creative team behind Better Off Dead, but is not quite as good as that amazing teen comedy. Its a lot of fun, but its all over the place and just not quite as funny. Curtis Armstrong is used to less effect (he was incredibly funny in Better off Dead, Bobcat Goldthwaite is hilarious, Cusack is good, Demi Moore is Demi Moore (only with better hair here.) Overall its fun, and as a person from Cape Cod, it catches the feeling of an 80s Cape Cod summer very effectively. For some reason, this film feels more mainstream than Better off Dead. There isn't quite as much left field absurdity going on here. Again, if you are a fan of John Cusack and Savage Steve Holland its definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"Can't wait 'til fall","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Another movie that aired about 10,000 times too many on cable.  I'm not exactly sure what audience I should recommend this to--  there's no gratuitous sex or T & A.  No witty dialogue on the trials of being a young person.  And nothing particularly screwball enough to qualify it as screwball comedy. It's just kind of there. Like a man's nipples or Wisconsin.As far as I can tell, it's a movie about a cartoonist, a singer (note to Demi don't quit the day job), a boat-race (always exciting, those boat-races are!) and a really deathly looking dog with a satellite dish around it's neck.  Oh, and some sub-Family Circus animation.This isn't good enough to be good, nor bad enough to be bad, it's the Cheerios of teen comedies. Although I must note, it's seriously teetering on the edge of Puffed Rice or Muslix with all those ultra-annoying Bobcat Goldthwait scenes. Are there really people out there that find this man funny?  I mean, sober people?The dog with one paw in the grave did make me laugh though.  And so did the two ugly kids with the frozen faces. Eeeeeeek!!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Not Nearly As Funny as Better Off Dead...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...but still humorous enough.  The main problem is Demi Moore, who seems to have the impression she is in a serious movie.  She also fails to convey much romantic interest in John Cusack's character.  Lots of zany humor from the hand of Savage Steve.  "},{"Title":"Dumb little comedy romance with some animation thrown in...","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 1st watched 3/8/2011 -- 4 out of 10(Dir-Savage Steve Holland) Dumb little comedy romance with some animation thrown in has a couple of funny moments but the overall silly David vs. Goliath plot line where the weaker hero-type fights against a snot-nosed rich guy over his dignity is old and part of too many movies. The movie starts as a couple of high school graduates, played by John Cusack and Curtis Armstrong, decide to spend their summer at Nantucket Island looking for fun and a break away from their normal life before they have to make any longterm decisions. Demi Moore, plays the obvious eventual love interest to the main character, Hoops(who is named this despite the fact that he can't play basketball very well -- it was a parental hope). Instead Hoops is trying to get into Art school and trying to create a project to enter(this is the drawings we see throughout the movie). What happens is the movie presents us with a series of crazy characters and events making an overall crazy summer(thus the title). The crazy characters include an uncle who locked himself up in a room hoping to win a radio show millionaire contest, Bobcat Goldthwait -- playing one of the twins, who has one of the funnier scenes where he trounces around as godzilla recreating a scene from one of the monster's movies where he destroys a fake town with him screaming and smoke coming out his nostrils, and a young girl with a deformed dog where she puts a spell on anyone that laughs or says bad things about it. The gags are not the problem and are plentiful, and sometimes funny but the commonplace storyline with cardboard comedy-movie characters that are not developed is what holds this movie back. Overall this movie is really not that unique or funny despite it's attempts at being just that. "},{"Title":"yes...AND ,no!!(?)","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" i adore this film as much as any one adores viewing whatever it was they saw when they were young. it was one of those films that Home Box Office showed every other day throughout my youth. this film is forever lodged in my brain. For someone who didn't grow up around this film, you may have become spoiled by the ADD cycle we've been in since the mid-90's and may find it more difficult to appreciate this gem. cool this is, as my sis was doped up on better off dead before i saw this (of which i raped & loved)-and no one, NO ONE can deny the embrace of awkward teenage humor in American cinema in the 80's - this gave birth to everything we have found tiresome in teen comedies..because with all the overuse of slow-mo, the current soundtrack, the new tech. I wonder if cinema will go back to these roots... THIS IS the teen comedy...YES! "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is the follow-up creation to Better Off Dead. In a competition, Better Off Dead would win hands-down. But for star power, One Crazy Summer outshines Savage Steve's better script. Problems with One Crazy Summer (OCS) casting. Better Off Dead (BOD) was cast so much better. Friendship OCS shows Cusack giving hateful looks to Bill Murray's little bro. Trouble on the set?? More outrageous friends in OCS, but more genuine friends in BOD. Plot was good. You'll predict some of it, but even the predictable parts go further than you think they could. So, even though this is Better Off Dead's ugly stepsister, it's worth a look. See Demi Moore before the plastic surgery if for no other reason. John Cusack fans, you gotta see it, just to say you have. If you don't like Bobcat Golthwaite, I'm sorry. I don't like him either, but you can't escape him in this one. At least he does a great job in the film doing a tribute to another movie monster. Editing needed help on the beach, but for most part, not much to complain about. Overall, it's good and funny. But try not to compare it to BOD or you'll find it lacking. *sigh* "},{"Title":"Completely miss-able, despite the star power","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Despite this being one of John Cusack and Demi Moore's early films, it is one even hardcore fans can miss, unless they absolutely have to complete the collection. I have rare moments, where I can handle Better Off Dead, but this movie is ultimately worse. I am just not a Savage Steve Holland fan, and he did both movies. So if you don't like the cheesy, random comedy and amateur animation, steer clear of this one. FYI even for the Demi Moore fans she can't sing and the 80s synthesizers did not save her. There are too many predictable twists and too-easy jokes. I suppose if you want mindless entertainment or something you can leave on in the background and ignore while you do something productive, then go for it. Otherwise, don't watch this movie. If John Cusack (or Demi Moore) couldn't save it, you know it's got to be bad. They are the only reason I didn't give this movie a 1. "},{"Title":"A not so crazy Summer","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You would hope, our savage one, would be able to follow up the laughs and complete insanity of Better Off Dead. The insanity is of a lower scale, but the laughs are just not there, where intended, the gags keep missing. There are a couple of funny bits, but truthfully, I'm overriding that part. There's still a lot of originality in the slight somewhat dull film, but there's a couple of things I'd show abhor to, like dog kicking and teasing. Cusack, this time, plays Hoops who falls for Demi Moore, who's Grandfather and family are being forcibly evicted, by a boofhead tycoon, and his bully son, who hates one four letter word. His hot blonde girlfriend, Cookie, too takes interest in Hoops, where really she's just used as pretty scenery, which I'm not complaining. We have a few of the BOD cast who signed on for this one, where a couple of newbies tend to be annoying here, no more that Golthwait. The problem here, is nearly all of the gags just don't fire off, where it's last twenty minutes is very much Summer Rental'ish. There's a few repetitious traits in this one too as seen in Better Off Dead, now color cartooning, which was fun to watch, like Demi's song was good too hear. Yeah, it's a shame this self indulgent Savage product was a let down, but this is what happens mostly, and Better Off Dead, was a hard one to surpass, the bar set very high. Better Off Dead was better, a whole lot better. "}{"Title":"crazy wacky teen rom-com","Date":"26 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Lonely cartoonist Hoops McCann (John Cusack) graduates from high school. His friend George invites him to spend the summer in Nantucket with George's weird little sister. He rescues Cassandra Eldridge (Demi Moore) from a motorcycle gang. They stay with George's grandma where uncle Frank is desperately waiting for a radio contest. They meet up with the idiot Stork twins (Bobcat Goldthwait, Tom Villard) and Ack Ack Raymond (Curtis Armstrong), the son of marine General Raymond (Joe Flaherty). The ragtag group helps Cassandra save her dead grandfather's house from the greedy Beckersteds for their development. She has one week to pay the mortgage.Cusack is in the throws of his boyish charms. Demi Moore is beautiful and bold girl next door. It's got Bobcat going Goldthwait insanity. Director/writer Savage Steve Holland has his wacky sense of humor similar to his first movie 'Better Off Dead...' It's fun but a bit uneven. The craziness never stops and it's very memorable. Watching it some 30 years later, the most crazy stuff like the Bobcat Godzilla is still unforgettable. "},{"Title":"A fun comedy.","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In his second feature with Savage Steve Holland (after Better Off Dead), actor John Cusack plays Hoops McCann, who's nicknamed that way because it's presumed that he'll play basketball for a living like his old man. But he'd really rather be a cartoonist. After he and his best friend George Calamari (Joel Murray) graduate from high school, George decides to try lifting Hoops' spirits by inviting him to Georges' family's home on Nantucket Island. Hoops makes the best of things, finding one thing that he likes about the location in aspiring pop singer Cassandra Eldridge (Demi Moore). Unfortunately, a piece of property belonging to Cassandra's family is due to be taken away from her by scheming developer Aguilla Beckersted (Mark Metcalf). So Hoops does everything that he can to help her out, with the help of bumbling twins Egg and Clay Stork (Bobcat Goldthwait and Tom Villard).Holland can't help but fail to quite match the inspired zaniness of Better Off Dead with this sophomore effort. Overall it's just not as funny or as fresh. Of course, that doesn't mean that there aren't some great moments. Certainly the location is one big plus, and it's gorgeously shot by Isidore Mankofsky. Holland does include some amusing animated sequences, which he did himself. The characters are all pretty well defined, the heroes and the villains alike. (The villains aren't exactly subtle.) Cusack is engaging in the lead, and Moore is appealing as his love interest. Supporting players Murray, Curtis Armstrong (who plays a very non-Booger like role here), Goldthwait, and Villard are a hoot to watch; Goldthwaits' spastic shtick reaches a real zenith here. Metcalf and Matt Mulhern as his thuggish preppy son are guys whom you will love to loathe. And there are an incredible number of other familiar faces in the cast Laura Waterbury, John Matuszak, Jeremy Piven, Billie Bird, Joe Flaherty, William Hickey, Taylor Negron, Rich Hall, Donald Li, and Rich Little.There are some delicious gags scattered throughout, such as the obvious spoofs on Jaws, but best of all is Goldthwaits' big Godzilla scene. It's hilarious and is the highlight of the movie. Clearly Holland was enjoying himself coming up with such ridiculous character names.Never overly crude, this is an amiable feel good feature that, while rather predictable at its core, is still rather hard to resist.Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"80's Summer Classic!","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" John Cusack, Demi Moore, Bobcat Goldthwait, Curtis Armstrong, Joel Murray, Tom Villard, Matt Mulhern and Mark Metcalf star in this 1986 comedy. This focuses on aspiring cartoonist, Hoops (Cusack) who has just graduated high school with pal, George (Murray) and they head to Nantucket island for the summer. Hoops is about to have a summer he'll never forget when he gets into mischief with George and finds romance with singer, Cassandra (Moore) who is trying to save her house from being knocked down. Hoops also has a fear of the water since childhood, but overcomes it when he and his pals enter in a Regatta to try to win Cassandra's house back. Goldthwait (Police Academy 2) plays Egg, Armstrong (Revenge of the Nerds) plays Ack Ack, the late, Villard (Popcorn) plays Egg's brother, Clay, Metcalf (Animal House) plays Beckerstead, a shrewd, land developer who wants to build a restaurant where Cassandra's house is and Mulhern (Major Dad) plays his spoiled son, Ted who doesn't like Hoops and his friends. I grew up watching this and always liked it. I recommend this 80's summer classic. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest things I ever seen.","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How does this Only have a 6.0 rating For any one who likes screwball Comedys Brain donors Better off dead or parodies like airplane should check this movie out. It's not really a spoof but it's Close to it Like BFD John Cusack is a Cartoonist who's looking for love Curtis Armstrong Is A Sensitive young man who's pushed in to the army by his father Joe Flaherty A crazy Scout master Always talking about violence and bloodshed. Joel Murray bill Murrays brother plays hoopsCusacksFriend who has a kid sister named Squid Calamari who Steals many scenes. The main plots Are Demie Moore trying to get her singing career going and a boat race to save her families home from a rich land developer who wants to turn it into a lobster restaurant. I first saw it long time ago when i was just a young kid and i instantly fell in love with it. it use to come on TV lots of times now it's hardly ever on Another movie to check out is Moving violations which like this is an cult comedy that is overlooked. "},{"Title":"Harmless Enough","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Average 80's comedy starring John Cusack and Demi Moore in their younger years. Typical of movies in its genre with the underdogs versus the popular crowd.  Some original comedic scenes may make movie worth seeing, such as the ugly dog and the godzilla suit, if you have nothing better to do. But all in all average and predictable movie. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and equally goofy","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"     Savage Steve Holland's follow up to the cult classic Better Off Dead is another comedy about the struggles of the teen, but shown in a oddball, goofy setting with all kinds of strange and funny characters.   John Cusack returns to play an identical role to that in BOD.  He is Hoops, a hopeful cartoonist who needs to find love before he can make a cartoon about it for a school project.     His life in a town called Generic (a very clever touch) that is like a bland road to nowhere is about to get a lot more exciting when a friend offers to take him to Nantcket for the summer.  In his trip he encounters all kinds of strange and wonderful people, and he is filled with inspiration and maybe even redemption after his experiences here.   It starts off with a few laughs with its hilarious opening cartoon that foreshadows things to come in the movie.   There is a lot of outrageous stuff here, but also a heartfelt story about love and growing up.  This seems uneven at times, but its so darn entertaining that it isn't a problem at all.   Savage Steve Holland is brilliant in crafting the hardships of a teen into an outrageous world of his own.  His style follows formula, but is low on cliches.   The cast is great. Watch for a screamingly funny performance by Bobcat Goldwait.  He steals the show as a twin who looks nothing at all like his other.  John Cusack gives another likable performance and Demi Moore is looking great as his free spirited love interest. "},{"Title":"Who doesn't like this movie?","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok, so there's always people out there that seem to make it a point not to like movies because they're good, but instead choose to like movies based on how depressing or boring they can be, or whether they're from a foreign country. All that aside, One Crazy Summer is the perfect example of what a great American teen comedy should be. The jokes are a good mix of slapstick (a la Bobcat Goldthwait), surreal (Bobcat under the inspired direction of Steve Holland), and dry (John Cusack, one of the most morosely dry and funny actors in American cinema), and there is no character in this movie who does not deliver at least one funny line (ok, except Demi Moore).Yes, it's immature, yes, it's screw-ball, yes, Bobcat dresses up like Godzilla and trashes a scale-model of a seafood restaurant. It's also funny as hell. Watch it. "},{"Title":"If you're into 80s movies, this is a must see !","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every time i watch this movie, i just get carried away by the 80's feeling about it. When you're a teen, and you see such a movie about teens having fun, but at the same time dealing with major problems in their own way (something you would never ever dare to do) you just feel good. Very good. It's like Breakfast club, and Ferris. As a teen things just happen to seem much more of a problem than later in your life, and you think of ridiculous ways to solve them. Of course you won't really solve the problem that way, but in the movies they always do, and you want to be just like those persons.And that's why i like one crazy summer; Boy gets out of school for summer holiday on gorgious island, meets pretty (ooh demi) girl in trouble and solves it by winning a regatta!(ooh, as a teen i wished life would be so simple and yet so enjoyable as this movie)And at the end of this little comment of mine, i realise that this whole comment is based on nostalgia and long gone feelings of joy.Damn. Growing up really sucks. "},{"Title":"A timeless classic.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If I ever write movies or make them, i would want one of them to be like this one. I enjoy the goof-ball sense of humor and jokes contained within. This movie does stupid things without looking like it. The names of the places and characters are priceless, Generic New York High School, Squid Calimari (George's sister), etc...genius. I've seen this movie so many times because it was a cable tv staple while I was growing up, of course I didn't get all of the jokes back than but it was still funny.This movie is a time-less classic. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as Better Off Dead!","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One Crazy Summer is a fun and quirky look at love through the eyes of Hoops McCann.  what could have been hokey and dull is one of the freshest and most energetic comedies ever.  Savage Steve Holland reteams with John Cusack to make the ultimate summer movie! "}{"Title":"Fun and Entertaining","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really wish they'd make more comedies like these. You could tell that the writers of One Crazy Summer actually had some brains, unlike the ones of so many other crapo pictures that just seem to be getting worse. Savage Steve Holland, Curtis Armstrong, and John Cusack did even better here than in their previous hit Better off Dead which also was immensely funny and endearing. Demi Moore was captivating, as this was one of her earlier films, Joel Murray, Bobcat Goldthwait, and the late Tom Villiers (who was a skilled comedian) provided an excellent supporting cast and deserve better fame than they currently receive. The thrilling New England Scenery and beautiful ocean sequences topped off this wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Good for some laughs","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is Better Off Dead, set on the ocean instead of the ski slopes. But there's still plenty of original comic situations to let it stand on it's own merits.  The Godzilla scene had me rolling!  This show, along with John Cusack's other early work is underrated.   "},{"Title":"The 80's Rock!","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  80's comedies (especially ones with John Cusak) are awesome. Almost all are hillarious and instant classics and this film is no exception. Plenty of nods to other films (i.e. Godzilla and Jaws) through out the movie that are so hillarious you'll be laughing for hours. Some may complain that the movie is a little corny at times but hey it was the 80's and things were always a little cheesy. Throw in a young Demi Moore and an even louder Bob Cat and you have a laughfest on your fans. If you haven't seen this, you better soon!!!!!! "},{"Title":"another addition to the 'underrated movies list'","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  one of my favorite comedies.  bobcat has most of the best lines, especially his touching story about the poor kid whom nobody liked because he was different.  he also contributed by credo - 'i don't know, it kinda sounds like work' "},{"Title":"Where art thou Savage Steve?","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Savage Steve Holland was a director and writer in the 1980s that made three of my favorite teen movies (One Crazy Summer, How I Got Into College, and some other movie. oh well, two of my favorites).This movie stars John Cusack as a Hoops, but he doesn't play basketball going to Nantucket with a friend after graduation.  They meet pre-implant Demi Moore whose a singer and lives in her estate.  Some rich preps try to take the estate, but Moore fights 'em off with Hoops.  This movie, although the beginning of the plot was akward, is very funny, with a little of that 80s emotion that made you smile.  I am big fan of Holland's movies, and I wish he made one more 80s type movie, because all the John Hughes rip-offs right now (except for Kev Williamson) are annoying the hell out of me. Worth a rental.  "},{"Title":"This is a WONDERFUL movie!","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really love anything done by Savage Steve Holland, the writer/director of this great movie. Also see Better Off Dead and How I Got Into College. Wonderful!  Anyway this movie is really humorous and delivers some unexpected things.  Where else but in this movie can you see Demi Moore as a talented singer and Bobcat Golthwait as a twin?  I recommend this to anybody looking for some old fashioned slapstick comedy (George with the turtle raft), not to mention some really well written sarcasm (the Christmas tree on the roof of the car).  This movie constantly throws you unexpected things even after you've seen it 100 times like I have!  Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Rent it","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I grew up with this movie.  If you appreciate the melodramatic effect of comedy at its highest form, this movie is for you.  Along with this, go see Better Off Dead, another Cusack masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"One Crazy Summer","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's a simple fact that there are many of us from the 80's generation who grew up loving those loopy John Cusack comedies made by Savage Steve Holland, and while I prefer there other more bizarre, out-there flick, Better Off Dead, it's hard for me to dislike One Crazy Summer, a movie I grew up loving wholeheartedly as a kid into my teens. OCS was a follow-up to Better Off Dead, returning Cusack and Curtis Armstrong from that film. Cusack is Hoops, following graduation pal Joel Murray(George)to Nantucket for the summer to each some fun on the beach. Hoops finds himself embroiled in a feud with a blonde, buff punk named Teddy Beckersted whose lecherous father has designs on bulldozing over homes of a neighborhood to build a giant condominium. One of the homes, needing it's mortgage repaid belongs to Demi Moore(Cassandra). There's a sailboat race which might be their only hope of saving Cassandra's grandfather's home(..he had recently passed), but it has been won by Teddy over the past many years, and Hoops is deathly afraid of boats over water. But, with the help and motivation of newfound Nantucket friends(..such as Bobcat Goldwait and Tom Villard as auto-mechanic twin brothers!), George, and budding love-interest Cassandra, perhaps Hoops can come to terms with his fears and win the race to save the neighborhood. Armstrong has a supporting part as the son of a kooky, manic weapons salesman, General Raymond(..SCTV's Joe Flaherty in an inspired bit of casting), Ack, who uses the training from his father to assist Hoops and company in their goals to win the race. Memorable scenes include Bobcat getting stuck in a Godzilla suit(!)running rampant across an entire model of Aguilla Beckersted(Mark Metcalf, barely recognizable as Teddy's rather unhinged pops)'s condominium, Hoops being chased by deranged cub scouts wishing to perform first aid, George a victim of toxic flatulence, Bruce Wagner's nutty Uncle Frank's increasing insanity every time he tries to better his chances to win 1 million dollars from a radio show, and the wonderful Billie Bird as George's grandma who actually bills the group after a meal! Jeremy Piven as(you guessed it)a brutish jerk who associates with Teddy and causes trouble for Hoops and his posse, the yummy Kimberly Foster as Cookie(..Teddy's girl who attempts to make-out with Hoops while he attends a luncheon with his father), and the one-and-only William Hickey as Old Man Beckersted, who will not reward his son and grandson an inheritance if they lose the sail boat race. Demi Moore is cute, but this is Cusack's vehicle, though Bobcat and Villard steal most of the scenes their in. Again, some delightful animation from Holland are sprinkled throughout the movie(Hoops is an artist, appropriately). If you like his movies, I highly recommend the underrated, How I Got Into College. "},{"Title":"Sit back and laugh","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is classic 80's humor. If you were a teen in the 80's this was a summer hit to go see. It was a early look at those now super stars. This and Better off Dead just are fun and silly movies to sit back and enjoy. Everyone can admit they had a crazy summer when they were a teenager. Even crazy family and friends like these characters. To be introduced to some of these characters was so much fun. The uncle who is crazy sitting every waking moment at a radio waiting to win a million dollars, the grandmother who only likes the granddaughter and handed a bill to the kids after dinner, the twin brothers who look nothing alike, and to meet hoopz was so much fun. This may not of won an award but it is just a fun movie to get lost in one afternoon. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time in 1988 when it was on HBO and I loved it!! It was so hilarious I have seen it too many times to count. I love the Stork brothers and the pitiful, ugly dog, Bosco! My favorite quote form the movie is, It's so ugly, it should be put to sleep. I also loved it when the little sister slaps the girls on the back and their faces stick that way. I love John Cusack and Demi Moore in this movie too. They were great. This movie brings back memories of my college days when I first saw it. I rented the movie countless times and watched it over and over. My college roommate and I just couldn't get enough of it.Who couldn't love this crazy movie?! I want to buy a copy on DVD, does anyone know where I can get it? "}{"Title":"Craziest Movie I Ever Have Seen","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One Crazy Summer is the funniest, craziest (not necessarily the best), movie I have ever seen.Just when one crazy scene is done, another emerges. It never lets you rest. Just one thing after another. The soundtrack is great. The songs are the right ones for the scenes.It is also a clean movie. Little that is dirty in it.Of course, it has the story of the guys you wouldn't trust with your lunch money, taking up a challenge, and winning over people with more resources. Who'd want to see it if they failed? There is a serious side, in that parents and children do not live up to each others' dreams. One should always have an open mind, and weigh all the options. This applies both to parents and children. In One Crazy Summer, the parents are wrong. This is not always the case. "},{"Title":"Lane Meyer has a new name Hoops McCann. (spoilers)","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'One Crazy Summer' is something of a follow up to Director Savage Steve Holland's 1985 comedy, Better Off Dead. The situation is somewhat repeated in this movie, with John Cusak playing the innocent teen who's romantic quests are thwarted by an obnoxious blonde rival and his equally obnoxious father.John Cusak is Hoops McCann, legendary basketball player who has no skills whatsoever when it comes to the sport. Just like Lane Meyer in Better Off Dead, Hoops is good at cartooning, and his cartoons are used to help him sort out his dilemmas (well, as much as a cartoon can, anyway). Hoops, a fresh high school grad, joins his sloppy friend, George (you might remember actor Joel Murray as a recent sidekick in 'Dharma & Greg') at his grandmother's house near the beach. There, Hoops meets an aspiring lounge singer (Demi Moore in a role resembling that from 'No Small Affair') who is trying to raise money to save her grandfather's home from the likes of the fiendish rivals who want to knock it down and turn it into a luxury golf course. Hoops, the nice guy that he is, and all of his goofy friends (including the return of Curtis Armstrong and a supporting role by Bobcat Goldwaith), agree to do what they can to help out the girl.If you have seen Better Off Dead, you'll know to expect lots of stupid comedy and a great assortment of strange characters and subplots (including another strange sibling for Cusak's character, though not as weird as Badger in Better Off Dead). So, if you liked the first movie, you'll probably get a kick out of this one, though it doesn't have quite the same flare as its ancestor movie. And as always, if you enjoy early John Cusak comedy roles, this one is perfect for you. It is still a great 80s comedy. "},{"Title":"A Cool Summer flick to watch","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Somehow, One Crazy Summer is an escape of reality and into crazed fun. This is the kind of film where i didn't really care about what was happening because all i wanted was some laughs and i got plenty of laughs indeed. John Cusack, Jeremy Piven(John's best friend), Demi Moore, Bobcat Goldwaithe and Curtis Armstrong star in this movie about a bunch of teenage losers who help out a girl on getting her house before the rich snobs take it. Like i said, you won't care about the plot as long as you have fun watching something that is amuzing.3 stars. "},{"Title":"De Niro & Scorsese?  Nah, Cusack & Savage Steve Holland!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  ONE CRAZY SUMMER (1986) ** John Cusack, Demi Moore, Bobcat Goldthwait, Joel Murray, Tom Villard, Curtis Armstrong, Mark Metcalfe, Bill Hickey.  Savage Steve Holland strikes again with Cusack as an aspiring cartoonist who has a wild and wacky summer vacation with nutty friends and adventures including their half-witted attempt to help rocker Moore save her family's estate from greedy land developers.  More misses than hits yet Cusack is always fun to watch with his dead pan cool deliveries.  "},{"Title":"CRAZY MAN!!!!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Tthe guy from police academy is in this movie, the Dr. guy. He talks like mad, maybe like he head brain scan. John Cusack and Demi More are too good, I like them too much. They are also in the movie. The movie is like wild adventure or something, on a beach, and moves too fast, with cool music. The soundtrack should win a oscar, I think it is the greatest of all times. The shark, too is also very funny, and look better than the shark in Jaws 3D. I find it so hard to belive the movie was made in the 1980s, it looks so new and modern, like it was made yesterday. The beach and locashun, too, are also too nice. I think the costume guy should win a oscar, his job he did for the movie was too nice. "},{"Title":"Lightweight comedy with John Cusack and Demi Moore when they were still young and cute.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Demi Moore has a relatively minor role here, 4 years before her big hit Ghost, and before she had her boobs enhanced. She looked a lot more appealing this way.  She is a struggling singer, about to lose her home. Cusack helps out. Much of the movie reminded me of Revenge of the Nerds, where the nice guy underdogs had to compete against the rich, larger, better-looking guys. Lots of beach scenes, pretty girls in bikinis, lobsters in the rich guy's swimming pool.  A sailboat race, a nerd of a guy who sits at home for the big radio million-dollar giveaway, when he finally gets the call, he is so excited he pulls the phone cord out the wall and loses out.  Not a very intelligent film, but a good movie to watch during commercials of the golf telecast. "},{"Title":"One Crazy Summer is a good movie!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw One Crazy Summer was  in 1987 or 1988. Then the second I saw it  was in 1990 I think. It never really  gets tiresome. It's a funny, and entertaining  movie. Ever since I watched it for the  second time in 1990 I never really  got tired of it. It's just a movie you can  watch over, and over again. I give One Crazy  Summer *** out of **** "},{"Title":"People just don't know a great comedy when they see it!","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I seem to notice that a lot of people have never seen this movie, and those that have usually dismiss it as garbage... that's pretty bad really.The first time I saw this movie, I admittedly was almost one of those people... thank God I'm patient, otherwise I would have never found such a classic.As goofy as this movie is, it's also a must have for anyone who is either a fan of 80's movies, or just happens to have a sense of humor.I know that there are a lot of people out there that will tell you that this movie is sort of derivative of Better Off Dead... so what if it is? They were both excellent movies!I can honestly say that Savage Steve Holland is a genius! 10/10 "},{"Title":"One Crazy Comedy","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I cannot say enough good things about this movie.  From the warped mind of Savage Steve Holland comes this superior laughfest.  First, I have to say that I haven't seen many movies that start out with a David Lee Roth tune. This could be a good or bad thing.  The main character is John Cusack's character, who calls himself Hoops.  Which is a total oxymoron if you have seen his basketball skills in the movie.  This movie is all about leaving your troubles behind and getting away for the summer to Nantucket.  Hoops is afraid of boats, but has no choice when his friend George launches his clunker onto the ferry at the last minute.   He shacks up with future love interest Demi Moore, the worst actress in history.  But she is pretty young and 80's looking in this one.  They finally hit mainland and meet a whole host of odd characters.  Of these is Bobcat Golthwait and Dudley Dawson, from the Revenge of the Nerd flicks.  Hoops is still practicing his drawing and falling head over heels for a debutante named Cookie.  But Cookie has a muscle bound rich preppy ass boyfriend named Teddy.  And he has it out for Hoops and co.  As the plot thickens, Demi's character is about to lose her grandfathers house to the bank, so they decide to plan a benefit at a local dive.  You can just imagine Demi lipsyncing.  She ends up with plenty of money, but the bank has already sold the mortgage to the house.  The movie comes to a happy ending via boat race on the lovely waters of Nantucket. Cusack and co. build a riff raff boat and blow everyone out of the water, despite some unfair play along the way.  So they get the trophy, house, and Cusack ends up in a liplock with Demi.  Despite the cheesey story, there are some really funny moments in this one.  Some of my personal favorites are the guy getting stabbed during the hat toss at graduation, Uncle Frank getting launched out of the bathroom window, and Bobcat getting stuck in a Godzilla costume.  Also expect cameos from Rich Hall, Rich Little, and Taylor Negron.  I rate this movie 4/5 for the great comic moments and the fact that I grew up watching this one.   Very hard to find on dvd, and am not sure on bonus footage, but this is a comedy classic.  But I think Better off Dead is equal or a little less funnier.  Both have their moments.  And this was way before Cusack ruined his career doing Pushing Tin.  "},{"Title":"When the DVD commentary is funnier than the actual film...","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...you know something's up.The movie isn't all that bad.  It's got a number of humorous moments in it.  When it aired on HBO all those years ago I'd watch it to kill time, but I can't recall ever really laughing at the jokes and other gags (save the Godzilla scene).The film making style is professional enough, but also some what spartan, and the gags (like in Better Off Dead) are mostly telegraphed or trumped by the characters stating the obvious.  There's a distinct lack of coverage with a heavy reliance on master shots and the actors' performances to carry the scenes (again much like Holland's previous film Better Off Dead).Historical footnote; one could call this the origins of crude humor in film, but that might be giving it too much credit.I didn't find the movie all that funny way back then, and after seeing the DVD I still don't find it all that funny.  Still, it has a certain appeal to it.  It's worth a night's rental to see Bobcat Goldwaith if nothing else.  Not great, but a decent film all around. "}{"Title":"One Crazy Summer vs. Better Off Dead","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I watched this movie, I wasn't quite sure what to think. It is certainly reminiscent of Better Off Dead, with many of the same cast members, similar animation scenes, and the same writer and director. I adored the animated sequences (especially the one in the very beginning!) and Cusack's performances throughout the movie, but on a whole, I feel that Better Off Dead is probably the better film. One Crazy Summer's plot is sort of all over the place. It doesn't seem like the romance is built up as much as it should have been. My least favorite part of the movie, I think, is the inclusion of the Stork Brothers. While to some people they might be considered humorous, I thought they were a horrible parody of people who are mildly retarded. Perhaps that wasn't the intent, but it definitely came off that way to my companions and myself.In conclusion, I'd recommend this movie to big Cusack fans, but I'd also recommend keeping a remote in hand to fast forward through much of the movie. "},{"Title":"Obviously better if watched through rose-tinted specs...","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This comedy from Savage Steve Holland clearly holds nostalgic memories from some who were teens in the eighties, judging by the surprisingly high score it has on this site. Personally, I was expecting it to be skulking somewhere round the 3.9s, but that's nostalgia for you comes with its own rose-tinted spectacles.A young and thin John Cusack plays a would-be cartoonist who spends his summer holiday with a friend in Nantucket Island, where he discovers life is overshadowed by a power-mad megalomaniac who has plans to build a new development on land on which the ramshackle house newly-inherited by rock chick Demi Moore sits. Demi has to raise X amount by such-and-such a date otherwise the bulldozers are moving in.I wonder what John Cusack thinks when he looks back at stuff like this. Turns red with embarrassment, I shouldn't wonder; probably hides in the cupboard under the stairs whenever they show it on TV. And well he might, because there's not a lot to recommend here. While its young characters seem unusually untroubled by the typical distractions of sex and, well, more sex, for the most part the movie shares the same quality of comedy as its 1980s counterparts. And that level of quality, in case you didn't know, is pretty low. There are a couple of funny moments, but they're few and far between, and when the biggest laugh is reserved for Bobcat Goldthwaite dressed in a Godzilla suit as he rampages across a scale model of the proposed new development while a startled Japanese investor looks on, you know you'll miss little by hitting the 'off' button on your remote. "},{"Title":"Not so crazy, but still priceless","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Priceless. Savage Steve Holland's clever follow-up to his masterwork BETTER OFF DEAD. John Cusack once again comes through for Holland in the lead, a would-be artist summering on Nantucket with his lazy best friend. He tries to help singer Demi Moore(!) save her family's property from a deranged land baron. The Cusack/Moore romance is pretty lopsided but there are goofy scenes galore provided, for the most part, by Bobcat Goldthwait and Tom Villard as the Stork brothers. They're very funny. Mark Metcalf, essentially reprising his ANIMAL HOUSE/Doug Neidermeyer role is another big plus as the land baron. Joe Flaherty pops up as a far too eager troop leader. Part of the now classic Savage Steve Holland trilogy which includes BETTER OFF DEAD and HOW I GOT INTO COLLEGE. "},{"Title":"Underrated gem","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A very funny, warm hearted movie, it never fails to make me laugh when watching it. A shame it was never a bigger hit considering so many absolutely awful films did better. All the actors were brilliant in their roles. John Cusack, among a few of the others, has gone on to bigger films but for my mind, this is one of his best, along with Grosse Pointe Blank and Better Off Dead. Some great scenes, terrific lines and an explosively funny finale. The commentary on the DVD by Savage Steve Holland, Bobcat Goldthwaite and Curtis Armstrong is terrific as well. There's not many films you enjoy in your teens that you still love in your thirties and onwards, but this is one of them for me. A true gem.  "},{"Title":"Great flick!","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great flick for 3 reasons1.  John Cusack is in it.2.  The scene with the guy at the end when he wins the million dollar contest and then pulls his phone cord out of the wall.and3.  My brother's 5th grade teacher, Louis Dimeo, appeared as one of the regatta judges at the end. (It was a non-speaking part).  The story I heard was his brother in law or something was the associate producer - and that's how he got the part.  The movie did so well that I think he bought a new jag with the proceeds!! For the record I had this guy's wife for high school english..Tim L. Bristol, Connecticut "},{"Title":"Pretty good comedy, but not quite as good as Better Off Dead.","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is sort of similar to Better Off Dead as it has some of the same stars.  This one though isn't quite as good.  Granted it is rather funny and enjoyable, there is something about Better...that I like, well better.  This one has these guys going to Nantucket to spend there summer vacation.  While there they meet this girl who's trying to save here house from this guy who wants to turn it into a lobster restaurant.  This guy really doesn't seem to like lobsters, cause in one scene he sticks it into boiling water and puts in a stethoscope so he can hear it scream.  The main character is torn between this girl and the girl of the son of the guy who wants to make the restaurant.  Somehow or another this leads to a big boat race showdown, kind of like in Summer Rental though it works a bit better here and fits into the plot a little better.  Though what is the deal with boat races at this time?  Was there some weird fascination with them?  For the most part this movie delivers laughs at a good clip, but Better Off Dead was still better cause it was the first and the jokes worked better. "},{"Title":"One great time!  contains spoilers","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say about this movie except that it is great fun!John Cusack plays Hoops McCann a recent High School graduate who has two choices, learn to take up the family business of street sweeping or spend the summer at Nantucket with his pal George Calamari (played hilariously by Joel Murray) and his zany friends.When I say zany, believe me, it can't get much zanier than the Stork brothers, Egg (Bobcat Goldthwait) and Clay (Tom Villard) and Ack Ack Raymond (Curtis Armstrong). Throw in a little girl named Squid and her weirdo mutt and a great performance by Demi Moore and you have the makings of a split your sides laughing, movie.The laughs flow freely in this movie and the story line, though the typical good versus bad and good conquers, is great with the twist of a regatta as the showdown.I would recommend this movie for anyone who likes loads of laughs and a feel good time. If you like to thoroughly *enjoy* your movies, then you can't miss One Crazy Summer! "},{"Title":"Here Is Something New.......A Teen Movie From the 1980s.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yet another in the seemingly endless stream of teen movies produced in the 1980s. One Crazy Summer is one of the better films of the poor genre as two friends (John Cusack and Joel Murray, Bill's younger brother) go off on vacation after their high school graduation. They and several new friends do their best to help out Demi Moore, who is in need of money to keep a family business open. Bobcat Goldthwait, Curtis Armstrong and William Hickey are among the others in the likeable cast. Overall the film is watchable, but nothing to write home about. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Another reason to love the Eighties","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  John Cusack stars as Hoops in this silly little movie that has to be one of the best of the eighties teen comedies.Believe it or not Demi Moore is his co star...If you love the eighties,grew up around that time,or are an angst ridden teenage artist get ready to laugh.Wait until you see the cartoons..what a riot.... "},{"Title":"Chaos on Nantucket. Goofy comedy.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Very good cast of cut ups for a goof ball, high spirited comedy. John Cusack plays an art student with his mind set on being a cartoonist. He spends his vacation on Nantucket Island in New England with some pretty strange and wacky friends. The adorable Demi Moore is a struggling singer that needs help saving her family's property from a greedy property developer. With his heartstrings humming, Cusack joins his pals in aiding the stressed singer. Along with Cusack and Moore are Curtis Armstrong, Joe Flaherty, John Matuzak, Bob Goldthwait and Joel Murray. Moore of course does a super job; and Cusack is on the edge of his future stardom in more meatier roles. Cool soundtrack features the sounds of ZZ Top, The Beach Boys, Eurythmics, David Lee Roth and Miss Moore's sizzling Don't Come Back. "}{"Title":"Holland's Second Film Fails","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Savage Steve Holland wrote and directed his second film, One Crazy Summer, with John Cusack and Curtis Armstrong again in a supporting role. Cusack and Bobcat Goldthwait are recent graduates headed to Cape Cod in order to stay at Goldthwait's grandmother's for the summer. Along the way, they bump into Demi Moore being pursued by John Matuszak and a motorcycle gang. Soon the three are united in trying to save a house from being turned into another lobster restaurant by a conniving, spoiled family that considers work a dirty word. The film contains several funny vignettes like the millionaire dollar radio contest gags and the Godzilla skit.Like Holland's first film, Better Off Dead, John Cusack adds immeasurably to the film. Otherwise, this is a dud of a film filled with contrived situations and idiotic characters (as opposed to quirky). Moore even sings a few bars in a nightclub with some horrible synthesizers. Goldthwait's gags wear thin after awhile, and Armstrong never was an actor of any caliber to appear in anything except grade Z stuff. The tow truck twins are extremely annoying and obnoxious instead of the endearing underdogs they're obviously meant to be. This is more of a hit or miss, kitchen sink comedy which could have used a better script and direction. *1/2 of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Oh My","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I read all of the (mostly) positive reviews, I went out and rented this movie last night.  I love John Cusack and loved Better Off Dead and when I heard One Crazy Summer resembled that movie I was sold.  I have to say I was doing plenty of laughing, but it was more out of embarrassment for renting the movie and making my boyfriend sit through it, than from the movie being funny.  It was really bad.  There were a few funny moments, but not worth sitting through the entire movie for.  It tried too hard and failed miserably.  I usually enjoy movies from the 80's, but this one just didn't do it for me. "}]