[{"Title":"Romantic comedy about young love.","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"57 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Writer John Hughes has the 80's pegged. But this story could have been set in the 50's or 60's and still worked well. That is why I think this movie is so relevant. Devotion, friendship, and self worth are quizzed. The young actors were better than expected. I have watched this over a dozen times and I don't care if some people refer to this as a chick flick.A young girl falls in love with a boy from the other side of the tracks. Problems occur when his peers think the object of his desires is socially beneath him. Molly Ringwald was very good. Andrew McCarthy and Jon Cryer seemed to feel their part more than the rest of the cast. But James Spader was such a realistic jerk, you want to get up and punch his face in. Harry Dean Stanton and Annie Potts play the adult roles of substance. Have you ever seen Stanton so sympathetic? A very upbeat soundtrack keeps the movie flowing and helps you feel the atmosphere. Don't write this off as just another teen movie. Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"John Hughes knows the 80's!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"53 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is hard to believe that this was 13 years ago.  Has it really been that long since we said goodbye to the Brat-Pack?  When I watched Pretty In Pink it made me laugh, but more importantly it brought me back to a time that was fun, had less pressure ( in some ways ), and there were a plethora of films that were made aimed at us teens.  The early 80's will at least partly be remembered as a time when teen flicks ruled.  Everything from Fast Times and Porky's to The Breakfast Club and Pretty In Pink, they were all there and they all tried to do the same thing.  Entertain.  Sure John Hughes always seemed to have some heavy issues in his films, but ultimately his films were there for us to enjoy for 90 minutes.  Pretty In Pink is one of the best at accomplishing that.What makes this film such the standout that it is, is everything really. The actors were fresh and cool.  The dialogue was smart and easy for us to relate to.  The situations of love covered areas that we have probably all been through.  There was the unobtainable love that just seemed like a fantasy.  There was the two really good friends, one male and one female, that just weren't meant to be lovers and the heartbreak that one is inevitably going to experience.  There was perhaps not being accepted by your love interests peers and so on.  Watching this film I could understand how Duckie felt.  I could feel his anger when he watches his best friend, and his secret love interest, date the personification of what ( and Andie ) consider the personification of snobbery.  She has probably complained many a night about how she is tired of being treated unfairly just because she wasn't born with a silver spoon in her mouth, and now she dates one.  I could feel Ducky's pain.  And that can be attributed to John Hughes for writing a brilliant script, but also to Jon Cryer for making his character what he is.  You can sense his insecurities and his undying devotion to a girl that he knows he will probably never get.  And when he sits with Andies dad and chats about love, there is one of the greatest lines in the film. Jack ( Harry Dean Stanton ) tells him that you can't force love, it is either goging to happen or it isn't.  You can't control these things.  And that is what makes love so painful.  While you may be perfect for someone, that someone wants the perfection of someone else.  And that sucks, love's a bitch Duck.  Love's a bitch.Pretty In Pink epitomizes everything that made the 80's a great time for teen flicks.  Secret loves, proms, a great soundtrack and John Hughes. What more can you ask for?  This is one of the best.     "},{"Title":"No to Duckie or Blane, Si to Steff","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"81 out of 120 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Possible spoilers To hell with the Duckie vs. Blane question. Steff's the only interesting one. 1. He's fearless Duckie's afraid to tell Andie he loves her, Blane's afraid of his friends, but Steff walks up and hits on her right in front of his friends without caring what they'll think. He exploits Blane's shame about Andie but clearly feels no shame himself.2. Duckie's suffering puppy love, Blane's just curious, but Steff has been after Andie for years. When he says it's not *only* for sex, he's probably telling the truth, in his own sarcastic way. Key scene, when Blane and Andie walk in on Steff and Benny Bimbo, and Steff clearly wishes he were with the hot geeky girl, instead of the vapid blonde, even if Benny is better-looking, sexually available, and approved by his friends. And it's not only the challenge attracts him to Andie despite his arrogance, he's probably been turned down before. He just suspects that with Andie, he'd have something real, and with Benny, whether her ecstasy is real or faked, it will be conducted according to Cosmo. 3. He's willing to fight for what he wants, i.e., sabotaging Andie's relationship with Blane. OK, he's fighting dirty--but he's fighting at all. The others are about as decisive as Hamlet. Right, enough deep thought devoted to what should probably be regarded as another teen movie. I give full credit to Spader, who fleshed out what could have been a one-dimensional baddie by making him really interested in Andie in his own sociopathic way, instead giving lip-service to a script that could have been played with the character being vicious solely out of hurt pride and snobbery. "},{"Title":"A cute love story spoiled by a slightly disappointing ending.","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"50 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  PRETTY IN PINK is the tale of an original, but slightly outcast, girl named Andie Walsh (Molly Ringwald) who is from the poorer part of her town. She never minded this until one day when the rich, preppy Blane McDonnagh (Andrew McCarthy) asks her if she'd like to go out sometime. All of Blane's rich preppy friends immediately disapprove, and Andie gets caught in the middle when her own best friend Duckie (Jon Cryer) disapproves as well. Andie decides to go out with Blane anyway, although their first date ends up being somewhat of a disaster. Blane takes Andie to his friend Steff's (James Spader) house party, where nearly everyone snubs her, and Andie is embarrassed to let Blane see where she lives and what kind of house it is. In the end, Andie has to decide whether pursuing potential love is worth the humiliation she receives from everyone else for doing so.PRETTY IN PINK is the last of the three famous Molly Ringwald-John Hughes collaborations, and is also the least favorable, in my opinion. Which is not to say that it's not a good movie, though. While its two predecessors dealt more with status and popularity issues, this movie deals with a more serious topic of class differences. However, I find this to be a pretty unrealistic scenario by today's standards and not very easy to relate to, in my case at least. However, the whole concept of two lovers dating despite their differences and everyone else's disapproval is pretty cool and receives my commendation. The ending, though, is a bit of a disappointment.What I really commend the movie on, however, is its portrayal of what love is really like. It manages to show just how beautiful it can be at times, and just how destructive it is most of the time. Having experienced something similar to Andie's struggle, I have to say that that feature of the movie made it a lot more personable and relatable for me, taking on a deeper meaning than it probably would for others who haven't experienced such a battle.As far as technical aspects go... well, what can you say. The acting is terrific, namely from the always-great Molly Ringwald and the spectacularly wacky Jon Cryer as the film's most memorable character by far, Duckie. Jon Cryer easily delivers the film's best performance, along with most of its best lines. Annie Potts is also wonderful and funny as Andie's coworker Iona. John Hughes was a great director, even though his area of expertise was '80s teen movies--but, let's face it, no one could have done them better.To wrap it up, PRETTY IN PINK is a cute love story with fantastic acting and characters that manages to capture a bit of the true essence of love, even if it is a bit disappointing in the end. 7/10. "},{"Title":"80s teen classic illustrates some impressive talent.","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  PRETTY IN PINK and Molly Ringwald were to the 80s, as CLUELESS and Alicia Silverstone is to the 90s. An excellent cast and some fine acting were guaranteed enough to have branded this a teenage classic from the 80s. They don't make good movies like this anymore! The clever talent from John Hughes doesn't just mean it's a far-out comedy, but he expresses the problems of young love from central character Ringwald that sound dramatic and satirizing. In other words, a girl-meets-boy story that offers a wide spectrum of situations that are confronted in the real world. Like I already said, the cast is exceptional, including the sensational Jon Cryer doing a lip-synching of that familiar tune from THE COMMITMENTS. Annie Potts is a pure delight at changing one wig after the next (what a nice impersonation of Audrey Hepburn!). The movie wouldn't have been anywhere near complete without the memorable hit tune If You Leave (Orchestral Manoevers In The Dark). While the end has a hard time getting things straight, there is a valuable moment that caresses deeply. From start to finish, this one still holds up against the recent string of teen pictures that aren't as cool or refreshing (CLUELESS and REALITY BITES are the exceptions). A movie like this is great when it's not so raunchy. "},{"Title":"Gotta love the 80's","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An 80's movie.  You have to love them.  This is one of the few that do have a slight twist on the ending though.  I like this film for many reasons.  Molly Ringwald is the queen of the teen movies in the 80's.  She is a must watch in all of these classic films.  I also loved the fact that you got to see some later on famous stars appear in this film like Kristy Swanson and Gina Gershon.  Neither really had any lines but they were in it.  Make sure to see this movie if you get a chance.  Romance or not, it is a good film. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Hughes knows the 80's.  And this proves it.  The film is a drama/comedy about a teenage girl and her problems in social and family life.  Though I am a guy, I identified with a lot of the problems and I thought there was so much to like in this film.  It's just that this is a little softer than the other Hughes films.  Maybe cause he didn't direct it.  Molly Ringwald gives her best yet and Harry Dean Stanton has never been more tender.  Good 80's film, but not in the best column.  By the way, Andrew Dice Clay appears as a bouncer, so pay attention to his part which highlights the film for me. A "},{"Title":"A Classic Teen Flick","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  PRETTY IN PINKSTARRING  MOLLY RINGWALD, ANDREW MCCARTHYMolly Ringwald plays Andie, a poor girl who lives with her father after her mother left them. She falls in love with a richie, as she calls him, named Blane (who is played by Andrew McCarthy) but the pressure of friends is in the way of their relationship being perfect. Meanwhile, Andie's best friend Duckie is declaring even more his undying love for her.Pretty in Pink is one of those great teen movies that only comes along once. It has a fantastic sound track, cute guys, a great leading lady and a clever plot with some of the most romantic movie scenes of its time. It defines the 80s high school years with its cliques, which still are around until this day, and the problems that occur when you fall in love with someone else on the other side of the tracks. I give this movie **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie of All Time!","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. Let me tell you why. First off, the cast Molly Ringwald, Andrew McCarthy, Jon Cryer, James Spader, Annie Potts, etc all bring their own special something to the movie. Jon Cryer in particular is perfect for the character of Duckie, an angst-ridden teen who yearns for Andie (Molly Ringwald). They had a special showing of this movie in a theater in Orlando that I went to, and Duckie still to this day, had the whole audience laughing.I definitely recommend the soundtrack. It seems like every time I watch this movie (and I've seen it so many times) I find something new about it that I like even more. It's just such a cool movie about being independent and your own person. This is Molly's best role yet. Yes, her fashion is very outdated, but you have to realize that this was the 80's and Molly was trying to show her own uniqueness.I love the fact that Andie works at a record store, Trax, with punked-out Iona (Annie Potts)who is her confidant and funny to boot. The record store seems like a place you would find one day and just feel special for knowing it's there. I love her pink car. I love the club they go to and the Rave-Ups that play on-stage.In conclusion, this is a fabulous movie. Especially if you love the 80's! "},{"Title":"A girl from the wrong side of the tracks and her complicated life","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie set in the mid 80s era of brat-pack movies is a unique shining star. Molly Ringwald is Andie a girl from the wrong side of the tracks who has romantic interests from both sides of the spectrum; Duckie (Jon Cryer) who's puppy dog love for her is both sweet and endearing to watch, and Blane (Andrew McCarthy) the rich guy who has everything going for him. What follows is Andie having to deal with this, the bitchy cheerleader type girls at school, her loving but dishonest father (An excellent Harry Dean Stanton) and through all this will she get an invitation to the prom? This is a great film with both Blane and Andie having to deal with their friends disagreeing with their relationship. Steff (James Spader at one of his very best) Blane's best friend, who tries to make Blane decide between Andie and himself when really he just wants a finger in the pie. Annie Potts as Iona, Andie's quirky older best friend is excellent and her weird and orginal costume changes throughout the movie are a high-point. This is an emotionally raw film a rarity at the time it was made. If you ask me this should have swept the Oscar nominations with Molly Ringwald getting Best Actress, but hey regardless of the miss of Oscars, watch this, it is a powerful film and a great piece of film making "}{"Title":"Pink for a girl OR a boy, apparently!","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a typical teen dilemma story at its heart, one which I somewhat suspect I watched far more often than is healthy when I was a young boy aged six or so. Guys be warned - that's what having a sister who is eight years older gets you when you're growing up... Anyway, I'm sure this film added to my gender confusion as a kid and turned me into the mild-mannered softie that I am today!Having to watch it so often during the early stages of my development might have been far more damaging to me if everything about the film didn't suggest that its heart was in the right place. John Hughes was lucky enough to have a fantastic cast gathered together who help to breathe life into his writing. Ringwald especially was a terrific teen actress to snag for this type of material, because there was no-one who could do 'vulnerable' better than her at the time. If the audience connects with your lead character then it gradually becomes a trickle-down effect, which must be a tremendous help for the supporting players, too. Throw in Andrew McCarthy at the height of his powers before his career went into free-fall, plus sidekick duties performed by a young and zany Jon Cryer, and that's a winning trio you have. It doesn't matter that the crises don't add up to much when you think about it, as long as they're sold to us in a way we can identify with.So far so snug, then. The only glitch appears in the resolution, where our heroine is encouraged to give up her individuality and that of her friend as a way for her to be finally accepted into 'the cool crowd'... What?! That isn't a fairytale ending, it's a graceful swan-dive toward conformity! It's not a message I expected Hughes to be advocating, and it taints the wholesomeness of the tale a little bit. Aside from that blip so close to the finishing line, however, this is an unashamedly feel good movie that won't corrupt impressionable young minds and is a unisex bit of fun. (Or at least that very last part is what I tell myself, anyway... -) ) "},{"Title":"Very confusing... and a bit frustrating too","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok for starters I would just like to break down the summary on the back of my video. SPOILER WARNINGHe's a rich heartthrob and she's a poor girl from the wrong side of the tracks...POOR?! POOR!? She lives in a HOUSE, they have TWO cars and a dog (a big one at that) and still she's poor? Then what am I, living in an apartment, no car and a little cat? Sounds to me like I might as well be on the streets....they face the peer pressure...HUH? There were only TWO people that had any real objections to Blane and Andie and those were; Steff (who was mad Andie wouldn't date him) and Duckie (who was also mad Andie wouldn't date him). Other than that I don't see what peer pressure they're talking about. Betty? She didn't like Andie anyway, and from the looks of it she was no friend of Blane's.But leaving these two facts aside the movie is pretty enjoyable, except for the pairing of Andie and Blane, but that's mostly because I do not think Andie deserves Blane, no way. And that's no being prejudice or anything it's that I'm no fan of Molly Ringwald and big fan of Andrew McCarthy.Plus I don't think I even have to comment on the fact that Andie was so NOT pretty in pink. What was she wearing to the prom, a garbage bag?The real highlights of this movie are Steff (with Blane) and Duckie. Furthermore Steff seems to be the only one with a smidge of common sense. All in all maybe you have to be American to understand the whole 'peer pressure' 'poor' sorta thing but no matter how cliché this movie gets I still find myself watching it almost once a week. So it must've done something right. "},{"Title":"Pretty Movie","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I spent my formative years in the 80's and vaguely remember this flick the first time around. So it was that almost 20 years after first seeing it I sat down to relive those 80's memories and reflect on the time in between. It is billed as a comedy but it's not exactly a side splitter. Romance, OK boy meets girl, boy loses girl due to peer pressure, boy gets girl back by admitting his mistake - standard formula. What I do love about this movie though is the soundtrack - there are some classic 80's tracks here o) This is one of those movies where I'd love to see the alternative ending where Ducky gets the girl. As I sat through all Ducky's failed advances it reminded me of a recent 'chase' of mine. Seems I'm destined to always be a Ducky! P.S. For those who watched 'Not Another Teen Movie' you'll get why Molly Ringwald was in it! "},{"Title":"One word DUCKIE.","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pretty In Pink is not my favorite of John Hughes's movies, but I still like it nonetheless. PIP is about an unpopular high school senior, Andie, played by the 80s Teen Movie Queen, Molly Ringwald, who comes from the wrong side of the tracks. Her father is unemployed and she goes to a school full of rich preppies. Her best friend is Duckie, played by the hilarious, wise-cracking Jon Cryer, who has secretly loved and admired Andie since they were kids.Unfortunately, Andie falls in love with a dull, inept, boring character named Blane played by Andrew McCarthy, who is one of the rich preppies at her high school. I have to admit, Mr. McCarthy has never been an actor that I have liked (Mannequin was absolutely dumb and horrible and Weekend at Bernie's was even worse). It could have been because of this that I did not empathize with Blane at all, or because his part was written in such a way that was so painful to watch, even for all of Hughes's talent, he could not salvage such an uninteresting character.James Spader was not bad as Blane's smarmy friend Steff who tries to destroy Andie and Blane's romance out of jealousy. Annie Potts as Iona - great! Especially at the beginning of the movie when we are first introduced to her, she wearing the spiky punk hairdo and the fantastic jet black 80s jumper. Way cool. I was kind of bummed out when Iona is reminiscing in her apartment about her prom back in the 60s, and then later when she changes to become more conservative for a man she is dating. I preferred the 80s Iona much more, but Potts's Iona was a great character role and a perfect foil for Andie.And of course, there is Duckie. Duckie, besides the lead character Andie, is probably the most interesting and likable character in the film. Sure, he seemed needy, desperate, and lonely at times, but in a very cute and sympathetic way. He seemed like a very quirky, funny, slightly nerdy, but fun person to hang around with, but maybe not necessarily someone who's a babe magnet like Steff or Blane, but he had the real charm. He was someone who was down-to-earth and not concerned with being an eye-candy stud whose main mission in life was to get a lot of girls. The lip-synching scene in the record store was classic. Personally, I thought Andie was crazy - who couldn't see that this guy was madly in love with her? Who wouldn't want a guy so devoted and romantic as he was? *sigh*****SPOILERS AHEAD****Of course I was upset that Andie and Duckie did not end up together, but perhaps they would not have been happy with each other. Andie only thought of Duckie as her best friend anyway, and even though Duckie loved Andie so much, perhaps she would have broken his heart because her feelings were not the same for him. I wish that he had only told her how he felt, even though she may have disappointed him by saying she didn't feel the same way, at least he would have known.Blane was a coward despite his turnaround at the last minute. The peer pressure of high school can be a great influence, and in Blane's case it was for the worse. Hughes had said he changed the ending so Andie and Blane would end up together because he didn't want people to think poor and rich people belonged together. Sure, that's a nice idea, but I think maybe over time Blane and Andie would have not been happy either. They were from two different worlds. But who knows? Maybe it would have worked. It was a disappointment seeing Blane and Andie end up together anyway.Worth watching if you are a John Hughes fan. The soundtrack is fantastic, as most music soundtracks from the 80s were. I give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"charming cliché's","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen all John Hughes movies from the 80s starring Molly Ringwald and you can't really watch them without comparing them. Sixteen candles is more of a pure teen-comedy with a big house party followed by a hangover-morning, and Breakfast Club is the most serious one and, as far as I'm concerned, the most distinctive of the Brat-pack movies.Breakfast Club is the one I like the most, but Pretty in pink is also a very good movie. Molly plays (as always) a very unusual girl who lives with her lazy but very caring father (Harry Dean Stanton). She has only two real friends and one of them is a guy called Duckie. Duckie is kind of a geek and Jon Cryer does this part so good you don't even miss Anthony Michael Hall a bit. Molly also works in a record store owned by her other friend played by Annie Potts. Molly falls in love with a rich and popular guy (McCarthey) who has mutual feelings. The story is very cliché with a rich guy and a poor girl from two opposite sides of society who falls in love, causing disappointments among their old friends. Duckie is really hurt and McCarthey's best friend tells him to drop Molly, mostly caused by jealousy in this case. This jealous friend is played by James Spader and he is very good at playing bad. The cliché's are told with charm and intelligence though (like Mischief) and some scenes almost brings tears to the eyes. (I wonder if the movie would have been even better if Hughes had directed it himself!?) Anyway, it's a sweet story with many wonderful actors typical of the 80s. Remember to look for a very young and very gorgeous Gina Gershon as a High School girl. The only thing I miss is a great song or two, like the ones in Sixteen candles and Breakfast club. Otherwise if you're crazy like me about the movies from the 80s I see no reason to skip this one. This movie also has one of the most clever titles ever.      "},{"Title":"One of my least favorite","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely adore John Hughes' insight into teen angst, love, relationships, and overall experiences, I feel that Pretty In Pink was his weakest.  The characters, all except Duckie, were incredibly weak, and just when you thought Andie was going to rise above it all and make a grand entrance with her pink dress, she wussed out and it took the encouragement and support of Duckie to get her in the dance.Furthermore, it lacked the element of hope present in the other movies. In The Breakfast Club, it was their experiences with others that made them so prejudiced toward each other, and in Sixteen Candles, it was Samantha's own insecurities that hindered her efforts, but in Pretty In Pink, it was a direct hit from Blane that Andie had to sustain yet she went back to him. Why? Not because of hope, but because of weakness.  In the others, it was hope.  Hope that issues could be overcome.  Pretty in Pink started with that message, but ended up being so cliche it was tough to stomach. "},{"Title":"Taps into areas most films won't go near.","Date":"19 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although John Hughes didn't direct this film, his steady hand is evident all throughout in this much more serious story about a poor girl and a rich guy who want to be together despite all odds against them. Despite the more serious tone of this movie, it still has some funny and touching scenes, most of them featuring Duckie, the best friend of Andie and perhaps the man that truly loves her. However, she has her heart set on Blane, the rich preppie who claims he doesn't act like his snobbish friends do but it is hard to tell at times.What makes this movie so great is how it is willing to treat all these kids as adults in real situations and real emotions. The acting accentuates these overtones with Molly Ringwald in perhaps her most sophisticated role, Jon Cryer as the lovable Duckie, Andrew McCarthy as Blane, and James Spader in a perfectly devilish role as Steff, the worst of the bunch by so smooth and relentless, it is hard not to be impressed by him. All in all, this is one of the better 1980s teen movies and one that I think people will remember more fondly as it isn't so overtly unique that people can relate to the characters and feel for them. Unfortunately, it was essentially the end of the Molly Ringwald-era, but her memory in these three Hughes movies will always stay with us. "},{"Title":"Brat Pack at its best","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *WARNING SPOLIERS AHEAD*This film is the best movie to feature they actors now referred to as the Brat Pack (James Spader, Molly Ringwald, Andrew McCarthy). This is one of my favorite movies. At this point I would like to say that I am a red blooded male and my favorite film is Fight Club. I do not like chick flicks but this film is pretty good. This high school drama/comedy is about Andie (Molly Ringwald), a beautiful and smart girl from a poor family (her father doesnt have a job). This may not seem like a big deal, but the fact that shes poor makes her a social outcast. She hangs out with people like her, including her best friend Duckie (John Cryer in his signature role). Duckie is COMPLETELY devouted to her. Anyone who watches them for a minute can tell that he is in love with her (and he even admits this) but she does not see it. She has eyes only for Blane (Andrew McCarthy in a role he was born to play). Blane is the Romeo to her Juliet. He is rich , attractive, popular, and has everything going for him. He too hangs out with his own kind because unlike her, he is rich and accepted by the in crowd. However, he is different from the crowd he hangs with. He is a kind, good hearted guy. He notices Andie's feelings, and indeed he finds himself returning her feelings. They fall for each other but discover that their frinds and the outside world will not let them be together. Both of their best friends hate the fact that Blane and Andie like each other (Blane's best friend Steph hates her b/c he wanted to hook up w/ her but she shot him down) and Blane ends up avoiding her, which breaks her heart. He had asked her to the prom but he takes it back , saying he already asked someone else. You can clearly tell that this is killing him and he wants to be w/ her but he knows the real world will not let them be together. Finally, at the prom, Blane confronts her and says one of the most romantic lines to her in any movie. He knows that he screwed up and that he loves her. She knows this too and runs after him and they kiss, ending up together. All in all, a good film. Very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"I LOVE the Ending!","Date":"3 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was worried how this excellent picture was going to finish would Molly Ringwald's character end up with cute Duckie (Jon Cryer) or beautiful blazing blue-eyed Blane (Andrew McCarthy) in the final, famous prom scene? It's set to the magnificent If You Leave a quintessential 1980s tune, by OMD. Without giving anything away here, as per the DVD special features, the original ending was re-shot when test audiences did not like the finale. They were dead right. Pretty in any color Ringwald portrays a teen-aged girl called Andie from the wrong side of the tracks (literally) living with her broken-down father (Harry Dean Stanton), whose wife ditched them. Andie tries to fit in with her high school peers, which includes a snooty rich dude (James Spader), his also well-to-do friend (McCarthy), who is taken by the engaging Ringwald. Cryer, as Duckie is smitten with Ringwald, and is also on the poor side. Annie Potts is wacky and fun as a record-store owner, while Cryer shines in a lip-sync act in the store. What scene that I didn't expect and is a true highlight is when Blane asks Andie to the prom after a difficult first date and she plants a big kiss on him and it was amazing; very last scene in car parking lot will still warm your heart. This was written by John Hughes and could be his best film, direction by Howard Deutch is wonderful, musical score couldn't be better, all the leads extraordinary, especially Ringwald. She cites this as her favorite of her films, and can be assured of her place in Hollywood as THE icon of the teen 1980s. "},{"Title":"Why the heck choose Andrew McCarthy?","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Hughes wrote and produced the follow-up to his great The Breakfast Club, and while it again doesn't hit the mark as the middle film, it's still another entertaining 80's teen romantic comedy. Hughes muse Molly Ringwald is Andie a girl from the wrong side of the tracks with an eccentric fashion sense who falls for a rich guy, Andrew McCarthy. The trials and tribulations of high school life, dating etc are played out in the well-paced 90 minute running time. I find these films fascinating because while I can relate to many of the characters and adolescent situations (who can't!) my high school life was very different from what seems to be the American experience. Maybe it's because my high school only had 350 people, but we never had the cliques. In Australia we don't have the proms (perhaps that is a good thing), the cheer squad, the jocks parading around the school in their football jumpers. It's much less socially demanding.Big question for John Hughes though why the hell make Ringwald end up with McCarthy? Oh I get that McCarthy was a huge teen heartthrob back in the 80's (he doesn't do anything for me though, yuck) but his character is so lame. Duckie (Jon Cryer) may be borderline obsessive about Andie, but he's much more winning than Blane. is in there too as Steff, the high school rich guy who treats everyone like crap, but is also possibly in love with Ringwald. Come to think, Steff should have got with Andie. 7 "}{"Title":"This one nailed the 80's","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Hughes had his finger on the pulse of what it was like to be a teen in the 1980's. Segmented clique's galore, shy insecurity, shallow rich kids, nerds, and everything in between. What made this film great, as well as Hughes' other teen films was the portrayal of characters and the social stratification of the time. Believe it or not, these films, in a very real way were socially significant. Sure, the stories were a bit hokey, but the characters, and the depiction of their lifestyles were quite brilliant. Hughes also had a knack for including some of the best, non mainstream, music of the era in all his films (of course many of the songs he used were the ones that defined real music of the 80's). I don't believe anyone before him has been able to accomplish such a task with a timepiece during the actual time (read real time) as Hughes did. The only one to do it since (in a radically different way mind you) was Nikki Reid in Thirteen. "},{"Title":"Favorite Quote/Scene","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just watched it last night for the first time in forever, one of my favorite quotes is from Duckie when he's talking to Andie's Father, and he tells Duckie that he can't make her love him it has to be in her heart, and Duckie's all 'oh yes, cardiovascular, I know'.That cracked me up.  There's more I just can't stop thinking about that one right now.  One of my favorite scenes if not my absolute favorite is when Duckie lipsynches and dances, that was totally classic. Also when Duckie just went off on Steff, man I think we all felt his rage at that moment.  I think Blaine should've gone off on him a bit as well. "},{"Title":"Romantic Movie that has an 80s theme","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie would be forgettable, without Molly Ringwald, and John Cryer. They made the movie come alive.The plot is fairly well re-tread story, told many times since the dawn of mankind. The story relates to a class struggle between the rich and the poor and much like Romeo and Juliet, or Pride and Prejudice, we have two people trying to bridge the gap. We see the difficulties with trying to do that.Finally we get the ending, that audiences picked, but the writer, John Hughes did not intend. They way it was filmed, it looks very contrived and needed a lot more thought in the way it was written. It would be the ending I would pick, but not the way they wrote and filmed it.John Cryer cuts loose with some pretty good performances throughout the movie, and Molly, is very pretty and appears as the perfect role model for her time. We know that her character will not make a choice that is not popular with audiences.The music is very 80s, with three New Order songs, all very synthesized techno-pop and from the portion of these songs that is in the movie, they sound like instrumentals. As it stands, they are not bad songs, but, New Order has much better sounding music. There is a decent Title Theme, played twice in the movie. However, there is an overplayed song at the ending (If You Leave) which just goes on and on and on, endlessly until finally the movie ends. "},{"Title":"Charming high school drama","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Charming high school drama, but you expect nothing less from writer John Hughes.Sums up well the anxieties and politics of high school. Also has a bit of a comment on social status and class divides.Mostly a romantic drama, but has its comedic moments.On the negative side, feels a bit formulaic. Also not as deeply emotional, or complex as some of Hughes other 80s movies. Plus, some of the characters were felt unrealistic and contrived. Jon Cryer's character was particularly annoying.Good performance by Molly Ringwald, a regular in John Hughes movies, in the lead role. As mentioned, Jon Cryer is annoying. Good support from Harry Dean Stanton, Andrew MacCarthy, James Spader and Annie Potts. "},{"Title":"Evokes a feeling of the eighties and more","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When one thinks of teenage films of the 1980s, films directed by John Hughes often come to mind. Most of his films from that decade capture teenage angst of the time, as seen in Pretty in Pink (1986). This film, like many of his other works, feature an interaction and clash of social and economic groups and contemporary topics such as dating.Hughes's unique directorial style shines through in his works. Proud of his Chicago roots, Hughes filmed Pretty in Pink and other works, including Ferris Bueller's Day Off (1986), in Chicago and the North Shore area. Actors, including Molly Ringwald, often starred in many of his films. Hughes also used contemporary pop songs, such as OMD's If You Leave, and other 1980s music in order to transition into the next scene or change the mood. Much of the music features synthesizers, further emphasizing Hughes's association with 80s pop culture. Pretty in Pink also demonstrates growth made by Hughes. His films start to lean towards teenage angst. Characters belonging to other social groups start to interact. This is especially evident in The Breakfast Club, a Hughes film that features stereotypical high schoolers that become friends after spending one Saturday in detention. Hughes's films feature an overcoming of prejudice and social norms of the 1980s. Hughes uses filmic devices not featured in Pretty in Pink. In Ferris Bueller's Day Off the fourth wall is often broken and also features footage during and after the credits. In Weird Science (1985), the story in the film concludes with a freeze frame before the credits start to scroll down over it.Pretty in Pink captures the mood of the 1980s. It utilizes music of the time; a record shop also serves as one of the settings in the film. Hughes shows the audience teenage life through his own eyes; he often uses high schools and shopping malls in the North Shore area as settings for his works. Many of Hughes's works feature dating and teenage angst. What sets this film apart from Hughes's other works is the focus on love and the many suitors attempting to attract Ringwald's character's attention. What also sets it apart from the others is the use of this conflict to display social clashes. Pretty in Pink demonstrates that love can bring together people of different social groups and initiate an attempt to understand people's mindsets and point of view. "},{"Title":"This movie was more than I hoped for","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was so much more than what I had expected. I had never under-estimated the movie. However, I never imagined I would enjoy it as much as I did. Romance,drama, solid plot.What I found wonderful was that,in the movie, it was so realistic. It wasn't the main character,Andie, sitting home and crying and things be an unrealistic drama. It was this main character fighting back yet still watching the social differences between her and other people. I think that this movie is for most ages.What I also loved about this movie is that it represented the main character,Andie, as smart,strong,pretty,level-headed. It was the movie that broke the rule you can't have beauty and brains. This a must-watch for everyone and make sure you,too,take the time to watch it! "},{"Title":"Classic for a Reason...","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I put on Pretty in Pink for the first time, not knowing exactly what to expect. Everyone's heard of it, heard the title at least. It's considered a classic by most teens of that age, and even still be many teens today. And after watching it, I have to say it definitely deserves to be.This is a great movie. A story about a poor girl who falls for the rich hunk who's crushing on her, only to be caught between a feud of sorts because of the two sides (rich, poor) disagreeing with the relationship. It doesn't help that her best friend is in love with her too. The film's touching and funny story, superb cast, and great message are all wonderful. John Hughes does an excellent job of creating a film that will last forever as a classic example of American film-making. He owes a lot to his pitch-perfect cast. Molly Ringwald is perfectly believable and understandable in the lead role of Andie. Andrew McCarthy and Annie Potts are good too in the role of the love-struck hunk and Andie co-worker/friend, respectively. But it's Jon Cryer as Andie's best friend Duckie who steals the show completely. Could he be any more adorable??? His character is spot-on, and though I'm sure he wasn't even considered, I really thought his performance was Oscar-Worthy. He leaves a long-lasting impression, even after the screen is black. Really, the only problem with this movie is it's less-than-perfect ending. But really, it only goes to show the real message of the movie Love isn't perfect. And it only makes you adore Duckie more, which is half of what makes the movie so fantastic. Truly, a great piece of work- A true classic. Watch it! 8/10 stars!!!Jay Addison "},{"Title":"Standard Teen Plot, with Unique Class Focus","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pretty in Pink is the last and worst of John Hughes three most popular 80's teen flicks (Sixteen Candles is, in my opinion, the best). Worst is a relative term, however, because this is still a good movie. While the story is rather standard, the actors do such a good job of inhabiting their characters that it more than makes up for the many clichés. Andie is the poor alternative girl whose difficult upbringing has rendered her wise beyond her years. Blane is the preppy rich boy who, unlike his snooty, mean-spirited friends, is actually a decent person. The pair are attracted to one another and, after Blane eventually works up the courage to ask Andie out, embark on an often tortuous, though emotionally honest (especially on Andie's part),courtship. They struggle with disapproval of their friends (James Spader as Blane's best bud Steff is especially odious and Jon Cryer as Andie's guy pal Duckie is unforgettable) and their own lingering doubts. The rest of the movie deals with how the two face these struggles, culminating in an ending that is, frankly, a bit cheesy and predictable. Pretty in Pink is commendable for the simple fact that it deals so honestly with an issue that most Americans would rather avoid, class. Perhaps this is why it feels a bit darker than Hughes's other 2 big 80's films (although The Breakfast Club also deals somewhat with class, its focus is more on cliques and identity issues). Stories about how American teens navigated this treacherous class terrain in the greed decade, are few and far between. PIP should, therefore, hold a unique place in the teen movie canon. A good, but not great, film. I must comment on the soundtrack as well - in a word it is terrific. Echo and the Bunnymen, New Order, The Psychedelic Furs, and that Nik Kershaw one-hit wonder song Wouldn't it Be Good that reminds me so much of the 80's. "},{"Title":"Duckie's your man","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Hughes is the quintessential teen movie king. No one does teen angst better than this tried and true director. Pretty in Pink is a definite classic and among my most-watched films of all time. I can probably recite the whole thing in my sleep. Watching it evokes great 80s nostalgia. I have always loved the music choices in this movie, including New Order, the title song Pretty in Pink, and Otis Redding's tune Try a Little Tenderness, lip-synched to perfection by Duckie.I have to agree though with most reviewers here, that I have always felt robbed by the movie's ending. Blane...NO...Duckie...YES YES YES!!! I have always rooted for him...the most beloved underdog in all of film. Each time I watch the movie I get that familiar pang at the end...it's just not right, and I'm sorry to say, but I don't see what Andie could have ever seen in Blane. I, like many viewers, was never convinced that he was right for her.6/10...great teen classic and the score would be much higher if Hughes hadn't shortchanged us with an ending that belied the film's intended direction. "},{"Title":"Mixed emotions....","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie! SPOILER ALERT I must agree with many of the other people who have commented here that the ending was disappointing.... In this sense, the movie was a tragedy.  I don't see how Andie could choose the richie over Duckie... Unfortunately, however, that's how things work in the real world.  And that is what makes this movie awesome.Everyone wanted to see Andie choose Duckie.  But Hughes instead brought us back to reality, and let us see teen romance for what it really is... "}{"Title":"What's With the Ending?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I understand that John Hughes apparently changed the ending to this film at the last minute because he didn't want to send the message that rich people and poor people don't belong together or something.  Now, I'm not saying that the supposed point of the movie as it stands isn't a good one--that social and financial differences should not come between two people in love.  The problem here was simply that the whole film up to the very end was designed with Duckie in mind as Andie's final choice, and that influenced the plot and characters greatly.For the current ending to work, the director would have needed to alter both the male leads a bit, adding a stronger character to Blane and making Duckie a little less endearing and a little more annoying (and perhaps putting a little more effort into finding him a substitute love interest...that thing with the blonde at the prom just came off as kind of annoying).  I don't know about anyone else, but I was too busy feeling sorry for Duckie to really enjoy the relationship between Andie and Blane, although it might have had some potential otherwise. "},{"Title":"I had just graduated from college when it came out.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had just graduated from college when it came out, so I was a bit past my teens; I do think it was a good movie, and I enjoyed it, and I do think its cult status is due to the deftness with which Hughes captures the mid-80s. My favorite part is the wordless, sublime movie debut of Kristy Swanson at the end of the film, I must admit. "},{"Title":"Good... But looking a bit dated today...","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Back in my youth I was into all kinds of music and, I guess, because I grew up with it, punk has always been very close to my heart. Now, one of the bands that were spewed out as a result of the punk phenomenon (pardon the pun) was The Psychedelic Furs. They happened to release a record called 'Pretty In Pink', their only hit, which also features quite strongly in this film (surprise, surprise!). I really love the song, but will the film match up? Let's see. (As usual, summary haters please omit the next paragraph&#x85;).Andie Walsh lives with her father Jack; they have been alone since her mother left three years previously. She attends the local school where her friend since childhood, the larger than life, Duckie (real name, Phil Dale) vies for her affections. Unfortunately for him he is firmly in the friend zone and she is interested in another boy, Blane McDonnagh. The problem is that Blane is one of the rich kids at school and they don't mix well with the likes of Andie. Blane's friend, Steff, tried to dissuade him from pursuing her, but he does anyway. Andie works part-time at a record store with her (older) friend, Iona. She is a kind of substitute mother figure, as well as being a friend. Prom night is coming up and Blane has asked Andie if she would like to go. Duckie is upset and steps out of the picture for a while. Will Blane stand up to his rich friends and take Andie anyway, will Andie realise just how much she's hurt Duckie, or will the hall catch fire and kill everyone inside? (Nah, that's not going to happen&#x85; just seeing if you're paying attention&#x85;).Although it looks very dated these days, I still kind of like this film. It's pretty well made with some really good performances, especially from Molly Ringwald as Andie and Harry Dean Stanton as Jack Walsh. I also very much liked the performance of Jon Cryer as Duckie. Honourable mentions must also go to Annie Potts as Iona, James Spader as Steff and Andrew McCarthy as Blane.I guess I would have liked this film more if it wasn't for the fact that I didn't believe the relationship between Andie and Blane. Yes, they are from opposite sides of the tracks and, yes, I have seen these things work many times before in movies, but this one just didn't fly for me. It seems to me that she has much more in common with Duckie, who, by the way is the hero of the film in my opinion. But then, hey, what do I know? At the end of the day, although I found it a little far-fetched in places, and the ending a bit of a let down, still, recommended if just for Molly Ringwald's excellent performance.My score 7.2/10 "},{"Title":"Best of the best","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my humble opinion, the best of the best from the Brat Pack. It far outpaced The Breakfast Club, and Sixteen Candles. The characters stand on their own. That to me shows how well the movie was cast, and the director made the most of the actors selected. It helped that the well written screenplay made it easy for both director and actor be proud of the final cut. I've always had a weakness for redheads, needless to say I can see how Duckie fell for Andi. And Duckie; as a geeky kid in high school in the early 70's, I felt every ounce of his pain,...and his triumphs. Don't feel too sorry for James Spader's character, those guys always find a way to come out on top. an all around nice flick for any age group.  "},{"Title":"Bests Breakfast Club Anyday...","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Needless to say, Pretty in Pink is by far my favorite brat pack movie. I think it was realistic. Class differences most definately still exist; they exist in high school and into college and into life in general. Plus, it was nice to see a high school girl not caring what anyone thinks and befriending who she pleased...the scene where she told off Spader's Stef was fantastic. Andie is a girl who celebrates who she is and doesn't crave popularity...but one who isn't tortured and hating the world at the same time. That was refreshing.When I initially watched this movie, I of course was dissapointed by the outcome. But Andie was a girl who followed her heart--she wasn't in love with Duckie. Andie was in love with Blaine. And when they're in love, people don't always act in their own best interest (or what other people would deem so). I liked that they gave Duckie a girl to dance with in the end. Life moves on.Anyway, i thought Pretty in Pink was better that the Holy Grail of Brat Pack movies, the Breakfast Club. These characters were a lot more dynamic than anyone in the TBC. The lines blurred and the film attempted a breaking out of typecasts by the characters simply living their lives...Ok, obviously i love the Andie character, Andie was beautiful and confident without being popular or a follower. She is a person that makes me think and parts of which i wish i could emulate even though im 22 now. Pretty in Pink has the most enjoyable characters. Annie Potts and Jon Cryer are the best (!!)Definately give this a try. It is like the Breakfast Club crossed with Romeo and Juliet crossed with offbeat pop culture. Just excellent. "},{"Title":"all about duckie","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was, in two letters, OK. I expected a lot more than what I got, let's just keep it at that. The one thing that especially sours my milk is the fact that Duckie is left with nothing. I mean, what the hell is wrong with you, Molly Ringwald (Andie)!!! Duckie's just this awesome, lovable dude, and she blows him off for some richie in a BMW-- shame, shame. If I were her, I would've been with the Duck-Man even before the movie started for crying out loud! So, sorry Blane (that's not a name!), but you so did not deserve to get Andie-- Duckie had been working his ass off probably for years, and here comes Mr. Fancy-Pants to screw it up. Way to go, guy. (Screw you, Andrew McCarthy!) In closing, I'd just like to say, in the words of Michael Ian Black, I was all about Duckie. ) "},{"Title":"moronic in pink","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is totally watchable, but if you have a brain you can't help but notice what an awful message it is putting out.Similar to John Hughes' film '16 candles', Molly Ringwald spends the entire film complaining about her perfect life and swatting away her weird best friend who is totally in love with her. Her interest in the friend grows throughout the film, but then eventually ends up getting together with the dull characterless hottie which leaves you completely unsatisfied. Blane treats her really badly! Like outwardly badly. Again and again. And she still goes for it. And then there's Iona - a really cool character who owns a record store and experiments with fashion, and then there's this bizarre scene where she tells Molly Ringwald she's in love with some guy who owns a pet store and is dressed all conservatively and we're supposed to just accept that she can forget she has a personality now because she's found her man.This film is sexist and tacky and has disturbing traditionalist and anti feminist undertones. "},{"Title":"Pink Slip","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I watched this for a simple reason I'm surveying every film version of a Shakespeare play. Young Molly appears in two of the more quirky, intellectual ones. It reminded me that at one time, she was the hottest actress in the English-speaking world. Time magazine and all that.Her film career started with her role as the Miranda in `Tempest,' where she complimented a very sexy Susan Sarandon. Then she did three of Hughes' simple stories of angst, with Pink probably the best. This was followed by her Cordelia for the bizarre `Lear' project of Godard -- an amazing adventure in itself made more extraordinary by the context of `Pink.' `Lear' is odd, but she and Burgess Meredith do some intelligent work, actually showing some depth.Then she turned down `Pretty Woman,' `Blue Velvet' (I'm reminded by IMDB) and others I misremember now. She still works apparently, but in `C' grade projects. Once leader of the 'rat pack, now a nobody. What happened?Compare this to my current young actress of interest, Julia Stiles. She also got her film start doing Shakespeare; Hamlet, Othello (`O'), Taming of the Shrew (`Ten Things I Hate About You'). In Hamlet, she was extraordinary. She also has worked with a master of film, Mamet (`State and Main'). And she has at least two teen exploitation films under her belt `Save the Last Dance' and `Hate.'We loved Molly because she adopted a fundamental stereotype and enriched it by inhabiting it. Stiles has done the same with a more modern role a hip/hop, urban self-referential independent. Will Julia fade as quickly? Is there a Shakespearean curse?  "},{"Title":"A must see movie","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty in pink is not an average teen-romantic film. It's quite distinctive from other films in its genre. It certainly is not your typical superficial, stereotypical, formulaic Hollywood film.Simon Hughes, the director, is well-known for his left-wing attitudes in films such as The Breakfast club or Ferris Buller and this is no different. It portrays a working class teenager, Andie, who falls in love with a much richer boy called Blaine. As can be imagined their love is not straightforward and they face cultural conflicts from family and friends. They do end up getting together at the end but its the way that the film is made that makes it so unique.There is a great deal of realism in the film. The social issues that Andie faces such as mockery by other pupils, dealing with an unemployed father are placed in an intelligent manner making the viewers understand her problems. Watching the contrasting attitudes of the rich and the poor is not always far from the truth. The humorous parts of the film are not slapstick or silly but are more subtle such as Duckie's singing moment.Most importantly the message of the film is positive that materialism is irrelevant and that relationships are more important. There is nothing pretentious or 'cool' about this film which is why I like it. It is a film that is quite realistic and done in a genuine manner which is what makes it so successful. It's worth watching.  "},{"Title":"80's teen classic","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Andie Walsh (Molly Ringwald) is a high school senior from a poor family same as her unrelenting admirer Duckie (Jon Cryer). She takes care of her tired father Jack (Harry Dean Stanton). She works at the record store Trax with mentor Iona (Annie Potts). Preppy rich Blane McDonough (Andrew McCarthy) is taken with the unusual Andie. Benny Hanson (Kate Vernon) is the mean girl and her boyfriend Steff McKee (James Spader) is a sleazy womanizer. Iona keeps pushing for Andie to go to the prom and Blane just might want to be her date despite pressure from his friends.This is a Howard Deutch-John Hughes 80's teen classic. The basic story is very formulaic with the poor girl and the rich boy. The young rising stars are what makes this adorable and compelling. Molly Ringwald is simply the IT girl of the era and the audience roots for her no matter what. She really projects her emotions. Jon Cryer is also adorable as Duckie and Andrew McCarthy is pretty. The music is good and who could forget about Duckie dancing. It may follow a familiar formula but they don't make them like this anymore. "}{"Title":"Takes you back to school","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has some very memorable acting. It reminds me very much of a time when people had to act and struggled for their jobs unlike most of the actors/actresses of today. It also has extremely tacky moments but leaves you satisfied that you did not waste your time watching it. I did not like the ending, there should have been two alternatives. The film for me was worth it, if only for the 80's gadgets and hairstyles etc, the music was OK too, but not to everybody's taste. It felt very much a film that kept me connected, engaged with each persons struggles and brought out memories i had long forgotten about my own youth. HD Stanton who's acting i cannot get enough of, was spot on, not forgetting Paris Texas (1984). I would recommend this film if only for nostalgic reasons "},{"Title":"Lightweight and a real stinker","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To preface I love high school movies, feel-good movies, lightweight fluffers, and have a soft spot for several John Hughes movies.But on the 30th anniversary of this one, I was inspired to add my two cents - because apparently I am alone in my unbounded hatred for Pretty in Pink.Problem #1 every character in this movie is unlikeable. Andie is whiny, pouty, and while she's going for the quirky thing, her droning on and on about being an outsider is insufferable. Blane is obviously a jerk who has little going for him other than his computer skills. He certainly lacks a backbone. He also lacks a personality or any interests. Duckie is grating, obsessive, and like a bad case of eczema that you keep needing to scratch but it never goes away. All three of these main characters are superficial tropes of stereotypes. Yeah, sure, stereotypes are Hughes' forte (see The Breakfast Club, e.g.) but the stereotype thing doesn't work as well when they are all loathsome.Problem #2 And this is my biggest problem with the movie. Andie and Blane's relationship is devoid of any relationship. There is no real relationship here on which to build a romantic plot line. Their interactions are fleeting and, to the extent they have any real conversation, it is almost entirely Andie going on and on about how much she hates the preppie kids. They first interaction is by 80s computer - no real conversation. Blane stalks her in the record store. Not much real conversation. They go on a date and spend literally the whole date with Andie freaking out about his rich friends. She is petulant and unbearable. And every time I watch this movie, I cringe in wonderment that Blane ends the date emphatically telling her he really likes her and wants to make their relationship work. Based on what?? It makes absolutely no sense. If I recall, they hang out once or twice more - but certainly not at school. And then he bails on her. And then we're supposed to believe at the end that it was true love and they just didn't believe enough? Arghhh! Problem #3 Andie and Duckie. Everyone knows the story was originally written with Duckie getting Andie. Lots of commenters on here complain that it should have gone that direction. I say ick. First, this movie was a different era, but if that character was written in 2016, he would have been the non-threatening gay best friend. He so lacks any charming sexual tension with Andie that it's impossible and almost gross to imagine them as a couple. Further, see above comments about how astoundingly annoying he is. Creepy, stalkerish, obsessive, interfering and rude. The only reason he belongs with Andie at the end is because they're both so unlikeable together.Problem #4 The dress. The dress. Why did she have to take that beautiful specimen of a 1950s prom, so perfect in its shape and features, and turn it into an unflattering potato sack? My mom used to give me old scraps of fabric to craft with when I was a little kid. With a pair of scissors and glue, we used to make Barbie dress sacks pretty much the same as Andie's dress. Horrible.I watch this movie about once a year because I'm a sucker. And every time, I spend the whole thing cringing and annoyed with this clunker. "},{"Title":"don't get the duckie love","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i was born in December 85, right before this movie came out, so it's taken me awhile to get around to the brat pack movies, but ducky has always been built up in other movies and TV shows to be this awesome best friend sidekick. did anyone else think he was absolutely NOT? i understand the 'he was in love with her' angle, but the emotions he ever expressed were jealousy, possessiveness and anger. he basically had the traits of a sociopath. I see a lot of people calling this film cliché. not sure if it was cliché for 1985 but definitely it's cliché for 2015. interestingly enough, this seems to be one of the few films where the 'rich person falls in love with poor person' formula doesn't work. it works in 'titanic', 'a walk to remember', 'the notebook', which makes me wonder what people would think of this movie if it came out nowadays. anyway, on to the actual movie. i actually thought it was really charming and sweet. because i was a floater in high school (hung out with everyone) i could relate to the potential disaster that could be one social group dating another. the thing i can't believe is how people crucify Blaine for how he handled it. he was a TEENAGER. he wanted to fit in and belong as much as Andie. he was scared. It's a shame more people aren't sympathetic to him. better late than never i say and when he finally does tell his best friend, i was proud of him, and i was proud of Andie for forgiving him and taking him back because it was a mature thing to do and i think that's a great, positive message to teens. we're not above making mistakes and we can't hold people on pedastals. "},{"Title":"Pretty in Pink","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" PRETTY IN PINK is a movie about high school life and social discrimination during the 80's. It shows you the way students separate themselves based on their wealth and popularity. It informs the viewer that if you are not rich, basically you don't count or at least not for the popular parties and events that go on at the school. It shows you that if you dress a certain way and with clothes that are handmade by you, you are not cool. It shows you that the car you drive and the house you live in tells a lot about the life you are living and what you are worth. It shows you that discrimination and social segregation still was going on during that time. I am happy to say that all that has changed and high schools students in the present time are less socially discriminating. I work in a high school and I see kids of all kinds of social backgrounds, become the best of friends and they have no issues relating to wealth, image or social status "},{"Title":"Not on the same level as John Hughes' best films","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's quite a good film but the writing is not as sharp as in the best of John Hughes' teen comedy dramas. The original ending would have featured Andie ending up with Duckie instead of Blane but it was changed over Hughes' objections. I really wish that it hadn't been as it would have been a stronger ending as Duckie cares about Andie far more than Blane does. In an interview for the film's 25th anniversary, Jon Cryer and Molly Ringwald said that they thought that Andie and Blane would have broken up soon after the events of the film but she and Duckie would have remained lifelong friends. They also thought that Duckie would have long since come out. I'm going to imagine that that is exactly what happened.However, I can't fault the film's cast. Molly Ringwald and Andrew McCarthy are very natural in the leading roles while Cryer is very sweet as Duckie and James Spader is suitably smarmy as Steff. The great character actor Harry Dean Stanton is excellent in the supporting role of Andie's heartbroken father Jack but Annie Potts steals the show as Iona, who has all the best lines. It also features an early role for Kate Vernon as the catty Bunny and very small appearances by Kirsty Swanson and Gina Gershon. Sadly, Alexa Kanin, who played Andie's friend Jenna, died at the age of 23 several months before the film was released and it is dedicated to her memory. "},{"Title":"Among the best teen rom-coms - well-played out themes and thoughtful portrayal of non-romantic relationships","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As someone who went through her teenage years in the new millennium, Pretty in Pink provided a glimpse of what it was like being a teen in the '80s and yet was a movie I could identify with. It was about a working class girl (and scholarship recipient) Andie who attends an elite high school. The dividing lines between rich and poor are clearly drawn, with the two groups hanging out in different parts of the school compound and excluding each other from their social events. So when Andie starts dating Blane, a rich preppy boy who despite his background is not like the others, the couple face opposition from their friends, not least Duckie, Andie's best friend who's had a crush on her for years. While he too is a rich kid, he is ostracised by them for his dorky ways. While the themes of overcoming social barriers and girl-chooses-between- her-crush-and-best-friend have been portrayed numerous times in books and films (be it singly or in combination), this is one of the few that struck a chord - great acting, likable and realistic characters, excellent script. While the ending surprised me, I wholeheartedly approve of it.I also really liked this movie for its portrayal of non-romantic relationships. The movie is titled 'Pretty in Pink' because the climax takes place at senior prom, where Andie shows up in a pink dress which she designed and sewed from pieces given to her by two important people in her life. The first is her manager from the music store she works at part-time, Iona, an older sister figure to Andie through the ups and downs of the relationship. Then there's her dad, who despite his failings as a provider, is loving and supportive. To me, these scenes were important as they enabled us to see Andie as a complete person, to see that she's so much more than the object of affection of two boys. The only thing that marred my enjoyment was how ugly and unflattering the pink prom dress turned out! Other than that, I think Pretty in Pink is one of the best of its genre (teenage rom-com)! Great soundtrack too, though I couldn't really identify with the music. "},{"Title":"Interesting and eye-opening concept for social alienation.","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" *SPOLIERS*Very interesting movie, I thought, as it really opened my eyes to the idea of poverty being a form of social alienation. The majority of teen romance/high school movies all tend to revolve around being cool and uncool but in this movie the characters financial situations greatly influence whether or not they are accepted into the various (two main) social groups. Very sweet movie as the main character, Andie, is torn between her friend, Duckie, whom she has know since she was a child and this new richie (financially privileged individual). It is had for all three involved as Duckie lives to love Andie and hence her relationship with rich kid Blaine is hard to accept for him along with the fact that Blaine's friendship group greatly look down upon theirs. Blaine's faces potential isolation from his friends as he risks going out with someone poor. TBH the movie should not have been called Pretty in Pink and i realize that there is meaning behind the colour and i know it was the 80's etc but i find the colour pink in the movie that visually repulsive and it was for me the only drawback of the film however I do understand the significance of it. "},{"Title":"Not John Hughes' best","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was really looking forward to this movie, but afterwards I just felt a bit lukewarm. Sure, it was a good movie for what it was, but it was mediocre for what I was anticipating.The soundtrack wasn't amazing and the script was a bit ho-hum for a John Hughes film.Jon Cryer and James Spader were really enthusiastic and entertaining in their roles, but they couldn't redeem this movie. Molly Ringwald wasn't bad, she just didn't do anything different. Andrew McCarthy was forgettable, which contributed to my mixed feelings about the film. I hated the ending (I suspect I'm not alone in this) and it significantly ruined the whole experience. I'm not saying that every movie should have an obligatory happy ending, it just felt unresolved. It's relatable, and probably better than a lot of teen films now, but it's more lightweight than anything seriously funny or moving. "},{"Title":"Good 80's Teen Romance Flick!","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Molly Ringwald, Andrew McCarthy, Jon Cryer, Annie Potts, James Spader and Harry Dean Stanton star in this 1986 romantic comedy-drama. This focuses on teenage girl, Andie (Ringwald) who lives with her father, Jack (Stanton) and they're trying to make ends meet. Cryer (Two and a Half Men) plays Andie's friend, Phil aka Duckie who is infatuated with her. Soon, Andie meets rich guy, Blaine (McCarthy) who she really likes and they start dating. Andie starts feeling social pressure and also deals with Duckie becoming jealous. Blaine also starts getting pressured by his friend, Steff (Spader) who doesn't think Andie is right for him. Andie tries dealing with her emotions and decides if she wants be with Blaine or Duckie. Potts (Ghostbusters) plays her other friend, Iona. I grew up watching this and always liked it. Ringwald & the cast are great and I recommend this good 80's teen romance flick. "},{"Title":"Movie, '80s style","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This to me was the quintessential Molly Ringwald movie. It's the typical high school teenager movie that she became so identified with.The irreverence of the movie is very '80s. It's not as serious, but has sweetness that more modern movies don't have. '80s were when US had a strong middle class, and the values were in that direction as well. Although Ringwald's character is from a working class family, the romance of rich kid and working class kid appealed to the mostly middle class teenagers.There were times in American history that teenagers actually resonated to movies like this. In a way it's a wholesome movie that can't be duplicated today.I think this was the attraction of Molly Ringwald's movie. Andrew McCarthy is convincing as usual in his role. This is one of the significant Brat Pack movie of the '80s, and is worth the watch. "}{"Title":"Adolescent Insecurities","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer John Hughes crafts an exemplary Brat Pack romance out of the standard Cinderella story in Pretty in Pink.It stars Molly Ringwald, Andrew McCarthy,Jon Cryer together with Harry Dean Stanton,Annie Potts and James Spader.The movie is about teenage love and social cliques in 1980's American high schools that is directed by Howard Deutch.Andie Walsh is a teenager who lives in the dingy part of town with her terminally underemployed dad. She works at a record store with eccentric Ionia and is considered a misfit at her uppity high school, but somehow she rises above them all. Her oddball best friend, Duckie, is hopelessly in love with her, so he causes trouble for her romantic pursuits. When local rich kid Blaine develops a fascination with her, they go out on a date together. Visiting the home bases of each social clique, they are basically ridiculed for their audacity to date one another. When Blaine eventually asks the delighted Andie to the prom, he is threatened by his rich friend Steff. The romance versus high school social politics finally culminates at the big night of the prom.Pretty in Pink is a rather intelligent look at adolescent insecurities as it provides an understanding of class structure, of culture and counter-culture and the ways that teenagers can destroy one another over the subtle distinctions therein.Although it is clichéd and stereotyped, it is remarkably sentimental, and sweet as all get-out.And most of all,it manages to leave an imprint to the viewer. "},{"Title":"A review for Pretty and Pink.","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's an amazing movie, with Molly Ringwald at her best. James Spader and Harry Dean Stanton also do a very good job portraying their characters.Its a great take on the prince and the pauper, with Andie as the poor girl and Blane as the prince. Blane, unlike his rude friend Steff, likes Andie even though she's not rich. John Hughes outstandingly directed this film, one year before Ferris Bueller's Day off and one year after the Breakfast Club, and two years after Sixteen Candles. John Hughes, after this and Ferris Bueller's day off started making a bunch of kiddy movies (Uncle Buck (1989), Home Alone (1990)), so this is one of his last masterpieces. The ending in which Blane and Andie get back together is great, and shows that the poor and the rich work better together than two rich snobs together. I own the DVD, and I've watched it multiple times. It's great, and the DVD contains great special features. It has a making of documentary, which is fun to watch.Well, if you haven't watched it, get it from Netflix and pop it into your DVD player. "},{"Title":"Who will Molly Ringwald go to the prom with?","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Molly Ringwald plays Andie, a high school girl who lives with her father Jack; that aren't well off and neither are her friends. It seems that at the school she attends wealth is very much a divisive issue. Blane, one of the wealthy boys doesn't seem bothered though and invites her out for a date one evening; at first she is unsure but eventually accepts. Things start badly when he takes her to a party being thrown by his friend Steff; it does not go well as the rich kids attending treat her as though she has no business being there. The leave and go to her regular hangout but that ends equally badly when her friend Duckie is just as rude to Blane; although that is largely because he is besotted with Andie himself. The evening isn't a total disaster though as he ends up inviting her to the school prom. As she prepares for the big night Steff starts pressuring Blane to stop going out with somebody he considers to be of the wrong class. After this he stops returning her calls and when confronted claim that he forgot he'd already invited somebody else. She knows that he wasn't telling the truth but decides that she will go anyway&#x85; the only real question is whether she will leave the prom with Duckie or with Blane.This is one of numerous high school movies that came out during the eighties and the fact that it was written by John Hughes the creator of 'The Breakfast Club' and features one of its stars, Molly Ringwald, suggest that it is worth watching. While this isn't as good as 'The Breakfast Club' or Hughes' best known High School film 'Ferris Bueller's Day Off' it is still worth watching. Molly Ringwald is a delight as Andie and Harry Dean Stanton is great as her loving father. This is obviously a romance and it isn't overly comical; that isn't to say they aren't laughs to be had; they just aren't obvious gags. Many of the characters are fairly despicable; most obviously Steff and his obnoxious friends&#x85; this serves to make it all the more satisfying when his character is quickly demolished in the final scenes! I won't say who she ended up with; by the end either would have seemed right though and it was handled in a way that made both of them look good. If you are a fan of eighties High School films then this one is a must see; if you aren't you might still enjoy it. "},{"Title":"'You could say life is a tradition so what's the point?' (Duckie)","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Teenage love from different sides of the tracks.So the theme is not very original, countless movies have played on it. Either the boy or the girl is rich and he or she falls for someone poor, but solid. However teenagers don't easily recognize solid as a preference for long-lasting love.Molly Ringwald was our teenage star of the 1980s, here she was still a teenager as Andie Walsh. She lives with her dad, in a not-so-nice area. Her dad is played well by old reliable Harry Dean Stanton, actually one of my favorite old reliables.Jon Cryer is good friends with Andie, it is always clear that he would like it to be more but he just doesn't press Andie's buttons.The real co-star of the story is Andrew McCarthy as Blane McDonnagh from the wealthy, right side of the tracks. He runs with the other rich kids who don't have a very high opinion of those less fortunate, and when Blane starts up a mild romance with Andie, they give him grief, and eventually he un-invites Andie to the prom. But dad, even without a job, brings home a busy pink dress that he thinks Andie can do something with, she has a knack for design. So with the help of her imagination and her Singer sewing machine creates a very pretty dress, and goes to prom alone. As it turns out Blane is there alone also, they realize that they really do love each other, and if the movie had gone on for another 40 or 50 years they probably would have lived happily ever after.A very good 1980s teen movie. Molly Ringwald was born to play these roles. It is interesting that now, over 25 years later, she plays a mom on TV in Secret Lives of American Teenagers. "},{"Title":"Touching teen romance. Hughes's best.","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hughes's best film is an affecting teen drama about lovers from literally the opposite side of the tracks. Molly Ringwald is all homemade clothes and vaguely subversive socio-political leanings, while Andrew McCarthy is a richie. Their budding romance is threatened, ahead of the prom, by their suspicious friends, including Ringwald's obsessive suitor (Jon Cryer) - who likes round shades, fast patter and leaping around a record store miming to Otis Redding - and McCarthy's horny bleach-blonde buddy James Spader, who's extraordinarily obnoxious. The leads are very likable - well, except for when he bails on her, and when she calls her acolyte a retarded little dwarf - but the really great performances come from Cryer, who's moving, funny and most importantly credible in a potentially cartoonish part, and Harry Dean Stanton, as Ringwald's depressive father. In some ways it's a typical Hughes movie - full of rock music, teen angst and drunken parties, everything dripping with '80sness - but it's more incisive, mellow and heartfelt, without concessions to either idiotic humour (hello, Sixteen Candles) or heavy-handed speechifying (The Breakfast Club, I'm looking at you). A little gem. "},{"Title":"Don't Miss This Movie!","Date":"16 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you haven't seen it, rent it, watch it on TV, etc. It's great!This is my favorite movie of all time, and for good reason! The acting is top-rated, and I love the message that, no matter who we are, how we dress or how much money we have, we're ultimately all the same.Molly Ringwald (Andie) is one of my favorite actresses. I love any movie she's in. Jon Cryer as Duckie plays her sweet, devoted friend who has a secret crush on her, and Andrew McCarthy plays Andie's love interest, Blane. James Spader plays Blane's egocentric friend, Steff, who gets put in his place more than a few times (which I thoroughly enjoyed!) I totally love the soundtrack, also. Great upbeat '80's music!Go see this movie if you haven't...you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Molly Ringwald is Pretty in Pink","Date":"6 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Putting my biases aside (with regard to particular character), Pretty in Pink is a great film that critiques the need for cliques in high school (and brings back memories of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet). Like any film production associated with the late great Brat Pack filmmaker John Hughes, Pretty in Pink is extremely well-acted and insightful into the minds of teenagers. His characters are alive, real, and thoughtful - just as real teenagers are in real life.True to his movies, none of them are dated at all and have withstood the test of time. Sure the clothing and hairstyles have changed, yes, but the subject matter hasn't. And that was Hughes's real novelty as a filmmaker his ability to make movies about teenagers for teenagers and his teen-aged audience responded rightfully. Even after his heyday (and his untimely passing in 2009), his movies are just as relevant now as they were 25 years ago.My personal favorite is The Breakfast Club (1985). Hughes always had a way of selecting brilliant and bright young performers in his movies. For Pretty in Pink, he brought back Breakfast Club and Sixteen Candles (1984) alumnus Molly Ringwald. Here she plays Andie Walsh, a bright girl from the wrong side of the tracks - literally, the poor side of the train tracks in her working-class Chicago suburb - with her unemployed single father Jack (Harry Dean Stanton). She happens to have a crush on a wealthy fellow classmate named Blane McDonnagh (Andrew McCarthy), who happens to come from the right side of the tracks.Their blossoming romantic relationship angers people in their respective circles of friends - Duckie (Jon Cryer) on Andie's side, and Steff (James Spader) and all the rest of their rich, spoiled associates. Although there's some of the usual romantic entanglements and hang-ups here, it all boils down to a choice either for Andy or for Duckie.Now here's where it gets personal This movie was particularly uncomfortable for me because of the character of Duckie. He's in the friend zone permanently with Andie, much as I was once with the most beautiful girl I knew in high school. The reason this didn't sit well for me personally and kept me from enjoying Pretty in Pink more was because this scenario brought back some painful memories from a time I thought I left behind a long time ago.Moving on, Pretty in Pink does have Hughes's usual trappings, but the production is firmly in the hands of director Howard Deutch, who would also go on to direct Some Kind of Wonderful one year later in 1987. He does have a funny supportive cast and well-written characters, like Jack, the fashion-impaired and lovelorn Duckie (Cryer's most well-known performance prior to his time on Two and a Half Men), and Annie Potts as Andie's record store friend Iona.Despite some painful personal memories, Pretty in Pink is yet another timely, timeless piece of John Hughes fanfare.8/10 "},{"Title":"Best Timeless Theme of a Movie...still in 2011","Date":"28 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ***Timeless Segregation***When I first saw the cover of Pretty In Pink...well let's just say that you shouldn't judge a DVD by it's cover. So, with that being said-I didn't have a lot of expectations other than-no dramatic girl mean girl stuff you would typically see in the 21st century. Pretty In Pink had demonstrated a timeless story of your any generation girl's life at school, regarding your normal zoids and richies separation. No matter what the generation my be, there is **always** something that separates teenagers from one another. If you ask any teenager what's the story, assuming they are telling the truth, you will most likely hear goth, prep, jock, a loner, or even a emo. In this case-regardless of how many people or adults that believe there is nothing to separate teens from one another besides religion, race, background, or color-it's explains **another segregation** that had once been a problem not that long ago in America History. If that isn't enough, most teens will find one thing or another that will find them saying to his or herself that they may not be smart enough, or pretty enough, or in Pretty in Pinks case...rich enough that would establish a zoid and richie separation that was Yes involved years ago and Yes is today and Yes will forever be an issue **now** and **forever**. Pretty In Pink has been the most simple prom movie to understand years ago, however still today-there are people who question the differences of young American's today. Regardless of time when it was produced in 1986 or when it is still on air in 2011 or in 50 years from now in 2061... Pretty In Pink illustrates a message of difference we have all once felt. Best Timeless Theme of a Movie...and still now and forever. "},{"Title":"Excellent Genre Film","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was weary about watching this film because I thought it would be a shallow, predictable film like a lot of teen flicks are. But when I sat down and watched it, it didn't take long for me to fall in love. What this movie has that a lot of teen films don't are believable sub-plots. The viewer feels that the story is really happening and that the director is capturing real life. But of course the best thing about this film is it's most memorable character, Duckie. A socially awkward supporting character is nothing new, but Duckie is believably strange but at the same time very admirable. In short this film deals with real life social situations, about love, life, friendship, class disparity, depression, and single parent homes. Virtually unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Pretty in Pink","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is by far the best movie John Hughes made. It is viewed by all ages, even my younger 29 yr old brother regards this as his favorite movie. It is a classic, it will never become dated and it is the type of movie you can watch over and over. I myself have seen it at least 200 times. Sounds crazy, but it takes me right back in time and makes me want to be in High School again. In fact I would do anything to go back to when this movie came out. Literally anything. That goes for Sixteen Candles too. Don't forget Breakfast Club and St. Elmos Fire. If you want a real treat, see this movie, what great fun, what great music, the soundtrack to this day is by far one of the best. You have Psychedelic Furs, The Smiths, New Order, Echo and the Bunnymen, Suzanne Vega, etc. It is great. There is but one heartbreak with this movie, while you adore the characters and find so much in common with them in one aspect or another, the movie does end, and that in itself is the biggest letdown of all, you just want it to go on forever and ever and ever...... "}{"Title":"You'll love it or hate it....","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I must admit that this is one of my favourite films, probably because I saw it on TV just after it came out and thought to myself that it would be incredibly cool to be Molly Ringwald. I have now changed my mind about that but I still rate this as a must see film for all those of you who like to delve into a little 80's teen fantasy. One thing I didn't know until recently was as soon as filming had finished for Pretty in Pink, Andrew McCarthy was signed on to play the lead in Less Than Zero and, at the last moment, John Hughes decided he wanted to change the ending of Pretty in Pink to what it is now, but Andrew had already shaved his head for his next role and lost a lot of weight. To solve this problem, Mr. Hughes had him don a wig for the last scene of Pretty in Pink. So that explains the weird hair and gaunt face.If you like this film then you must watch Weird Science, 16 Candles, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, Breakfast Club and top it off with the more current Not Another Teen Movie. "},{"Title":"lovers of andrew mccarthy?","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Pretty in Pink,' is by far the greatest Brat Pack film I have seen! I loved 'The Breakfast Club,' and think all the young actors are great, but what that film and others were missing, was realism and a convincingly charming leading actor, in this case Andrew McCarthy as Blane. I think Molly Ringwald (Andie) and Jon Cryer (Duckie!!) are amazing, but what makes the character of Blane so special is those beautiful, blue eyes and his amazingly nice persona, even though his friends are snobbish and arrogant. I have to say though, that James Spader is great as the arrogant Steff and if Blane wasn't so gorgeous, he would, I'm ashamed to say, probably appeal to me too! As you can see, i love Andrew McCarthy and I would just like to know if anyone else out there is as big a fan of him as I am and if anyone has any new information on him and his work? Would be much appreciated.....and if you haven't seen the film, buy it! It's worth every penny!!! "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hey, I thought this movie was a really cool movie. I didn't used to like older movies, but this one was cool.If you haven't seen it you should, I think everyone will enjoy it, particularly girls. Also, I would like to say I'd never heard of Molly Ringwald before so does anyone know any other films she's in? I would really like to know. Thanks, Rent this movie today! "},{"Title":"One of the best of its genre","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I suppose its all been said, really. There were many very poor teen angst films made in this period and this is probably one of the best.Excellent contemporary soundtrack, good cast made up of stalwarts and the up-and-coming, some fine performances from them too. Predictable script, slushy but tempered by humour and quality acting.Don't really go for Molly Ringwald that much - a bit whey-faced and pathetic for me - but just check out Annie Potts!. She and Jon Cryer just are this film! How Molly Ringwwald could have chosen Andrew McCarthy's wormy 'Blane' over the Duck Man is a mystery to me. Stars of the film for me, though, are James Spader and his obnoxious girlfriend, Betty. If he was any more jaded and laid back, he'd be unconscious! If she was any more stupid, she'd be a vegetable! Mind you, on a 'schwing' scale of 1 to 10, Annie Potts' 'Iona' is an 11 for me! Also, check out Harry Dean Stanton as Dad. One of my favourite 'B' movie actors alongside Charles Napier, Jack Elam and Lance Henriksen. Most of the true pathos in this film lies with him and Molly Ringwald and their rather strange relationship.Good film, well worth watching. You must have seen it but if you haven't, then do so. "},{"Title":"John Hughes at his best.","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *Warning - contains spoilers.*Someone at Network 10 (Australia) must be a secret John Hughes fan, because in recent months they've shown The Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles, Weird Science (a guilty pleasure) and now PIP.PIP has some holes. Much is made of Andie being (literally as well as figuratively) from the 'wrong side of the tracks'. Yet you get the impression that her family must once have had some money, before her mother walked out three years ago. Andie dresses well - she makes her own clothes and her look is arty-bohemian, not K-Mart. (And in real life there are a lot of rich kids who adopt that look too, but the 'richies' in PIP all look like Miami Vice clones.) Her house looks fairly comfortable, and they have two cars - her father has an old Volvo, while Andie has a pink (and admittedly beat-up) Karmann-Ghia. I also can't help wondering why her usual good taste deserts her when she makes that prom dress.Yet in spite of such holes (the biggest being Andrew McCarthy - what *does* she see in him?) many things make PIP worth seeing* Andie's relationship with Duckie - unlike others who've posted here, I think it actually does make sense for them not to end up together, as they've known each other since the age of 8. They really are friends.* Andie's relationship with her father - the father/daughter  relationship has turned, quite believably, into a mother/son one.* Iona's outfits - she looked great in the 40's one.* Best moment of all - Andie's scream of delight when she comes home after Blane invites her to the prom.And there's an eerie parallel with Pretty Woman (which only went to Julia Roberts after Molly Ringwald turned it down) in the scene where Andie goes into a posh store in search of a prom dress, and is made to feel unwelcome. The makers of PW must have had this scene in mind when they offered Molly that role.  "},{"Title":"Better than Sixteen Candles","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is much better without a doubt in my opinion, than Sixteen Candles, except that it kind of drags on.  And that the fact that the movie is pretty much predicatable, the good parts are definately Andrew McCarthy, and Jon C. who plays Duckie, whom you cannot help but to like.  This movie is another one of John Hughe's 'Brat Pack' movies, and is pretty good.  But The Breakfast Club and St. Elmo's Fire areinevidabley the best between, Sixteen Candles, Pretty in Pink, Breakfast Club, and St. Elmo's Fire. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"3rd best of John Hughes","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Hughes only wrote this film, so I guess he didn't put all of his touches on this one. This is the 3rd part of The Molly Ringwald trilogy as I like to call it. Sixteen Candles, Breakfast Club and of course Pretty in Pink.This film has everything you look for in an 80's teen movie. The annoying nerd character, the popular rich snobbish types, the teen party scene, the 80s record store and Andrew Dice Clay cameo. All of the usual, but it comes out good. You will not regret watching this film. If you hate the 1980's though, don't rent it.I give it 3 stars out of 4. Not as good as the other John Hughes/Molly Ringwald films, but it still holds up. "},{"Title":"A Classic Teen Flick","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  PRETTY IN PINKSTARRING  MOLLY RINGWALD, ANDREW MCCARTHYMolly Ringwald plays Andie, a poor girl who lives with her father after her mother left them. She falls in love with a richie, as she calls him, named Blane (who is played by Andrew McCarthy) but the pressure of friends is in the way of their relationship being perfect. Meanwhile, Andie's best friend Duckie is declaring even more is undying love for her.Pretty in Pink is one of those great teen movies that only comes along once. It has a fantastic sound track, cute guys, a great leading lady and a clever plot with some of the most romantic movie scenes of its time. It defines the 80s high school years with its cliques, which still are around until this day, and the problems that occur when you fall in love with someone else on the other side of the tracks. I give this movie **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"OK John Hughes film","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the many PG (or PG-13) teen films made in the 80s by writer/producer/director John Hughes. This one isn't his worst (Some Kind of Wonderful wins that), but it's not his best either. It's somewhere in the middle. A rich boy (Andrew McCarthy) loves a poor girl (Molly Ringwald). She loves him also but is constantly being pursued by hyper Duckie (Jon Cryer). McCarthy asks her to the prom. She accepts. But will his crowd accept her?What is this? In the 1920s-1950s I could believe this being made...but in 1986??!!?? Teenagers didn't care who was rich or not back then (I should know--I had a teenage sister in high school and she found the plot ridiculous too). It bothered me a lot in 1986 and it's still a bit of a sore spot today.Also the plot involves an older woman (Annie Potts) trying to help her and-sigh-her lovable, alcoholic dad (Harry Dean Stanton!)--talk about your clichés! There's also James Spader on hand playing an obnoxious rich kid.All in all though, this movie isn't bad. It has a great soundtrack, some truly incredible 80s fashions and some of the dialogue is on target (Cryer's one liners are very funny). But the acting is all over the place--Ringwald looks bored--the only time she comes to life is when she has to tell off McCarthy (a wonderful scene). McCarthy looks VERY uneasy and the scenes between him and Ringwald are TERRIBLE!!! Some of their lines had me staring at the screen in disbelief. Cryer, however, is very funny as Duckie. He wears truly ugly outfits but makes everything he says sound funny. His only really bad scene is when he dances and lip syncs to Otis Reddings' Try A Little Tenderness. He tries to hard to be funny and it gets embarrassing to watch. Spader and Stanton sleepwalk through their roles. It is fun to see Kristy Swanson in a cameo, Gina Gershon (!) as a teenage (!) friend of Ringwald and Andrew Dice Clay as a bouncer! SPOILERS AHEAD!!!!I agree with previous posters--the ending is terrible. She should end up with Duckie. The original ending had her not going after McCarthy and staying in the prom. Test audiences hated that and it was quickly changed. I'd LOVE to see the original ending. Is it still around? "},{"Title":"A movie that went for atmosphere","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like this movie mainly because at the time I saw it i was in highschool and was involved a very similar love triangle. This movie did a great job in creating a hip, artsy atmosphere... and i mean that in a good way. It also symbolizes everything good about the eighties in that there wasn't anything that you wore or did that couldn't made to be cool. "}{"Title":"Snobby Richies vs Cool White Trash","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the last of the Hughes/Ringwald trilogy. The story follows new waver Andie as she tries to make it through school. Her Father is jobless and still pining over the lost of his wife. Her friend Ducky, an odd dresser, has a crush on her. Her boss is a BIG CHILLer trying to act forever young.Our dear Andie is love with Blane, a rich guy. Andie's friends thinks she's crazy. Those richies have no heart and they don't care about anyone without money. Blane has a crush on Andie. Blane's rich friends think he's crazy. Those white trash have no hearts, they are only out for money.John Hughes films seem to feature the US against THEM theme. He used almost this same storyline for the better film, SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL.I don't like it when it's painted Black & White like this. Not all kids with money are bad and not every poor kid is nice. This was mostly a preachy movie with humour found with Jon Cryer and Annie Potts. James Spader played a great butthead, as usual.(Check out him in TUFF TURF!) I guess Mr Hughes thought he could hide his sorry storyline with some cool tunes and neat fashion tips. It worked. It was a top 5 film for awhile that summer.PS This film shows the rich kids putting down the poor kids for the funky way they dressed. That bothered me. When this first came out was I was into the same kind of new wave clothes like Andie and Ducky's crowd, but most of the kids doing that look were the rich kids. You'd see them cruising the Salvation Army and Goodwill stores for cool looks, then buying accessories at the mall. "},{"Title":"I have mixed opinions of this film","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  (CONTAINS SPOILER) There are some things about Pretty In Pink that are very right and some that are very wrong.  I think overall it's an ok, fairly enjoyable teen movie but there are really special scenes, lines and characters (or should I say character) that make it more than that in parts, then there are some things which ruin it for me. There is one character that makes this movie for me and that is Duckie. Without him it would just be average. He's my all time favourite character in a movie ever. He's superbly played by Jon Cryer, incredibly funny and sometimes, like when Blane comes to pick Andie up in the record store, he makes me cry. Sometimes I just skip through the film and watch the scenes with Duckie in. Unfortunately the only  other character I can get interested about is Iona and possibly Steff.Which brings me to what's wrong with it. Like Blane for one. No matter how many times I watch it I can't seem to find his personality. Then there is the tragedy that is Andie's prom dress. But the biggest fault with the film (SPOILER ALERT) is the ending. How can she possibly choose Blane over Duckie? It just ruins the whole film for me. I agree with the person who said they hope a DVD is brought out with an alternative ending. It's just wrong. Duckie is a character you really care about and it seems the whole film is going in that direction and then it's such a let down at the end. I mean the boy's there for her always, he really cares about her and she chooses the dull, conventionally attractive rich kid. Surely the way to a happy ending is to make you care about the couple which frankly I don't in Blane and Andie's case. Ultimatly Pretty in Pink leaves me feeling let down and frankly, a bit miserable.   "},{"Title":"DVD","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie.  John Cryer's work as Duckie is amazing!  I pray that one day they bring this film out on DVD with the alternate ending, that is the original ending where Duckie gets the girl!  They must have the footage somewhere) "},{"Title":"A Great Coming Of Age Film...","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great film one to definately be added to a movie goers collection. This is a great coming of age film about life for (rich and poor)American youths in the 80's. This film can't do any less than touch your heart, with Molly Ringwald's fabulous portrayal of a girl from the wrong side of the tracks who ends up getting everything right! And Jon Cryer's unforgetable take on young Duckie a boy who has such a love and such an air to him you can't help but want to take him home with you! This film is by far one of John Hughes best... In only 2 hours they bring you into their home lives, social lives and not to mention their high school lives. In this film you get to have your cake and eat it too, you get to see the girl get her prince, the geek get a girl, and the nasty rich snob get what he deserves...like I said you dream it all and you can get it all! This film can't help but make you laugh, cry, and jump out of your seat and chear...each time you watch it!  "},{"Title":"Messy teen romance - just the way we like it.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Tis oft said that the older John Hughes gets, the younger his leading characters become.  And it's equally oft said that his teen movies as writer or director - for example, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, or The Breakfast Club - are far superior to his later cute kid movies (Home Alone, Curly Sue). Pretty in Pink is firmly in the former camp.  Eighties cinema's leading ginger actress, Molly Ringwald, plays a teen freak, who falls for one of the richies (Andrew McCarthy), who's circle consists of guys who wear pale linen jackets, and drive BMW's.  Obviously, love from the opposite sides of the tracks has a few problems, not least the prejudices of the protagonists' friends.  The slushy moments that ensue are enough to warm the cockles of anyone's heart, even if they wouldn't like to admit it.  Highlights include James Spader, one of the most sinister performers around, as a particularly unpleasant posh boy, and the eighties soundtrack - including the cracking song by the Psychedelic Furs which gives the film it's name.  Lowlights are, well, Jon Cryer's performance as Molly Ringwald's childhood friend Duckie. If ever a lad needed a solid thump, it's him.So while not on a par with Ferris Bueller's..., the Breakfast Club, or Sixteen Candles, Pretty in Pink will leave you wishing you were at school again (but without the homework and the skin complaints). "},{"Title":"general review of film","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty in Pink, starring Molly Ringwald and Andrew McCarthy, is about social stigma, letting go, and being there for someone.In the film, Andie Walsh (Molly Ringwald; Sixteen Candles, The Stand) and her unemployed father Jack (Harry Dean Stanton; Twister, Cool Hand Luke) live in one of the more run-down parts of town. Things have been different since Andie's mother left them, and all they have is each other. And, of course, Andie's best friend Duckie (Jon Cryer; Holy Man), who you can always count on for a laugh.Working in a music store with co-worker Iona (Annie Potts; Ghostbusters, Toy Story, Designing Women), Andie meets Blane McDonough (Andrew McCarthy; Mannequin, St. Elmo's Fire), a kid from the rich area of town. To maintain a meaningful relationship, they must cross social boundaries and redefine their other personal relationships, including those with the rich and disdainful Steff McKee (James Spader; Stargate, Sex, Lies, and Videotape).A classic 80's movie, this film will appeal to those who loved movies like The Breakfast Club (starring Emilio Estevez, Molly Ringwald, and Judd Nelson among others) and The Outsiders, starring Rob Lowe, Diane Lane, and Patrick Swayze among others. "},{"Title":"One of the Best High School Movies","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one is special from start to finish (just like Say Anything and Some Kind of Wonderful)!  Jon Cryer's lip-synching to Otis Redding is worth the price of admission.  Even Andrew Dice Clay is a valued contributor (as a bouncer).  Watch and recollect... "},{"Title":"Interesting characters enhance an overused theme..","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  **Beware Serious Spoilers** This show is fun and simple, but it is praise.The concept of this story was very real and it shows how kids can be mean when it comes to an outsider stepping into their paradise. We have Molly Ringwald as a lower class girl in love with a richie, Andrew McCarthy. Although this romance is cliche' there's a certain charm to it and it works. It appears somewhat of fresh in a scenerio we see here in this film for 100th time. Ducky however, although a sincere character, was annoying in some parts. But I did feel sympathy for the guy when he loses his best friend and secret crush to Blaine. I thought, personally the most interesting character in this film, was James Spader's Steff. He plays Blaine's best friend (rather well), who appears to disapprove of Blaine's choice in women. Although he looked a little old for the part, I thought his character had some intrigue and some interesting sides to him. He wasn't your typical bad guy. He had some depth (guised as a sexual motive for persuing Andie and I'll keep it at that) under his cool and selfish demeanor. But this small spark of interest for her twists to jealousy and it is finally snuffed out by his rejection from Andie. His revenge is almost complete when he nearly talks Blaine out of continuing his realationship with her. But Blaine quickly pulls his head out and realizes what he's got. But even in the end it seems that Steff still wants her, when she enters the prom in all her pink polka-dotted, 80's glory. Interesting characters in an old formula that works.  "},{"Title":"Good, but slightly disappointing in the end","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Until I read the trivia for this movie, I had always assumed that Andie (Molly Ringwald) was meant to end up with Blane (Andrew McCarthy).  However, after I read that she was originally intended to be with Duckie (John Cryer), I was rather disappointed.The feel good ending seems shallow to me, and I think that changing it simply to appease the test audiences was a mistake on  both writer John Hughes' and director Howard Deutch's parts.  It struck me as not only unfaithful to the characters and story line, but also unrealistic that Andie's strong and resilient character would end up with someone as shallow and thoughtless as Blane.The original ending would have been ultimately more satisfying to watch, rather than the schmaltzy cop out that it was replaced with.  Rather than sending the message that rich people and poor people don't belong together (which was Hughes' fear), I think that it would have shown that strong friendships can provide a good foundation for love.My only other complaint, and I've seen this mentioned before, was how hideous Molly Ringwald looked in the prom dress that she supposedly created.  The thing was shapeless, unlike Ms. Ringwald, and she certainly didn't look her best in it.  The dress itself certainly looked better in it's previous incarnation. The costume designer definitely deserved a slap on the wrist for that horrifying creation. "},{"Title":"Duckie got screwed!","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Plain and simple, I wanted to break something when such an obvious mass pleasing script change took place at the end so that (Spoiler) Molly goes with John leaving Duckie with some Bimbo.  Arrggrgrhrrhh.  Otherwize (and still just for charging me so much)this was a great quintessential 80's movie.  Great use of the soundtrack too.-Chad "}{"Title":"another masterpiece of John Hughes","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  truly, i think John Hughes is one of the most talented writer. his writings of teen life reflects good moral lessons for the teens in the 80s. but let's get back to the movie...Molly Ringwald portrays Andie, a red-hair pink wearing scholarship girl, who stands in the lower class of society. tied up between a joker of a guy, Duckie, (marvelously played by Jon Cryer), and Blane (the charming Andrew McCarthy). and there's also mixed up between her father (Harry Dean Stanton).filled with memorable moments like Duckie's version of Squeeze Me... is a wonderful scene you wouldn't want to miss. and be prepared for such a romantic ending with their doubts and guilt flow away.  "},{"Title":"Improves with age.","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was born in 1972, which makes me pretty much exactly the right age for John Hughes movies. When Pretty In Pink came out, I remember being disappointed. Compared to the brave, emotional Breakfast Club, or the just plain larky Ferris Bueller, or even the slightly grittier Some Kind of Wonderful (which was just another version of PIP), Pretty seemed a bit gooey and twee and happy and weedy. And her dress, even at the time, was absolutely hideous and looked better even before she cut it up - something I never thought she had any right to do.But anyway, the years have not been completely kind to all the Brat Pack Hughes teen films. The intensity of the Breakfast Club, while still adorable, does look a little foolish and over-earnest. Ferris's japes and glib richness seem a little smug, and his waistcoat is silly looking. Weird Science is just awful, isn't it? But when you watch the new bunch of teen movies that ape Hughes' best - like She's All That, or even Ten Things I Hate - they seem a little toothless and artificial compared to Pretty in Pink. They're overflowing with cute performances and quickish wit, and nice one-liners, and carefully planned soundtracks... but they don't seem to have the heart that this movie has. And it has a genuine edge to it - the girls who bully Andie, and the dependably nasty James Spader turn all help to give Pretty a hardness that makes its romance seem all the more real. Over a decade later, this is shaping up to be one of Hughes' true classics. The dress still looks AWful "},{"Title":"Not a favourite, but entertaining enough","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like John Hughes's movies, but Pretty in Pink is not a favourite. It is too short, and the story structure is occasionally too hackneyed complete with an ending that didn't quite convince me. But it was strikingly filmed, with an agreeable soundtrack, snappy script, bouncy pacing and good direction. When it comes to the acting, it is quite good, and the characters are at least likable. Molly Ringwald holds this movie together, and she is very good. Andrew McCarthy and James Spader are also appealing, while Harry Dean Stanton and Annie Potts are sterling. Overall, Pretty in Pink is not a John Hughes classic, but it is worth the watch at least once. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Sugar Rush","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Actor Harry Dean Stanton and writer John Hughes add much gravitas and style to what is otherwise a lightweight 1980's teen comedy.Pretty in Pink is a loose retelling of the Cinderella story, a band of high-schoolers taking on the roles of the prince, princess, villain, jester and evil sisters. While this archetypal format lends the films an air of predictability, maverick 80s auteur John Hughes nevertheless manages to insert some effective scenes which ably tap into the insecurities of most Gen-X teenagers.7.9/10 &#x96; At its best, Pretty in Pink conveys the awkwardness and anxieties of adolescence with humour and sympathy. At its worst, however, this is a thin film which assaults its viewer with tacky 80s fashion and a bunch of self centred, yet privileged kids. Director Kevin Smith would re-use whole chunks of this film (as well as Hughes' She's Having a Baby) when writing Jersey Girl and Clerks. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Solid teen movie that tackles some substantial issues.","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What, you and me? Well, you know, maybe it doesn't happen all the time, but it doesn't mean it isn't right. Right? Doesn't mean you can't try.Pretty in Pink is one of several John Hughes movies that I'm just getting around to seeing for the first time, and it's a good one.  The title had me a little wary that this was going go be way too girly for my taste, but that wasn't the case at all. Guys, don't be afraid to check this out.   What starts out as what seems to be just another 80's boy meets girl kind of movie, ends up being a pretty smart flick about class, family issues, self-worth, and that gauntlet/mine field known as high school. Pretty in Pink is more serious than funny, and has the kind of relatable and likable characters that these kinds of movies need to be successful. I liked the cast, liked the story, and just enjoyed the whole thing, overall. You don't have to have been a teenager in the 80's (though I'm sure it helps) for this to be a worthwhile movie. And it certainly doesn't hurt to be reminded how silly it is to judge people we don't know by superficial things, including how much (or how little) money they have. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Sweet and captivating teen drama...","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1st watched 5/18/2010 -- 7 out of 10(Dir-Howard Deutch) Sweet and captivating teen drama written by the master of such movies, John Hughes. This movie is about a normal non-rich teen girl played by Molly Ringwald who seeks love from a rich boy, played by Andrew McCarthy while at the same time having an infatuated friend played wonderfully by a young Jon Cryer who can't seem to give her up. The characters are played and written so well in this movie that you can't stop watching despite it's simple premise and inherent sweetness. The movie is really about breaking thru the class snobbery that exists in high schools but has a sweet first-love story intertwined. The movie is played out slowly with some scenes coming across as if they are played off-the-cuff, just letting the actors play it out. The side characters are also wonderfully portrayed -- especially Harry Dean Stanton as the father and Annie Potts as the older friend. The ending was kind of corny and just didn't seem quite right but because the rest of the movie is so good this can be forgiven. This is a one-of-a-kind teen masterpiece by the usually good John Hughes(especially when working in this genre). "},{"Title":"One of the Better Entries from the John Hughes Library...","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" PRETTY IN PINK was the hip and stylish teen angst comedy-drama where director John Hughes continued his cinematic love affair with Molly Ringwald which blends the expected teen angst with a sharp look the class system in the high school level. Ringwald plays Andy, an honor student from the wrong side of the tracks who falls for Blaine (Andrew McCarthy)a rich kid who goes to Andy's school and the tension that arises from their individual social circles when Blaine asks Andy to the prom. One of Hughes' better efforts thanks to a smart screenplay and charismatic performances. Rock solid supporting performances come from James Spader, at his oily best as Blaine's insensitive best friend who harbors a secret attraction to Andy; Annie Potts as Andy's ditzy best friend/employer, and especially Jon Cryer, in the scene-stealing performance of a lifetime as Duckie, Andy's best friend who wishes he were more, but it is Ringwald's Andy who is the heart of this movie, a character who will melt your heart and arouse instant empathy for the angst she is subjected to here. One of the best teen films from the 80's. "},{"Title":"James Spader...he's so cute","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this film..can't help finding James Spader hugely attractive in those days. Lucky girl to have all these men fussing over her considering her unpopularity at school. The fashion is great and wacky, big difference between the working classes and the middle classes. The film is very realistic in that sense and you can still relate to the issues they deal with today. I loved what she did with those clothes, so original and unique. Makes you wanna wish you knew how to operate a sewing machine. The punky and funky mother figure is hilarious, bit of a shame that she ends up such a yuppie square at the end of the film. Ducky is a fun character, but you cannot help feeling for him when the Molly Ringwald character keeps rejecting him. Love hurts! "},{"Title":"Love her in the white wig!","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm watching the movie right now. The ducky guy (from the TV show Two And A Half Men) is kind-of annoying, but you have to put up with him. This is like a Romeo and Juliet movie, where the poor girl is dating the rich guy. The Capulets and the Monrigues never had it so rough! That lawyer from Boston Legal is very good in this, before he went to law school obviously. This is a pretty fun movie, and Annie Potts has this white wig on, and it makes her look Chinese. What a pretty woman! And the part where Molly dances with Annie, I was so hoping they would kiss! Ah, but that is what a fantasy is for. Now, if you will excuse me... "},{"Title":"Molly Ringwald's most developed character yet!","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The '80's was all about wealthiness and flonting your wealthiness.  For the girl who had no wealth to flont and an ill father at home to take care of, Andie had alot on her plate.  Blane was a rich guy with college as a definite prospect, he could have any girl he wanted, but he picked Andie.  It was almost like Romeo and Juliet in a sense.  When Andie and Blane got together, both sides of friends complain; thinking the two had broken some set of unwritten commandments.  All Andie and Blane wanted were dates to the prom.  My favourite character is a toss up between Iona and Ducky.  Iona was cool, kind of like an older sister to Andie, maybe even the mother figure she was lacking.   Ducky was so cool though, he had such strong feelings for Andie, I was sad that in the end the two didn't get together.  He would have made an awesome boyfriend, he really loved her.  If you are an avid John Hughes fan, Molly Ringwald fan or 80's teen flick fan you will not be disappointed! "}{"Title":"Cute guys and pretty pink dresses...","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie, I was expecting a lot from it, but was disappointed after seeing it.  Not that it wasn't good, because it was. In fact, it's a great movie and I love the story and almost everything about it, however, the premise was just a little too slow for my taste, and I didn't find it as good as everyone said it was.But, who can deny the hot guys that are in it.  I mean, Andrew McCarthy alone is good-looking, but when you put him in a room with James Spader, you're just asking for trouble!  These two guys are too hot to be put together! But, I won't go on about how cute the guys are, even though it was a big part of why I stayed for the ending. The duckman, is funny and you in some ways feel so bad for him, you almost and I do emphasis ALMOST want Molly to forget about Andrew and go for the Duckman...but then I come back to reality and realize, that that would be a very silly decision and life would be chaotic if she didn't go for the hotter of the two!  )So, with that I give it an 8 out of 10 (10 being the highest). I liked the writing and of course all of the actors and actresses. I thought it was a very good piece...but again, not the best I've ever seen.And that is my review. "},{"Title":"not as good as sixteen candles.. but still ok","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i did kinda like this movie, since i saw sixteen candles before i saw this one.  well, molly tried to regain the poor girl status, but it didnt float very well with me. ducky seemed too fake in a sense, since he would follow her around and around throughout the movie. he would have been the perfect guy for her, why oh why did see use him? the rich guy didnt even make me think that he cares, in fact, i thought that he just wanted a laugh, since he could prove that he could seduce any teen girl. but he wasnt even that good looking, and the only thing that tied him to the popular high school crowd was his family's money. it just didnt make any sense to me at all. the traditional dress though that she wore to the prom is a classic to me, and even though she made that dress, isnt there a theme in all of this? but before i say the themes that i thought the movie was trying to prove, is it just me, or when molly ringwald makes the dress on her sewing machine, dont you think of that dolly parton song coat of many colors? but anywho, the theme is that your financial standings shouldnt affect your love life, and dump the guy that does truly care and aim high for the rich and popular??? i dont know if i am just ranting, but that is what i consider that movie to mean.   (C+ C) "},{"Title":"A classic among the classics","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just to say it in one word excellent! Ducky has always been my idol, I want to be like him! The film has all elements needed in a teen comedy, and it has that innocence of the 80's!I really love it! "},{"Title":"Pretty Stupid in Pink","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie seemed to make sense when I saw it at age 17 in 1986.  Now it just seems pretty stupid.  Indigent, punk girl falls for rich boy with Beemer from the other side of the tracks, while shunning the stalker friend/wannabe boyfriend.  Rich boy asks punk girl to prom.  Rich Boy's friend, Rich Boy II (who is actually jealous of Rich Boy's relationship with Punk Girl), convinces Rich Boy that he shouldn't date Punk Girl.  Rich Boy un-asks Punk Girl to Prom.  Rich Boy goes to prom alone.  Punk Girl goes to prom alone.  Stalker Wannabee goes to prom alone.  Punk Girl sees Stalker Wannabee at prom and S.W. asks P.G. to dance.  Deep breath hear.  R.B. sees P.G. and S.W. before they even get to dance floor.  R.B. and P.G. have a moment.  P.G. runs out of prom.  S.W. in magnanimous act sends R.B. after P.G.  S.W. gets hot, rich girl who five minutes earlier loathed his type of people.  R.B. gets P.G.Watching the movie now, I'm just not convinced.  Ringwald's character (Punk Girl, above) lives with her unemployed Dad in supposed poverty.  Yet their house looks like nice middle class diggs, they have plenty to eat, Ringwald has her own car and Ringwald has a vast wardrobe of psuedo-punk clothing (and I doubt that she made all of it!).  The Dad has apparently not even sued Ringwald's mother for child support.  I'm not convinced that Spader's character (Rich Boy II) was that interested in Ringwald's character and that he would be jealous of her relationship with McCarthy's character (Rich Boy).  Spader's chick was much hotter.  In real life there would be a series of protective orders issued against Duckie.  Further, Duckie and Spader's character get into a fight that is broken up by two teachers - and no one even gets detention.  Nor am I convinced that Duckie could get a thirty-something woman hot to trot with a single kiss.  McCarthy's character, who is supposed to be different from all of the other rich kids, acts just as petty and superficial when he dumps Ringwald.  Note also that if you were a rich teenager in the 80s, you were by default petty and superficial.  And the party . . . come on!  Everone dancing around like dorks and one unabashed couple - and only one - in their underwear.    Finally, if all these people really cared that much about the prom, why didn't they even stick around for more than ten minutes?!?Note the prominent placement of Dweezil Zappa's record in the record shop (Dweezil played a role in the film).  And note how much of a dork Andrew Dice Clay really was - the guy looks like he's having a seizure while lighting his cigarette.The only character I like is Spader's character, even if he got his butt kicked by a wimp. "},{"Title":"It's the soundtrack...","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ... and the hairstyles.  And 80's pop culture.  I was 22 in 1986 (old enough to really enjoy the 80's!), and I have to admit to an overwhelming nostalgia when I hear music from OMD or the Psychedelic Furs, New Order, etc.  For those who were too young to enjoy those years (or not born yet), sorry you missed it... really, I seriously am.  In fact, 1985-86 was probably the best part of the decade.  So much fun, such excellent music.Anyway, on to the movie (sorry, the nostalgia thing just wipes me out)... love it.  I do agree with many of the criticisms (who ends up with who at the end, etc) but Molly Ringwald has never been better, and the movie really *does* have a heart.  One of the best teen flicks of the decade, although I too question whether High School really was like that (I suppose nobody's memory is terribly accurate about those years, including John Hughes -- seems like one of those things that just fades whether you like it or not).8/10 for the film, 10/10 for 80's nostalgia (oh where did the 80's go, I hadn't finished with them yet.  Arrrgh, bring 'em back). "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites from my childhood years. I remembering idolizing Molly Ringwald and wanting to be like her. I was so excited about the DVD coming out. I had heard the alternative ending where Andie gets together with Duckie was on there. I couldn't wait to buy it. I got it as a gift and was very disappointed. There are no extras at all on the DVD (not even a trailer). I love this movie but the DVD could have had so much more.  "},{"Title":"Cute but ultimately disappointing","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A cute movie set in the early eighties period of my own youth.  The music does the nostalgia bit for my generation, although the flat, oversaxxed reworking of Pretty in Pink by the Psychadelic Furs left this connoisseur of the original version stone cold.Girl meets boy, differences in background and ghastly friends get in the way, problems sorta overcome.........there's not much original stuff there, is there?It has its moments, Ducky's miming of Try a Little Tenderness raising the longest laugh of the movie.  The friend who runs the second hand record store is the most interesting character.Nicely shot, Pretty in Pink passes a quiet evening pleasantly enough, but ultimately it is a disappointing movie. "},{"Title":"A decade epitomized","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Absolutely brilliant. Molly Ringwald, Harry Dean Stanton, Annie Potts at their best. The music, the mood, the attitude, the triumph of good over evil (in this case poor honesty over rich snobbery), the great lines (May I admire you again today?), John Hughes never did better. The Diceman lighting his cig was 15 of the funniest seconds on film. Jon Cryer hit his peak as Duckie. This movie could have been made in 1976 or 1996, it would have been just as good. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Go The 80's","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am 16 and you may not hear these words coming from a teenagers mouth but the 80's is the decade for everything from music, movie and everything fun. Pretty In Pink has demonstrated all of there qualities, it has a fantastic soundtrack an awesome storyline and is just a fun movie to watch. If you enjoy movies like St. Elmo's Fire, Fast Times At Ridgemont High and The Breakfast Club this is a movie for you. "},{"Title":"James Spader and Andrew McCarthy in the same movie!!! I was in heaven!","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty in Pink is one of the best 'Brat Pack' movies ever in my opinion. However through out the film all I could concentrate on was the fact that it stared both James Spader (Steph) and Andrew McCarthy (Blane). Lets just say i was a happy bunny. I usually limit myself to Science Fiction, but was pleasantly surprised with how good this film was. 8/10 from me! "}{"Title":"She's pretty in pink. Isn't she?","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another reason being a teenager in the 90's is so dull for me.  If I were a teenager in the 80's, I'd have gotten to see movies like this when they were first released. I have to now rely on seeing them in video stores.Although this doesn't work up to what The Breakfast Club and Sixteen Candles did for me, it comes very close.It's a movie about a poor girl on the wrong side of town who meets a wealthy boy that takes her breath away, and the two are effected by the prejudice from their peers (My best friend is conversing with a mutant.)When I tell people about Pretty in Pink, they think  that this is probably another chick flick and hunk junk which features some hot name actors and no other tasteful ingredients. That is, until they see it.I'd recommend this film to any high school couples who are being torn apart by peers and outside influence, and they will learn that the key is to always believe in each other.My rating ***1/2 (out of 5 *'s) "},{"Title":"An essential 80's movie","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty in Pink is an essential 80's movie. Given  that I only saw it for the first time today... it still showed the 80's really well.The plot was pretty good; a not so popular girl falls in love with a popular rich kid, and everything that happens along the way. Molly Ringwald and Andrew McCarthy were both good, but I didn't really like Ducky. He didn't add much to the movie except for a geek factor! Overall, this movie is really good, except I wanted to see the mean, rich girl get hers in the end!My rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One Of The Best","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is my personal favourite.  The film centres around two people from the wrong classes, Blane being rich and Andie being relatively poor.  And you can't forget Duckie who is infatuated with Andie.  Does this feel like schooldays? A film for people who have grown up with this movie is Fresh Horses which once again stars Molly Ringwald and Andrew McCarthy all grown up but similar ideas of class problems. The soundtrack to this is well worth a listen as its captured the 80s nicely. "},{"Title":"Lovely movie","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For me, this movie just can't get boring - even after seeing it over ten times... It's just that perfect love story that you want but sadly tend to never have yourself. "},{"Title":"With John Hughes, Molly Ringwald, and Jon Cryer, there's no going wrong!","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Hughes wrote one of his very best when he wrote Pretty In Pink.  Jon Cryer as Duckie is still one of my favorite and one of the funniest performances of the 80's.  The perfect cast and the perfect script, Pretty In Pink is still as funny as it was when it was first released.  "},{"Title":"I've never been this disappointed by a John Hughes teen film!","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The late John Hughes made a successful series of teen movies in the 80's, and Pretty in Pink was one of them. Unlike a number of the others, he didn't direct this one, but he still wrote it, and the starring role was assumed by Molly Ringwald, who appeared in more than one of Hughes' previous films. Having seen a bunch of other Hughes teen films and been overall impressed with each of them, and knowing that this one was fairly well-liked even if it's not the most popular of the bunch, I figured this would be a pretty good piece of its type. However, when I finally watched Pretty in Pink about 25 years after its theatrical release (it came out over half a year before I was born), I was disappointed to find that it wasn't even average in my book! Andie Walsh is a working class high school senior who lives with her single father, Jack. Her mother abandoned the two of them several years ago, which is something Jack hasn't gotten over. Andie goes to a school where she is looked down on and mistreated by rich snobs, so her school life isn't easy. She is friends with a student named Phil Duckie Dale and an older woman named Iona, the manager at the record store where Andie works. Duckie has a crush on Andie, which means he wants to be more than friends with her, but his way of trying to show it annoys her, and she finds herself falling in love with another guy named Blane McDonough. Blane is one of the many wealthy students at her school, but is far more sensitive than the other ones she knows, and it turns out he is in love with her as well. The two of them begin dating, much to Duckie's dismay. Blane's rich, snobbish friends also don't approve of this relationship.The beginning of this 1986 dramedy, showing Andie's life at home with her father, is far from an amazing start, but it shows that the movie could go somewhere. Moving to the character's school life, I would say it gets slightly more intriguing here, introducing the rich students who give Andie a hard time, and the impregnation offer and reaction that follows certainly made me laugh. However, the film gradually proves to be not so good. The romance can be memorably cheesy, with the first scene showing Andie falling in love with Blane, and then the computer lab scene. I was not too impressed with Andrew McCarthy's performance as Blane, nor was I with Annie Potts as Iona, but neither of them is as bad as Jon Cryer as Duckie. This character is clearly supposed to provide a lot of laughs, and he sometimes amused me doing things such as setting off the alarm at the record store, but his rants are generally not funny, and because of them, the character can sure be annoying! Watching Andie's troubles, including the rich snobs she faces, did not usually grab me, and the ending of the movie is a little abrupt.I've seen Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club, Weird Science, and Ferris Bueller's Day Off, all of which I've found to be good high school movies from the renowned John Hughes. For that reason, one might say I should like Pretty in Pink as well, but I don't! I found this romantic teen dramedy to be weak in more than one department, even if it has received far more praise than criticism in the past 25 years. It came out earlier the same year as Ferris Bueller's Day Off, and sure pales in comparison to that significantly more popular effort. Apparently, Anthony Michael Hall turned down roles in both of these 1986 films to avoid being typecast, and I certainly don't blame him for that, but the role he was offered in Pretty in Pink was Duckie. No offense to Jon Cryer, but Hall just might have been less annoying in this role, and the character could have been less of a problem. Most Hughes fans might like this movie, written by him and directed by Howard Deutch, but I can't imagine myself ever quite getting it. "},{"Title":"Wear pink even if it doesn't suit you","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In reply to two of the most frequent IMDb topics on this film.1 Yes, I think Andie's prom dress looks hideous. It isn't because pink clashes with her red hair. I think it's brave of her to wear a colour she likes regardless. But the shape is horrid.2 Given the choice, I would go for Steff. He is the best looking of Andie's options. But only if I could gag him or get him to drug himself so he wouldn't be able to say horrid things to me. If it's a question of personality, Andie should go for Iona. She is just as loyal as Duckie, but less clingy and with an adventurous sense of style (mostly). "},{"Title":"Good but Release Disappointing","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pretty in Pink is a cute little movie. In the movie Molly Ringwald,plays a girl from the wrong side of the tracks. She finds herself falling in love and having a romance with a troubled rich socialite(Matthew McCarthy).The two of them must battle the pressures of both worlds. Ringwald must also battle a lovestruck best friend and an annoying prick named Stef. As a whole, I like Pretty in Pink. I saw it before I saw 16 candles. It's a good movie. It was disappointing that they gave a commentary of the original ending and not put it on there as an alternative ending, like the Butterfly Effects. I would have liked to see Duckie and Molly get together at the end, like it was originally planned and shot. They should have put that on there. "},{"Title":"I love Pretty in Pink","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best movies ever I love Molly Ringwald she does a fantastic job being Andie in the movie and I just love John Cryer as ducky he is so funny even when he is singing or lip singing LOL that song I don't know it off hand but I know it was funny. I have been renting this movie since I was about six or seven and just this recent birthday I got the movie on DVD and I was so excited.I think that it was the best movie I had ever seen other than barney when I was that age LOL. I just wish that I could go back in time and just get that one moment back so I could watch it again and not know what is going to happen. So I can get excited like i did than. "},{"Title":"Pretty in pink","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie it is One of my favorite movies in the world. I love 80's movies and this is one of my favorites!!! I love Blaine. i love Dukie. i Love how Andie is a creative girl and makes her own dress for Prom. I'm a young girl and proud to say this is one of the best movies!!! I use to love breakfast club and still do but i saw this movie recently and blew me away. I some times wish that would happen to me. But i think every girl wishes that!! A rich falls for you but so does your best friend who is very loving. I just think it is a movie that will never be forgotten! Love this MOvie!!! and any one who loves 80 movies or songs and a good romantic/comedy will also fall in love with each character too! "}{"Title":"I feel you, Duckie *SPOILERS*","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Overall, as far as movies go, this movie is okay. Nothing spectacular, but it holds your interest. But let's face facts if it weren't for Duckie, the movie would be damn boring, and not worth watching.And that's why I (along with many, many others) felt robbed by the ending. I mean, come on. *HERE COME THE SPOILERS!!! DON'T SAY I DIDN'T WARN YOU!!!* Why, oh why did Hughesyboy make it so Molly Ringwald ended up with that stupid rich preppy who she knew for about two weeks, instead of Duckie, a fun, lovable (to a girl) guy who loved and cared about her, and she knew all her life? That is not cool in any way, shape or form. I mean, come on. You could show this movie to every single person in America, ages 10-150, and who would 99% of them want to get Molly? That's right. Duckie. No one wants to see that stupid rich snob get her. You see, I really can relate to Duckie. In a sense, I AM Duckie. But unfortunately, I too got the shaft from the girl I liked for (surprise, surprise) some rich jerk (I'm being kind, trust me), so I thought, hey, if Duckie got her, then maybe, just maybe, the good guys CAN win. But oh, how the mighty are fallen. She instead goes out with that rich loser. When Duckie found out and gave her hell for it, I found myself shouting at the TV, YEAH! YOU TELL HER, DUCKIE! and wished I had had enough courage to tell the girl I liked that dumped me off like that in ninth grade. But oh well, c'est la vie. And oh yeah, those scenes where Molly just kept kissing him and they made the bleep out and that final scene with that big, long, overdrawn, vomit-inducing kiss, I actually almost got sick. How could you not? How could ANYONE not? Honestly, if that scene didn't at least dissapoint you a little, you are a superficial, heartless, cruel human being and I wish not to know you.Anyway, I give it 3/5 stars. OK movie, but the ending bites. DUCKIE RULES!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Good, though derivative","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before John Hughes realized there was more money in making dumb movies for little kids than there was making intelligent movies for teenagers, he brought us some of the best adolescent comedy/dramas of the 80's. SIXTEEN CANDLES, THE BREAKFAST CLUB, WEIRD SCIENCE, FERRIS BEULLER'S DAY OFF, PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES and SHE'S HAVING A BABY were all clever, well-acted and, above all else, funny.  PRETTY IN PINK is for many Generation X-er's a defining moment in their growing up.  It's a good flick, but marked the beginning of the end for Hughes.Having grown tired of directing he chose to write and produce instead ($$$). Not really wanting to have to come up with new ideas, however, he chose to recycle his own previous work.  PRETTY IN PINK is the most subtle example of this, as the basic plot, and Molly Ringwald's entire character, are lifted right out of SIXTEEN CANDLES.  John Cryer replaces Anthony Michael Hall as The Geek, Annie Potts plays a very similar best friend, Andrew McCarthy plays a similar love interest, Harry Dean Stanton (in an undeniably terrfifc performance) plays a more downtrodden Dad.The only element that's a little new is the addition of the James Spader character, who is constantly trying to get Ringwald in the sack, all the while telling McCarthy he's too good for her.  It adds an interesting twist to otherwise familiar territory.After this, Hughes went on to blatantly plagarize himself, with derivitive movies such as DUTCH (UNCLE BUCK + PLANES, TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES), SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL (SIXTEEN CANDLES + PRETTY IN PINK, with the male and female roles switched), CAREER OPPORTUNITIES (HOME ALONE with teens instead of a little kid), as well as remaking / ripping off classics such as THE LITTLE TRAMP (CURLY SUE) and THE ABSENT-MINDED PROFESSOR (the dreadful FLUBBER).Stick with PRETTY IN PINK as the old John Hughes' swan song.  His soul was bought and paid for a long time ago, and redemtion seems unlikely, if at all possible. "},{"Title":"It's OK but it's pathetic...","Date":"17 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just only watched this because I could see that young Jon Cryer was involved in this. This movie had an OK storyline but I felt Molly Ringwald who played Andie was too preppy to be considered a weakling in this. She was actually not that kind of person who wouldn't be that sensitive. Although I would consider her a whiner at the same time!I found Jon Cryer's character very annoying and distracting to look at. I think his character was way too giddy for anyone to date. I'm not saying Jon Cryer isn't a bad actor, I'm just saying his character needs to be rewritten again because it just was the worst role for his acting career! I would suggest that his character should've been a greaser who doesn't give a crap and doesn't care about anything that stands in his way but only for his love! It's not a good but an alright movie....... "},{"Title":"Subpar Hughes","Date":"2 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I usually take to John Hughes movies pretty well, but Pretty in Pink was strangely flat for me. Part of the reason is that I saw Some Kind of Wonderful first (which, despite its faults, is much more effective in its pursuits), this is also a fairly lackluster cast, with Annie Potts being the only real standout (although, the ladies' room scene was some genuinely funny Jon Cryer). But that ending . . . everything points to Andie ending up with Duckie. The way the story moves, everything, it's a foregone conclusion. We know how this will shake out. Yet it goes the other way, and for no good reason. In a movie like this, that's a nonsensical rug-pull. It kinda helps when you know the behind-the-scenes reason for this, but it's still a fumble.5/10 "},{"Title":"Sorely Lacking","Date":"24 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A poor girl (Molly Ringwald) must choose between the affections of her doting childhood sweetheart (Jon Cryer) and a rich but sensitive playboy (Andrew McCarthy).Of all the films John Hughes wrote or directed, this is probably the least best. At no point in time does the boyfriend give us a reason to think he has changed, or that he is even someone we can see the lead actress falling for. Years later, Molly Ringwald said they probably broke up shortly after the film ends. This is probably true, as nothing suggests otherwise.Jon Cryer was impressive here, and it is a bit of a shame he is playing a geek (or a closeted homosexual, as some have suggested). Clearly he has a great deal of talent and physical ability, so it would have been nice to be able to show that off without having to be the fool.The film's redeeming quality -- and there is only one -- is the casting of Annie Potts. Although best known for Ghostbusters, she is allowed to show off her acting and range here, and she comes across as the most lovable character. (Interestingly, she is supposed to be fifteen years older than Ringwald -- which she is in real life -- but has aged so well that they could be in the same grade.) "},{"Title":"Even Though He Didn't Direct It, Pretty In Pink Is Equal In Poignance To John Hughes' Other Classic Films","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't think that this film is quite on equal grounds with what I consider to be the two best John Hughes films (The Breakfast Club and Ferris Bueller's Day Off), but as far as teen films go Pretty in Pink exemplifies utmost brilliance that makes it necessary viewing for fans of John Hughes, teen films and 80s cinema in general. On top of that, the film also has a few distinctive qualities that are all worth discussion.The film's story focuses on a lower class teenage girl named Andie who isn't one of the most popular girls in school. She's constantly accompanied by a childhood friend named Duckie who secretly has a crush on her who offers the basic friendly comforts as well as the commonly associated annoyances. She also spends time working at a record shop with her friend, Iona. Shortly into the film she grows an attraction to an upper class boy named Blane and begins dating him, but the real issues involved are whether or not the difference in social classes as well as the presence of both Duckie and Blane will be a problem.The story isn't outstanding by any means, but it isn't the main source of appeal. Mainly I feel that that is rooted in the great performances, exploration of class differences, and the great humour. Molly Ringwald, a teen film regular delivers a great performance that certainly equals her role in The Breakfast Club. You get to see the basic clichéd struggles of a teenage girl, but the film luckily understands that basing drama off of this is not enough. It's great to see the writers made her mother absent, made her father unemployed and gave a decent portrayal of living in a lower social class and being unpopular as well as the associated consequences.I think Annie Potts and Andrew McCarthy give solid performances, but one performance I really like especially is Jon Cryer as Duckie. He seems to remind me of Matthew Broderick in Ferris Bueller's Day Off despite his nerdy qualities. I think he's the funniest character in the movie, take note of the scene in which he is pushed into the girl's bathroom at school.I may be really off on this next statement, but I feel as though the movie has Marxist undertones. The fact that the film deals with the issues of living in a lower social class and negatively portrays the characters who live in the upper class (Take note of Blane's friends. They're jerks). On top of that, I feel as though this was reinforced by the scene in which Andie and Duckie were discussing the Russian revolution during a study session. Maybe this wasn't intentional, but I can't help but draw the connections. Either way, it doesn't really hurt the movie and in some cases it could even be useful.While some of the issues encountered do appear to be meaningless such as the High School Prom or getting people in other school groups to like you, you have to remember that this is a teen film and it is required to portray these social aspects in a way that can appeal to younger audiences. Luckily though, the filmmakers have made it entertaining for all age groups (or so I've heard). One thing I'd also like to note is the ending. While you can predict the possible endings, I'm really glad they went with the one that seemed the least likely.Pretty In Pink is a wonderful movie. It may not have been directed by the late and legendary John Hughes, but it's so identical to his other films in style it might as well have been. Director Howard Deutch should be commended for replicating this style of teen filmmaking. Pretty In Pink receives a very high recommendation from me. Rest in peace, John Hughes and thank you for writing this great film.9/10 "},{"Title":"You're ashamed to go out with me.","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Andie Walsh (Molly Ringwald) is different to most kids at school. Being solely raised by her unemployed father, Jack (Harry Dean Stanton) and dressing in hand made clothes, she's very much from the wrong side of the tracks. It's tough in school as Andie and her pals are looked down on by the more wealthy students who make up the majority of the student body. With the prom on the horizon, Andie is feeling a little more bluer than normal, but hope comes in the form of Blane McDonough (Andrew McCarthy), a so called rich kid, who in spite of peer pressure asks Andie to the prom. This is something that alienates Andie and Blane from their so called friends.As it turned out, Pretty In Pink was another in the line of John Hughes films that really hit the mark with the teenagers of the time. In fact it's fair to say it impacted with almost everyone who had suffered a less than straight forward climb thru some angsty teenager years. It's not a perfect piece by any stretch of the imagination, at times twee and at others a little trite, it is none the less a finely crafted piece dealing with teen perils and the ugliness of class division. Unfortunately the class divide is something that rarely gets associated with Pretty In Pink, focus tends to be drawn to the love story at its heart. Which is a shame, because although audience expectation will undoubtedly be met, Hughes has plotted it nicely to make his point. There is also the real notable thread of the single parent here, where the single parent is a man and unable to break free of the escalating distress caused by the break up of his marriage to Andie's mother. The two best serious scenes in the film both involve the father/daughter axis, where both Ringwald and H.D. Stanton are terrific. Comedy relief comes in the form of Andie's best pals, Duckie (Jon Cryer) and Iona (Annie Potts). Both characters neatly inserted into the structure of the piece. While the direction from Howard Deutch is careful and brings about reality based performances from the predominantly youthful cast.Containing a kicking 80s soundtrack from the likes of New Order, Echo And The Bunnymen, Orchestral Manoeuvres In The Dark and The Psychedelic Furs, Pretty In Pink is a special movie on the CV of John Hughes. It wont be special to all, but for many, myself included, it strikes a chord, one that was first heard back in the 80's and for sure can still be heard today. 8/10 "},{"Title":"John Hughes is the Kevin Smith of the eighties","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty In Pink is one of the best films involing teens that John Hughes has ever done. The way he idneties with teens is brilliant as is his casting. James Spader plays the a**hole role again very good and Molly Ringwald is a hottie. Extra points go to Jon Cryer who steals every scene as Duckie. "},{"Title":"JON CRYER AT HIS BEST","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty in pink remains one of my all time favourite movies. I was nine years old when it was first released and have seen it over 50 times. Jon Cryer was amazing as Duckie and the scence where he mimes Try a little tenderness is priceless.Molly, Andrew and James were great but this movie really belonged to Jon.If you haven't seen this movie - you don't know what you are missing out on because out of all of the Molly/John movies this was the best.. "},{"Title":"Not as good as you remember it being","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty in Pink (1986), starring Molly Ringwald, Jon Cryer, James Spader, Harry Dean Stanton, and Andrew Dice Clay (well, not really, but he does have a small role). This is 1980s teen movie heaven, with Molly Ringwald and John Hughes. I'm still mystified by the appeal of John Hughes movies - having never seen them when they were released, they all seem so bad now. It's a mediocre plot with cookie-cutout characters, and the high school setting seems to have been created by someone oblivious to how high school students actually look, act, or talk. I was in junior high when this thing came out, and to the best of my knowledge no one ever dressed like the supposed kids (all of whom look around 24 or older) in this school. There are some nice bits - I like Annie Potts as Ringwald's boss/older friend, Molly Ringwald is as adorable as ever, Jon Cryer is alright, and Gina Gershon (recently in the very cool lesbian gangster film Bound) has a small part - but I still don't understand the supposed long-term appeal of this film. Cult favorite? Seems just like a forgettable, mildly diverting bit of fluff. "}{"Title":"Another horrid Hughes disaster piece","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Horrid screen play by John Hughes with equally horrid direction, acting and costumes.I mention costumes because, at the end, when Ringwald is supposed to make her big entrance in her pink dress she looks absolutely horrid! The dress is a mess and not even 'eghties fashion' could excuse it. How could anyone even think....ah well, I digress. Many IMDb-ers agree.Same old same old from Hughes geeky poor kids in love with the rich kids and the rich kids in love with the geeky poor kids. Was this supposed to be some attempt at crossing boundaries? Hughes was obsessed with the cross-over. Once you've seen one Hughes film, you've seen them all, literally.Ringwald, as usual, plays the girl who has multiple men falling in love with her, despite the fact she is unattractive, dull and miserably self-obsessed. It all works out in the end of course. Even for the geeky boys, who, in John Hughes films, always find themselves suddenly, out of nowhere, desired by the most attractive girls in the school, just to make everything OK at the end. Absurd. Dull. Brainless. Forgettable. Why these films live on is beyond me. I can only assume nostalgic people are still viewing the films thorough their childhood eyes. "},{"Title":"It will leave you tickled pink!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Poor Alexa Kenin who played Annie's best friend in the film. She was killed in real life and it's dedicated to her memory. Anyway, I love this film. Of course, it's by John Hughes (master of teen angst comedies and dramas.) Again, he picks a great cast like Jon Cryer to play Duckie, James Spader to play the creep, Molly Ringwald to play Annie, Annie Potts to play her strange older friend, Harry Dean Stanton who plays Annie's father, etc. John Hughes always knows how to explain the adolescent psyche. This film is about rich and poor kids living together. There is this shame in the poor students and the rich kids are just spoiled brats. As always, John provides a believable love triangle among Jon Cryer's Duckie, Molly Ringwald's character, and that guy who I forget his name. Anyway, they are all great. I just have one problem and that is the fact we never understand why the mother/wife left the family. Anyway, Gina Gershon has a small part in the film as well. Of course, it's about prom night which is an American ritual to all of us. "},{"Title":"Bad, just bad ...","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm the type of person who loves to watch cheesy movies. It's true, I love really weird, absurd and pointless stories. I also enjoy to be entertained, so I've watched almost all American 80's comedies available. I've found out what the true meaning of bad movie was. But sometimes, a movie is so bad that it becomes funny. Is Pretty in Pink a movie like that? In my opinion, no, it's definitely not. If you want to watch a 80's movie, or just a teen movie, don't rent this.Pretty in Pink is full of every stereotypes that you see in the worst teen movies available. The stereotype of the poor original girl falling in love with a popular boy and ending up looking beautiful at the prom is a stereotype that you'll find in several other movies. Okay, stereotypes can sometimes be entertaining even though they're just plain stupid. But a lot of elements of the plot in Pretty in pink are just questionable.By example, the fact that the main character ends up with the rich popular boy instead of the childhood friend who's in love with her might deceive a lot of people. It's not a bad ending or a good ending. If she had ended up with the other boy, it might have been cliché as well. However, there's always a way to make something not seem so cliché. By example, in Rushmore, the main character.. ends up with the girl he's supposed to end up with, but you don't feel like complaining after watching that movie.I don't think an in-depth analysis of Pretty in Pink is useful, because it's not a very serious movie, and there's no need to take it seriously, but it's definitely not tasteful. "},{"Title":"better then sixteen candles","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There was something about this movie-I'm not exactly sure what but it just got me. Even though Sixteen Candles is supposed to be the movie many remember Molly Ringwald for and I liked it, I actually prefer this.I think it may have something to do with the whole bohemian flavor to the movie. The characters were so true to life, not that they weren't in sixteen Candles but Pretty in Pink just had something special to it. It was one of those teen movies one could watch over and over, and I think the music had something to do with it too. It really was both fun and touching. I adored this movie back when it was first out and saw it numerous times.This movie was pure 80's but, though I haven't seen it in awhile I would watch it again-it is a pretty simple movie but a sweet one and extremely well-made-just never became quite as popular as sixteen candles and other similar movies. Even though this movie would have an obviously dated look now if it were being viewed for the first time, I still think its a great movie for any adolescent and could still be enjoyed throughly. My rating is 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"She's pretty in pink, isn't she?","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is yet another brainchild of John Hughes from the 80's.Although it doesn't live up to the greatness of his other teen flicks from the 80's, such as The Breakfast Club, it comes pretty close.It shows the realism of dating and the social problems that tie with it, such as financial status and peer issues.Another great movie anyone who has ever attended high school must see...***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Okay, but not the best.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is where John Hughes started turning over his work to other lesser directors, with mixed results. Pretty in Pink is basically a cinderella story with a laughably unbelievable ending, apparently re-shot after the studio reacted in fear to what was originally there. In the original she did NOT get the 'hot guy'. Which would have been much more interesting. Featuring good performances from Jon Cryer as the I'm not gay friend who is clearly gay, and Molly Ringwald in the thankless title role.Another great sound track, and great supporting performances from James Spader et al. When it came out, this was the 'bomb', but it hasn't aged well I'm afraid. One of the lesser of the Hughes cannon.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing but not bad","Date":"4 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rated PG-13 for Language,Some Sexual Content and Brief Violence John Hughes is one of the greatest 1980s teen comedy filmmakers.Sixteen Candles and the Breakfast Club are his best films and are considered to be 1980's teen comedy classics.This film is considered to be a 1980's classic as well.I must say this film is overrated.I saw this movie yesterday on showcase where they were playing teen comedies all weekend.Its not a bad movie.The acting was good.Jon Cryer played a good role as Ducky, Molly Ringwald's friend who is in love with her.James Spader and Andrew McCarthy played good roles as well.The latter two would later star in the film Less Than Zero.The film is about a poor girl who usually makes her own dresses.Her mother left them and her father has a small part time job.Her best friend is an eccentric teen named Ducky.Prom night is coming up and she is thinking of asking this boy who comes into the record store she works with to come with her.However, he is rich and she is poor and she doesn't think he will like her.The film has a good enough story, I find it to be more of a drama/romance.They tried to make it funny but I did not find this film very funny at all.Anyway Pretty In Pink is a mediocre film and is considred a classic, but I personally didn't care for it.The film had a good soundtrack though. "},{"Title":"Pretty Awful","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie a few years ago when I was younger and more sentimental, and I thought it was okay. But I just finished watching it tonight and my opinion of it has gone way down. First of all, I've never before seen such bad 80's clothing in a movie. With the exceptions of Duckie and Iona, almost everyone looked like the parents/business people of the time. Where was the spikey hair? The wild makeup? The neon? Why all the blazers? Second of all, it was sad to see that the character who had the most charm and appeal, Duckie, was the one who was the most dumped upon. Now that's just not fair. Iona was a neat lady, but I found none of the other characters very likeable Molly Ringwald as the poor, yet uptight martyr; Andrew McCarthy as the spineless wimp of a love interest; and let's not forget good old James Spader as the sockless-in-loafers, silky-voiced leader of the rich brats. The whole movie just became embarrassing to watch (even by myself!) after a while. Especially the dramatic scenes where it seems that everyone is doing their best overacting. The bottom line is, watch the entire movie if you enjoy squirming and feeling uncomfortable, or if you're just bored and need to make fun of something. Otherwise, I suggest just skipping the the scene where Duckie lip synchs to an Otis Redding song in the record store. It's really the only part worth watching "},{"Title":"I HAAAAAAAATE that ending!!!","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, may I just say first that I admire the fact that the film ended realistically, because let's face it, the pretty lovely down-to-earth girl invariably ends up with the hot but misogynistic guy who will treat her like crap. I get that. What I HATE is the fact that there isn't even the slightest bit of a pretense of humility on his part - ..you just didn't believe in me., what a bunch of crap!! I love this movie, but the ending is where it loses brownie points for me. Except for the fact that Duckie finally gets the attention he deserves - from a very cute and very young Kristie Swanson. That part I liked. DUCKIE DALE FOREVER!!!! "},{"Title":"Dissecting the class division. (spoilers)","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" John Hughes has always had the classist themes in his films, and particularly his teen films, with the exception of Weird Science. The most apparent of these being 'The Breakfast Club,' 'Some Kind of Wonderful,' 'Career Opportunities,' and of course, 'Pretty in Pink.' I think the thing to be valued most about these characters is that they are always very much aware of their surroundings and their separations of one another usually more so than the adults (resulting in a teen film that lacks such a condescending and unnecessarily fearful outlook). Within these movies, even if only momentarily (although, we might presume lastingly), they seem to understand enough to transcend these absurd, social demarcations.Molly Ringwald, in what might be her best role yet, plays wise teenager, Andie, who's living with her unemployed, single father literally on the other side of the tracks. Although there are points raised about her mother having abandoned she and her father without explanation, we are pretty much just aware of Andie as being one aspect of class. (As we should, since this is basically the theme of the entire movie, although it is classified first as a love story.) Her friends basically accept that what others have sold them that it is their lot in life to be subordinate to those with more money, and that education need only be a limited and failing effort, just as anything else will that they embark upon. But not Andie. She's seems to be the most vigilante in breaking through these allotted social roles where others like her might follow.This comes when she meets studly and quiet, Blaine (McCarthy), who is one of those she and her friends have been conditioned to avoid--and vice versa. He is a richie. Although attracted to each other, it is the threat of their friends' reactions to their relationship that threatens to break them up. Andie and Blaine's worlds are conveniently confined to very distinct illustrations using the school campus and outdoor corridors and external social settings (like the club or the party). Duckie (who has seemed to develop into a cult character, along with Annie Potts' character, Iona, the record store owner and Andie's spunky boss) seems to be the most visible in being turned off by the situation, he being the life-long friend of Andie and secretly, infatuated with her. But it is Steff, Blaine's vicious friend, who had been rebuffed by Andie on numerous occasions, who tries hard to persuade Blaine to end things. It is just a matter of determining which who will be stronger in the matter and between Andie and Blaine, it looks like Andie is really the one who proves to be above it.The ending is the result of test audiences who did not like the fact that Andie ended up with Duckie. I'm not sure this would've been an entirely bad thing and I hate when filmmakers acquiesce to the responses of audiences rather than their own inclinations. Nonetheless, despite the ridiculously sappy ending, it has transcended the limits of the time, and become yet another Hughes classic. "}{"Title":"Good movie...bad ending.","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" **Very MINOR spoilerage**I, being a teenage girl, can really relate to this movie and I think it was very well acted and presented, and shows the true-to-life rival between the wealthy kids and the kids with not so much. The only thing keeping me from loving this movie is the ending. It just left me feeling empty inside and caused me to want to change the last couple of scenes, lol. I think that a lot of teenagers can relate to this movie because it deals with peer pressure and situations where you don't feel like you fit in with everyone else. All in all, I think it's a great, entertaining watch and I recommend it. ) "},{"Title":"A cute Movie with a simple story","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty In pink is a cute movie with a simple story. Yet I found a lot of things annoying in this movie. For example, Why is the girl considered poor? I mean she lives in a house, i would love to live in a house! That scene was so pathetic when she was crying because she didn't want the guy to know where she lived. Also the movie focuses way too much on the prom, who the hell gives a rat's a-s-s about the prom? I sure don't. Also i noticed that some of the students were smoking in the school building, nobody does that, in my school, if you even just hold a cigarrate in the building you get suspended. My favorite character was Duckie, he was just so hilarious, i would have gone out with him instead that ugly rich guy. Molly Ringwald was so hot when she was young, very beautiful. I would give this movie 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Red Headed Cinderella","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This John Hughes Brat Pack teen comedy/drama stars Molly Ringwald, THE Brat Pack female star as the red headed teen from the other side of the tracks who yearns for a better life with her preppy teen dream, Andrew McCarthy. Hughes definitely ripped the plot off from The Way We Were. Ringwald is Barbra Streisand and McCarthy is Bob Redford without all the politics.That being said it's not a bad film at all. The film has a great supporting cast with Kate Vernon as the rich snob who makes life difficult in school for Ringwald and James Spader as another preppy who just wants a quick roll in the hay from Ringwald. Spader dresses like a Don Johnson/Sonny Crockett wannabe and he really becomes someone you love to hate.Ringwald's friend and confidante is John Cryer who set a standard playing all kinds of non conformist parts from the Brat Pack Eighties down to today. You really do wish Cryer could get Ringwald, if there was justice in the world, he would have.Pretty In Pink is not a bad Cinderella story with a bow to The Way We Were. Hopefully it works out better ultimately for Molly and Andrew than it did for Barbra and Bob. "},{"Title":"!!destroy Jon Cryer!!","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a teenager, I was much more fond of John Hughes than I am now, thinking that there was some ultimate truth buried in THE BREAKFAST CLUB and its ilk. I rejected PRETTY IN PINK because the ending did not sit well with me.These days I'm skeptical of Hughes' still-active cult and find BREAKFAST CLUB rather cloying, but some of his movies -- PLANES, TRAINS & AUTOMOBILES, UNCLE BUCK, and FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF -- still hold up, and I'd have to say that despite the undistinguished hand of director Howard Deutch, PRETTY IN PINK is blessed with Hughes' best and most knowing script.The thing that appeals to me about it most is the father-daughter relationship between Harry Dean Stanton and Molly Ringwald; Hughes isn't afraid to make them troubled and not always completely sympathetic characters. As in some of his less teen-oriented scripts, he shows enough wisdom to lead one to wonder why on earth he ended up being associated primarily with movies like BABY'S DAY OUT and BEETHOVEN. In revolving the world of PRETTY IN PINK around the ugliness of class prejudice (maybe a bit exaggerated, I don't know because I went to a rural high school) and supplying it with strong characterizations, he's able to provide a high school comedy of considerable intelligence. It may not be as smart as FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH or, to fast-forward to the '90s, ELECTION, but it has substance to it.Stanton supplies a great deal of this substance, as does Annie Potts in a memorable and oddly bittersweet turn. James Spader is hilarious as the evil rich kid, the flipside of his hypersensitive impotent geek in SEX, LIES AND VIDEOTAPE a few years later. Most impressively, Andrew McCarthy turns a fairly underwritten character into a likable one that holds the movie together.But (there's always a but in John Hughes' movies) the writer stumbles when expecting us to identify with the nice guy Duckie, played by Jon Cryer, an annoying and obsessive little creature, long best pals with semi-Cinderella girl Ringwald. He freaks out on her when he finds she's newly in love with, horror of horrors, a bourgeois-plus youth in a nice house. While it might be logical for someone with a long-held crush to be upset about this, it's irritating that we're supposed to feel sorry for him when he seems to feel that he owns the girl and that her attraction to another is somehow unfair to him. Mercifully, Hughes did not go with the obvious ending in which dork-gets-girl. McCarthy's character may be rich, but at least he's a real person -- not a leech -- who seems to have some respect for the central character.As a story of rich-meets-poor making waves, this is a fine if slightly naive movie, richly entertaining, and it's aged surprisingly well. As a tale of the unrequited love of a geek who's actually a jerk (and not even a smart jerk), it's sleepy and frustrating. Nonetheless, it redeems itself and is more than worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Real title should bePRETTY DISSAPOINTING","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty in pink you can say is not the usual love story. But the film drags on and is very dissapointing at the end. Molly Wringwald is trapped between two guys. One,a richie who she's madly in love with. And a friend named Duckie who tries hard to win her over. With Duckie, you know that she would be happy with him because he really did love her. But instead she took the richie even though she didn't know if he really loved her. What a croc! "},{"Title":"80's nostalgia, nothing more","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pretty In Pink is definitely not one of John Hughes' better works. The characters are shallow, the acting is mediocre and the whole thing is neither really funny nor moving. The only reason to watch Pretty In Pink nowadays is for that typical 80's feeling it exudes. You'll see faces that you haven't seen on screen in ages (Andrew McCarthy, Molly Ringwald, Andrew Dice Clay), you'll hear all sorts of musical gems from the 80's and you'll witness some of the worst hair and clothing crimes ever committed on film. The story itself, however, is lazily written and can't hold a candle to previous coming of age movies by Hughes. Pretty In Pink doesn't so much evoke a feeling of how it was to be a teenager in the 80's, but rather of how flawed and clichéd movies could be during that period. "},{"Title":"Teen flick about bucking conventions alas falls right into them!","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Writer John Hughes apparently reveres his childhood, in about the same way the makers of TV's Happy Days revered the 1950s. He has wrapped up his memories in plastic coating and taken care to make certain everything comes off COOL--even his leading character, a high school misfit, is very cool simply by having her rebuff the popular clique (a clique most teens would prefer to be in, rather than being tagged an 'outcast'). As played by Molly Ringwald, this high school unfortunate has her own phone, her own car, and her own job (in a fashionably retro record shop). Pretty In Pink is designed to make high school look good to junior high schoolers. It's Hughes' heaven for the have-nots (those who can afford it, anyway), where a misfit culture can make goofy glasses and thrift-shop attire something to LONG for. As a romantic teen-comedy, it stumbles by giving us insufferably smug Andrew McCarthy as Ringwald's dream guy (he's the type of actor who relaxes only when it's his close-up) and James Spader as the preppy villain (he looks so old, at first I thought he might be one of the teachers in Miami Vice dress). Ringwald is charming, and Jon Cryer takes a formula role as a goofy guy-pal and makes it something a little special (although it's a hand-me-down from Anthony Michael Hall). The film has some sincerity and a few witty lines, but basically it's pap (or rather, pablum) for audiences unwilling to chew, just swallow. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Classics are not for everybody, v1.00","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" During the 1980's I was walking dead. During the 1990's I did read a novel, Looking For Andrew McCarthy by Jenny Colgan, that respects this feature enough to make it a theme for the story. I had understood this to be a modern romantic classic, just what I now discover is that it is also very 1980's. The DVD I have is a box set of three 1980's classics. Flashdance (1983) and Footloose (1984) as well as this. At first it left me puzzled, but then a bus passed me with an advert for a feature called Fame and I wondered about Fame (1980), these are all after Parker's masterwork and maybe are part of a storytelling culture that is influenced by him. I had expected two of the features to be dance stories of the highly rated type and the other to be romance. Browsing some of the user comments here, many would appear to agree with that, but not me. For me these are predominantly 1980's genre and I have a problem re these three examples, just as I have a problem re Parker's Fame feature. Now, if these were in the footsteps of the Fame series that would be a rather different sort of thing. I remember that series as 'pass the time' type sugar goo of a rather acceptable type. These three features do not attempt to dabble in that world. I find Flashdance to be the most difficult. The story could easily have been high sugar but instead I get the impression that the storyteller has decided to dive into symbolism instead. I find the symbolism to be too obvious and too rough and I note that some comments here blame the actor Beals for dance problems that stem from that directorial decision. The ending, a blatant lead in to Girls Just Want To Have Fun and episodes of such as Lizzie McGuire. I found it to be the emptiest part. Some disagree with me on that. What those who love this story consider to be an ultimate climax I find to be a vacuum. Footloose as a big improvement, just I find the kids of the vicar to be a bit too scary. Further, it helps me to appreciate Graham Greene's The Detructors (?) more, ditto the Kurt Vonnegut. To like it I had to get around the understanding that this is dance flick genre. To me it is a drama that just happens to include dance as a theme. Pink. Romance, yes. But not such an easy sort of romance. It includes a lot of grit that says 1980's, to me, and helps me to understand the Colgan novel a bit more. The highlight, for me, is the stage music at the club. View this feature in a sensible and appreciative sort of way, that would just be bits of small detail. * Watching these I was also watching Switching Goals (1999) with the Olsen twins and Uptown Girls (2003) with Brittany Murphy and Dakota Fanning. After the first viewing was over I could really get to like both of these. Neither has a 1980's feel. 1980's stuff that I can accept as likable classics include early Winona Ryder Lucas, Beetle Juice, Heathers. Lucas as romance, Beetle Juice as rather footloose, Heathers as using symbols and meaning and critique in a way that stands tall. "},{"Title":"More like Pretty as a damn pinko","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Open class warfare. The heroine is a redhead. She looks good in commie-sympathizer pink.Why this movie might as well have been penned by Bertolt Brecht.Although she ends up with corporate moll Andrew McCarthy, I have no doubt that he will be ready for the Bader-Meinhof after a year with this working class heroine.James Spader is also credible as Mr. Burns and Annie Potts is dressed in her usual counter-cultural splendor.Mr. Hughes declines to resolve such issues as the Kennedy, King, and Lennon assassinations, or the link between the Knights Templars and Skull and Bones.Despite these weaknesses, a big thumbs up! "},{"Title":"While it is just another teen movie, it's not too bad","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My girlfriends at work just told me recently that I am not aloud to be a movie fan without seeing the coming of age films. So, they have lent me all the coming of age films Pretty in Pink, Sixteen Candles, Say Anything, Breakfast Club, Weird Science, etc. You'll see later in my movie comments soon. So, was Pretty in Pink a good movie? It was average. Your typical 80's romance teen flick. This is a classic though that I will appreciate and see what these other teen movies are about. Molly Ringwald is very entertaining and I loved seeing those familiar faces. It's a cute movie that I would recommend if you enjoy teen movies, otherwise, it's something I can live without.6/10 "}{"Title":" If I hate him cause he's got money it's the exact same thing as them hating us becuase we don't","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Molly Ringwald is magnificent as Andrea in this spectacular teen angst flick. The supporting cast is terrific. The costumes are casual. One of the good farces in the genre, Pretty In Pink will urge the viewer to believe money doesn't buy love. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not all that Pretty","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I might be missing something, but I do not understand the appeal of this particular John Hughes production. I tend to enjoy John Hughes and I am not a member of any anti-Ringwald clubs, so those types of prejudice do not factor into my acute disdain for this particular film.The film is woefully dated. It is not the references to records, slang or the clothes that date it. Instead the intangible style and attitude possessed by the characters ages the movie.On a more personal level, what makes me want to throttle this film is the is the creation of high school as the summit of life. Around this perceived pinnacle swirls adult conversations of understandings of life, and particularly love. I watch and cannot help to snicker at the thought that anyone would take Andie and Jack's or Andie and Iona's delving into these matters seriously. Perhaps the most realistic view of high school romance and love held in the film, as morally despicable as it is, is by Steff. This was almost as funny as overhearing a two hour symposium on love given by Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie. "},{"Title":"stereotype 80's movie, I was not impressed","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" stereotype 80's movie, I was not impressed at all. 2 exceptions The 1st was when Iona said why can't people be old and grow younger, which I once wondered, and 2nd was when (at the prom) Duckie couldn't believe his eyes that a beautiful girl was waving to him and looked around and pointed to himself, which is a rare moment of the movie that brings a sense for real. ---Those 2extra are better acted than the main characters.The story is not fully developed, Andie is not pretty enough to make every boy drooling for her believable, which wouldn't have been a problem if only not all characters are so weak and over simple. "},{"Title":"Pretty in Pink - Missed the Mark","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am a big fan of teen movies, and was surprised that I didn't find this one engaging. I enjoy the work of all of the actors, but frequently found myself looking for the kind of moments and engaging characters I found in Sixteen Candles, Fast Times at Ridgemont High, the Last American Virgin, etc. Perhaps I am mistaking the film as one that fits in that category, but humor should be a greater part of the storyline. The film seemed slow to me, and just didn't have the memorable bits that really make a film a classic. I just wish it weren't so. I did enjoy Molly and Harry Dean, but that didn't carry the day for me. I would have liked to have seen a more memorable sound track as well. "},{"Title":"A formula for what's wrong with films of the '80s...","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" PRETTY IN PINK actually has a storyline that was done with more style and wit back in the '30s, only then it was called ALICE ADAMS--about a girl from the wrong side of the tracks, ashamed of her home surf but dying to mix with the right social set and wanting to impress a wealthy boyfriend.Here it's the same situation, but moved to the 1980s, with saltier language and spicier situations--exploiting the same premise with lesser results. The crude language is a turn-off in itself.This is almost a formula for the way films reflected the cheapening of social values as reflected in teen life and culture of the '80s.It's amusing to see Harry Dean Stanton in the guise of a nice, normal dad. Especially for those of us who remember him in films like THE PROUD REBEL where he played one of the worthless sons of Dean Jagger, totally convincing in his villainous role. Here he does a complete turnaround as a doting dad.Even the soundtrack clicks along in totally '80s style with pop songs setting the stylish mood of every scene. James Spader has an especially obnoxious role that he plays with relish.Nothing remarkable here. As a fan of classic movies I've seen it all before and you won't find it done any better than in ALICE ADAMS, the Katharine Hepburn/Fred MacMurray flick from 1938. It puts this one to shame, a more high-toned version of the same storyline.Summing up The saving graces of the film are the nice central performances by Andrew McCarthy and Molly Ringwald. "}]