[{"Title":"A very good martial arts film with a few flaws","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of Jackie Chan's best films. A good display of his acrobatics and fight skills at the beginning of the film to fighting 4 woman with high heels at the end. This was my first Jackie Chan film I saw that made me watch his other films.The basic story is that an evil cult who wants all 5 pieces of the armor of god(I can't remember why they want it) knows only one person who is able to get the pieces, the asian hawk(Chan). They only have 2 pieces of the armour and to get Jackie to get the other 3 pieces, they kidnap his former girlfriend, lorelei(Kwan) who he still has feelings for, even though his best friend,Alan(tam) is dating her. Jackie and Alan must work together to try and find the armour and save her.I recommend watching the original 94min version in Chinese(with english subtitles of course) than the u.s. english dubbed 86min version. Also this movie is where Jackie nearly died - Jumping to a tree on which the branch broke and fell onto a rock.A good humoreous martial art film with alright fight scenes and a not bad plot. 8/10 for me. Recommended mainly for Jackie chan fans.  "},{"Title":"great start, slow middle, awesome ending","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was actually made before Operation Condor.  For some reason, they titled this movie as if it were a sequel.  When Jackie decided to make this movie, he was being greatly influenced by the smash hit Raiders of the Lost Ark, and wanted to make a movie in that adventure style.  This movie could have been really, really great if it had been made entirely the way Jackie had it envisioned at the start of production.  The movie has a great beginning, and then it is destroyed by an agonizing slow middle, and then it picks up again with an action packed ending.  The reason the movie has that horrible middle is because of the stunt that went wrong at the beginning of the film.  As all Jackie fans know, this is the film that almost killed Chan.  In the beginning action sequence, he does this awesome chase scene where he is bounding across the walls of a castle.  In the first take, Jackie actually made it across.  But being a perfectionist, he tried for a second take.  The first take partially broke the branch of the tree he jumps on, and on the second take, the branch broke completely, sending Jackie crashing to the ground and busting his head on a rock. I am mentioning all this because this is the reason the middle of the movie is so slow.  Production could only be halted for a short time.  They could not wait until Jackie had fully recovered.  So, as soon as he was able to get out of bed, they re-wrote the middle part of the movie to exclude all the eye-popping stunts that Jackie had originally planned.  They continued filming this lame, muddled attempt at a romance plot until Jackie was more healed.  Once Jackie was back to 100 percent, they started filming the movie the way they had originally intended  with amazing stunts and incredible action choreography.  The end of the movie picks up with Jackie, his side kick, and the love interest, infiltrating a castle run by monks, and they try to steal a treasure guarded by fiesty amazon women who wear lots of '80s style makeup.  As ridiculous as that all sounds, the fight scenes at the end are among the best that Jackie has ever done.  Its really amazing and a lot of fun to watch just for the choreography aspect.  Check out one of the hardest hits I have ever seen, when one of the amazons comes flying at Jackie from about 8 feet in the air, he kicks her in mid flight, and she spins completely around and slams HEAD FIRST in to the dirt!  I don't care if there was a stunt pad there, it is a HARD LANDING!  OUCH!  There is no way the stunt person walked away from that unharmed.  The second movie OPERATION CONDOR was a lot better as a whole.  That is one of my all time favorite Jackie Chan films, and I still watch it over and over again.  But PART 2 (the first of the films) is definitely a must-see (despite the confusing title).  My recommendation is this  Get the movie, watch the first part until he escapes from the natives, then FAST FORWARD through the entiremiddle, DO NOT BOTHER to watch it, it is totally irrelevant, and start watching again as they infiltrate the castle.  You wont be sorry.  Don't believe all the other bad reviews about this film.   "},{"Title":"What happened to the original?","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First let me say there are two English dubbed versions of this movie.  The first version is a faithful translation of the original complete with all the original scenes.  Overall the first version is actually more exciting because of the music - the music makes all the actions scenes more heart-pounding and is an excellent example of how sound can affect a scene. I found the current US-released English version less of an adrenaline rush because of the droll music in the action scenes.Furthermore, I found the original English-dubbed version much funnier. There's something charming about the original text - Jackie is actually more arrogant and aloof in the original version, and it helped create a more exciting mercenary feel to Jackie's character, rather than the more confusing humanitarian/treasure-hunter feel to the new version.  Jackie treats Alan Tam's character more harshly and with some funny sarcastic comebacks.  In the new version, the witty come-backs were replaced with patient words!Lastly, the most notable change in the new version is the entire Lorelei wants the armour in the house scene is entirely missing.  In the original version, May goes to Jackie's room to look at his baby pictures (Jackie asks May to look at them to get out of the situation where he and Alan were caught in May's bedroom), and both of them are shocked to see Lorelei on his bed.  May storms off in disgust.  Meanwhile Lorelei goes into the bathroom to prepare the serum, and Alan walks into the bedroom.  Jackie has to cover Lorelei and lies to Alan that it is May that is in the bathroom.  Both Jackie and Alan go out into the hall and bump into May, and Jackie has to cover his tracks by pretending that Alan knows that Lorelei is in Jackie's bedroom.  Naturally May responds with disgust that they are such good friends that they share everything, even girlfriends.  Then Alan gets suspicious because May was in the hall not the bathroom, he goes into Jackie's bedroom to see if the bathroom is connected to May's bedroom, and then gets jabbed by Lorelei (which is where the new version cuts back in).The new version is a more streamlined version, and certainly the story flows better.  There is actually a romance between May and Jackie which I prefer, whereas in the original version May remains angry with Jackie after she slaps him and they never get past that stage - especially after she gets the impression that Jackie shares Lorelei with Alan!I was really disappointed, because I had the original English-dubbed version and it was one of my all-time favourite Jackie Chan movies because of Jackie's arrogant character which was a huge departure from the usual benevolent roles that Jackie plays, and because of the music which really made the difference in the action scenes for me.  Alas, my original version was a video tape that grew fungus and was therefore ruined - and I have no idea how to get that version again!Jackie's voice in the original English version was dubbed by someone else (the same person that dubbed the English versions for all his movies in the 80s) - and it sounds a lot better than Jackie's real voice which he uses in the new version.  Funny thing is the voices actually sound alike sans accent. "},{"Title":"Good, enjoyable film","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was the first Jackie Chan film I ever saw, and I loved every second of it.  The film, which doesn't concentrate on plot as much as it probably should do, revolves around some European monks who steal several pieces from the Armour Of God, and fools Jackie into giving them the other pieces.But ignore the plot, watch this for the excellent jokes, the amazing set piece action sequences topped off by the credible Jackie Chan.Several scenes stand out the most.  One being the scene where he is faced with 4 amazon women, and Jackie must defeat them all.Overall, if you want to see a damn good Jackie Chan flick, but aren't interested in plot then you I urge you to see this film. "},{"Title":"7 out of 10","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is Jackie's version of Indiana Jones. And you know what, I like this one better. It is also the film that nearly killed Jackie, even though the stunt he was doing was a fairly simple one. I really enjoy this movie and charish it because it could have been Jackie's last. Its plot doesn't really matter, because as with all Jackie movies, we are seeing it for amazing action and hilarious comedy. This has both, but im lesser doses. It is almost like a romantic comedy, because it deals with a love triangle between Jackie and two of his former band-mates(he used to be in a band called The Losers, with some girl and Alan Tam). This film is all in good fun, but it doesnt reach the level of martial-arts greatness that Drunken Master 2 or Project A do. Still, check this one out, its really good. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie not just for the spectacular stunts but also the chemistry between Jackie Chan and Alan Tam. It's one of Jackie's most accessible Hong Kong films although it does sag a bit in the middle this is due to a severe accident Jackie had on set during the opening chase sequence. Filming couldn't be halted for long due to budget constraints so a lot of stunt sequences were dropped and more emphasis placed on the comedy (which is hit and miss in places).There are some incredible sequences at the start (an action packed chase)and at the end of the film (infiltrating the enemy base and a crazy escape plan). In between is some so/so comedy romance moments, the interplay between Jackie and Alan works really well at times producing some great comedy moments Alan's unwillingness to fight and his clumsiness when he does so really add to Jackies clowning.The bad guys are a bit of a letdown other than some supposedly female body guards who look like rejects from the Rocky Horror Show which produces an inventive and painful looking fight scene. The monks are fairly inept and it must be said what was really needed is a big boss at the end for Jackie to fight but other than these small complaint its a very enjoyable action flick.Well worth a watch great action with a bit of comedy thrown in for good measure 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good... but might've been so much better.","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the film that nearly cost Jackie Chan his life an early stunt went terribly wrong and he ended up bashing his head hard on a rock. In order to allow Jackie to fully recover from his injuries, much of the planned action was replaced with romantic comedy, and the film unfortunately suffers for it. The result is a fairly enjoyable romp, which starts and ends with some great sequences, but drags rather badly in the middle.Chan plays The Asian Hawk, an adventurer who risks his life to help old pal Alan when his girlfriend Lorelei (Rosamund Kwan) is kidnapped by a religious cult. The cult wish to exchange the girl for a valuable treasure, the fabled Armour of God, but Jackie and Alan attempt a daring rescue instead...Kicking off with a spectacular opening sequence, which sees JC performing some impressive acrobatics before sliding down a steep hill pursued by a tribe of spear wielding natives, Armour of God certainly begins well. And a great car chase soon after makes one believe that they could be witnessing a 'solid-gold' Chan classic. However, after these initial blasts of action, it isn't until the end of the film that we get to see more breathtaking movie mayhem, with the middle section consisting of barely passable comedy and poor romantic subplots.Fortunately, Chan is back on form for the final battle in a cavernous fortress, and we get to see some truly outstanding martial arts as he takes on scores of nasty monks, and, in the film's highlight, a quartet of leather-corset-wearing she-bitches. The action here is hard-hitting and well worth the wait, with loads of poor baddies on the receiving end of some very painful looking kicks and punches.To top it all off, the movie ends with one of the phoniest looking stunts ever, as Chan supposedly leaps off a cliff onto a hot air balloon&#151;a moment so poorly executed that it borders on brilliance.It's a real shame that this film could not be made as it was originally intended, 'cos it might have been truly astounding. As it is, Armour of God is worth seeing&#151;just don't expect to be fully entertained for the whole of its duration. "},{"Title":"Stupid but enjoyable","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" &#x85;&#x85; Ahahahaha! Armour of God is one of the silliest movies I ever had to pleasure of watching. Where else will you see Chinese people in tight 70s suits with 80s hair and eyes wide open as if trying not to be Asian as well as machine gun wielding monks? Early in the movie there is a shootout scene and it is an absolutely amazing piece of work. A bunch of monks gun down a lot of people while a cheesy 80s pop song is being sang in the background and they do the killing in a choreographed manner, loosely to the beat of the song. Oh you have to see it, it is glorious. And all of that unnecessary effort is only to kidnap someone in order to make the main character do something for them that they do not want to pay for. That's the premise, people. And this goody light-headedness is how the whole story is treated.Of course many people watch Jacky Chan for the acrobatics and yes, the fight choreography as well as various driving stunts are very good. The characters travel to a lot of different places and it is fun to travel with them. The visuals are memorable.The things worth liking about this movie, besides the silly antics of Jacky Chan, are rather superficial and depend a lot on the viewer's taste. The main female lead, played by Lora Forner, is very pretty, possibly the prettiest actress I have seen on film except for Zeta-Jones. The car Jacky Chan drives looks cool and has gadgets. Finally, the song when the credits start rolling is pretty good, in a typical cheesy 80s kind of way (you have to get the right version of the film as there are several versions of the credits song).All of the above things combined with the silly overacting and violence makes this a movie for kids, which is why it has taken a special place in many young men's hearts, at least in the East (Russia specifically). Think about it, the makers are almost going down a checklist hot chick, fast car, violence, adventure, jumping around and silly acting with slapstick &#x96; all the things boys are into.The dialogue can be really poor. Of course, there is always a possibility that it the subtitles are just bad and it works better in Cantonese, which is the language the movie is in, but I doubt it because the writing is just too shallow and the acting that accompanies it is just too silly and physical.The acting&#x85;gosh. Jacky Chan tries, but sometimes he fails. Alan Tam, who plays a singer, and is a singer in real life, is a much better actor in this. He overacts, but it works, and it is to him that we owe the catchy though cheesy tunes in this movie.I feel like I like this movie for all the wrong reasons, but I still like it. "},{"Title":"Crackerjack action movie filled with adventure , humor  and breathtaking fights","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Long Xiong Hu Di (original title) or ¨Armour of God¨ is a Chinese/Yugoslavia co-production with plenty of action , humor , lots of cool, Jackie style action , being filmed in Croacia and one of Jackie's best . Jackie Chan in his greatest adventure ever ! Jackie Chan and his bumbling sidekick (Tam) are sent on a quest through Europe to find a mysterious treasure held by a shadowy organization of monks . Here Jackie is a ex-member or a musical band , in fact , the musical sequence with the band The Losers is a spoof of the Hong Kong rock band The Wynners (they include Alan Tam, Anthony Chan, and Kenny Bee, all three appear in the movie). This Raymond Chow-Golden Harvest production deals with an adventurer , Indiana Jones-alike , and his partner , as two friends attempt to save the damsel in distress (Rosamund Kwan) , meanwhile they face off an evil cult . The pair join forces with the millionaire's daughter (Lola Forner who formerly acted in ¨Wheels and meals¨ or ¨Supercamorristas¨) . Jackie Chan plays an ex-singer-turned-fortune-hunter, whose ex-sweetheart is abducted by a sinister organization . An old friend of Jackie's, turns to him for help to rescue his lover ; they along with a female companion in tow set out in pursuit the nasties . Entertainment , comedy and amusement abound , culminating with a spectacular attack in the hideout fortress of the nasty band led by a monk and his evil thugs along with various leather-clad women.Chinese action comedy full of over-the-top struggles , thrills , ingenious stunts , laughs , slapstick , tongue-in-cheek and excitement . Here Chan plays an Indian Jones-style explorer who must find legendary suit of armour to rescue his ex-fiancée from a sect . This bemusing movie is packed with adventure , car pursuits , intrigue , unstopped action , overwhelming stunt-work and lots of fights but with abundant humor . Jackie Chan is top notch as one army man fighting a group of heinous villains and as always he makes his own stunts like is well showed , though also contains numerous obviously cheated stunts . While filming the stunt where he leaps from a wall onto a tree, the branch Jackie Chan grabbed a hold of broke and he hit his head on a rock, nearly killing him and leaving him with a permanent thimble-sized hole on the right side of his head , the fall also left him hard of hearing in one ear . Watch the outtakes at the final to see the mishap that nearly wounded Chan . Awesome , incredible stunts and brief comic touches , as usual ; the picture is better constructed than Chan's predecessors films , including an ending battle in a cave is a knockout . The lighting-paced storyline slows down at times , marred by extremely silly spots , but frantic action sequences make up for it . Spotlights movie include spectacular brawls , car chases including bounds and leaps , impressive and interminable fights , a breathtaking final struggle between Jackie Chan and several monks and warrior women ; in addition other fine action sequences in overwhelming style . This is an acceptable action movie distinguished by nicely cinematography of the spectacular sequences , and contains agreeable sense of humor as well as previous entries . Jackie Chan usually forms couple to notorious actresses as Maggie Chung and Michelle Yeoh and this time to Rosamund Kwan .This is a passable action movie distinguished by fight sequences , noisy action and packs silly sense of humor as well as Jackie's subsequent entries . This was the first of the Operation Condor movies, but was entitled Operation Condor 2 because it was released in the U.S. after the second film . The second part titled ¨Armour of God  Operation Condor¨ in which sends Chan off to Europe and Africa in search of enormous Nazi gold cache . The picture achieved enough success in China and around the world . However , Jackie Chan's failed at Box-office in his American debut ,¨Battle creek brawl¨ . Chan is a hard-working actor and director throughout his long and varied career . Jackie usually teams up to prestigious Chinese actor Sammo Hung , a fine action star in their own right and also had an American career as successful ¨Martial Law¨ TV series . Both of them starred together several films as ¨Heart of Dragon (1985)¨ which was directed by Sammo . Chan pays overt homage to two of his greatest influences as Charles Chaplin and Harold Lloyd . Jackie went on playing ¨Cannoball¨ , ¨The protector¨ and Rumble in the Bronx, until getting all American success with ¨Shangai Knights¨ , ¨The tuxedo¨ , ¨Around the world in 80 days¨ and ¨Rush hour¨ trilogy , and the recent ¨Karate kid¨. Of course , his biggest hits were ¨The Police story¨ series that won the Golden Horse Award, a Chinese version of the Oscar , the first was titled ¨Police story(1985)¨ directed by the same Chan , it was a perfect action film for enthusiast of the genre ; the following was ¨Police story 2(1988)¨ also pretty violent and with abundant humor touches . It's followed by ¨Supercop¨ or ¨Police story 3¨ and finally , ¨Police story IV  Crime story¨ . The picture was well produced by the great Asian producers Raymond Chow and Golden Harvest production and compellingly directed by Jackie Chan . Rating  Acceptable and passable , the picture has its sensational moments here and there , but also with abundant humor touches mostly provided by its agile star , super Jackie Chan . It's a perfect action film for enthusiast of the genre , being filled with great struggles , stunts and spectacular battles . "},{"Title":"Nowhere as good as when I first watched it! 3/10","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Review When this movie was released, I remember it being a big deal, and it really did make Jackie Chan an international star but it seemed a bit dated for today's cinema. The awful music throughout the movie, along with the terrible storyline, became unbearable after a while but the epic fight at the end, against the 4, extremely large black women, saved the day. The outrageous stunt near the end, when he jumped onto an air balloon, was way over the top and the terrible acting from the rest of the cast, did make me wonder why this movie was so good back in the day. Like a lot of Jackie Chan movies, the comedic script was badly written and really not funny and his useless sidekick, got on my nerves after a while. The storyline was pretty simple! Basically, Jackie Chans best friends girlfriend is kidnapped by a cult because they want Jackie Chan to steal this mysterious artifact. He decides to ask the rich millionaire, who owns the treasure, if be can borrow the priceless item so he can use it to get the girl back. The millionaire gives them the treasure but his daughter has to tag along with them, on there crazy mission to save the girl. Not the best storyline but at that time, it seemed like a Kung Fu Indiana Jones. Anyway, it's one to have if your a Jackie Chan fan but it's definitely not one of his best. Disappointing but watchable for the end!Round-Up This movie was written and directed by Jackie Chan, so he really did give this movie his all. Whilst filming the stunt, we're he leaps from a wall onto a tree, the branch broke and he hit his head on a rock, which nearly killed him. Since then, he has a permanent thimble sized hole on the right side of his head and he became hard of hearing in one ear, which proves that Chan is willing to go the whole 9 yards when it comes to making a scene realistic for his audience. With that aside, I still found the movie pretty bad, mainly because of the silly storyline which takes some time to get going but I did watch the end fight a couple of times. Budget N/A Worldwide Gross HK$35millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their action/adventure/comedies starring Jackie Chan, Alan Tam, Rosamund Kwan, Lola Forner and Ken Boyle. 3/10 "}{"Title":"Great Jackie Chan Action!","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jackie Chan and his bumbling sidekick are sent on a quest through Europe to find a mysterious treasure held by a shadowy organization of monks.I made the mistake of watching the sequel to this film first. They are both good, and it really makes little difference what order you watch them in (just as the Police Story films have little chronology). But it would have been nice to meet the character of Asian Hawk sooner.I love the idea of Chan as an Indiana Jones type. Fighting people throughout China and Hong Kong (or the Bronx) is great, but this traveling the world stuff is even better. There are plenty of bizarre cultures ready to stop a kung fu fighter from stealing their priceless artifacts. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and classy","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A very enjoyable action comedy that impresses with every second of it. A fortune hunter helps his friend to save a girl with whom they happen to be both in love. Although this doesn't sound like much of a story, it is, nevertheless, interesting one. The film doesn't only show how the story develops but also has a moral side to it. It presents the friendship between the main characters as the real high valued treasure.The film has interesting dialogues and a lot of funny situations. The fight scenes are very well choreographed as it can be expected from a Jackie Chan film. There are some daring stunts that can stop one's breath and a car chase executed with perfection.Overall, an action film that contains classy humour and nice fight scenes. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable Flick","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jackie Chan is a master of two things comedy and Martial Arts. However, with Armour of God, he displays another talent alongside those two directing. Armour of God was released back in 1986, during the golden age of action films. It pays a lot of tribute to the Indiana Jones series, Temple of Doom in particular. The story revolves around a treasure hunter known as Asian Hawk, played by Chan. He is on a quest to recover the Armour of God from an evil cult and rescue a young woman they kidnapped. Chan does a great job, showcasing his comedic and Martial Arts talents. He does a fine job directing as well. The stunt-work is top-notch (interesting side-note, Chan came close to death in a routine stunt). A definite highlight is the car-chase, being one of the best I have ever seen. The supporting cast is good overall as well. Comedy is added seamlessly, making the film one of Chan's funniest. For fans of action, this is a film definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones in Jackie Chan's own inimitable style","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Made during the mid 1980s, a period which I consider to be the most productive (in terms of entertainment value) in Jackie Chan's overall filmography, ARMOUR OF GOD is another hit and a perfectly-paced movie, offering up varied locations, some wonderful action sequences, tons of stunts and breathtaking martial arts work. Little does it matter that the film has a lightweight and undemanding plot, which uses the Indiana Jones films as a basis and throws in lots of odd interludes (the Chinese rock band, the evil/comedy monks) before forgetting about it at the end in favour of crazy action.In many ways this has much the same formula as Jackie's other films from the time, pairing him up with a bumbling sidekick (this time played by Alan Tam), who shares plenty of comic interplay with the Chan man, and bringing in female beauty Lola Forner (WHEELS ON MEALS) as a romantic interest. There's a lot of comedy in this movie which, whilst being very Chinese in tone, is still pretty funny in places, including the middle of the film which is a bedroom farce very much in the Jackie Chan style and nowhere near as lame as some people claim it to be.The action sequences are dotted in throughout the film to highlight the plot and each one tops the last. Beginning with a major hill-sliding event, ARMOUR OF GOD takes in an excellent cross-town car chase, utilising a number of cars and motorbikes, a huge jump which is as good as the bus jump in SPEED, and tons of destruction, my personal favourite being the jeep rolling down the town square steps which is perhaps THE best crash I've seen on film. The martial arts is as good as ever, as it should be considering Jackie Chan was at the height of his physical prowess when this was made, but kept to a relative minimum until the action-packed ending which doesn't disappointment.The action incorporates a wild food fight and plenty of extra-fast martial arts fighting which is some of the best filmed. Later, there's another memorable scene in which Chan must battle four ball-breaking Amazon women, and a hilarious joke involving a vest of dynamite which had me laughing out loud to myself (the first time in a Chan flick). Chan is likable, Alan Tam makes a good comic foil (and doesn't have to embarrass himself by too much fighting, being an non-martial artist), Forner is the icy beauty once more and there are some weird-looking bad guys to add to the fun. The film is topped off by a jump onto a hot air balloon which is also highly impressive, and if you watch the closing credits you'll see that Chan nearly died after hitting his head on a rock - thank goodness he survived and went on to make more enjoyable movies like this one. "},{"Title":"Meh","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Probably one of the weaker Jackie Chan movies of the eighties for me. I found it to be boring and only got through it as I was watching with a friend. In this one a girl Jackie is close to gets kidnapped by a cult of monks and he has to go save her along with her boyfriend. Some wacky comedy ensues along the way but it can't save the fact that the first half of the film is kind of boring. By the time you get to the second act the movie has worn out its' welcome and even the exciting car chase or final battle against martial arts Amazoness dominatrix's (I'm not kidding)can't save the movie from being merely average.I'm not too partial to this film and I think that Armour of God 2 does a better job of being an adventure movie, as well as keeping my interest.Not recommended. "},{"Title":"(just) another Jackie Chan movie...","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" At first I have to mention that this movie isn't as spectacular as the title sounds like. But - and this is the point - as almost all Chan movies has its own special spirit. Just thinking about Jackie doing all the stunts by himself as usual, creates something like suspense. Though everyone knows, Jackie would even get hurt seriously, fascination arouses in every scene of fighting versus the bad guys. A negative thing only affecting the German version Not all dialogs got translated. So you have to be content with some suddenly appearing original with German subtitles...This results in 6/10 points A nice movie to watch in the background, e.g. after a hard day. "},{"Title":"A cool movie","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the oldies that made us love Jackie Chan with his regular kung-fu, comedy and stunts, making everything at his reach a weapon, this Indiana Jones-style movie had Chan play the Asian Hawk who hunts for relics and sells them.Chan came close to death in this film during a relative routine stunt; he leaped onto a tree from a ledge, but the branch he grabbed snapped, sending Chan plummeting and cracking his skull.The movie had cool stunts as usual, and the Mitsubishi car used by Chan was so odd and grand to watch, we know very well that he does all his own stunts, but I don't think that includes car stunts.Chan's character was a little unrealistic, but after a while you get use to it. Like in all Chan movies the scenery is used to its peak and the movie set a record at its time for the highest grossing movie in Hong Kong.Jackie Chan has kinda dropped lately in his movie profile; before a Jackie Chan is coming out we expect laughs and stunts, but lately there have just been a shadow of what they use to be, his latest was 1911, which holds a 9% approval in rotten tomatoe, showed us that Chan is losing his edge.The Forbidden kingdom with fellow martial art star Jet Lee was also not much of a success.But going back to the movie, Armour of God, where Jackie was involved in saving his former girl and now his friend's girl friend from kidnappers who want him to help get the two remaining piece of the armour of God, since they already possess three.Chan new the collector who owned the remaining two armour that the kidnappers wanted. So Jackie, his friend and the collector's daughter went with the remaining two set of the armour to use to save the girl and then steal all the complete 5 set armour for the collector.All in all, it was fun watching the movie all over again and I advice that you try to do same. "},{"Title":"The first Jackie Chan movie I ever saw","Date":"2 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is probably one of the very first Jackie Chan movies that I ever saw, and what first intrigued me about it was that it opened like an Indiana Jones movie. Jackie is in some rain forest, dressed as a treasure hunter (who is called the Asian Hawk) and through trickery and fast reflexes, steals a sword from the natives' idol. This is where the similarities to Indiana Jones ends. An evil cult heard that Jackie managed to get the sword and decide to kidnap his ex-girlfriend to use her as a bargaining chip to get the rest of the pieces of the armour. They have two, and the other three pieces are beyond their grasp.It turns out that the sword was bought by a collector who also has the other two pieces, so they pay him a visit to his European manor to borrow the pieces of the armour so that he may rescue his ex-girlfriend.It is not as simple as that because Hawk's ex-girlfriend is now the girlfriend of his ex-best friend, who is also a rock star. The relationship between the two is that they like the same things, including girls, however Hawk is the one too step back so that he and his friend do not fighter things that are less important than their friendship.However, this is not a movie about friendship. In fact, it is not really a movie about anything beyond Jackie Chan's stunts. In fact, one of the stunts that he did, a stunt that wasn't very difficult, and had already been done once successfully, almost killed him. However Jackie was always one to take risks, though I am unsure if he still does all his own stunts, though I have noticed that in his later Hollywood movies the stunts become somewhat more low key.As with all Jackie Chan movies, this is about the martial arts and the stunts, though Jackie does like his comedy. In fact he is a big fan of Buster Keating, and since Keating's gags were always visual (this was during the era of the silent film) it enables Jackie to get over the language barrier which tends to dampen comedies in another language (though I have noticed that I have found some French and German films to be quite amusing as well). "},{"Title":"...did anybody notice he had a really short crop at the start of the movie and 10 minutes in it was semi-long already...anybody?","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, the reason his hair turned from short to long in just 10 minutes at the start of the movie is because he got really injured, it was almost fatal jumping on the tree escaping from the natives. Jackie always had a superstition that if he would ever have short hair it would be literally life threatening...it was something supernaturally evil and based on eastern Asian superstition and the supernatural. well...i think Jackie looks better with short hair but that's the last we will ever see of that short hair so enjoy the 10 minutes or so of it in this movie.i actually had the good fortune to see this in the movie theater 2-3 times and it makes a big difference...until now where you can watch a hd version on a decent sized flat screen. Jackie's pre-USA movies which were hk based were so much better and enjoyable in my opinion and the fights were so much livelier. this movie has one of my top 5 fights all time and also my top 15. the top 5 is with the franciscan monks and the top 15 was with the 5 really athletic and oversized darkskinned ladies who were just absolute killers...HAHAHA.there were a lot of holes in the plot, but who cares, i'm not really watching it for the plots. it was a little slow in spots as i have watches the 97 min. version which is the longest and the best. the movie had a really really beautiful leading lady in Rosamund Kwan and Alan Tam played Jackie's sidekick. throw in the reigning Ms. Spain for that year as another sidekick, some crazy cult of caucascian monks intend on domination and literally two of the best fight brawl sequences you will see in a kung fu movie and just let the adventure begin. "},{"Title":"I don't think it's an ice cream van","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the coolest films EVER (honest). Once you have seen it you will be trying to bounce polo mints off every piece of furniture in your house, and there's nothing better than seeing a pre-Hollywood Chan beating the hell out of several hundred monks with a bench, some plates, an apple or two, and other assorted implements. "}{"Title":"Operation Condor prequel","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Okay, I'm thoroughly confused.The prequel was released in 1987, but the movie it prequelled was released in 1991? How? But okay, we must move on.This is a fairly good movie, considering you can't tell whether it's supposed to prequel Operation Condor, or sequel it. On the box, it's billed as a prequel, but I must say it did feel more like a sequel, even though Jackie appears to be...younger...? I don't know, I'm still confused. But that not withstanding, this was a fun adventure with excellent martial arts, a good story, and some other nice elements.The dialog was a bit stiff and unprofessional, but the story and the great action/martial arts sequences more than make up for that.There were some very good landscape/skyline shots here, as well. The photography was well done, the copy I have is clean and clear, and the filmography was nicely done, giving you good, interesting angles and the like.All in all, I did enjoy this production. Not was well as I did Operation Condor, but it was still quite enjoyable. Some elements were better in this than in the original, but somehow it was not as fun, though the story was better here.I dunno. I'm so conflicted. *LOL* I've got to rate it an 8.0/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Damn good fun","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to write another review of this film, I don't think my last review was as in-depth as I'd like.First of all I should point out that THIS IS NOT THE SEQUEL, this is the original film, operation condor is the sequel.Anyway, this film - as most viewers will note, feels like a Chineese Indiana Jones Rip-Off, I don't call it a rip-off, mainly because it isn't anything like Indiana Jones, it's more of a Indiana Jones for the modern age.  Chan plays his character with a slightly arrogant, self-loving style - Asian Hawk (chan) is a gum-chewing, hard as nails type, cold character.Jackie plays Asian Hawk a modern day Indiana Jones who loves money and getting unique and strange artifacts and selling them off. In the opening sequence has him stealing artifacts from natives - this is a nod to Raiders, but when was the last time you saw Indiana Jones try to bribe the natives with beer?Anyway, this film concentrates quite a lot on the Armour of God, its a shame that it never really get off the ground.  The comedy is still good, even today - American audiences probably won't get the Losers joke, or the slapstick styled comedy - and put it down to poor plot, script, dialogue.Hawk with his colleagues must recover the armour of god twice from a group of satanic monks - the comedy and action is thick and fast - although in some places it is very stale - the parts where Hawk and Alan try to prove Laura's love for them is very  predicatable and long-winded.There are many memorable scenes, the ones where Chan uses a huge log to fight off the monks, the huge food fight - where chan must face the monks in his typical, and breathtaking - one man vs the world fighting style...the 4 blaxploitation amazon women in skimpy leather outfits - which chan has to fight.Its all good fun to watch, I certainly enjoyed it, and I still enjoy it - even with its problems with script, dialogue or humor I just didn't get (remember this film was made for a Chineese auidence not a Western one!)Its a shame really that the US doesn't understand Jackie Chan films for what they are- Chan films are meant to be enjoyed, they are at times self mockery or fantastic to watch - and if Chan doesn't do that - then I'm sure its hard to find anyone with the heart, commitment or desire for film-making that he shows so well on screen.A definite watch - its damn good fun.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Really slow middle saved by great fun fights","Date":"22 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jackie Chan is an Indiana Jones type adventurer. We first see him taking a sword from a primitive tribe. OK it could be seen as culturally insensitive, but let it go. Enjoy it for its fun.An evil organization of monks wants what's called the Armour of God. To get Jackie to search for the Armour, they kidnap an old friend played by Rosamund Kwan. Rosamund's boyfriend is Alan. Together with Jackie and Lola Forner, the three travel to find the Armour.The middle is terribly slow. The jokes don't really work. Lola Forner is a stiff actress and has no chemistry with Jackie Chan. And they badly needed the chemistry to make any of it work.Luckily once they get to the monks' hideout. The action picks up again. Jackie has some fun playing with a big stick. It saves the movie from being a complete disaster. "},{"Title":"sub-par Jackie Chan movie, and quit comparing it with Indiana Jones!","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some of the reviews here compare this movie with Indiana Jones. The movie has exactly one thing in common with Indiana Jones; it is about a treasure hunter. That's it. No exotic locations, no hunting hidden treasures, just the same job description. In God of Armour, a group of maniacs decide to kidnap Jackie Chan's girlfriend because they think he can get some items they want and he still cares about her. (It turns out he really doesn't, and has to be talked into a rescue attempt.) She is kidnapped in an insanely murderous rampage, and one wonders immediately why, with that level of ruthlessness, gun power, and poor planning (why kill dozens of people to kidnap one woman? It's not like she's an inaccessible princess. And why didn't they simply go after the items themselves? Chan is unnecessary.So, the story is stupid, the characters are bland, the humor is forced, the direction is flat. But what about the fights? With Jackie Chan movies, it's always about the action.The action didn't thrill me. What I want from Jackie Chan is Buster Keaton-influenced slapstick, and there's just a little of that here. There's more straight ahead martial arts. I just found the fight scenes uninspired.It's watchable, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"Wynners and sinners","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the movie that almost got Jackie killed. Actually I'm amazed that he's still alive after all the daredevil stunts he's done.The evil cult is after the remaining three pieces of armour of god. Hawk (Jackie Chan) is an ex singer turned treasure hunter. His old acquaintance Alan (Alan Tam) comes to ask him to save his girlfriend Lora (Rosamund Kuan) who got kidnapped by the evil cult. He asks for armour of god that Jackie recently recovered from native tribes. Collector of armour of god's daughter joins Hawk and Alan on the quest for the remaining armour of god.The middle part of this film is boring. It's a filler to give Jackie time to recover from his injury. Then comes the exciting ending. So fast forward through the middle if it's too slow for you.Famous Hong Kong rock band Wynners appears at the opening with their name changed to the Losers. Premise being that Jackie used to be the singer of that band. The real life singer of Wynners of course is Hawk's (Jackie) old friend Alan (Alan Tam). This is why there're Alan Tam songs inserted in this movie.There's this crazy stunt where the car Jackie and Alan are in flies across the freeway followed by a motorcycle. Stunt like this rarely shows up even in James Bond movies, but happens frequently in Jackie Chan movies. Towards the end of the movie I see an explosion going off just few feet away from the actor and him getting blown away from middle of the stair case down to the ground. That's got to hurt. Jackie Chan's father is shown for the first time at the end of the movie looking down on him after he got injured.It's a good movie that gets better towards the end. The combination of Chan, Tam, and Kuan works in this movie that adds different elements to this movie. "},{"Title":"Not a great film, but a film with a great last half hour","Date":"16 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Armour of God films have had a rough ride Stateside. Both fell victim to dubbing and the distributors' shears, and when they were finally released were put out in the wrong order - thus Armour of God became Operation Condor 2, despite Condor being the second film...Famous as the film where a fairly 'easy' stunt almost killed Chan (you can see it going horribly wrong in the outtakes), Armour of God is a bit of a mess, and not just because of the dodgy continuity that sees Chan's pre-accident mop-top hairstyle suddenly change in the scenes he shot once out of hospital. For much of the time there's more clumsy comedy and farce than action, but just as you're almost ready to give up on it it throws in a half-hour finale with some of Chan's most impressive stunt fighting, all performed at the height of his ability.Unfortunately, Miramax's release is typically re-edited, rescored and dubbed into English. You're better off tracking down the UK PAL DVD from Hong Kong Legends, which has the uncut version with a plethora of extras. "},{"Title":"Classic work from the Chan-Chan man!!","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the first ever Jackie Chan movie i saw back in about 1989, and so still retains a special place in my heart. I was never the same again performing (in my mind) daredevil stunts such as jumping from the roof of the car in the driveway and injuring myself doing badly-executed flips in the garden. I so wanted to be Jackie Chan when i grew up. I still do, to some extent.In this little opus, Jackie stars as Jackie (original!), a daring mercenary for hire also known as The Asian Hawk. We find out that he used to perform in a Canto-pop band before becoming Hong Kong's answer to Indiana Jones, alongside Alan Tam (as Alan) and Rosamund Kwan (as Lorelei - at least her character got its own name!!). Lorelei is kidnapped by a group of Yugoslavian-based Devil-worshippers hoping to obtain the mythical Armour of God pieces of which have been discovered, looted, and sold at auction by our Hawkish hero. Cue an expedition to Europe and into the villains' lair by Jackie, Alan (Tam providing less laughs than intended in bumbling sidekick mode) and May, daughter of one of Jackie's buyers (played by the gorgeous and sadly not seen in enough films Lola Forner).the plot may be a little hackneyed and thin, but the rapid-fire and relentless pace of the film, in gags as well as action scenes, ensures that if you're not liking one scene, the next will blow you away. Theopening scenes and the climactic half hour contain some of Chan's finest ever work including a fight with a flaming log and a dive from a cliff-face onto a hot air balloon. The original release sported a great soundtrack too, with both Chan and Tam belting out gems sadly lost or replaced on the R2 DVD release. This sacrilege, as well as the loss of the original English dub track - replaced by a much weaker one with regard to characterisation, loses a point. The original version however retains an abiding position in my childhood memories. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan took a break from police thrillers to star in and direct this action-adventure yarn featuring kung-fu and wild stunts.","Date":"15 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Armour Of God is an exciting action-adventure. Jackie Chan stars as the Asian Hawk, a character like Indiana Jones, who's renowned throughout the world. This is one of Chan's best roles; he's believable as the hero, and he really gets to show off his acrobatic abilities. The film features some of Chan's hardest and most memorable stunts (he came the closest he has ever been to death in this film). In one scene he jumps on to an air balloon from a cliff. The fights are fast and exciting. A cool car chase is also featured. The story is straightforward, and one of Chan's sidekicks in the film is a former Miss Spain Lola Forner.Armour Of God is a good example of a Hong Kong action film. The 1980s was a great decade for Asian cinema. The film features beautiful locales in addition to being bright and entertaining. There's plenty of humour but some of it falls flat. Some of the energy is taken out at the end of the film I thought because more time was spent at the castle than was necessary. The supporting cast is solid, including Alan Tam and Rosamund Kwan, and there's some catchy Cantopop added in. Armour Of God is easily one of Jackie Chan's best films. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Good fun but flawed Indiana Jones styled Hong Kong adventure","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" With the success of Indiana Jones and his derring do in the West it was inevitable that other places would follow suit and Hong Kong did just that, with more than one similar adventure, of which this is a decent if not brilliant example. Beginning with a wild pursuit as the great thief Asian Hawk (Jackie Chan) is interrupted whilst stealing from a tribe and makes a fine escape from their high and rocky temple. He gets away, but on returning home is confronted by an old friend, whose girlfriend has been kidnapped in order to force Asian Hawk to procure the mighty Armor Of God for an evil cult. When this film focuses on action or at least on its sense of adventure it moves along quite nicely and even for the stretches where it simply has to rely on star charisma it does so well enough. The trouble is that likable though its characters are, they aren't believable or that compelling, and the films pace is off, meaning that there is somewhat less in the way of excitement than expected. The splashes of humour don't work so well either, so the film flirts closer to losing its entertainment than is safe. Fortunately when the film does spring into action Jackie Chan provides some great moments, a fight with some amazons being very fine, as well as an exciting car chase. He gives an endearing enough easygoing turn and has decent chemistry with his co star Alan Tam, whilst the women of the piece, Rosumand Kwan and Lola Forner both provide a bit of attractive charm. Things all build to a suitably wacky finale and things come to a close on a good note, but overall I wasn't all that impressed with this one. When good, its very good but I sorely wished for more action and less filler. Those are the breaks I guess. Altogether, worth a watch for fans and Hong Kong action enthusiasts in general, but it has a fair few issues and isn't one of my favorites, though it is good enough. "},{"Title":"Flight of the Dragon","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Mountains will yield to me, thunder will roar, but as long as I walk the earth, dragon will soar. The theme song for the movie says it all.The spectacular Jackie Chan classic film ARMOUR OF GOD (aka OPERATION CONDOR 2 THE ARMOUR OF THE GODS and LUNG HING FOO DAI) was a hit around the world, and still is.  Jackie Chan stars as Jackie, aka the Asian Hawk, an Indiana Jones-style adventurer who travels the world gathering ancient artifacts.  Suddenly, his ex-girlfriend Lorelei (Rosamund Kwan, ONCE UPON A TIME IN CHINA) is kidnapped, and his old friend Alan (Alan Tam, ONCE UPON A TIME A HERO IN CHINA) comes to Jackie for help.  The monks that have kidnapped her will not give her up, however, unless they have the mysterious armor of god...but here's another problem...Jackie just sold three pieces of the armor of god!  So he goes to the buyer, who finally agrees to give him the armor, but - 1., he must bring back a complete set - 2., he must bring his daughter (beautiful Lola Forner, Miss Spain, WHEELS ON MEALS) along with him.  He does, and, after many travels, he rescues Lorelei.Great film, a must-see for adventure fans, with great music, story, and action.  Especially funny is a scene in which Jackie fights a group of warrior women.  Rated R in the USA for a naked woman (in the beginning) and for violence (also in the beginning).Conclusion BUY it! "}{"Title":"very stupid","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A very brainless martial art movie. I love most of Jackie Chan's movies but this remains as a dud. There's not very great action sequences or a very great plot. The plot is pretty brainless. I thought Operation Condor was much better. No one should see this. In fact they shoulden't have even made this one. "},{"Title":"Jackie!!!!!!!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This a great movie!!!! Not that much of action till the end!!!! The end has Jackie fighting a army of monk and then fighting 3 women fighter's. Also this film features car chases, gadgets, women, and Jackie!!! I think Jackie started to make better film when he camed to America because his old movies are weird and the picture is really screwed up. All Jackie's good film's camed after the 80's. And this film is really good. Jackie performs amazing stunt's like when he jump onto a hot air ballon, just amazing. And also a cool bike stunt. Otherwise the whole movie is action packed at the end. So go see it now.     "},{"Title":"Unbelievably cheesy, and yet quite worthwhile.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Face it nobody watches Jackie Chan movies for the plot, and the preposterously bad acting never intrudes with what the film attempts to do.  But somehow, somewhere, the production team faltered so badly with this movie that I couldn't help but laugh throughout all the more emotional parts.  It's difficult to know whether the actors were attempting to make certain parts truly dramatic or as cheesy as possible, but this goes beyond bad.  I'd easily consider it the worst I've ever seen.The plot basically commands Jackie to rescue his friend's girlfriend and steal some priceless pieces of armor from a cult professing to be nothing more than your average religious sect.  Along for the trip comes a young woman, the daughter of a wealthy relic collector who has stipulated that she go with them to make certain that they complete their task.  It's nothing that we haven't seen before, and as I've said, it's ridiculously bad this time around.  In an average movie, it would be enough for me to award it a negative score.A little surprisingly, the one thing that pulls this movie out of the slumps are the action scenes.  Ranking among some of the best that Chan has yet done, they include a fight against four leather-clad indignant women and a fantastic car chase through an arid farming village.  Everything looks to be so imperiling that you can imagine that there were more than your average number of injuries at the end of the filming.  It's enough to warrant a look at a film which contains the most insulting, tepid narrative I have ever seen in my life.  Only Jackie could prompt me to watch something of such horrible proportions.7/10 "},{"Title":"(muted weeping)","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one bad movie, and by bad I mean the opposite of good, not Michael Jackson Bad, or George Thoroughgood bad, but bad bad. I didn't think Jackie Chan made bad movies...but when you take away the kicking and the humor, there isn't much to a Jackie Chan flick. The movie is composed mostly of gaping spaces between too short fight scenes and attempts at humor. Strangely, it's U.S. title is Operation Condor 2, the follow up to the American release of Operation Condor, known in Hong Kong as Armour of God 2...but Operation Condor 2 was released in Hong Kong as Armor of God 1. Regardless, Operation Condor 1, or Armor of God 2, is a much better Jackie Chan movie. There is kicking and making with the funny in greater quantities. Peace. "},{"Title":"No Way In Hell!!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film makes you want to cringe on behalf of the scriptwriter. I was persuaded to watch it by a friend whose lifeline is Jackie Chan, under the promise of comedy.The comedy was completely absent, as far as I was concerned. There's a bit with someone falling down some stairs, I think that's the only funny bit I was aware of at all. Oh, hilarious!The acting was absolutely shocking, especially the actress who played May. And the dialogue - well, real people don't talk or act like that at all, ever. I spent the entire film waiting for something to happen. It doesn't even finish properly - it just peters away.I have been told this is one of Jackie Chan's better films. If this is his best, I would hang myself before I watched his worst. The plot is virtually nonexistent - what there is of it is too unrealistic. And I don't mean the stunts, I mean the plot. The stunts aren't anything to write home about, either.I usually like films. This is one of the only three films I have ever disliked. It is rare for me to dislike a film - and I tried hard to Like 'Armour Of God' for my friend's sake. But I found liking it an impossible task.If you are thinking of watching this, just don't bother. Get another film out instead - there's too many good films to be wasting your time with drivel like this. There's something seriously wrong with the film industry when it starts producing this type of trash in the name of entertainment. "},{"Title":"A ripoff (sort of)","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The beginning of this film reminded me of 'Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom'.  I like Jackie Chan, but this one wasn't up to his usual.  the stunts and car chases are all very good, what I've come to expect of Jackie Chan, and even the slapstick comedy was fun, too, but overall the plot of this film seemed too much like Indiana Jones.  Worthwhile, but keep your expectations low.  "},{"Title":"If anything, watch it for the last ten minutes.","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watch about 10 to 30 films a month, from mainstream to independent features, and what qualifies as a great film, to me, is its ability to capture my attention every time I watch it. Boy, what a film. The ending was the whipped cream on this sundae; I'm not going to blow whatever plot there is to blow, but watch for an unrealistic jump from a cliff to a hot air balloon that's so ridiculous, it's funny, and the song at the end of the film that Jackie Chan sings, entitled 'High Up On High.' The film's an absolute gas! (N.B. Are all of his characters referred to as Jackie Chan?)  "},{"Title":"Fairly mindless, but fantastically entertaining.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The film is called 'Armour of God', and the first half spends a great deal of time about it, but for anyone who's contemplating seeing this film take it in your stride yet don't bother thinking about it. The film forgets about it in the end.Let's face it, this is a typical Jackie Chan action-comedy vehicle, where the emphasis is on the immediate scene, so the plot will always take a back-seat to a good stunt. And good stunts there are many, including the opening sequence (in which Chan was infamously hurt during its filming), a breathtaking multi-car chase in the middle, and a death-defying leap onto a passing balloon at the end. And in terms of martial arts, this is no less than what you can expect from a typical Chan flick.But the comedy aspects are often forgotten in a Chan film, and this is one movie in which the comedic elements do stand out as being worthy of mention. Much of it is provided by Chan's good friend, fellow Hong Kong megastar Alan Tam, who's better known as a singer and dramatic actor, but is reduced to a bumbling sidekick in this. This is no criticism, as it works very well.One particular moment which would send Hong Kong audiences into raptures is at the beginning when Tam and Chan are seen as part of a band called 'Losers', wearing ridiculous 70's style wigs. This was a play on the band 'Wynners', one of the most popular groups in Asian music history, of which Tam (and the four standing behind him in this scene) were a part of.You can tell there's not so much emphasis on technical merit as on ENTERTAINMENT through the fact that most of the other characters are played by westerners, particularly Europeans, and though during filming they spoke in their native languages, they were given Cantonese voiceovers. It's a touch annoying when what you hear doesn't match up to what you see the lips doing.The shoot locations of Germany and Yugoslavia are great to watch, and the rolling countryside provides a nice atmosphere. And being a fan of Tam's music, I can say unashamedly that the use of his hit single 'Friends', written for this movie, was particularly apt, while the dramatic pop song 'Goddess of the Gale, Lorelei' for the final credits was equally suitable.All in all, a satisfying action comedy for some mindless fun, but it is frustrating that all that time spent discussing the 'armour of god' is wasted at the end. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Another good Jackie Chan movie","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have seen it about 7 times and it is still entertaining. Although there isn't that much action untill the end of the movie it is still pretty fun. As always there is a lot of fun stunts and a couple of wild stunts. Jackie Chan delievers as usual.  "},{"Title":"Good Indiana Jones spoof.","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jackie does well again. This time he is a chinese version of Indiana Jones. Not a lot of martial arts action, because this film is mainly an all-action blockbuster. Amazing stunts are also show in this film. I rate this film a good 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Jackie meets Indy","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A pretty cool Raiders of the Lost Ark type adventure, with some jaw-dropping stuntwork, and kung fu.  Check out Jackie taking on those vicious black women near the film's finale!!!!  I have to admit, some of it's really goofy, and parts are a touch slow, but it's the man!  The villains are absolutely hilarious, and Alan Tam's pretty funny, plus, of course the ever-lovely Rosamund Kwan!  Very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"The eight highlights of this immortal adventure/action prototype","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To me this movie remains the very first with Mr Jackie Chan chronologically. It has some pure magic of adventure and style. Being a child, could not believe my eyes when Asian Hawk was fighting a load of cult members and then - black women in close-fitting outfit. The movie has not become outdated. It's still alive and kicking.One day Operation Condor was shown on our TV. Good, but nowhere near the original Armour.Being back on track, just want to add that The Armour of God is one solid outstanding piece of cinema with a few incredible highlights. Nothing like this can be found in any other film on this planet. Here they are.1. Jackie fighting off a tribe of aboriginals and ruining their sacrifice ceremony (an insane riding down the green hills upon the shield included).2. Cult members in black Arabian clothing with our good old kalashnikovs in their hands performing a kidnapping mission and shooting a reporter in the eye (right through the glasses). It all is backed up by some dance-pop and looks like a music video. Does it sound politically correct? 3. Jackie and his friend escaping the deadly car attack by driving off in a smart Mitsubishi gadget on wheels leaving a vast explosion behind.4. Jackie starting an unforgettable fight with the evil monks in a spacious refectory. To me this scene is an absolute caprice. It just goes bang!, clank!, dong!, Aaaargh!, sweeesh!, etc. The Jackie's kick that sends one of the cult leaders back in space on the knees and then still roundabout back on the floor in slow-mo is a touch of platinum.5. Jackie communicating with some women that look like black acrobatic witches and sound like sirens. The communication goes with the help of fists, feet, knees, and high heels. To say that these women are queer is to say nothing.6. Jackie talking some nihilistic trash about money and spitting out a chewing gum at the end of his fundamental speech.7. Jackie blowing the whole in-rock monastery to pieces and flying from a cliff down onto a balloon (it looks so ridiculous and phoney but that's all right).8. Music playing throughout the whole film and adding a special flavour some hot rock tunes are in play during the chase scenes, some dance-pop goes off during the notorious kidnapping, a sweet melodramatic song sounds when the trio are travelling, and a highly energetic song ends it all with an optimistic touch.This movie must be in top 10 among the best adventure/action flicks. Every single minute of this movie is hot and bombastic. It's a pity that Mr Jackie Chan was injured during the production and, suppose, could not unleash even more hysterical acts upon us.10 out of 10. Thank you for attention. "},{"Title":"Not much of a plot, but get a load of the stunts!!","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ARMOUR OF GOD (Long Xiong Hu Di)Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format MonoFortune-hunter Asian Hawk (Jackie Chan) travels to an ancient monastery in central Europe where his ex-girlfriend (Rosamund Kwan) is being held to ransom by a deadly cult who want Chan to deliver fragments of an all-powerful religious artefact.Forever remembered as The Movie In Which Jackie Chan Almost Lost His Life&#153; (footage of the accident is even played over the closing credits, just to prove it!), this thinly-plotted action-adventure boasts a series of death-defying stunts (watch out for a truly breathtaking car chase early in the film) and brilliantly choreographed fight scenes, set against the backdrop of various far-flung European locations. Chan draws most of the limelight away from co-stars Alan Tam and Lola Forner, and the 1.851 image seems a little cramped in places (Chan was forced to adopt the narrower frame favored by original director Eric Tsang, who withdrew from the project following Chan's near-fatal mishap), but the movie still has much to recommend it. Dimension's rescored, re-edited US version - titled OPERATION CONDOR 2 THE ARMOR OF THE GODS (!) - should be avoided at all costs. Followed by ARMOUR OF GOD II OPERATION CONDOR (1991).(Cantonese dialogue) "},{"Title":"Uneven Jackie.","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Armour of God features incredible chase sequences, amazing stuntwork and creative use of various props in the fight scenes. The problem is with the linking material, which is weak and sometimes even boring. So it's not the best film to start with if you've never seen a Jackie Chan movie before. Unfortunately, I watched the 88-minute version with the corny English dubbing - try to avoid that one if you can.     (**1/2) "},{"Title":"There are no bad Jackie Chan films but this one is not good either","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This really is one of Chan's &#145;worst' films, though it is still acceptable. There are of course a few fighting scenes, which by the way are not memorable. Further they are a few comedic element, but either they are too goofy or they are not so funny that you roll out on the floor laughing. These two &#145;failures' of the film then show you how &#145;bad' the script actually is and that was it, for my hope to watch a good film. The most memorable scenes in this film are the gum eating scenes. Everything in here is just OK, nothing more and I really felt while watching this film, that the directing Jackie Chan still had a lot to learn (something I cannot say of Operation Condor &#150; Armour of God 2). While I am on the subject, if you have seen Operation Condor, do not watch this one, but if you have already seen this film, you must watch Operation Condor, for otherwise you will not believe how much more superior a second part can be.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"God Needs Armour?","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Armour of God sees Chan as a kind of freelance treasure-hunter. This film was set in it's day (1987), (and already, Chan enthusiasts may already know what I'm hinting at here). We are quickly told (well, after some awkward flashbacks) that an old friend of Jackie's and Alan's (his annoying side-kick for nearly the whole film), Laura, has been kidnapped.After some fairly drawn-out and redundant sequences, we follow these guys (with another girl May) on their rescue mission. This film plot is fairly questionable to me, and the performances vary continually throughout the film.Jackie's typical comedy and impeccable action sequences are present in this film, but just to a much lesser degree than normal. I felt that the character of Alan crowded Jackie's abilities, and we are often shown Alan goofing off (quite unfunnily) while Jackie is presented as the sensible and honorable one.It's not until very late in the last reel do Chan fans get what they've been waiting for. The final fight-sequences are top-notch, but disappointingly over to soon, (there's no 30min Young Master-type finale here). Also, Jackie's usual extreme stunt inclusions are sub-standard in this film. The last stunt, while impressive logistically, feels quite tacked-on to the end of the film. This film, although quite patchy, is worth watching. Just be prepared for some dated comedy and a long wait for your action fix. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For all those like me who saw the movie with the hope that they would see similar fast-paced action as Operation Condor will be highly disappointed when they see its sequel.  In most of the movie I found that they were trying to fill time with melodrama.  I don't know if that's what they were trying to achieve, though.  This movie has its moments but they don't last for long.  This movie may be for die-hard Jackie Chan fans who are willing to overlook the non-existent plot and few action scenes, but it is not for serious lovers of action. "},{"Title":"Jackie Chan at his best","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Longxiong hudi or Operation Condor as it is called in the United Kingdom is my personnal favourite Jackie Chan film. Having seen Rush Hour, Cannonball Run and a couple other films of Jackie chan this was the one which really admire him and consequently I have seen the majority of his films in only a few months since then.   Once the film starts you forget the absurd plot involving a Chinese agent hunting for Nazi treasure in the middle of the desert because the action takes over. There is a superb chase sequence early on and this is followed by some highly entertaining fight scenes. Jackie Chan's highly amusing style of kung fu is a joy to watch and when the out takes appear at the end of the film you wish it had only just begun.    Operation Condor is one of the best Jackie Chan films, the low budget days were behind him but he was still in perfect physical condition. The film is a sequel to the Armour of God and knowing Jackie Chan's love of sequels there could perhaps be a third made. I will be one of those hoping for The Armour of God 3 as it is this film and not Police Story or Rush Hour that gives Chan his best role. The dubbing is appauling but you can always watch a subtitled version. "},{"Title":"Pretty good but not Chan's best.","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rated R for Violence,Language and Brief Nudity. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating14AI saw Armor Of God or in America Operation Condor 2 Armor Of God a fairly long time ago.To tell you the truth I hardly remember this film.In America this film was released after the film Operation Condor which in Hong Kong was the sequel to this film.But this film was released in America after so it is called Operation Condor 2.This film has the usual Jackie Chan charm.Great action,fight sequences and stunts with plenty of comedy on the side.This is one of the few R-rated Chan films actually.Armor Of God is a fairly good film but not Jackie Chan's best film.Runtime90min 8/10 "},{"Title":"Quite surprising, but not particularly smooth...","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Armour of God delivers us classic Jackie with a few cool twists. This was made at a time when Jackie's forte was still fight-choreography though his specific style of comedy is also very much present. What surprised me the most is that Jackie is not the straight-forward good-guy like in most of his films (though it's hard to tell at times). The film does good in spite of its sometimes rather tacky humour.What I love about this film is the honest 80s feeling if the plot is rather weird at times. Regardless, much of the film is excellent and Jackie fans are sure to love it.Not the best in the bunch, but a swell classic. "}{"Title":"My one word summary Stupid...","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First I thought Why is Jackie Chan fooling around in Europe? It is as uncomfortable as seeing John Wayne in a science fiction movie. But it got worse. Suddenly it was all drugdealing monks walking around in a cardboard and paper maché medieval castle.Hardly a plot that I would find natural for our Chinese hero. Maybe the film would have been better if I had seen it in original Cantoneese and not in stupid dubbed English. Chinese speaking drugdealing medieval Austrian monks would perhaps have been a little bit funny.  "},{"Title":"Not Even Good For Kung Fu Fighting","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I rented this movie, I had been directed to it by a video-bibliography of Kung Fu/Action films, and I was familiar with Jackie Chan's amazing abilities, so I was looking forward to some Indiana Jones-style adventure with lots of flying feet.  Sadly, this movie doesn't even measure up to TV's Relic Hunter.  After opening with a sequence deliberately modeled after Indy's flight from the angry natives in the beginning of Raiders of the Lost Ark, but with far more unflattering racial stereotypes, the Armor of God mentioned in the title is eventually described to us roughly twenty minutes into the film by one of the characters.  This flashback-style recounting of this artifact's origin uses a lot of familiar terms - Dark Ages, The Crusades, and so on - but doesn't even bear a passing resemblance to Earth history.The feeling I got from the opening of this film through its entirety was that everybody involved didn't really care if it made any sense.  When I heard that Jackie Chan actually split open his skull while making this movie, I could only think, What kind of value can you place on your life, if you're willing to lose it making this drivel? "},{"Title":"good sequel","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not as good as the original but still good fun with the continuing adventures of Agent Hawk played by Jackie Chan. This one takes some time to develop a romance between characters and properly develop the characters. The history story about the armor of the god is definitely worth a number of laughs. The evil monk's idea is hilarious; they have biker punks working for them. The black kung fu chick's scene is golden and the dynamite scene that follows that is hilarious. Things I learned from this movie.Chinese dorks have British Accents. Chinese hookers are all white and are quite attractive.Hookers really like monks. Gay waiters know everything about evil monks. Chinese rockers dress like gay dorks. Jackie Chan can sing.   "}]