[{"Title":"Truly atmospheric.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Nosferatu a Venezia(1986,Augusto Caminito)is one of the better vampire movies I have seen.Klaus Kinski is truly memorable as Nosferatu,the prince of darkness and Barbara De Rossi is hauntingly beautiful.The film is very atmospheric and has an excellent orchestral score by Luigi Ceccarelli.Set in Venice during the carnival it provides plenty of eerie atmosphere.Highly recommended,especially if you're into vampiric horror movies! "},{"Title":"Klaus Kinski shines in this moody, melancholy and atmospheric vampire horror picture","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Late, great wacko fruitbag iconoclastic actor Klaus Kinski gives a marvelously threatening, overwhelming, terrifyingly bestial and sometimes even strangely touching performance as Nosferatu, an evil, indestructible, all-powerful vampire who preys upon an affluent aristocratic family in Venice, Italy during the bleak, hopeless, fear-ridden time of the Black Death. Dedicated dying vampire hunter Christopher Plummer and pious, self-righteous priest Donald Pleasence make a futile and foolhardy stand against the foul, parasitic, yet anguished subhuman creature of darkness.Under Augusto Caminito's able, stately, subdued direction Nosferatu in Venice bravely explores mankind's stark fear of and inability to accept his own mortality as well as man's profound, but impractical desire to somehow transcend said mortality. But as the eternally tormented Nosferatu proves immortality can be more of a burden than a blessing, because he and all others like himself are perpetually cursed to endure the suffering of countless mortal others. Tonino Nardi's beauteous, misty, breathtaking cinematography and Luigi Ceccarelli's wondrous, elegant, potent orchestral score prodigiously contribute to the considerable substance of this frighteningly (and, yes, even fascinatingly) morbid, oddly affecting, soulful beauty of a film. The movie's unflinchingly desolate, flesh-crawling, funereal ambiance, relaxed, lulling pace, pervasively nonchalant air of insurmountable nihilism, and somewhat disjointed narrative isn't for every taste, but viewers who are willing to accept this disturbing, challenging, gripping and powerful feature on its own macabre and twisted terms should find it to be very rewarding. Kinski's forceful and singularly wicked presence alone distinguishes this picture as an extraordinary work; few other actors can even begin to convey the same harrowingly tangible sense of extreme unbreakable demonic menace that Kinski effortlessly exuded. A gallant, tough-minded, thematically rich and grotesquely lovely addition to the vampire horror genre. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I've seen this film quite a few times and I don't think I've ever seen a sexier portrayal of a vampire in all my days! Brilliant film for the die hard vamp fan.The performance of Klaus kinski is evil, dark, oppressive and downright fantastic. OK, so it's a film that you'll watch alone and you'll be female but c'mon - it doesn't mater about the script - the background, the scenery, the images are more than enough to satisfy the vampire hunter in you! Should you watch this film I recommend you do it alone, with a glass of wine (red of course) and some good cheese and crackers. One of the ultimate vampire films of all time! "},{"Title":"Rethink of the vampire legend is brooding and atmospheric and recommended for those who don't need a another run of the mill vampire film","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Christopher Plummer goes to Venice to investigate the last known appearance of Nosferatu during the Carnival of 1786.Plummer seems to think that the vampire is searching for a means to put an end to his torment and actually be dead. He stays with a family who legend says, has the vampire trapped in a tomb in the basement. After a séance the vampire appears and then it becomes a question of how do you put the evil back into the box.Thats a poor description for a very moody, very good rethink of the vampire legend. In theory this is a modern day sequel to Werner Herzog's remake of the FW Murnau's silent original. However other than the fact that Klaus Kinski plays the vampire the films are pretty much separate films. Here the vampire is a force outside of nature, he goes out during the day, religious objects don't affect him and he has powers beyond those of normal vampires. To be honest this film's idea of vampires and their creation is very different than what is considered normal vampire lore.This is a film thats a bit more form over content, but its still weaves a magical spell. Its a very atmospheric haunted Venice story where mood and feeling is all. Its a film designed to make you feel creepy and uneasy and not so much scary in the jump and scream variety. It helps that the film rethinks what a vampire is. Going back to folklore where things other than a bite on the neck was required to turn someone undead, this film keeps you off balance since you can't be sure what is real with in the film's world. Adding a great deal to the film are the performances of the excellent cast. Christopher Plummer's vampire hunter is a wonderful man of science who's pronouncements give a weight to the proceedings that would me missing in lesser hands. We believe in whats going on, because he does. Even in the early scenes when there is some doubt as to whats real and what isn't Plummer's intensity keeps things on track. Klaus Kinski as the vampire is a brooding, sad, sexual menace that says very little but wanders through his scenes with a power and intensity lacking in most vampires. Here is an ages old world weary soul who is forced to play peoples stupid games but who really just wants to be loved and most of all to die. The cinematography of this film is extraordinary. Venice is a character in every shot. You get a sense of place and of dread with every picture. This is one of the most beautiful films I've seen, and its fog shrouded vistas of Venice in the morning deserve to be hung on the wall.This is an amazing film, more creepy than scary, but one that is none the less haunting. This is a lost treasure for those who can appreciate horror films as being more than just the traditional sort. 7.5 out of 10 (7 out of 10 for IMDb purposes) "},{"Title":"atmospheric and chilling!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I haven't seen this film for years but it has left lasting images and atmospheres in my mind. I seem to recall the score being really interesting aswell. The camera and cinematography from what i can remember was amazing.- Showing gondalas sailing through the fog in Venice, a stunning location to say the least. It also boasts one of the prettiest actress's ever, in the shape of De Rossi. All this together with Kinski creeping around as Nosferatu makes for essential viewing.  "},{"Title":"High priest of putridity. An absolute mess of a film.","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Nosferatu a Venezia, or Vampire in Venice as it's more commonly known as to English speaking audiences, starts with the arrival of Professor Paris Catalano (Christopher Plummer) in the beautiful European city of Venice. Professor Catalano has dedicated his whole life to the study of Nosferatu (do you think that pays well?) who disappeared in Venice during 1786, he has received a letter from Helietta Canins (Barbara De Rossi) who claims that a coffin in her basement contains the body of Nosferatu (Klaus Kinski). Catalano checks it out but disagrees, to try & prove her point (I think) Helietta organises a séance & hires a medium (Clara Colosimo) to try & contact Nosferatu. It turns out Calatano was right & Nosferatu isn't in Helietta's basement but the séance does raise Nosferatu from his 200 year sleep & after consulting with a gypsy (!) Nosferatu heads off in search of those who summoned him. Oh, & to add to the excitement he also has a few nice boat rides down various Venice canal's...This Italian production was written, produced & in part directed by Augusto Caminito & is a loose sequel to Werner Herzog's Nosferatu the Vampyr (1979) although the actual connection with that film is nothing more than Kinski reprising his role as Nosferatu & even then he looks completely different in each film. The script by Caminito is a bit on the dull side, takes itself very seriously & is an absolute mess. I would imagine that the various reported production problems were the reason, nothing in the film makes any real sense & things, people, sub-plots & unnecessary flashbacks just come & go with little regard for narrative cohesion. There are a few odd flashbacks, Donald Pleasence's character Don Alvise just rambles on about God for a few scenes before he is completely dropped, why would Professor Catalano spend his entire life studying Nosferatu & when he finally finds him decides to commit suicide, what was in the coffin, why did half it's face glow red & then turn to dust & what the hell are all those gypsies & that woman's magic crystal ball all about? The whole film feels fractured & that various different people with opposing ideas & aims worked on it. Having said that it's watchable & just about strange enough to maintain ones interest plus the ironic ending where Nosferatu who is tired of eternal life & wants to die is hunted by some Vampire hunters who actually kill Helietta instead & since Nosferatu needs the unconditional love of a virgin to die the Vampire hunters have in fact achieved the opposite of what they wanted to do.Right, now lets get this straight shall we. Apparently producer Caminito hired Maurizio Lucidi as director & he even shot a few scenes but Caminito fired him. Caminito then hired Pasquale Squitieri to write & direct, however his screenplay was apparently too expensive to shoot so he was sacked as well. Caminito then hired a third director Mario Caiano, unfortunately on his first day Kinski got into a 'violent argument' with Caiano & he too left the director's chair. Caminito then decided to just direct the thing himself but had no experience so he was helped by his assistant Luigi Cozzi, but it doesn't end there folks because it is also reported that Kinski shot a fair amount of the film himself. The saying 'too many cooks spoil the broth' comes to mind & I think it's a perfect phrase to describe Nosferatu a Venezia. The film is undoubtedly stylish & has some great scenes but they're lost within the mess of a story. Forget about any gore, a bit of blood & a few people fall on some spiked railings, that's it. There's some nudity as well if that's your thing.Technically the film is very good with some great costumes, sets & Venice itself makes for an unusual location. It has nice cinematography & music, it's just a shame the film had so many behind-the-camera problems. The acting was OK although am I the only one who thinks Kinski looks terrible in this? He looks like Peter Stringfellow on a bad day!Nosferatu a Venezia was a disappointment, if the story had been stronger this could have been a decent sequel, as it is it's a curious mess both in front of & behind-the-camera. Could have been so much more, watch Nosferatu the Vampyr again instead. "},{"Title":"Good title role","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This brilliant Italian vampire film certainly has an accomplished cast. Whilst Pleasence and Plummer are good, Kinski acts his socks off in reprising his 1979 role of Nosferatu. De Rossi and Knecht are also good, and pull off this whilst being so unbelievably gorgeous as well. What lets this down is the dodgy dubbing in the English language release that I saw - even though Pleasence and Plummer seem to have their own voices, the others look dodgily done, even if they are their own (which some must be). Suffice to say, watch the Italian version, and be amazed. "},{"Title":"Mixed Results from a Troubled Production","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Nosferatu in Venice (1988) ** (out of 4) Klaus Kinski returns to the role of Nosferatu in this Italian film that was originally suppose to be a follow-up to Herzog's 1979 film. After various production issues including two director's being fired, the film ended up pretty much being 100% on its own with the only connection to the earlier film being Kinski. In the film, vampire hunter Paris Catalano (Christopher Plummer) travels to Venice, the last known location of the vampire Nosferatu (Kinski). Catalano tries to locate the whereabouts of the vampire who he believes has a desire to finally die. This is a rather interesting failure that has a lot going for it but it's obvious the production issues caused a lot of problems especially during the first part of the movie. The film starts off very ambitious as it centers on the Plummer character in current times but we then have several flashbacks to the earlier days of Nosferatu and how he became who he is. This was an interesting idea but it never really works for several reasons and one of them is a bizarre rock score that doesn't fit anything we see. Another reason these flashbacks never work is because at times it's hard to follow what exactly is going on and why certain flashbacks might be happening. Then, around the fifty-minute mark, something strange happens and the film actually turns extremely entertaining as Nosferatu finds himself in current times and falling in love with a young black lady who might just hold the key to his eventual death. Yes, Kinski drove several directors away from the film and this is partly to blame of the uneven film but you also have to give him credit because he turns in a great performance. He has his long blonde hair flowing and there's no chalk make-up so we get to see this Nosferatu in a very human-like state and the actor makes us feel sorry for this person who simply won't die. I found Kinski really intense throughout the film and this certainly spills over for several entertaining scenes but I think the romantic side works the best. Plummer is also pretty good in his rather thankless role and we even get Donald Pleasence in a role but he's pretty much wasted. Barbara De Rossi and Anne Knecht are both good as the ladies in the pack. Augusto Caminito, Mario Caiano, Luigi Cozzi and Maurizio Lucidi all did some work on the film but it was Caminito who ended up shooting the majority of the film. Even Kinski was apparently in charge of directing his scenes so who knows what was really going on with this production. It's certainly a very troubled movie but at the same time there's just so much here that does work in the end. We get some rather strong atmosphere and being 1988 and from Italy, there's much more sex, nudity and blood than normal, which is a plus. I doubt art house fans are going to enjoy this thing but if you're a horror fan and like Kinski then it would be worth your time to check this out. It's certainly not going to replace the Herzog film but it's an interesting little movie. "},{"Title":"Time has no meaning in a life that never ends - K. Kinski","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  It took me over a year to get this film on video. VAMPIRE IN VENICE (Nosferatu A Venezia) is a semi-sequel to Werner Herzogs' NOSFERATU THE VAMPYRE 1979. However, the only thing in this movie relating to that is the return of Klaus Kinski as Count Dracula (though he's just referred to as 'nosferatu' in this film).Easily one of the best vampire movies ever, it contains a very dark, deadly serious and atmospheric texture. Kinski is as creepy as ever, looking like a cross between Rutger Hauer and a zombified-Mozart! Other well known actors, Christopher Plummer and Donald Pleasence are great in the movie. The soundtrack by Luigi Ceccerelli(!) is breathtaking and memorable, and it seems that Venice herself is a prime character. The film dis-spells religious attempts against vampires and there are some interesting theories on vampiric origins discussed within the feature.My only complaint with this excellent film is the sound quality. The dubbing isn't so bad, but it's hard to make out what certain characters say at any given time. There are a few plot holes, such as, what DOES become of the vampire and his partner and where had Nosferatu been for all those lost years. Luckily, these trivial things don't spoil this arthouse, classy, unforgettable piece of Italian cinema. Let's hope it gets a well deserved DVD release in the near future. "},{"Title":"The incredible Count Kinski ...","Date":"18 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The star of the show here is the location. Venice lends itself beautifully to the mythos of Nosferatu. The slow build of characters and their motivations are made compelling because of the flaking, ornate, weather-ruined magnificence around them. Chill sunlight shining through red curtains onto gleaming marble floors; the vampire chasing a hapless victim through crumbling streets; elegant silhouettes of Nosferatu on the water; beautiful dawn shots of Venice in all its haunting, craggy glory &#x96; all these things (and more) ensure this is a visual tour-de-force.This was a troubled production, with central actor and powerhouse Klaus Kinski allegedly causing many of the crew to resign due to his behaviour; Kinski also declined to repeat the make-up process used in the original Nosferatu; not many actors could pull of a shock of white hair, but Kinski not only pulls off the look, but appears engagingly menacing too. His vampire is not only a seducer, but a sexually charged one &#x96; and again, not many 62 year old men who could get away with that. When viewed in semi-darkness, with his darkened eyes and mouth, he exudes a truly unnerving skull-like appearance. Kinski was, for all his wayward behaviour, a tremendous actor.Christopher Plummer stars as an ineffective Van Helsing type (Professor Paris Catalano), despite a terrific performance. When he and Nosferatu meet, the vampire barely even acknowledges him or his prayers. Donald Pleasance is wonderful too, as the cowardly Don Alvise, despite being given very little to do.The production is not fluid. Some scenes drag on too long and some are abruptly cut and don't always appear to flow smoothly. The slower scenes are a lot more successful than when the story needs to take hold in a fast-past manner, and we are left wondering what happened at the end to key characters. At the close, Nosferatu has assumed the role of the tragic succubus. The last view we have of him disappearing into the mist, cradling the naked corpse of his would-be benefactor, is not the swansong of a monster, more of a haunted lost soul. This shift in character from the alien, lizard-like creature from the original is a shift in tone certainly, but an interesting and successful one. "}{"Title":"Stinky pooh.","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Nosferatu the Vampire is an awful movie. So it had to be popular and it had to have a sequel that is even worst. The 1922 version of Nosferatu is a great movie. It is one of the scariest movies ever made. And this is just awful. It is badly written. It has an awful ending. It not scary at all. This movie is a wast of time. It is also a wast of money do not see this awful movie. Read the book Dracula. See the 1922 version Nosferatu. See the 1931 version of Dracula. Do see this awful sequel to Nosferatu the vampire. The ending is so stupid. There are so many good Dracula movies out there and this one is awful. Do not see this movie. It is total pooh pooh. "},{"Title":"High priest of putridity, depravity personified, enemy of Christ, adversary of life, abomination of abominations&#x85;but we can call him Klaus Kinski!","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I'm a tremendously massive fan of the works and persona of Klaus Kinski, but apparently I should praise myself lucky that I never had to work with him or maybe even meet with him person. Kinski allegedly was an incredibly arrogant individual and literally an impossible person to interact with professionally. During this particular period &#x96; the late 80s &#x96; he also was at the heights of his violent temper, which (nearly) ruined all the movies he starred in. Director David Schmoeller made the ironic short film Please Kill Mr. Kinski, based on the disastrous experience that he had with him during Crawlspace in 1986 and even the long-running professional relationship with the acclaimed director Werner Herzog got destroyed in 1987 during the filming of Cobra Verde. According to the documentaries Herzog and Kinski got into several vicious fights and openly threatened to kill each other. Also this Nosferatu in Venice suffered enormously from Kinski's eccentric quirks. He chased away the initially hired director Mario Caiano, he physically assaulted two of the lead actresses and he refused to cut his hair or wear any make-up. And yet, it's a Kinski film and I'd move heaven and earth just to see it! I liked Nosferatu in Venice a lot, but not exactly because it's a good film&#x85; I'm much more fond of the whole idea and concept of the film. What a brilliant idea to set a vampire movie in the wonderful city of Venice! And not just any ravenous and mad-as-hell vampire, but a melancholic vampire figure like Nosferatu! That's just fantastic. The story initially follows Prof. Catalano, who's searching for the mysteriously vanished Nosferatu, but at the same time the professor is convinced that he is fed up with his immortal and roaming existence. Deep in the basement of a Venetian family mansion there is a tomb, and the heiress thinks that Nosferatu is buried here. They hold a séance to awaken him, but he resurrects somewhere on a tropical island. Nosferatu promptly travels to Venice, hoping to find love and eternal peace. Noferatu in Venice is slow-brooding and talkative, and thus definitely not recommended for the nowadays new generation of horror/vampire movie fanatics that swear by fancy computer-generated effects and monstrous transformations. This movie thrives on macabre atmosphere, moody set-pieces and sober cinematography. The plot is very messy and often doesn't make a lick of sense, and yet it's captivating from start to finish. This is also a very unconventional vampire story. Kinski's Nosferatu doesn't suck the blood from the virgin's necks, but he impales old ladies on fences and tears off the lips of jealous boyfriends. Kinski doesn't have to do a lot apart from demonstrating his naturally sinister charisma. The cast contains another two phenomenal actors, Donald Pleasance and Christopher Plummer, as well as a couple of beautiful actresses, like Barbara De Rossi. "},{"Title":"Venice is for vampires","Date":"5 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A vampire hunter (Christopher Plummer) goes to Venice where the infamous vampire Nosferatu (Klaus Kinski) was last seen 2 centuries ago, and soon Old Two Teeth starts biting necks again, as old habits die hard. Traditional methods like sunlight or the sign of the cross do not scare Nosferatu, but it is said the love of a virgin might be dangerous to him, is any of the ladies interested? It's not a good movie, it's not a bad movie, it simply is a pile of various bits and pieces, ranging from genius to rubbish. After several directors were fired, producer Caminito finished the movie somehow - I imagine it must have been a case of it's better to make a painful break than draw out the agony. Venice, however, is a perfect setting for a vampire movie with its ancient, dark, decaying buildings. The warm, colorful carnival scenes provide stark contrast for the cold blue light of the early morning chases when Nosferatu is looking for victims. Unfortunately, when the tension is rising, often something ridiculous happens, for example the attempt to shoot the vampire with a shotgun (results in a cannonball hole to see through) which will immediately destroy the efforts. It's too clumsy to appeal to an art movie audience (who may have enjoyed Herzog's Nosferatu) and too confusing to be Saturday night fun for horror flick fans. Under the circumstances of its production, it's no surprise that 'Nosferatu a Venezia' failed, but I admit it is at least an interesting failure which is not just another vampire movie.I watched the Italian language DVD which has no subtitles in other languages. "},{"Title":"Vampire in Venice? Keep your expectations low...","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Nosferatu (dir. F. W. Murnau, 1922) is regarded as a masterpiece. To be honest, I enjoyed Werner Herzog's remake (1979) far more - Klaus Kinski's performance in the title role was perfect; repellent and charismatic in equal measure. So I've been looking forward to seeing this hard-to-get-hold-of sequel for years. Oh dear, what a disappointment. This film is a confused mess. If Vampire in Venice were less conventional, it could be Art-house or Surrealist Cinema. And then its fogginess might be to its advantage. But... it just isn't.Whereas its' predecessors were directed with a spark of genius, Vampire in Venice had a history of directorial dithering - and boy does it show. Despite some excellent cinematography, great sets and a (potentially) strong cast, the film is so weakly directed that it falls apart almost immediately. The cast is wasted. The plot is incongruous. The characters are under-developed and their motivations are anyones' guess. The whole is deeply unsatisfying. Of course, Barabara De Rossi is utterly gorgeous, Plummer has some gravitas and Kinski is OK, but without a firm hand at the rudder, we are on a gondola to nowhere.Only the film's few saving graces allowed me to watch to the end. One for the curious only, I fear. "},{"Title":"The best Vampire Film ever","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  At long last a movie who focuses in the vampire itself.My fascination about the genre seem to have the desire to live,you could call it survival instict,but also the wish to die.That's about what every human being has,or else our lifes would be much different,but the vampires have to face both desires getting stronger through the centuries.This movie is has more drama and plot than many other movies.The leading star is much better than Christopher Lee and Bella Lugosi.If you want to see a vampire film which is not laughable this is it. "},{"Title":"A sexual satyr in Venice Paganini with fangs","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Klaus Kinski was an exceptional actor who had the rare gift that he could turn a mediocre, even bad movie, through his sheer presence into a spectacle. His often very short but poignant performances in various B- and Thrash-movies are evidence enough.However, according to director Werner Herzog, during the shooting of the final scene of Cobra Verde, Kinski muttered something along the line of 'I'm spent. I'm empty. I'm not there anymore'. Surely, the great actor would pass away a few years later, but not before starring in a number of films that would only confirm that statement. Kinskis own Paganini and Nosferatu in Venice would stand testament to that.Don't be fooled by the title. Werner Herzogs Nosferatu and Nosferatu in Venice have only one thing in common Klaus Kinski playing a vampire. Don't expect any of Herzogs magic; Kinski is decades away from the majestic portrayal of a melancholic Count Dracula. Rather, Kinski was already immersed in his role as Paganini, which he had been virtually obsessed with. His Vampire in Venice is Paganini with fangs, a sexual satyr for who blood and copulation is synonym. Of course, analyzing the vampire mythology, this is technically not incorrect, but given Kinskis own (often proclaimed) hyper-sexuality, it makes the film seem sleazy and the viewer feeling like a voyeur.That is not to say that the movie is without atmosphere. Venice and its lagoons lend themselves perfectly well for a dark, mystic vampire melodrama and the soundtrack is excellent, only adding to its charm. But why call it Nosferatu? (Don't bother answering, it's a rhetoric question).Hence, this is one of the rare Kinski films where the actor doesn't enrich the picture but his participation is actually the main flaw.Still, the last 10 years haven't been kind to fans of vampire films; unless you're not through puberty, it's unlike you be able to enjoy the modern Twighlight-vampires and in the light of that, Nosferatu in Venice is an acceptable, though flawed and often disjointed, Gothic horror-story. 6 points from 10. "},{"Title":"Weird movie but it does a decent job at capturing the right required atmosphere.","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Don't really know if this movie can be regarded as an official sequel to the 1979 Werner Herzog movie Nosferatu Phantom der Nacht. Yes, it has Klaus Kinski again in it as the Nosferatu character but that is basically all that these two movies have in common. This movie got made by an entirely different production crew and even in an entirely different country.5 directors later this is the end result. This movie was a real troubled production, that suffered from multiple delays during production, due to the falling out of directors and cast members, which resulted in the end that 5 different directors at certain points worked on the movie. The movie is a bit of a mess but at least its still an good looking mess.Don't even really know what is the story in all of this. We have Nosferatu walking around in Venice and Christopher Plummer and Donald Pleasence but what they are doing in this movie, I still can't really tell. It has a pretty much non-existent story and it pretty much only relies on its dark eerie atmosphere and presence of once again Klaus Kinski as the immortal blood sucking vampire.Kinski himself refused to wear the heavy make up he wore in Nosferatu Phantom der Nacht and even didn't wanted to cut his hair for the role. So his look in this movie is very different from Nosferatu Phantom der Nacht. It's also definitely less scary looking all and it seems that they thought it would be enough to let the character stare a lot to make him work out as a scary or mysterious one. No, it just doesn't ever work, which makes his character a disappointing one and also makes it all seem quite pointless that Klaus Kinski after 9 years reprises his acclaimed role again. It was also one of the last movies he ever did, I wish I could say it also was an impressive and worthy one.But it's just not a movie that you'll hate watching. I liked its style and atmosphere, that at times even became somewhat close to that of Nosferatu Phantom der Nacht. The movie is certainly a joy to watch for the eyes but then again which Venice based movie isn't?Too bad that the movie just isn't ever really going anywhere. The movie makes some weird choices and the story just doesn't provide anything interesting enough. Not that you'll be bored with it but it's also far from a satisfying movie. It's a pretty pointless movie once you start thinking about it and is one you can really easily do without.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"all the right ingredients","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This has it all. Klaus Kinski playing Nosferatu. A perfect match of this tortured magnetic egotistical actor who had imaginings of being something far greater he toured for a time proclaiming himself as Jesus; albeit a rather more angry and vituperate Jesus. Kinski had played the role before in A Herzog film. So the experience alone should assure success. This Nosferatu is more glamorous and set in a decayed cosmopolitan Venice. For the audience a clue that things were going to go seriously wrong as they sat in the cinema was the appearance of more than one director. This always heralds serious problems in production. It starts promisingly a Gypsy camp summons up Nosferatu as their benefactor. Then he is off to Venice to avenge the royal family that have tried to destroy him. Here the narrative starts going awry and long periods of soft focus camera panning accompanied by string quartets show th holes left in the scripts due to arguments. The film tries to find its focus again by giving Nosferatu a love interest in the shapely black actress Maria. But its too late and too little point. Assuming that the intention is to see Nosferatus demise, the audience would already be asleep to see the interesting climax, which I am not going to reveal. You have to track it down and stay awake to the end "},{"Title":"completely awful!","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It's hard to discern sometimes, but a movie has either got it or it does not. This movie has absolutely no ability to engage to its storyline, which doesn't even make sense in the first place.Granted, I'm not the biggest fan of Herzog's Nosferatu which I found to be pretty slow and tedious. At least I found some appreciation in its stylishness and Kinski's heartfelt and somewhat sympathetic performance as the impish Count Dracula.None of that returns for this shallow retread. Kinski plays an entirely different character, more of some punk rock demigod than a Vampire. The film doesn't even appear sure what time period it's taking place in, and several subplots (two involving unconnected groups of vampire hunters) feel completely extraneous and do nothing for the film. The only thing it has going for it is a reasonably good cast, though unfortunately they here provide the worst performances of their respective careers. Plummer looks particularly embarrassed... so much so that rumor has it he suffered an unexplained heart attack during the chaotic filming.One of the worst, most useless horror films to come from Italy in the 1980's, and yes, I've seen GHOSTHOUSE. "},{"Title":"Naff, wannabe-arty Euro shocker","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Warning the other characters (and, presumably, the audience) that the seance in which they are about to take part could provoke reactions of quite terrifying proportions, Christopher Plummer proves himself a less-than-reliable guide through this hideous mess.  With pompous, over-cooked music blaring out of every scene, regardless of what is actually taking part on screen, and the kind of existential angst that would make a 14 year old goth blush, 'Vampire In Venice' lurches from one flaccid cliche to another.  Gypsies dancing around a fire on the beach at night?  Check!  Street carnival with masks and silly frocks aplenty?  Check!  Vampires musing on the pain of spending eternity alone?  Please, no more.The 'horror' scenes appear to parody the entire genre.  The film's running time - the video case claimed it was just over 90 minutes, an outright lie - stretches out into the black wastes of infinity, making the experience of watching it akin to sitting through one of Warhol's experiments in cinematic endurance.  Klaus Kinski, so watchable in almost anything else, never seems sure whether he's the devil incarnate, or an aging rocker out of retirement for one last comeback gig.  Even Donald Pleasance drifts by, unable to make a dent in the vast wall of boring, self-satisfied predictability.  The horror of eternity was surely never supposed to be THIS bad. "}{"Title":"This may be the worst movie ever made.","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is an extremely boring version of the classic Dracula legend that should be removed from the shelves of the video stores. Save your $2.95 and rent Bela Lugosi's Dracula or Christopher Lee's The Horror of Dracula.  "}]