[{"Title":"Great chemistry between Gere and Basinger","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Richard Gere is a Chicago cop on the vengeance trail as he follows his partner's killers to New Orleans to settle his own personal score. The film moves at a brisk pace as Gere and a Cajun sexpot flee through the Louisiana bayous from a murderous crime lord who wants his baby doll back and to destroy the Chicago detective who would avenge his partner's murder. Gere and Kim Basinger go very well together, and the chemistry between them adds to the film's realism. Basinger is the sexy swamp girl type who finds herself falling for Gere, although they clash repeatedly while handcuffed together as they attempt to elude the brutal underworld figure and his henchmen. George Dzundza is also good as Gere's superior and Jeroen Krabbe is measured and deliberate as the Cajun butcher. The film's final moments are explosive and predictable and close out an exciting thriller. "},{"Title":"Background Better Than Story","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" On the surface, this film, which I like, is like dozens of other revenge-the-death-of-a-cop-partner stories. But the saving grace of the movie is the characters, and some of the dialogue.Spoilers in the followingEddie Jilette is a tough cop. A tough Chicago cop. But what distinguishes the film that his Captain is tougher and nastier. In a later scene in the film, the captain and Eddie are in an airport where, in the Men's washroom, after making sure that they're alone, the captain gives Eddie a weapon to kill the villain, and expects him to use it. In most such films, a tough cop usually has a captain who's either a politician or a wimp. How refreshing! The film also has a nice touch. Eddie rents all the rooms of a hotel in Algiers. The only inhabitants were the clerk and a cat. Eddie tells the clerk to beat it, because he's expecting a showdown battle there. Shortly before the battle commences, we see the cat leave the building.One I've watched several times and one that's in my library. "},{"Title":"Looking for the SOUNDTRACK","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" No Mercy is a great movie that offers a lot of action, a great cast of actors and actresses, a very haunting melody as the base music in the soundtrack, and additionally, some really beautiful scenery. All of the actors do a really great job portraying their characters and there is a lot of action and subtle bits that endear the movie watcher to the character played by Kim Basinger. Richard Gere was a very cool tough cop in this film and he was a real looker needless to say. I have seen this movie more than once and still think it is a really entertaining film. Lots to offer INCLUDING a great soundtrack that has eluded me all these years. I would appreciate any tip that would help me locate one of the out of print CD's of this soundtrack. I most definitely would pay a reasonable price. thanks! "},{"Title":"Why Ratings So Low?","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is not one of my top 10 films of all times, but it is a solid genre piece with some interesting variations and local color.After Katrina, a film about New Orleans has a special interest that adds a certain sauce.If there are any weaknesses, some of Bassinger's line deliveries are a bit weak. Otherwise, superb acting all around. I have always thought Gere was something of a lightweight, but very solid work here.Unlike many films, they get the weapons handling VERY right.I am a bit confused as to why this film has been rated so low on average. I have the video, and watch it about once a year. "},{"Title":"Action, adventure, beautiful scenery and women, plus explosions. A real Man's Movie.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Kim Basinger is young and gorgeous. Richard Gere is, well Richard Gere. He's dapper, sexy semi-nude and the good guy. What else is new? He's a Chicago cop who's partner gets murdered and he thinks  Basinger, can lead him to the killer.  Beautiful scenes of Louisiana bayou and attention-grabbing chase scenes make this an enjoyable movie for all. And don't forget the love scenes for the women and the fighting and torching of New Orleans for the men. A fun couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Revenge has no mercy.","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" After receiving a tip from a suspect, Chicago cop Eddie Jillette poses as a hit man, he's to meet with a mysterious guy from New Orleans and from there uncover the plans. But things go awry and Eddie's partner and friend is brutally murdered, a stunningly gorgeous blonde seems to hold the key to it all, so Eddie heads South with revenge and anger driving him on.80s popcorn thrillers get a hard deal on IMDb, it seems that many people visiting them for the first time post 1990, seem determined to judge them against the likes of multiplex favourites like Bad Boys. The 80s was far from being a great decade for action/drama movies, but there was a ream of tidy pieces that fulfilled the genre requirements for those so inclined. Here in Richard Pearce's No Mercy we have a protagonist hell bent on revenge Richard Gere, lots of hair but acting with force, a sultry blonde stirring passions Kim Bassinger in the same year she turned heads in Nine 1/2 weeks, and a weasel baddie with a pony tail Jeroen Krabbé enjoying himself, throw in swearing before it was a fashionable accessory, explosions aplenty and an ability to have the viewer shouting for our cop to bloody succeed at all costs. Yes there is the obligatory simmering romance under trying circumstances, and yes the ending holds few surprises to anyone who has watched films since 1930, but it's a very credible piece that is certainly more entertaining than some of the dross action pictures that are churned out weekly for the MTV generation these days. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Stale revenge story - utterly familiar.","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   In 1986, when No Mercy was released, two names that would be near the top of any World's Sexiest Man and World's Sexiest Woman lists would have been Richard Gere and Kim Basinger. In getting these two gorgeous people together, the makers of No Mercy then committed the age-old sin - they forgot to provide them with a decent story! Gere plays Chicago cop Eddie Jillette. Whilst on a case, Eddie's partner Joe (Gary Basaraba) is brutally murdered by French gangster Losado (Jereon Krabbe). Jillette heads down to Losado's New Orleans lair to avenge his partner's death. There, he meets gangster's moll Michel (Kim Basinger), a stunning woman desperate to get away from her sadistic lover but too afraid to do so. She and Jillette end up handcuffed together, hiding out in the dangerous Louisiana swampland from Losado and his heavies. Immediately, you can see that No Mercy is riddled with stale plot devices - cop avenging the death of his friend; hero stealing a lover from the villain; usual fish-out-of-water ideas (this time a Chicago cop working in New Orleans); even the swamp sequence has a whiff of The Defiant Ones and The 39 Steps about it. The film is also excessively grim and nasty, with Krabbe in particular struggling to do anything as a one-dimensional, knife-wielding sadist. The action high-spots, including a climactic shootout in a burning hotel, are quite expensive-looking sequences but, like the rest of the film, are oddly uninteresting and unoriginal.  "},{"Title":"Thriller that draws upon two traditions","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" No Mercy is a film which draws upon two cinematic traditions. The first is the tough cop thriller which first saw the light of day in the late sixties and early seventies in films like Dirty Harry and The French Connection and which was enjoying a new lease of life in the eighties.The hero of this film is Eddie Jillette, a Chicago cop who is investigating Paul Deveneux, the scion of a wealthy New Orleans family who has travelled to Chicago to hire the services of a professional hit man. In an attempt to entrap Deveneux, Jillette and his partner Joe pose as assassins for hire, but something goes wrong. Losado, the man Deveneux wants dead, is aware of his plans, and sends his own team of killers to Chicago. In a shootout, Jillette escapes, but Deveneux and Joe are killed. Jillette heads to New Orleans to investigate, but his presence is welcomed neither by Deveneux's family nor by the local police, and he soon finds himself in danger from Losado, who turns out to be a powerful local crime baron. Jillette's only ally (and she at first a reluctant one) is Michelle, Losado's beautiful mistress. (In the cast list her name is spelled as Michel, but as that is the masculine form of the name this is presumably an error).The other tradition on which the film draws is that of neo-noir, the genre which uses modern cinema techniques in order to produce a contemporary equivalent of the classic films noirs of the forties and fifties. The film contains some of the traditional noir devices, such as the blonde femme fatale, with Kim Basinger playing the part that in the heyday of film noir would have been played by the likes of Lauren Bacall, Lizabeth Scott, Gloria Grahame or Rita Hayworth. (Well, I know Rita wasn't normally a blonde, but she was one in Lady from Shanghai). As with many films noirs the hero has an idiosyncratic morality based on personal honour; in his pursuit of Losado he is inspired not so much by an abstract belief in law or justice (like many tough cops he has a shoot first, ask questions later attitude) but a desire to avenge Joe, who was not only his partner but also a close personal friend.Like most neo-noirs, or at least like most good neo-noirs, No Mercy manages to find a visual equivalent to the brooding monochrome photography which was a frequent hallmark of the original noirs. As with many films in the genre, much of the action takes place at night, with the darkness acting as a visual symbol for the moral darkness which lies at the heart of the plot. There are some striking scenes of the industrial areas of Chicago, of the Louisiana bayous and of the sleazy, rundown quarters of New Orleans in which Losado operates.Richard Gere makes a stylish hero, but he is perhaps rather too laid back, lacking the sort of intensity that the likes of Mel Gibson, Bruce Willis and Gene Hackman brought to their tough cop heroes. Kim Basinger, however, is excellent; of all her performances that I have seen I would rank this one second only to the one she gave in an even better neo-noir, L.A. Confidential. Kim brings to the role not only her usual sex appeal (in my view she was, together with Michelle Pfeiffer, the loveliest Hollywood star of the eighties) but also some subtle acting. At first she seems, both to the audience and to Jillette, like a hard, brassy femme fatale; Jillette even assumes that she is a hooker. Gradually, however, she softens as her tragic story becomes apparent (she was sold to Losado as a child) and both we, and Jillette, come to realise that she too is a victim.Like some of the other reviewers here, I am at a loss to understand why this film should have such a low rating on this board any why it should have attracted so many negative comments, with many seeing it as merely a hackneyed or clichéd thriller. Yes, it is a thriller, but it is possible to work creatively even within the confines of a formulaic genre, and No Mercy is in my view one of the better thrillers of the eighties. The action sequences, especially the final shootout in the burning flophouse, are effective enough to satisfy action-movie junkies, but there is more to the film than that. It is well acted, well photographed and well written- in all a superior sort of thriller. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Clash of Cultures","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS** Clash of culture film that goes from Chicago to the swamps bayous and streets of New Orleans with windy city cop Eddie Jillette, Richard Gere, looking to get even for the savage murder of his partner undercover cop Joe Collins, Gary Basaraba, by Cajun gangster Losado, Jeroen Krabbe. At the time Losado was in town to get back his runaway and personal slave girl.Chicago police officers Jillette & Collins getting a tip from a local Chicago pot pusher Angles Ryan, Ray Starkey, that they busted that he was hired to do a hit for somebody from out of town. The two policemen acting as hit men meet later that evening New Orleans businessman Paul Deveneux, Terry Kinney, and his girlfriend Michel Duval, Kim Basinger, at a Chicago restaurant. Deveneux wants the two to take out this very dangerous and brutal New Orleans gangster, Losado, and is willing to pay big money to get the Job done.Before anything could happen Deveneux is blown to pieces and officer Jillette barley escapes with his life as they were caught in a street ambush by the targeted Losado and his gang. Back at the hotel were police officer Collins is staying Michael Losado and a bunch of his hoods breaks in and catch Collins by surprise. slicing Collins open with a huge hunting knife Losado then takes off with Micheal who he considered to be his private property. Getting to the hotel room too late to save his partner officer Jillette is deeply hurt for not being there in time to prevent Collins from being murdered. Trying to find Collins' killer in the city of New Orleans Jillette finds Michel at the Blue Parrot nightclub. Jillette had a hunch she would be there from the blue parrot tattoo she had on her right shoulder. The movie then goes into overdrive with Jillette on the run with Michel as a hostage as Losado and his gang try to track down and kill him as well as rescue Michel. Jillette on the other hand is on a mission of revenge to find officer Collins murderer and bring him to Justice with him being the sole judge jury and executioner.Getting away from Losado's goons Jillette makes it back to the main New Orleans police station with Michel only to get arrested and then told to check out of the city by the New Orleans police Lt. Hall, Bruce McGill. Determined not to leave without taking care of Lasado Jillette has Michel, who had since fallen in love with him, used as bait to get him out in the open which leads to the movies fiery conclusion in a deserted New Orleans hotel. Average suspense/drama that's helped a lot by the presence of Jeroen Krabbe as the cold-blooded and murderous Cajun gangster Losado. Creepy yet soft spoken who without even the slightest show of emotions Lasado would lash out at his unsuspecting victim with his deadly blade like a coiled rattlesnake.The showdown at the Algires Point Hotel had Lasado and his entire gang shoot and knife it out with an almost suicidal officer Jillette who didn't care if he lived through it or not. With him only wanting to take out the Cajun killer so he could finally feel that his partner didn't die in vain and that his killer didn't live to get away with murdering him. "},{"Title":"Richard Gere seeks Kim Basinger and finds Jeroen Krabbé","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I rate this neo-noir 3/4 or 7.5/10 on the IMDb scale, meaning this is a very good film with a number of strong points. Many incisive and positive observations can be found among those critics and reviewers who like this film and see its merits. I cannot add much except to confirm them. This is an action neo-noir that very nearly is first-class.The movie is a thriller that takes place in Chicago first, then New Orleans and Algiers, and nearby bayou country. Richard Gere is a tough Chicago cop whose partner is murdered, and he seeks revenge. George Dzundza, his boss, is supportive, which is rather different from many such cop-boss relationships. Gere seeks out Kim Basinger in Algiers and finds she's under the thumb of the violent Jeroen Krabbé, who is virtually in the migrant-slave business. William Atherton is a sleazy lawyer associated with the underworld activities.The movie is photographed beautifully in neo-noir coloration, with a high share of night scenes. Both major locations, north and south, are caught distinctively. The director did a great job in staging this movie. One amazing sequence has Gere escaping from gunfire in the Chicago stockyards beneath the hoofs of cattle being stampeded by gunfire. Another has him escaping a bevy of Krabbé's gunmen in an intimidating lowdown drinking/dancing club.Kim Basinger is impressive as the young woman sold at the age of 13 and belonging to Krabbé ever since. Gere mistakes her for a whore but eventually understands her position. Gere is suitably tough and bold in his quest to track down his partner's murderer. The dialog is quite sharp in support of the actors.So, despite containing familiar elements and being a somewhat predictable thriller, the creation of atmosphere and characters lifts this film and makes it quite worthwhile. "}{"Title":"Worthwhile crime/thriller","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Released in late 1986, No Mercy stars Richard Gere as a Chicago cop who travels to New Orleans to track down a blond (Kim Basinger) who is linked to the murderer of his beloved partner. The film features a great love-to-hate villain, Losado, played by Jeroen Krabbé; a notable survival-in-the-swamp sequence wherein Gere & Basinger are handcuffed to each other; and an action-packed showdown in an old city hotel.Actually, I could do without the hotel showdown, as it comes off too cartooney and contrived (like when one of the villains barges right through a wall with his rifle -- Why sure!), but I suppose it can be accepted on the grounds of Western-like artistic license.There's loads of foul language but I found it realistic for these types of individuals in such critical situations. So I didn't mind it too much but my wife took (minor) offense.Gere's still relatively young here (36). I realize many hate him, but I'm a fan of quite a few of his pictures, e.g. The Mothman Prophecies, King David and An Officer and a Gentleman. Kim Basinger doesn't do much for me personally, although she's certainly pretty and her acting is effective here. I know it's a matter of taste but No Mercy provides zero 'babe appeal' for me.The film was shot in Chicago and Louisiana (and some parts in NC).The score is moving despite the dated mid-80s electronic drums.FINAL WORD It's hard to put into words why I like this film to the extent of writing a review. It's nothing exceptional, but it somehow 'works' and gets better with repeat viewings. I bought the DVD a year & a half ago and have watched it three times since, which is something I rarely (if ever) do. I think what attracts me is that it's more than just a mindless cop/action flick, although it has the thrills if that's all you're looking for. No Mercy has something to say about love, loyalty, courage, justice, freedom and happiness, but it's smart enough to not spell it all out. Hence, not only is the picture enjoyable to watch due to the 'movie magic' but it can also leave you contemplating.The film runs 106 minutes.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Gere gets merciless with the merciless in average fare","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" We now see Mr Gere get tough as Eddie Jillete (dig the name, and he's not much of a shaver either), another Chicago cop who doesn't play by the rules. Opening with a funny stake out scene, with Gere and partner, who winds up dead, later, of course, (ooops! sorry to ruin it for ya) posing as car wash attendants, where they nab these two snitches, which leads to a higher chain of really bad dudes, who are part of a drug syndicate. Gere's partner being slayed, along with a contact supplier, has him on an adrenaline filled quest of revenge, (an excuse for the rest of the movie) that sees him travelling to the bayou, to find the mysterious and beautiful Michelle, the contact's girlfriends, who Gere doesn't mind slapping if, if slapped first as seen earlier, before all the bloodshed started. Gere's need for vengeance, is not a bad excuse, for a few reasons- you've got the beautiful Basinger, and a great action sequence that sees Gere and Basinger scarcely escaping the claws of the merciless head honcho, (Jerome Krabbe, an evily brilliant, masterful performance, way above his peers) fleeing across the river, from out of the pilings, and ending up in the swamps of Louisiana, drained, thirsty and hungry as hell. Personally, not buying the probability of them getting away clean like this, I also got drained watching them. The other reason besides Gere, purposely pranging the car of the contact's brother, who wasn't playing ball in the Q and A department, was the shootout scene in the abandoned hotel. Get this. Gere gave the proprietor a bunch of money for all the rooms, telling him There's no future in it. The proprietor leaves as simply as that before Gere rigs the hotel with traps and guns. It is a great set up of tense atmosphere, before Gere has his moment of vengeance face to face with killer Krabbe. While really becoming a fan of Gere in the mid eighties, No Mercy, isn't one I held in memory. It was a good actioner, at viewing time, but nothing really stuck with me about it. A few weeks later it was totally forgettable, the only part, sticking with me, in those small weeks after, was them going through the mire and the swamps. Gere did bring out an intriguing new tough guy, unruly, who's disrespectful of women, he really needs a lesson in manners, and like the movie, his character wasn't one, you much cared about. "},{"Title":"So-so thriller.","Date":"18 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Stop me if you've heard this one before a loose cannon detective loses his partner when the latter is killed by a loathsome criminal, so naturally the detective becomes obsessed with vengeance and tracks the killer down to their home turf. In this case, the home turf is New Orleans. A key element that our detective latches onto is the presence of a sultry young woman who is supposedly the property of the bad guy. Richard Gere probably wouldn't automatically come to a lot of minds as a leading contender for this sort of detective role, but he basically does alright, and he works well with leading lady Kim Basinger; both stars look great as always. But what really helps to make this a decent if unexceptional entertainment for this viewer is that New Orleans setting, which is a very healthy asset to any film set there. That unique New Orleans atmosphere is definitely present and accounted for. The film, competently directed by Richard Pearce, gets down to business quickly and keeps up a pretty good pace while offering a fair bit of excitement and violence. The script, by Jim Carabatsos, doesn't offer anything that's terribly out of the ordinary, but the actors make the most of it. The film *does* feature an excellent supporting cast William Atherton plays yet another of his patented Jerk characters whose lights you just want to punch out the first moment you see him, Gary Basaraba is reasonably likable as the ill-fated partner (you just *know* he's a goner because he's the married one), George Dzundza is solid as Gere's weary boss who ultimately supports him in his quest for vengeance, Terry Kinney is another victim of our bad guy, Bruce McGill is a grumpy N.O. detective, and Dutch actor Jeroen Krabbe, who got effectively introduced to American audiences here, is nicely understated as the villain, sometimes exploding into violence but never going the obvious route of throwing temper tantrums. Look also for Charles S. Dutton in a bit, and the late, great Ray Sharkey in an amusing cameo as Angles Ryan. Good action sequences are a plus, as well as a striking music score by Alan Silvestri, one compelling (and seemingly obligatory) journey through a swamp, and the finale, taking place inside a burning motel, which is a definite corker. No Mercy isn't anything great or even that good, but it's not without its moments. Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Throughly average 80 cop thriller.","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" No Mercy starts in Chicago where cop Eddie Jillette (Richard Gere) & his partner Joe Collins (Gary Basaraba) have had a bad day, pumping an informant for information they learn that a man & woman are in town looking to hire a hit-man to kill someone back in New Orleans. Eddie & Joe decide to check it out, Eddie poses as the hit-man & meets Paul Deveneux (Terry Kinney) & a striking woman named Michel Duval (Kim Basinger) who say they want a man in New Orleans killed but before any firm names or locations can be discussed Eddie & Deveneux are attacked in which Deveneux is killed & Eddie is badly injured. Across town in a hotel room Eddie's partner Joe is murdered & Michel vanishes, waking up in a hospital bed Eddie swears vengeance against those who killed Joe & travels to New Orleans to hunt down & kill those responsible starting with the mysterious Michel...Released theatrically the weekend before Christmas during 1986 this decidedly average cop thriller was directed by Richard Pearce & is a lacklustre assembly line of cop thriller clichés & predictability. The script is strictly routine, a cop's partner/wife/family member is killed so sets off on some renegade mission to find those responsible & extract a little revenge breaking all sorts of laws along the way & generally not acting like a cop in any way. Then there's the obligatory romance that complicates even further, there's ruthless mob boss & the local incompetent police force as our hero shoots his way across New Orleans at will. There's firm but fair police chief, the final shoot out & just about every other cop thriller cliché you can come up with. One reason why I didn't think much of No Mercy is that it takes itself extremely seriously, there's no humour here at all & most of the best action cop thrillers from this period were stuffed with one-liners & the odd gag but No Mercy is as straight & in my opinion as bland & dull as they come. The character's are dull with almost no background, the main villain in particular has no great motive & quite why he is so protective & possessive of Michel is a complete mystery apart from he gave her mum a home a few years back. Yeah right, so? Everyone in New Orleans is depicted as inbred hill billies or rich folk with black servants which I am sure they are not.No Mercy even disappoints on a mindless action level, there are a few minor car stunts, a few shoot outs & a few fights including some in a burning hotel but it's all pretty low key stuff that is generally very forgettable. There's a very minor & tame sex scene between Gere & Basinger but don't expect to see that much. The film tries to be gritty with lots of back alleys, dry ice & 80's neon lighting but the picture of New Orleans it paints is one where everyone plays the saxophone, sings, tap dances or drinks. I am quite surprised the makers didn't throw some voodoo mysticism & animal sacrifice in there too just to complete the stereotype clichés. Also, its it just me but does anyone else dislike the New Orleans architecture? All that wood is surely a fire hazard?Filmed in New Orleans & Chicago the production values are decent enough but there's no energy or pace to it, No Mercy just plods along in a predictable fashion & while I was at there watching it I lost interest & think much of it just went over my head as it failed to captivate or draw me in. The acting is alright, Gere doesn't seem suited for an action hero role while Basinger actually looks quite old in this. The underused Jeroen Krabbé has nothing to do as the bad guy.No Mercy (a generic title that has no meaning or connection to the film) is a plodding & very forgettable 80's cop thriller that quite rightly has been forgotten over the years while other cop thrillers of the time have gone on to become classics. Bland, predictable & lacking in action, I'm just glad I saw it on telly for free. "},{"Title":"Solid no-brainer","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" No Mercy is one of those familiar revenge thrillers that offers no novelty whatsoever and is for the most part unoriginal but that doesn't mean it doesn't entertain.Gere, a Chicago cop, goes to New Orleans to avenge the death of his partner. Basinger plays Gere's link to the crimelord and sparks fly between the two.As said before, there's nothing original here, however there are some entertaining action sequences, solid acting from Gere and Basinger (who, by the way looks incredibly HOT), nice New Orleans scenery and a refreshing unsympathetic cruelty associated with Gere's character. He's simply not very likable and therefore a little bit more memorable.No Mercy is a solid no-brainer but nothing all that special. "},{"Title":"i don't see any heart stoppers in here...","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Maverick Chicago cop Eddie Jillette poses as a hit man to meet with someone in from New Orleans looking to have a job done. The result is that both the guy and Jillette's partner wind up very dead, while a stunning blonde in on the setup disappears. He heads south to settle the score and soon finds himself being hunted, with the girl in tow and the local police anything but happy....Another attempt at mid Eighties film noir, this is average from the very start. It's a typical cop movie to begin with, there is always a stakeout to begin with, Gere as always is the main cop, seems pretty frustrated throughout the film, maybe because his wife left him, and then there is the inclusion of Basinger, purely eye candy here and nothing else.It's not very interesting, and the story never really gets exciting enough for you to care about the stereo typical bad guys, or the cop 'on the edge'.Halfway through the film, The two stars begin to get feelings for each other, but then, Jerome Krabbe steps in to the fray with his slick hair and huge coat, looking like an angry turtle with a flick knife.The last fifteen minutes include a little bit of gun play, but by this time, the audience is already lethargic thanks to Geres over-smouldering and Basingers pre-batman screams.And to think that six years later Gere and Basinger thought they had enough chemistry to garner another hit. Final Analysis.Ironic title. "},{"Title":"5 because...","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I gave it a five because its cooler than Relative Strangers but not as funny. its better than moon 44 and extraordinary gentlemen. this movie was more like internal affairs. No Mercy is similar to Rambo 2&3 with the badly acted foreign phrases. No Mercy is not bad. the dialog keeps the plot moving and the character development gaining acceptance with the audience. Which is more than I can say for death sentence. extraordinary gentlemen also has interesting characters and dialog. lord of the rings 1 also had these attributes and was more boring. than no mercy by far. No Mercy did a good job of exploring ca jun culture. the antagonist was complex and antagonistic. he is one of the most interesting characters. "},{"Title":"Blistering revenge and fire hot love in New Orleans.","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a passionate drama that keeps heating up right to the interesting, but over blown finale. A rouge Chicago cop(Richard Gere)travels to 'The Big Easy' and becomes a hit man in order to avenge the murder of his partner. This plot is nothing new, but the dynamic Gere pretty much takes control of the movie. And in scenes with Kim Basinger, the no nonsense detective and the New Orleans vixen about set the screen ablaze. The big showdown in the hotel is a bit contrived, but lets you know justice prevails.Gere and Basinger are outstanding together. Just the eye contact can  speed up your breathing. George Dzundza plays a cautious police captain. Ray Sharkey has a small role as does Gary Basaraba. Jeroen Krabbe is one fearsome villain that deserves his demise. Love, hate, passion, violence and revenge leaves no room for mercy. "},{"Title":"no real excitement either (4.5/10)","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i wanted to like this movie,but i just couldn't.it'a a formulaic crime dram,but that isn't the problem.the problem is,it's slow and unexciting for the most part.it has a few good moments,but those are few and far between.i felt like i was waiting for ever for something to happen.Richard Gere stars with Kim Basinger.Geer was decent,but not fantastic,and i was not at all impressed with Basinger in this particular movie.there's a also a romance angle that i didn't find convincing or interesting.i won't say who the characters involved are,but i felt zero chemistry between the actors,which is sorta important for any romance aspect.i also thought some of the dialogue was a bit silly.overall,i was fairly bored with this movie.it's not terrible,but not very good either.my vote for No Mercy is a 4.5/10 "},{"Title":"the usual pap Basinger and Gere  would be in","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Look it is not that this movie is bad, it's just not very good. The usual hollywood mix of beautiful blonde girl(prostitute of course), vigilante cop, lots of car chases and several references to Basinger's breasts.Okay if you like that sort of thing, but even this has been done better elsewhere.Not recommended unless it's late night when there is nothing else on.  "}{"Title":"19th century Cajuns transported to 1980s cliched drama","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, I was born and raised in Louisiana so I rolled my eyes through most of this travesty.  Like other movies, New Orleans seems to be stuck in a time long ago.  It contains most of the stereotypes people have of LA, which are exactly that, stereotypes - dirty people, illiteracy, inaudible gibberish, corruption (OK, well corruption is still there for the most part).  Therefore the film has quite a few inaccuracies that are hard for someone with my background to watch.  The only positive is the accents were better than what I remember from the The Big Easy.  1/10 "},{"Title":"Steer well clear of this hackneyed twaddle.","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I would have no mercy on those who perpetrated this ludicrous and totally unrewarding twaddle, which caused me to waste almost two hours I could have far more valuably spent doing almost anything else. I must however show not only mercy but the highest respect for the magnificent efforts made by both Kim Basinger and Richard Gere to wring every drop they could out of the terrible script with which they were faced. In particular I very much respect their long ordeal handcuffed together in the Louisiana swamps (in a poor imitation of Alfred Hitchcock's 39 steps - he at least knew how to create a movie with real tension). This must have quickly led to very bruised wrists, which would have made the film extremely painful for them to make. Solely on the strength of their performances, I will rate the film at 2/10. In all other respects this is a perfect example of one of the types of film from which I normally try to steer well clear.  "}]