[{"Title":"**** (Out of four)","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"57 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Jeff Daniels has been the type of actor whose films are always shown on The Late Late Movie.  His career has been built as playing the normal guy in increasingly odder movies.  He's taken on the B-movie genre (Arachnophobia), trippy cult sci-fi (Disaster in Time), nostalgia-fueled Woody Allen comedies (The Purple Rose of Cairo), and even the occasional abominable romance (Love Stinks, The Butcher's Wife).  And then there's Something Wild, a film which defies any possible classification.  It's a love story, a road movie, a thriller, a comedy of errors, an 80's movie and most of all, it's a Jonathan Demme movie.Made in 1986, the film has a logical kind of pre-thinking which is both subtle and amazing.  Daniels plays Charlie Driggs, an uptight New York City businessman whose life goes into overdrive when he meets Lulu (Melanie Griffith), a wacky free spirit with a pair of handcuffs, a bottle of Scotch and a sexuality which seems to be inspired not by the Madonna-esque charades of the time but on past screen legends as Louise Brooks and Mae West. After meeting in a corner restaurant where it seems all of the customers have their own interesting stories to tell, Demme and screenwriter E. Max Frye focus on these two people and the various destinies their meeting awaits, the least of which involves Lulu's ex-husband (Ray Liotta), fresh out of prison and demanding an explanation for Lulu's fading love for him.Of course I'm making this film seem like another one of those standard Hollywood claptraps.  Yet it's not.  Together with regular cinematographer Tak Fujimoto, Demme plunges us into a world which seems at first like a homespun portrait of Americana, complete with minor characters who seem to have life beyond the screen (the Motel Philosopher; John Waters' crooked car salesman; Charlie's protege and his very pregnant, very introverted wife; Lulu's unexpectedly wise mother).  Later, however, the film uses its keen sense of characterization to subtly show the effects of the various kindnesses of strangers (the gas-station attendant, the little girl outside the church, a naive teen named Tracy).  All of this is done in a style that is both unique and mesmerizing, as Demme keeps shifting the gears of his story so the audience doesn't know what will happen next.And then there's the Liotta character.  This is one of the great supporting performances of contemporary cinema, as Liotta's presence lets another dimension of atmosphere pervade its way through this already quirky film,lifting it beyond the ranks into greatness.  Displaying a level of intelligence which is both dangerous and striking, Liotta conjures up a performance which he would later reprise in Jonathan Kaplan's inferior Unlawful Entry, a film which, unfortunately, did considerably better at the box office than this one.  Nevertheless, Liotta proves exactly what Scorsese saw in him when he was casting Goodfellas his smarmy underhandedness and sneaky intrusions would prove similar to those he would display playing Henry Hill in that Mafia masterpiece.Another one of Something Wild's many strengths is its soundtrack.  The film contains many of what I have described as 30-second rock interludes, but in this case, it's done with so much style and cinematic know-how that it does not take away from the story.  Instead, Demme uses the stereotype that many of his MTV-obsessed colleagues employed and turns it on its head. Instead of using music for music's sake, Demme uses an eclectic mix of reggae (Sister Carol, Jimmy Cliff, UB40), oldies (many performed by the Feelies during the reunion sequence), and Laurie Anderson and John Cale's solo guitar riff and blends the sound to the images so it looks as if the film is being told by a pseudo-Greek chorus of African-American subculture which stands apart from this story of libidos and materialism run awry.This film is shown on Comedy Central many, many times.  However, it has been severely edited due to commercial restraints and is also shown during the wrong time of day.  This is a midnight movie, a film which is meant to be discovered while flipping the dials on your television set during restless bouts of insomnia. Like Blade Runner and The Rocky Horror Picture Show, this cult movie feeds upon a nocturnal atmosphere and is as a result all the more effective.  I haven't even mentioned Griffith's performance, which is her best, even better than Working Girl.  Her squeaky voice and demeanor hints at oceans of emotion behind this problematic woman, and you find yourself caring for this mismatched couple even as Liotta terrorizes the screen.  Friends? Liotta asks Daniels, manipulating his thoughts so easily that Daniels hardly knows what to say or what to do.  The audience sits spellbound, experiencing the same degree of uncertainty over this eccentrically exquisite movie.  "},{"Title":"Something special","Date":"21 November 1999","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Jeff Daniels has never been better, Ray Liotta is wonderfully sexy and menacing, and even Melanie Griffith (whom I normally dislike) works well here. One of my favorite Demme movies, this one features all kinds of interesting little character bits (a Demme trademark), and a cool little detail that I only noticed upon my 3rd or 4th viewing at the high school reunion, after Charlie and Audrey finish their sweet little dance, the lights flicker and black out for a moment, signaling the end of the first, lighter half of the film. Ray Liotta appears on screen seconds later, bringing with him the all the violence and danger of the second half.A very simple but elegant touch. Check this one out, it's a really good movie. Great soundtrack too! 8/10. "},{"Title":"A real gem from the 1980s.","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Sometimes you have to search high and low, but you really can find some interesting films made in the late 1980s. Though Jonathan Demme's film is not perfect, it still brilliantly outshines most of the crud made back then. Something Wild is the study of two souls who seem to come from different worlds going on a crazy road trip full of sex, violence, and even a high school reunion.It all begins inside a tiny diner in New York City when openly free-spirited Audrey (Melanie Griffith) notices yuppie Charlie (Jeff Daniels) sneak out on paying his bill. She confronts him outside, and the two of them end up jumping in her car and taking off on a sunny Friday afternoon. At first it would seem that this trip across the state line will merely end in a sexual tryst in a cheap motel, but little does Charlie know, Audrey has all sorts of plans for him that weekend. After some serious hanky-panky, Audrey takes Charlie back to her home town, introduces him to her mother as her husband, and then takes him to her high school reunion. In a development a little bit contrived for this critic's liking, one of Charlie's co-workers also happens to be attending this reunion. This could potentially destroy the facade of the family man on a wild weekend that Charlie is trying to perpetrate. (at this point we learn his wife left him quite a while ago) Further complicating matters is the arrival of Audrey's psychotic ex-husband, played with fearsome intensity by Ray Liotta. From that point on, this film which has largely gone for laughs, becomes rather intense and often violent.This film scores major points by absolutely keeping the audience guessing. At least until the third act when the film can likely conclude in no other way than it does. The film avoids making Charlie out to be a totally predictable sap who is just along for a wild ride with a crazy woman. Charlie has his own secrets, and a whole hidden side of his own that comes out when it has to. Demme places some marginally famous people in some truly odd cameos, and spends a little bit more time with peripheral characters than some people would. It gives the film a very human kind of feeling as we get to know at least a little something about even someone working as a waitress or at a motel. The film maybe meanders a bit here and there, but that is understandable since so much of it plays out like a road trip. The actors are exceptional, and the film is full of color and energy. Highly recommended. 9 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"an above-average rom-com script crossbred with juicy pulp fiction, great stuff","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Why can't more romantic comedies be like this? This question came to me while watching Something Wild, a little sleeper from the mid 80s from Jonathan Demme about a seemingly typical 80s NY businessman, Charlie (Jeff Daniels) who gets whisked away by a 'free-spirit' Lulu (Melanie Griffith). Well, probably because most people who watch the very typical romantic comedies probably don't watch it for the same reasons that those who love Something Wild do. There's maybe something to keep going through the dirge of crap that are among the films of decades and decades of romantic comedies, but it's finding one of the nuggets that counts (Love Actually, from 2003, is another one for example). And, perhaps, there might be a darker sensibility, or more thought put into it, in enjoying Something Wild.It's a lot like Id-gone-Wild, in a sense. In the world of Something Wild, we're brought along with characters on a situation that would seem surreal on a Bunuel level (i.e. bourgeois brought along into the realm of sin and desire by some free-will temptress of the 'lower depths'), but there's a reality to it, a kind of down-to-earth level about the characters- and, more importantly for this, the actors playing them- and it elevates it past being either too strange or just too quirky. It's just about right, which is tough to dol you feel like cringing as Lulu calls up Charlie's boss while teasing him incredibly in the midst of kinky sex, but it's also so funny in how it all comes together that you just don't care, at least, enough, that it's anarchic.So while it's enjoyable, at least on first sight, as a sort of freewheeling existentialist romp, like a French sex comedy clipped over on the 80s 'greed-is-good' motto, it has dark undertones that soon get darker and darker, thanks to Ray Liotta's Ray, who is Lulu/Audrey's real husband. At this point we feel like we're suddenly plopped into a pulp fiction piece, with the ex-con bad-ass going to town against the would-be rebel and his girl gone awry. But at the same time, for what Demme and his wonderful screenwriter have, it all works. What helps exponentially (if that's the word) is that Demme doesn't stray either into anything not honest within the boundaries of this situation. It might seem like a risk people wouldn't take in real life, or that the violence is pumped up to, again, pulp fiction territory, but in the logic of the piece- of the tricky deceit and the push-and-pull of the triangle of Charlie/Audrey/Ray- it's just awesomely achieved.Again, the performances are a big asset to the film's suceess. Daniels matches very well that line between playing it innocent and the straight-shooter, the guy we're supposed to identify with as stuck middle-class citizens with families and green lawns, and as a rebel who just has to let some free will into his system now and again. Griffith is in one of her very best, not acting too precocious or annoying, and conveying in the little bits of 'regular' Audrey (i.e. the scene at her mother's) that there's more than meets the eye. And Liotta is so great that it's probably no wonder that he (maybe unfortunately) got typecast as a psycho. There's actually complexity that Liotta gets to, and in a way doesn't make Ray totally unlikeable; he is the villain, of course, but there's a charm that is like the ID unraveled completely as a guy who shoots guns, robs stores, and hits on girls whenever he can. All three make up such a terrific combo here.It's crazy, it's awkward, it's a rip-roaring time, and it's even got heart too. For those who are tired of spoon-fed tripe by the studios, it's an excellent escape into one of the most unconventional (but most pleasantly genre-tastic) of the past 25 years "},{"Title":"One mood change has been overlooked...","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I truly love this movie when I need to totally vanish from real life for a couple of hours. I wholeheartedly agree with the comments about how it goes from fun to serious almost seamlessly, but one part has been overlooked. The visit to Audrey's mother, Peaches, is almost abrupt in its quietude (Don't call me Lulu, call me Audrey changes everything), and it makes you wonder how Audrey became as free-spirited as she is. Peaches is no dummy, either... she reads right through Charlie with an air of a woman resigned to never really knowing her daughter. This little visit is the bridge between the fun and scary, the surreal and frighteningly real, and asks more questions than it answers... which works perfectly. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Cult-Movies of the 80's","Date":"17 July 2010","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" In New York, the yuppie newly promoted Vice President Charles Driggs (Jeff Daniels) meets the sexy and free-spirited Lulu (Melanie Griffith) after cheating a restaurant for fun. Lulu offers a ride for him in her convertible but she abducts Charles and they go to a motel in New Jersey, where they spend the night together. On the next morning, she heads to her hometown in Pennsylvania to spend the weekend with Charlie. When they arrive in her mother's home, she discloses her real name &#x96; Audrey Hankel &#x96; to him and she tells her mother that Charlie is her husband. In the night, they go to her high-school reunion posing as husband and wife. But Audrey's ex-husband Ray Sinclair (Ray Liotta) that has just left prison on probation meets her in the party. Audrey does not tell Charlie who Ray is and Charlie accepts Ray's invitation to drink some beer with him and his date Irene (Margaret Colin). After a while, Ray becomes violent, hits Charlie and kidnaps Audrey. But Charlie does not intend to give up on her. Something Wild is one of my favorite films and one of the best cult- movies of the 80's. I have just watched this film at least for the sixth time and I still love it. The sweet and gorgeous Melanie Griffith has one of the best performances of her career in the role of a young woman detached in a moment from the social conventions and extremely conservative when she meets her mother. Lulu is a reference to Louise Brooks' character in Pandora's Box. Jeff Daniels is also excellent and very funny in the role of a naive and silly executive that finds that is better off feel like a live dog than a dead lion. Ray Liotta is also fantastic in the role of a cynical scum. The screenplay divides the story in two parts and fight in Charlie's house is impressively realistic. Last but not the least, the soundtrack is fantastic. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Totalmente Selvagem (Totally Wild)Note On 18 August 2014 I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"A true type of roller-coaster movie from beginning to end.","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie really keeps you going without knowing what's coming around the corner. Jeff Daniels and Melanie Griffith were terrific together and Ray Liotta added a great dark side to the comedy of Daniels and Griffith. What looked like a strange love story turned into the strangest ending which kept my interest right to the end. Great movie which showed Daniels and Griffith are good actors. Have seen this movie at least 15 times and still love it!!!! "},{"Title":"Truly a Wild Entertainment","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Not even remotely corny like one would expect of a 1980s romantic comedy, this fierce, libidinous entertainment stars Jeff Daniels as Charlie, an externally button-down banker whose mojo is readily fluttered by audacity in women, and Melanie Griffith as Lulu, an alcoholic sex machine with an amply fertile mind. Daniels plays some of the same notes here that he used in Terms of Endearment, where he was the firm, competent, straitlaced husband and father who liked to have relations with perky coeds. He looks like he was born to wear a suit and a tie, but he has that insubordinate glint in the right light. Griffith's performance is founded not so much on sexual excitement as on nerve She is able to persuade us, and Daniels, that she is likely to do almost anything, particularly if she thinks it might shock him.Even while they're standing on the sidewalk in front of that restaurant and she's making like she's charging him with theft, there's a spark between them. The casting is critical in a movie like this. There has to be some kind of brutish cohesion between the man and the woman or it doesn't make any difference how sharp the dialogue is. Once they've made their connection, Daniels freely goes along for the ride. After awhile she even takes his handcuffs off, although he sort of liked the idea of having lunch in a restaurant with the cuffs dangling from one of his wrists.They drive down the East Coast from New York to Tallahasee, while she steals money from cash registers and he capsizes into the conscious daydream of the sensually exhausted. At Griffith's high school reunion, Daniels runs into the last person he wants to see, the accountant from his office. And Griffith runs into the last person she wants to see, her husband, Ray Liotta. I will stop here. The uncertainty of the tension must not be ruined.If Demme and screenwriter E. Max Frye had developed this movie as a madcap comedy, it most likely wouldn't have worked as well. Their feat is to think their characters through before the very first scene. They know all about Charlie and Lulu, and so what happens after the confrontation outside that restaurant is virtually inescapable, cnsidering who they are and how they look at each other. This is one of those few movies where the story acts shocked by what the characters do, and not the other way around. "},{"Title":"Two Movies In One","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"24 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" It's almost two films in one a lighthearted sex fantasy ride for the first 50 minutes and then (when Ray Liotta appears) a suspenseful, violent thriller.It's a strange movie, but certainly entertaining. However, I found that the more I watched this film, the more I didn't like it. It kept dropping ratings, from a 9 to a 7.6 to a 6. I guess I should have quit while I was ahead.What annoyed me was Jeff Daniels and his role. What a irritating idiot! The only redeeming quality for watching him is to show how stupid we men act and have our lives ruined by the lure of sex from some young, pretty woman. Daniels constantly wears this stupid jerky smile on his face for that first hour unless Liotta wipes it off him. Few people in the '80s and '90s could play psychotics was well as Liotta and few people in that same period could look and sound like such a sexy bimbo as Melanie Griffith, so both of them are effective in their roles. The only guy that is totally out of his element is Daniels, playing this huge boob (speaking of Griffith) who winds up reaping what he sows. Yes, it still was an Interesting movie, but two viewings are enough. "},{"Title":"Unique, enjoyable black comedy from Johnathan Demme","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" It's easy to take actors like Ray Liotta and Jeff Daniels for granted with the benefit of hindsight. Both of them have had ups and (horrible) downs, crossing genres seamlessly or inexplicably. It can also be argued that neither one of them has been more gratifying, more liberated, more, well, wild than in their breakthrough roles in Johnathan Demme's road movie. With the help of Melanie Griffith's femme fatale they make a very interesting movie about finding your wild side, but also finding out about the nasty underbelly lurking beneath society's pickett fences.After being accused of ripping off a diner, a yuppie accountant named Charles sets off on a wild road trip with the free-spirited Lulu. Along the way she manages to bring out something special in Charlie, accusing him of being a closet rebel. They decide to get themselves in various troublesome situations, like running out on roof-splittingly expensive restaurants. They soon run into trouble, however, when a former love of Lulu's (or Audrey's), Ray, turns up at her high school reunion, after what appears to be done time in a jail.Demme's film switches from screwball situation comedy to black farce and then to an uncomfortable menace. At times we're not really sure what this woman wants with Charles, whether she is after money, scheming, or indeed really has fallen for our floppy-haired protagonist. Daniels injects his hapless hero with all the dopey charm and middle-class wit one could ever hope to see in an 80s suit-wearing yuppie. He wants to eschew his suburban divorce style for a rebellious wild-at-heart rebel, and insists upon doing it with the impulsive, slightly reckless, but utterly alluring Lulu. The problem is, when he discovers his wild side, he has to deal with the ensuing problems He's just been made Vice-President at his firm - What would his work mates think? How does he deal with the psychotic ex-con boyfriend? Does he really know what this woman wants? He appears, for most of the movie, to be a sap, who could fall for more than he could handle. But coincidentally, he's a pretty good liar, so maybe he's no better than the rest of them.But even if the underlying philosophy doesn't hit you, then the comedic set-pieces definitely should. One particular scene involving handcuffs, suspenders, a dinky motel and a a phone call to his work office particularly sticks in the mind. It's not often you get movies like this. Movies that share a good balance between intelligence and farce. How can you go wrong? "}{"Title":"Something...","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" After seeing this movie on my VCR after it came out, I'm not surprised this film failed to find its movie-going audience. It's simply a very difficult move to classify, which is why I liked it so much, and why I applaud what Demme did in this film. It starts out as a screwball comedy, with very hip and funny lines. But once the Ray Liotta character is introduced, it becomes very dark, chilling, and scary. How many films have EVER been successfully made like this? Not very many. I always found Heathers to be somewhat similar to Something Wild in this regard, but Heathers is not as good as this one.The characters in Something Wild are extremely well-written, especially Jeff Daniels, who likes to call people by the name on their name tags. Melanie Griffith is both sexy and hilarious, and Ray Liotta is scary! All in all, if you haven't seen this movie, it's worth watching although it is also a shock to the system. "},{"Title":"Stands the Test of Time!","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Charles Driggs is a decent citizen, living his life and abiding by the law like proper people do. That is, until he meets the exciting and dangerous Lulu in a café who leaves him speechless with her wild ways, taking him on the ride that will change his life.This film is an unappreciated and forgotten gem from the 80's which manages to stand the test of time. I showed it to my teenage son (last time I saw it myself was in the early 90's) and yet again it managed to conjure all of the same reactions of delight and horror that it did during the previous times I saw it. The IMDb rating is surprisingly low, but the only reason I can think of why that is, is because the film has a few spots which get a little slow paced. But if you can forgive those, you're in for a treat. "},{"Title":"Underrated, quirky, rich, disturbing comedy/drama","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  <SOME SPOILERS>Something Wild is, in my view, Jonathan Demme's best film.  It got mixed reviews, mostly due to the fact that critics didn't appreciate its mix of comedy and drama and the abrupt mood shift, midway through the film, from a light tone to a very dark one.  In fact, this shift was entirely intentional and essential to the conception of the film.In the first half, Lulu/Audrey (Melanie Griffith in what may be her best performance ever) introduces nice-guy yuppie Charlie (Jeff Daniels, also in one of his best roles) to the thrills of forbidden adventure, from hilariously kinky sex in a roadside motel to running out on a restaurant tab and stealing from a cash register.  This life seems exciting and thrilling. In the second half, with the appearance of her ex-husband Ray, who has just gotten out of jail (Ray Liotta, much better here than in the psycho-cop role in the mediocre Unlawful Entry), we see the dark and violent side of life on the wrong side of social conventions.One interesting thing about this movie, easy to miss when you see it for the first time, is that many of the comical episodes from the first half are paralleled by mirror-image episodes in the second half, only in a dark and dramatic key.  For instance, the abduction of Charlie by Lulu/Audrey has a parallel in the very real kidnapping of Audrey by Ray in the second half. Lulu's theft of cash from the liquor store, treated as an amusing prank, is parallelled by Ray's violent robbery of a store in the second half.  There are other examples of this.All in all, a brilliant work.  Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Not even Melanie Griffith can destroy this one!!!","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie, fun plot, Jeff Daniels, Ray Liotta, and a very cool 80's soundtrack.  The only thing that somewhat takes away from this film is Melanie Griffith's typical lousy performance, but its still a good film.  Jeff Daniels is great as usual as the nervous and straight laced businessman who falls prey to a woman's vicous game.  This was the movie that got Liotta started, and I can see why, he gave a great performance as Griffith's maniac husband.  This movie is nothing too special, but it'll give you a fun rental.  7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Eat the Peach.","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Jeff Daniels is a nice thirtyish young man stuck in a job in finance in New York. He has responsibilities, ambition, but he's bored with office intrigues and his life in general. On an impulse, having lunch alone, he skips out on the check, just to see what it feels like. Outside, a strangely dressed, garishly made-up Melanie Griffith, who calls herself Lulu, catches up with him, threatens to expose his crime, and more or less kidnaps him.They drive through New Jersey to Pennsylvania, with Lulu flirting, lying, and thieving at every step. Her behavior is confident and outrageous. She handcuffs him to the bed and forces him to lie to his boss over the phone while she ministers to him. She asks him into the bathroom while she's peeing. Daniels begins to enjoy his release a little and they speed along and booze it up on the pastoral highways. When they reach her home town, she introduces him to her mother as her husband. Her mother, played with a great deal of rural charm by Dana Preu, sees through the ruse immediately and flows along with Lulu's fantasy. She also plays a clumsy but sweet minuet by Bach on the living room harpsichord. It gets worse at Lulu's high school reunion. By this time Lulu has changed her grooming and looks like a square young lady, and Daniels is now shed his Wall Street gear and is decked out in a loud suit and canary yellow tie. There, Daniels runs into someone who works down the hall from him at the office. Gulping with fear, stuttering, Daniels begins to introduce Lulu with some semblance of respectability, but Lulu interrupts -- I'm his mistress. The co-worker is properly awed because Lulu is nobody's idea of a dog. Lulu goes on, We're going to get married because of the baby. The co-worker You're going to have his child? Lulu chuckles I THINK it's his. She delivers all her lines in a smoothly casual fashion.It's all been fun and games so far, with Daniels being Apollonian and Lulu being Dionysian, as Nietzsche might have described them. The moderate, rational, formal Daniels being corrupted -- or liberated -- by the ecstatic, drunken, spirited Lulu. By the time of the high school prom, though, they have become something of a blend. So it turns out to be what we always suspected. Daniels was a latent Dionysian -- but better latent than never. (Sorry.) Things turn dark when they run into Lulu's old boyfriend, Ray Liotta, at his most seductively evil.The comedy never really stops as Liotta takes them on a crime spree but we're now in serious territory because Liotta is like a zit about to pop with rage. He punctures things with his sharp, metal-tipped boots.It's worth seeing, if only because it's not simply stupid when it's measured against most of the garbage filling today's movie screens. There's a real sense of spiritedness as Daniels and Lulu zip along in their beat-up convertible, guzzling recklessly out of the bottle, and playing reggae on the radio, with Lulu smiling and rhythmically swaying back and forth to the beats, even while she sits behind the wheel. It's all a fantasy, of course, and there is no heavy message involved, unless it's lighten up a little and try to avoid old boyfriends. "},{"Title":"She drives me crazy, ooh ooh.......","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Stiff and strait banker Charles Driggs (Jeff Daniels) meets sexy wild gal Audrey Hankel (Melanie Griffith) and quickly falls under her spell. Initially, and weakly protesting, he soon finds that her lifestyle adds the spark to his otherwise dull existence. However, things get troublesome when her violent ex-convict husband (Ray Liotta) shows up and announces that if he can't have her? Nobody can!Something of a cult hit these days, Something Wild (directed by Jonathan Silence Of The Lambs Demme) has that nice trick of being able to pull us in early for the comedy, and then take us down a darker, but still comical, road. Daniels is always an affable and easy to watch actor, and nothing changes here, but it's Griffith and an early Liotta turn that steals the show. Griffith is a ball of sexuality, and she looks fabulous into the bargain. Her Audrey (AKA Lulu) has a few layers that need to be peeled by Griffith and she does it with style. Liotta serves notice of what was to come four years down the line when a certain Mr Scorsese came calling. Menacing yet fun into the bargain, it's very much the perfect Liotta role. Demme paints an interesting picture as he blends yuppiedom with rebellious excess, the result being a quirky little number that, save for an inevitability that comes with the finale, is a rewarding, time fulfilling experience. Margaret Colin, Tracey Walter, Su Tissue and Charles Napier join the principals in the cast, while the zippy 80s soundtrack contains cuts from some of the decades luminaries like New Order, Fine Young Cannibals & UB40. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Jonathan Demme Loves American Music","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" You can take the handcuffs off your free now-Melanie Griffith Maybe I don't want to be free.-Jeff Daniels I may be mistaken, because I haven't seen all of his films, or even most of them, but it feels like Jonathan Demme put off trying to have this much fun in a movie again until the party sequences in Rachel Getting Married. A light rom-com beginning where uptight yuppie Jeff Daniels meets punky free-spirit Melanie Griffitih, who does incredibly cliché things like throwing his pager out of the window, so he can stop living by the man's rules. The crazy wish-fulfilment scenario of the impish, erotic, impulsive woman only increases, with stealing, skipping out on checks, binge drinking, and lots of sex (left mostly off camera), all in the first few hours of meeting. Halfway through Ray Liotta enters and the movie switched into a kind of brutal thriller, and still works almost flawlessly. Instead of just making a movie that happens to be set in the 80's Demme fully embraces the period, music, dress, and small sub cultures at the peripheral, punks, bikers, early hip hop, reggae, indie rock bands, etc, and films them with a sincere fascination and not just an interest in trendy exploitation. He crafts a great soundtrack here and puts it to perfect use especially in the Reunion sequence when The Feelies do a bunch of fantastic cover songs. Cameos from John Waters and Sussie Tissue of Suburban Lawns were disappointingly brief, but that's not really a complaint. The unlikely scenario develops and changes, and we lean so much about the characters as the film goes on when it does become full of suspense it's easy to get dragged into their predicament even if you've seen it in a thousand other 80's movies. John Cale of The Velvet Underground is responsible for the score, and David Byrne (of the Talking Heads) does the opening song, both of which seem perfect matches for the material here. Demme's love of music is what makes all of his best films shine. I couldn't imagine Silence Of The Lambs without Buffalo Bill's dance in front of his mirror. It's this understanding of how to appropriate pop music and perhaps pop culture in general into cinematic terms which Something Wild's more than it's romantic odd couple comedy, road movie, and relationship drama origins would suggest. Armond White used the phrase multicultural heaven to describe Rachel Getting Married, and through Beloved, Philedalphia, and his various documentaries we see Demme deal with varying levels of success with cultural clashes and struggles, but in this early film like later in RGM he gives into his more Utopian impulses, and creates a diverse patchwork looking America. Something Wild appears on screen as America would sound from listening to it's catchiest songs (the one's you secretly howl in the shower or when no one is around). For the most part it is reminiscent of Ferris Bueller's Day Off in it's incredible unlikeliness, but more natural, sympathetic, and less juvenile, or like a more emotional less paranoid variation on Martin Scorcesse's After Hours. All of the characters down to the most minor are sympathetic from Melanie Griffith's mild American prototype Mom who is not ignorant of her daughter's wildness but not judgemental either. Similarly Ray Liotta's sociopathtic husband is not a cardboard barbarian, but the kind of guy you could spend a few hours with, always a little uneasy as to whether they are gonna put an arm around your shoulder or a flick a cigarette into your face. Before Liotta appears on screen the camera fades to black for a second, cuing the film's sea change in tone, which I didn't notice at first, but is a clever device. In many ways this is a standard American romantic comedy from it's time, but in the ways that are most important it's fun, unique and endearing. As the Ebert says, The accomplishment of Demme and the writer, E. Max Frye, is to think their characters through before the very first scene. They know all about Charlie and Lulu, and so what happens after the meeting outside that restaurant is almost inevitable, given who they are and how they look at each other. This is one of those rare movies where the plot seems surprised at what the characters do. Lots of movies are entertaining, and a good few are intelligent and emotional griping, but this movie just made me happy, from start to finish, which is even rarer. A friend of mine once told me I seemed like The Violent Femmes type, since we were friends I accepted her slight insult and implication of twee dorkishness. While watching the Something Wild, especially during the Feelies performance, I was flashing to the Violent Femmes music video for American Music, and remembering how charming and delightful it was. Some may find this sensibility annoying or a ploy, to distract from more serious issues or important themes. Such an inability to accept well developed style is not inarguable, I have been a curmudgeon for content over style many times myself. But so much of American popular music is slight, sexual, humorous, and waifash, that I feel it's a significant aspect of our culture worth enjoying on it's own terms. It's better to be a live dog, than a dead lion-Daniels. There is nothing wrong with enjoying popcorn-art from time to time. Every honest person enjoys some candy. It's just that one can't live on candy alone. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie. Every actor is perfect, and every scene is perfect.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie has one memorable scene after another, all played by actors as amusing as those from the 1930's. Ray Liotta is a wonder, although he's almost TOO intelligent to be the louse that he is in the movie. The final scene of the movie kept me mesmerized - I've never seen anything like it, and I don't usually like violence. Here I loved it. Jeff Daniels is marvelously expressive. A person can enjoy the movie just watching his face. This movie is one of my five or six favorites of all time. "},{"Title":"First a comedy - then suddenly a thriller.","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Something not-so-great. Silence of the Lambs remains Demme's only good film, and I'm of course including all the overrated, left-wing exercises in big-screen indulgence some of which I haven't seen - and never will.This is a light comedy that takes a thriller turn somewhere half-way. The first half is a little hard to sit through; it's neither funny nor particularly interesting. Daniels plays an over-the-top dumb-as-dirt naive moron who is so gullible and trusting that it defies belief. His animated acting is often annoying, and barely funny. He actually lies to Griffith at the outset and tells her that he is married, with children, when in fact he is divorced! In all the history of mankind and movies any man who is married and meets a woman he likes will lie - if he lies - and say that he ISN'T married. (Later on, the not-at-all credible or believable rationale behind this was revealed he wanted to protect (himself). What a load of crap...) The fact that his character makes all the wrong decisions and does all the dumb things in the movie made me actually look forward to Liotta pounding on him when he caught up with him in the former's apartment.What then happens in Daniels's apartment is the classic end-of-movie fight-to-the-death which the good guy - albeit the very dumb good guy - predictably wins. Still, at least the last half-hour has some action, something going on, and Daniels isn't given any more the opportunity to be animated. The film lacks credible characters (whether main or marginal), and the feel of it is too 80s which means the movie has a rather bland look; visually ugly. Sayles yet again makes a cameo as a policeman. The film is also perhaps a bit too heavy on the coincidences side. Griffith once again plays a soft-talking dumb-sounding bimbo, but, as usual, she is convincing because she IS a soft-talking dumb-sounding bimbo. This was an earlier film, before her lip-enlargement and breast-enlargement surgery; compare the natural breasts she exposes in this film to the ready-to-explode balloons she briefly flashes years later in Nobody's Fool.If you're interested in reading my biographies of Griffith and other Hollywood intellectuals, contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"Wild Thing!","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Something Wild is somewhat of a lost gem. It is by far and away the best thing that Griffith has ever done. She's gritty, intelligent, ironic and never plays for schlock. She was very well directed by Demme, appearing controlled and reserved in her character's journey. The veiled references to Louise Brooks and Frida Kahlo in Lulu/Audrey's character are a welcomed and an insidiously wonderful touch. She is brilliantly supported by Jeff Daniels and Ray Liotta. Something Wild also contains the best New Wave soundtrack ever attached to a film, of course assembled by Laurie Anderson and John Cale. Amazing what can happen to a soundtrack when the talent behind it is knowledgeable, pertinent and relevant. The music is integral and perfectly matched to the action.Good performances by all Melanie Griffith, with that little-girlie voice, is always an appealing actress, and Liotta is effectively funny and frightening. Jeff Daniels is perfect too he's one of these actors who never calls attention to himself, but never puts a foot wrong. Demme directs with splendid efficiency. Add lucid cinematography from Tak Fujimoto, and a great score, and you have a winner.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Something wild review","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Excellent film. I loved the chemistry between Charlie (Jeff Daniels) and Ray (Ray liotta) in the film. It really showed off the talents of Ray Liotta as the psychotic ex boyfriend of Melanie griffiths character. I think this is the film that got him noticed for being castes as Henry Hill in Martin Scorsese's 'Goodfellas' which really kind of made his career in Acting. I thought Jeff Daniels was also really good, as you should have won an award for 'Scared shitless' performance. The whole cast was very believable, and a very gripping storyline thrown in with it. Something wild is definitely a film to go and see if you haven't' it's directed by Jonathon Demme (director of Silence of the lambs) A bit of trivia here, the sequel to silence of the lambs was 'Hannibal' which also starred Ray Liotta, and this was the director of silence of the lambs which also starred Ray in his debut film. Highly recommend seeing this if you haven't' it is very underrated and you don't really hear about it these days. "},{"Title":"A solid movie with a great start","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Melanie Griffith is Lulu, a manic pixie dream girl long before such a label existed, stylish and beautiful and carefree. Like all dream girls, it takes a certain suspension of belief, but it begins as a delightful romp into a life of throwing off obligation and self-imposed structure. Griffith is great, Jeff Daniels aptly plays the annoying milquetoast with many panicky lies, where silly and sexy things soon follow. One of the wonderful parts was the blasting reggae throughout.Then everything comes crashing back to reality as soon as she washes out the black hair; the fantasy is over and the depressing reality of leftover high school insecurity sets in and the past catches up. The mood whiplash is stark and the violence is sharp and brutal, but the climax is pretty satisfying.Ultimately, I can't help disliking the movie for completely demeaning what it started with. Lulu begins as the bossy, in-control dame leading a lost puppy, then the balance shifts, and she becomes the damsel in distress to Charlie's urban warrior, who's undergone a Straw Dogs/Falling Down moment and saves the day. She never even recovers a flicker of her old personality. In the end, it's just a fantasy, and a rather ugly one.And they woefully underutilized the shooting locations. New York and a wide swath of Route 1 up and down the mid-Atlantic gave such a chance for wide shots and a slice of Americana, but instead everything is too tight and focused to get the visceral feel of being along for the ride. "},{"Title":"Deserves a much, MUCH higher rating.","Date":"7 July 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Something Wild is a pulpy-weird mess of a fantastic movie. The characters have depth, the dialog is sharp, and the music backing it all is glorious.Melanie Griffith is spot-on as a free-spirited woman who dabbles in petty-crime and men, but also successfully brings heart to the role. Jeff Daniels' physical comedy and innocence make him the perfect match, and what better estranged husband to bring into the mess than Ray Liotta. He was built for parts like this.Reminds me a bit of the directors earlier release, Married to the Mob, only much better. There's something very serious about this film that really sets it apart. The violence and the threat of violence seems very real, and the characters actions seem extremely realistic, albeit totally wacky.There are many moments that make us read further into the characters and their situations... the trip to LuLu's(Griffith) Mom's house, and the moment when Daniels flees the hotel... these scenes are great because they don't treat the viewer like a 5 yr-old. You can really gather tons of insight into these characters without all of the information being spoonfed to the audience. It's a rather 'smart' film.The other great thing here is the music. It's truly fantastic. A great soundtrack is bolstered by some awesome Reggae/ska/rock selections and some live clips from the Feelies who are playing a reunion scene. The Feelies stuff is just incredible, and will make you seek out their stuff immediately, and the film incorporates all the music seamlessly and effectively throughout the film.The is one of the best 80's sleepers. It's right there with After Hours, Miracle Mile, Body Double, Gotcha, Up the Creek and Let it Ride. A truly unique film. Risqué. Genre-bending. Sharp, witty, and thoroughly entertaining. I refuse to throw this the rom-com genre simply because the film is too good to be generalized like that.Highly recommended. 80/100You'll like this if you liked Married to the Mob(not as good), After Hours(better), Gotcha(not quite as good) or Miracle Mile(close, very close, perhaps a touch better)Having Melanie Griffith running around naked the whole movie doesn't hurt, but even on that note there's a weird realistic edge to all the sexuality in the film. It's unbelievably sexy without being dirty, cliché', or overdone.So glad I revisited this little gem, and very happy to own it.I can see how some may not care for it's seedy characters, but that's life man... definitely don't see how anyone should dismiss it or hate it for that reason. "},{"Title":"Unconventional but Liberating Melodrama","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Director Jonathan Demme's Something Wild more than lives up to its title. This frolicking, road trip melodrama about coincidences and happenstances features a slippery-fingered bohemian babe, a staid businessman, and a psychotic criminal on the lam. Charlie Driggs (Jeff Daniels of Terms of Endearment) neglects to pay his bill one day, and a complete stranger, Lulu (Melanie Griffith of Crazy in Alabama), confronts him about it outside of the restaurant. Afterward, Lulu takes the hopelessly conventional Charlie on a wild ride that concludes with her handcuffing him to a bed in a sleazy motel, tearing off his clothes, and having sex with him. Impulse prompts them to careen off with Charlie still wearing the cuffs. Eventually, they collide with Lulu's ex, a sadistic, uninhibited parolee, Ray Sinclair (Ray Liotta of Goodfellas), who epitomizes recklessness. The first half of the action depicts the lunacy of Charlie and Lulu right down to an impromptu meeting with Lulu's mother, while the second half waxes conventional with Ray and his criminal exploits. Liotta steals the show with an electrifying performance as an unhinged, gun-toting, ex-convict on parole. He is a force to be reckoned with and shows no qualms of giving into his violent urges. Ray makes a hypnotic villain and the confrontation between Daniels and he at the former's suburban residence will have you screaming for Ray's death. The thing about Something Wild is its unpredictable passion. You don't have any idea where it is going, even when it turns formulaic during its second half. Melanie Griffith has no compunctions about appearing naked in motel room scene where she straddles Daniels on a bed after she cuffs him to it. "},{"Title":"A Road Trip To The Dark Side","Date":"10 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This exhilarating comedy thriller about a straight-laced businessman who gets kidnapped, seduced and corrupted by a sexy stranger is fast-moving, offbeat and quite subversive. It's great fun to see how quickly the guy's latent rebelliousness gets liberated by being exposed to some wild, reckless and impulsive behaviour, but everything has its price and soon it becomes apparent that his pursuit of freedom is taking him ever deeper into the dark side.Charlie Driggs (Jeff Daniels) is an uptight yuppie who walks out of a New York diner without paying and out on the street, gets challenged about his actions by a young woman called Lulu (Melanie Griffith). He's relieved when he realises that she doesn't work at the diner but was simply a customer who saw what he did. He accepts her offer of a lift back to his office but she immediately sets off on a high-speed joyride, throws his pager out of the window and drinks at the wheel. She persuades him to share some booze with her en route and then drives to a cheap motel where she handcuffs Charlie to a bed and seduces him.After Charlie contacts his boss to make his excuses for not being at work, the couple continue their carefree journey and Lulu sets Charlie up to leave another restaurant without paying before taking him to visit her mother, Peaches (Dana Preu). Lulu confesses that her real name is Audrey and Charlie plays along when she says that he's her new husband. Audrey's change of name coincides with a remarkable physical transformation as she goes from being a brunette bedecked in lots of colourful jewellery to a blonde who's dressed far more conventionally.All the lying they did when they visited Peaches continues when the couple go to Audrey's high school reunion and share an invented history of their time together with some of Audrey's contemporaries. The whole mood changes dramatically, however, when Audrey's husband Ray (Ray Liotta) appears. He's a violent criminal who's recently been released from prison and is clearly not happy when he sees Audrey with Charlie. The events that follow gradually lead from a violent crime spree to numerous other unpredictable developments that becomes increasingly dangerous for everyone involved.Something Wild is an extraordinary and highly unconventional movie with a plot which follows a trajectory that no-one could reasonably predict from what happens in the opening scene. Its wonderful combination of comedy, romance and violent crime creates situations where the atmosphere changes drastically at various points and the fact that these changes take place so naturally and logically is obviously attributable to the considerable skill of director Jonathan Demme and the excellent performances from Melanie Griffith and Jeff Daniels who reflect so seamlessly the changes that their characters go through. Ray Liotta is also fantastic as Audrey's psychotic husband who's actually even scarier when he's being charming because the sheer strength of his innate rage is always so visible.This movie's refreshing originality and unpredictability combined with its humour, terrific music and marvellous characters make it highly enjoyable and truly exceptional. "},{"Title":"A power packed wild ride","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This movie is a real fun to watch.I mean I just kept on watching the movie and could not take my eyes from the screen because the characters are so funny and every time something happens which you are not expecting at that moment.The story begins with an investment guy having a breakfast at a café when he encountered a strange & unknown women and then begins there wild run.Melanie Griffith looked pretty comic in her dress up.The most intriguing thing about movie it never ceases to bring in elements of surprise and constantly moves at fast pace without loosing focus.Something wild is a perfect blend of action,romance & comedy. "},{"Title":"Attempt to be cool.....","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Newly promoted vice-president Charles Driggs meets free-spirited Lulu after cheating a restaurant for fun.Lulu offers a ride for him in her convertible but she abducts Charles and they go to a motel in New Jersey, where they spend the night together.Next morning, she heads to her hometown in Pennsylvania to spend the weekend with Charlie. When they arrive in her mother's home, she discloses her real name - Audrey Hankel - to him and she tells her mother that Charlie is her husband.They go to her high school reunion posing as husband and wife.But Audrey's ex-husband Ray Sinclair that has just been released from prison on parole meets her in the party.After a while, Ray becomes violent, he hits Charlie, and he kidnaps Audrey. But Charlie does not intend to give up on her...Having not seen this movie for over twenty years, i did not know what to expect, as I was young then, and didn't really get the connotations.While it still feels freah today and highly original, one cannot help but think that it takes a while to get going.The first act is the zany comedy, and it really hits you as much as it does Charlie, what is happening to him, and why? The second act is the romance, as soon as Griffith changes her hair, it changes her personality and the personality of the film.And then once we are introduced to Ray, the film turns dark instantly. I have never seen an entrance by a character that can change a films atmosphere in literally a second. One moment, you feel like Charlie is finally getting the upper hand in life, and then Liotta changes everything Liotta is easily the best thing about this film, as his cold glare and psychopathic tendencies really make this film something else. If somebody had left the room for twenty minutes and came, they would honestly think they were watching a different movie.Daniels and Griffith are fun, and really make the film more endearing, but it does sometimes feel mixed up and a little schizophrenic.But the film can never be called boring, because it does entertain, especially seeing and pointing out all the cameos. "},{"Title":"Something Wild (1986)","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Having not seen this for over 20 years, my memory of it was as one of those obnoxious crazy impulsive girl teaches uptight square how to loosen up movies along the lines of BRINGING UP BABY or AFTER HOURS. In the simplest terms, that's not entirely off the mark, especially for the first half hour. But eventually it throws in some surprises and reveals a little more depth in both the lead characters. Had Jeff Daniels been protesting Melanie Griffith's actions throughout the entire film, it would have been unbearably annoying. The fun part is that he pretty much goes along with it, with only some mild complaining at first. Having said that, however, it still doesn't do a lot for me. The situations are fairly interesting, but Daniels doesn't bring a lot to the table and I have an extremely low tolerance for Griffith. The soundtrack is also really overrated, although I like Laurie Anderson and Big Audio Dynamite. There's some fun to be had and I have to admit the film is a lot better than I remembered it, but I don't get that excited by it. "},{"Title":"Bad Criterion Selection","Date":"23 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" It was a pretty disappointing experience. I guess the director had no clear idea about the story he wants to tell. Female character was described in a quite sloppy way. First she is a self-confident woman who sees no problem in violating all types of norms and rules and then she becomes a woman who is so defensive about many things and almost inert. Her resoluteness and courage go away, and her strong attitude is replaced by a passive one. Meeting with Ray does not seem sufficient to me in explaining the whole transformation. I am also frustrated by Melaine Griffith's acting. I guess she fails to make either sides of her character come alive. She plays both parts in a surprisingly similar way. So much so that, one can easily see the commonalities between Lulu and Tess McGill in the Working Girl, which is another terrible movie of hers.Apart from acting (by the way, i should say that it is not only Griffith; Jeff Daniels and Ray Liotta are equally bad in this movie, too) I think there is a bigger problem about the story which in fact makes the acting to appear even worse. I am not sure if Demme's intention was to combine a romantic comedy with a short thriller in order to play with the boundaries of the genre of romantic comedy. If it was his idea, he managed to do it but the result is quite bad. I do not understand the value of cheesy romantic comedies, so I am having difficulties in understanding why it does matter to play push its boundaries. At the end of the day, this movie is a non-entertaining romantic comedy ends with happy-ending with some extra action in the middle.Final remarks on Criterion Collection. I watched this movie mainly because they published it. I usually like the movies in their collection, but this was one of the few movies that disappointed me. My disappointment was bigger probably because my expectations were higher. I will continue watching their movies, I hope I do not bump into a major failure like this any more. "},{"Title":"Not a flawless road movie but entertaining nonetheless","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A messed-up Melanie Griffith and a straight-laced Jeff Daniels meet head-on in a collision of opposites in this outrageous black comedy from Jonathan Demme. Ms Griffith gives us the performance of a career as the tragic heroine, Daniels provides the perfect foil for her whims  while Liotta is introduced to provide some psychopathic light relief--which he manages to do quite well.Not a flawless road movie; this does manage to entertain throughout. However Meg Ryan and Jeff Bridges would have been miscast in the main roles.6/10  "}{"Title":"Generally entertaining film","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" In this black comedy by director Jonathan Demme(Silence Of The Lambs, Philadelphia), Jeff Daniels plays a Long Island, New York yuppie who ends up getting picked up and taken on a joy ride by free spirit Melanie Griffith. Daniels is shocked and uncomfortable at first and just simply wants to get back home, but after a while, Griffith begins to grow on him. We later find out that both of these characters have a lot of things in their background that they have not told each other about.This is a generally entertaining film with generally good performances. My only problem here is with Melanie Griffith. She is simply not an attractive screen presence and although she tries her best, it is very difficult to see why Daniels' character ends up taking a liking to her character. I think another actress could have pulled this off better. Ray Liotta is fantastic as Griffith's escaped convict ex-husband.This film is certainly not for all tastes, but many viewers will likely enjoy the ride that this film provides. "},{"Title":"Something Wild and Fiercely Crazy **","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The very talented Jeff Daniels and Melanie Griffith star in this 1986 comedy which takes a sharp turn to drama past the middle of the film.On a lark, a brunette Griffith hijacks Daniels into her car for a weekend of mayhem. There is a visit to her mother and her high school reunion, where she passes off Daniels, (Charlie) as her husband. Trouble is that Charlie meets someone from his company there and that guy informs Griffith that Charlie's wife walked out on him as well.On the way to the reunion, Griffith knocks over a store by cleaning out the register.The film gets better when it hits dramatic heights. At the reunion, Griffith meets her ex-husband, played by Ray Liotta.Liotta eventually kicks Charlie out but the latter returns and turns the tables on the ex-con. Is this really worth all of this? Some pretty fierce fighting ensues and Liotta, the bully, gets it in the chest.A basic story of 2 losers coming together. Fun in some sequences but way too serious by the end. "},{"Title":"Different sort of quirky film, Griffith and Liotta are very good.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Jeff Daniels had not yet blossomed into the versatile actor that gave us his roles in Dumb and Dumber or Pleasantville. Here he pretty much plays Jeff Daniels, Flap in a different surrounding. He is a humdrum businessman whose wife and two kids had run off a year earlier. He meets a mysterious woman (Melanie Griffith) at lunch, she brings him to a seedy motel room, handcuffs him to a bed, then proceeds to have fun with him. He doesn't protest at all, it is more excitement he ever imagined he could have. So what if he didn't return to work after lunch??She brings him to Pennsylvania, he meets her mother, they go to her 10th high school reunion, pretending to be married. They meet who she doesn't want to, her husband (Ray Liotta), just out from serving 5 years in prison, and it soon becomes very clear that no rehabilitation came along with it. After several rumbles, thefts, etc Daniels manages to re-capture her in a diner because 3 cops are there in a booth and Liotta can't stop him.However, the bad guy traces down his address on Long Island and, with a chair through the glass, greets them again. After a struggle Liotta ends up with a knife in his chest, Daniels quits his Manhattan job as a brand new V.P., and he and Griffith make a go of it. Pure fantasy, but an enjoyable, quirky film. Griffith looked pretty good, topless, in the early motel scene. "},{"Title":"I'm guessing it hasn't aged well","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Impulsive nymphomaniac Melanie Griffith offers dull financial adviser Jeff Daniels a ride in her sports car, and then proceeds to initiate him into a thrilling underworld of sex and comic deception. Off-the-wall formulas were in at the time, and for its first 45-minutes or so this fairly representative slice of mid-1980s non-conformity suggests (with tongue in cheek) that crime and vice are legitimate cures for boredom. The fun and games begin with barely any time wasted on setting up the characters, and having thus lulled the audience into a false sense of security the film becomes suddenly every yuppie's worst nightmare, when Griffith's psychotic escaped convict husband (Ray Liotta) suddenly appears. The gradual shift in tone from humor to unease to headlong terror is terribly manipulative but highly effective, and the film actually improves as it grows more lethal. The hip, up-to-the-minute (circa 1986) soundtrack was compiled by John Cale and Laurie Anderson. "},{"Title":"Terrific, edge of the seat, non-stop rollercoaster movie.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Have enjoyed this movie over and over....Jeff Daniels give a great natural performance and Melanie Griffith is just pure TNT...... "},{"Title":"Terrible, cynical, depressing anti-moral pile of garbage","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is the kind of movie that could have ruined several careers, if garbage could ruin motion picture careers these days.Melanie Griffith took off her shirt, and in her pre-enhancement surgery days, she really should have stayed dressed.Jeff Daniels was completely wasted, but fortunately for him and for us, he has gone on to much better (NOTE ADDED in 2014 and some much worse) things since this ... this ... this ... well, heck, piece of garbage.Strangely, all of its major participants have gone on to bigger and better things, including director Jonathan Demme. His work here was also wasted but deserving of a grudging admiration. I mean, anything not worth doing is not worth doing well. But he did it well, anyway.Still, there was one bright, shining aspect Ray Liotta, who is named way down the credit list, just absolutely stole everything. Liotta was magnificently mesmerizing! Hypnotic! Enthralling.I saw this piece of garbage while it was still relatively new, in a friend's private theater. For some strange reason, my friend LOVED it. I sort of think it's because Melanie Griffith took off her shirt (and, really, honest, she shouldn't have), though he tried to claim it was other, more artistic, reasons.Anyway, I thought even then, after his first scene, that Ray Liotta would become a major star, or at least a major, highly-respected actor.Despite the garbagey aspects of the garbagey script, the sheer ugliness of the whole story, Liotta made it almost worth watching. In fact, it is worth seeing, once, just to see how far Ray Liotta has come. I mean, for one thing, his name is now usually listed at or near the top.Even then, even in a pile of garbage, Ray Liotta shone like a diamond.Just, if you do see this trash, be prepared to hold your nose. Every major character is either amoral or immoral. Terrible movie. Terrible movie idea.Added comment Too many people answer Was this comment helpful? with a no because they disagree with the expressed opinion. Maybe IMDb should ask that question instead Do you agree with these opinions? "},{"Title":"Something Wild","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" From the director of The Silence of the Lambs, Jonathan Demme, this is quite an interesting black comedy drama. Basically business-man Charles Driggs (Golden Globe nominated Jeff Daniels) has an uneventful life, and it changes when he accepts a lift to Audrey Lulu Hankel (Golden Globe nominated Melanie Griffith) to go back to his office. But instead, she takes him out of town, away from his old life, and they pose as a married couple to visit her mother and go to a high school reunion. At this reunion they meet Audrey's violent ex-husband Ray Sinclair (Golden Globe nominated Ray Liotta), and he obviously makes it clear that he wants his girl back, and Charles isn't going to stop him. I cannot remember absolutely everything that happens, but Liotta is a good villain, Griffith is quite sexy, and Daniels is quiet a good wimpy guy that gets a few beatings. Also starring Margaret Colin as Irene, John Waters as Used car guy and Austin Powers' Charles Napier as Irate chef. Good! "},{"Title":"Three main characters good, bad and ugly","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I saw this in the theater during it's initial release as it looked like it might be a fun flick and it was. Director Jonathan Demme was still relatively unknown with Melvin and Howard being his only film that had got much attention. This movie helped establish him and he of course would go on to direct Spalding Gray's Swimming to Cambodia and big blockbusters Silence of the Lambs and Philadelphia. Melanie Griffith had a lot of TV and roles and in some minor forgettable films so this movie helped establish her as a leading actress. Ray Liotta who had some roles on TV and in soaps was virtually unknown and he perfected his bad guy image that he would go on to play in his career with this movie. I loved Griffith as the reckless, dangerous and sexy goth girl Lulu who's alter ego is her actual small town girl-next-door girl with a heart. Jeff Daniels is her perfect foil as a mainstream yuppie trapped in his everyday existence but longing for an edge to his life. And he finds it in Something Wild. I've only seen this maybe once since I first saw it in the theater and it probably looks dated today, It's a small film but it's a good movie with some interesting situations. I would give it a 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Overall an entertaining movie","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Before I had seen this movie I already was pretty sure that it would be worth watching. Not only was it directed by Jonathan Demme, the same man who gave us movies like Philadelphia and The Silence of the Lambs, it also featured the almost always enjoyable Jeff Daniels, Melanie Griffith and Ray Liotta. That were more than enough reasons for me to give this movie a try and I sure didn't feel sorry about it afterward.Something Wild starts with showing us Charles Driggs, a businessman who is having lunch in a small restaurant. When he wants to pay his bill, he notices that he doesn't have his wallet with him and decides to get out without paying. But immediately after he left, a young woman comes after him, telling him that he can't leave like that. But the young woman hasn't got anything to do with the restaurant, she just had noticed Charles, liked the way he looked and decided to meet him. Her name is Lulu and she is the complete opposite of Charles. She is wild and sexy, while he is more the relaxed and calm type of guy who doesn't want to do much wrong. But when she offers him a lift back to his office and takes him out of town and on a trip instead, he doesn't complain either, even though he has a wife and kids. Posing as a married couple, Charles and Audrey (Lulu's real name) visit her mother and her high school reunion. At this reunion they meet Audrey's violent ex-husband Ray, who's just released from jail and who clearly isn't over the fact that she doesn't want to see him anymore. When Ray tells Charles that he wants Audry back, the three end up in a lot of trouble.The three main actors in this movie - Jeff Daniels, Melanie Griffith and Ray Liotta - all did a very nice job in this movie. They were very convincing in their roles and that's probably what made this movie really work, because the story certainly isn't bad, but in my opinion lacked a bit of originality from time to time and certainly had it's flaws. Still, it is entertaining enough to keep you interested for about two hours and the nice twist in the movie (when Ray appears in the movie for the first time), certainly gives it something extra. That's why I give this movie a rating of 7/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent Road Movie By Mr. Demme.","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Something Wild is an excellent film. I became a big fan of Jonathan Demme after this film and saw all his other works I could scrounge. His highlights include Married to the Mob, Melvin and Howard, and the second best concert film ever-Stop Making Sense(the first is Decline of Western Civilization!) A tight script by E. Max Frye(writer/director of Amos and Andrew) and two great leads by Melanie Griffith and Jeff Daniels. I tell people this is a good movie, because I have NEVER seen a film that starts off as a crazy comedy and falls into all out terror/thriller at the end. The blending is so well done by Demme. I cannot see another director pulling this off so well. Now the music is also good too, I own the soundtrack! Great music by unknowns like Timbuk 3, David Byrne, and Oingo Boingo(I love these guys!) and all the other stuff in between! This also has some memorable lines like It's better to be a live dog than a dead lion!....great stuff! For trivia buffs the two older women that run the used clothing stores are the mothers of D. Byrne and J. Demme.....cool eh? And directors John Waters and John Sayles pop up in funny cameos! A highly recommended 80's American Road movie that really delivers the goods! Thanx. "}{"Title":"MELANIE GRIFFITH AT HER BEST!!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  When i first saw this movie in 2003 i caught the last half hour and immediately went out and rented it the following day. I ABSOLUTELY love this film. This is the story of 2 very different people that meet in a New York deli on a sunny afternoon and soon turns into a thrilling action/drama with great twists and turns!Part road trip movie, the story of eccentric/gothic LULU*/AUDREY(*Griffiths' character when we first meet her)and staight-laced Jeff Daniels' Charlie that are complete strangers yet become fast lovers expierience 3 days of total freedom and chaos! You get so caught up in their adventures that you dont want them to end. Things go from fun to dangerous when Ray Liottas'Creepy character appears as someone from Audrey's past! A lot happens here. The edge of your seat climax is so moving that you feel like you're right there! This is MELANIE GRIFFITHS strongest role to date. I wish she would've won some award for her performance! With a strong supporting cast and a great story line, this is an AMAZING MUST SEE MOVIE!!  "},{"Title":"SOMETHING WILD (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One of my fave directors ever must be Jonathan Demme as not only he uses a flashy style that works but in every movie he uses cool 80's music as well (in Silence of the lambs he used both The Fall and Colin Newman). Nothing different here, tons of great music in a roadmovie that is to soon over. A jerk who works at some office (Jeff Daniels) happens to know the lousy gothgirl Lulu (the sort of roles that made Melanie Griffith a star in the 80's). He soon enters a rebellion world and everything seem great for some days till he meet Ray Liotta, Melanie's husband who just comes out of jail. Pretty agressive at times and of course you all have seen it before but Ray Liotta plays a superb role, the James Deanboy with a serial killerface and it makes you just ask you why the hell Lulu is choosing for the boring dickhead Charlie (good role from Daniels as well), but that's not my business... "},{"Title":"The ultimate meet cute thriller comedy; gem from the Eighties; Griffith & Daniels shine; excellent Liotta debut","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" SOMETHING WILD (1988) **** Melanie Griffith, Jeff Daniels, Ray Liotta, Margaret Colin, Charles Napier, Jack Gilpin, The Feelies.(Cameos John Sayles, John Waters) Frenetic and funny 'road' comedy with Mystery Girl Lulu (ingratiatingly memorable Griffith in her best role) who takes uptight Yuppie Charlie (Daniels who goes from bland to better) on a freewheeling trek from NYC to Virginia and back with some wonderful moments. Winning performances in a quirky film that takes a major 180 degree arc when Liotta (in his debut) turns up in an unforgettably unnerving role as her sinister greaser ex. Some wild moments indeed in this enjoyable original story by E. Max Frye and directed with style by Jonathan Demme. "},{"Title":"A Road Movie - With A Twist","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoy this movie whenever it comes on cable - for two reasons- I like watching Melanie (yeah the topless scene is great but there were better ones).- I sorta identify with Charlie - I've spent my whole life looking for a lady like Lulu.- Its fun watching Jeff and Ray too - in a movie from their early years. (OK, I think that was 3 - whatever -)My favorite scenes?-  The first one where Lulu teaches Charlie how to defraud a cheap restaurant (no I don't do that but...)-  The scene where she throws his beeper out the window (I carried one for many years before I got a cell phone - let's not start discussing that...)-  The souvenior shop where Charlie buys a new wardrobe (Charlie - attempt to be cool...).-  Charlie taking Lulu from Ray in the restaurant (I'm taking Lulu - and you can't stop me...).The whole thing was a long fantasy - but that's the type of Jonathan Demme movie that comes out the best.  Very few guys like Charlie meet women like Lulu (Audrey!!).So here's a question for the women - Did Ray help Audrey become Lulu (without realising it?)  Or did Audrey turn into Lulu after she left Ray? (Either way you have to pity Ray - the bad guy who DIDN'T get the girl).  "},{"Title":"Not a Romantic Comedy","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  **SPOILERS**When a friend recommended this movie to me I almost laughed in his face.  A movie starring Jeff Daniels and Melanie Griffith sounded like a bad star vehicle from an era notorious for bad movies.  However, it proved itself to be far superior to my expectations.The establishing scenes and initial complication read like a bad mid-life crisis fantasy boring stick-in-the-mud is taught how to cut loose and have fun by a zaney but attractive and lovable woman.  Yet it's not all just fun and games.  Adultery is fetishized.  Dangerous and irresponsible behavior, like drinking and driving, is glamorized.  Petty crime is made to look like a sport, not the desperate act it usually is.  I began to suspect that this movie was case and point that pop culture of the eighties was morally and culturally bankrupt and that this was a prime contributor to that fact.But very soon the entire character of the film changes.  What was a romantic comedy detached from reality or a notion of ethical consequentiality (like the equally bizarre, though ultimately far less worthy 1997 Meg Ryan vehicle, Addicted To Love), suddenly becomes a tense power struggle more reminiscent of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf than of Sleepless in Seattle. This movie that was vanilla enough to keep Bryers in business for a year is suddenly shot through with class angst.  The shift in the mood of the plot and dialog is accompanied by a masterful shift to a far more expressive cinematographic style that as much quotes as echoes Hitchcock (Johnathan Demme, the director, is probably more recognizable as the director of Silence of the Lambs, Philadelphia, or Stop Making Sense).And here's the spoiler comment (read on if you don't care that you know the ending in advance)In the end the characters are redeemed.  Good triumphs over evil.  And, surprise surprise, the boy gets the girl.  Ultimately I see the film as critical of pop representations of life on the other side, which in this case refers to the wrong side of the law, the side of licentiousness, the wild side... "},{"Title":"It's better to be a live dog than a dead lion.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What is this movie?  A road picture, a thriller, a farce, a touching drama, a fish-out-of-water comedy, a love story.  It's all of these things and a lot more.  jeff daniels is charlie driggs, a wonderfully multi-dimensional nice guy whose life is just going by without a blip.  he desires challenge, mystery, intrigue, passion.  enter lulu (m. griffith).  she whisks him away for a weekend which he will never forget, living carefree in the present, but never quite outrunning the past.  Liotta as Ray, griffith's ex-husband, is absolutely amazing.  His wrong-side-of-the-tracks ladykiller is psychotic but also the voice of reason.  It's nice to dream of beauty and love, but there is a dark side which Ray's character reveals.  All in all, a film which I have watched several times, always revealing new things, such as John Waters as the used-car salesman, John Sayles as the motorcycle cop and the Feelies as the high-school reunion band, who filled the musical gap left by the Velvet Underground...... "},{"Title":"Simply an Amazing film...","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I wont recount the plot as has been done here 5,349 times already, but I will say that I fell in  love/lust with Melanie/LuLu the moment I saw her. Her neo-Goth style, her impetuousness, and  her sexy wounded-girl persona did it for me. I love her as much or more also in CHERRY 2000. Demme has all the right instincts-and I like the way he put many people of color in this film rather  than just a few stand-ins. The music was great. The change of tone from absurd/fantasy to danger-edged drama was interesting. I thought Rays' dance companion was a luscious piece of cream-pie also-and the way she smiled  and handled her cigarette as though a fashion accessory was SOOO danger-pussy-femme-she  reminded me of Peter Sellers companion/trophy on a leash in Kubricks' LOLITA... On second thought you wonder why Ray wanted rid of her-and why she put up with his  indifference. Still holds up well after all these years-and the cameos! "},{"Title":"my own private virginia","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" ...i was lucky enough to have seen this in the theatre.  i'd have to say that lulu/audrey got me pretty caught up in her joyride that didn't end up being so joyous. the movie is about as perfect an escape as there ever has been committed to film.i grew up watching this film.  i was a college frosh when i first saw it ('86), and the characters' ages seemed almost foreign. i watched it all through college, and ever since, and it's so odd to realize that i'm OLDER than the characters at the reunion were when this was filmed.  they were 28 when i was 18, they were 28 when i was 28, and they're still 28. in my opinion, any film that is able to hold one's interest through a chronological change of perspective while not excluding the viewer is a classic.i HATE romantic comedies, and i always have, but this is a film that really draws the viewer in to the personal/sexual/romantic/historic/familial possibilities that exist if one could just let go, and do something wild. melanie griffith is the antithesis of the meg ryans/julia roberts'/sandra bullocks' she makes lulu the girl you'd want to take a chance with. i've always liked girls that were into bad fun and that had clever comebacks. my favorite exchange between lulu and charley that demonstrates what lulu is REALLY about and is the most telling dialogue in the movie (imo) occured when they were getting ready to go into lulu/audrey's mom's houselulu (taking off handcuffs) there, you're free. charles maybe i don't want to be free. lulu maybe you're not.it's loaded w/ all the philosophical implications that have existed in the movie to that point, and all that will come up after it.my main reason for getting on here was to ask if anyone knows the names of the non-album tracks that're featured in the film, or where i can get them.thanks and i know we'll all keep watching this movie.  "},{"Title":"an all time favorite (and it has the feelies too)","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  i first saw this film at a drive in, and knew nothing about it. when i saw the feelies listed in the credits, my interest was piqued. any film with the feelies in it had to be unusual. once the movie started, i was hooked. like many other viewers, i have seen this film many, many times, and never tire of it, a sure sign of a great film. much has been made of its change of mood half way through, but this is what makes it such a great film for me. it's hinted at earlier in the film, and when it happens, it's like being on a wild ride that gets wilder. if you've never seen this film, and enjoy the unusual, check out something wild "},{"Title":"See it","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Yes, it's an eighties movie, but in this case that's no reason to underrate it like everybody seems to do. Something wild is a great film that has a perfect combination of comedy, suspense and good music. It keeps on going like a true road movie. But it has enough twitches and darkness to guarantee that it's not one dimensional. Especially Melanie Griffith plays probably one of her best roles.  "}{"Title":"Those wacky yuppies.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What a fun film this is! Featuring some of the best performances  ever from Jeff Daniels, Ray Liotta, and Melanie Griffiths, this is wall to wall surprises and joy. And it also has deeper ramifications- as Emanuel Levy says in his book, Cinema of Outsiders, Demme populates the background with black musicians, waiters, and gas station attendants. Their conspicuous presence offered an ironic commentary on Reagan's separatist ideology with its 'white supremacy' implications.  So there.  A nice surprise, this film. "},{"Title":"amazing tour de force of a movie","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Jeff Daniels stars as a man whose normal life is suddenly swiped away from him by a woman in a Louise Brooks wig played by Melanie Griffith in the finest role i have seen her in to date.  Griffith takes Daniels on a ride that turns from fun and exhilirating to violent and dangerous as he tries to save her from danger. A definite must see roller coaster ride that  you will enjoy.on a scale of one to ten.. 9 "},{"Title":"This road movie runs over all the rest.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I won't give a plot synopsis of this movie, because I feel it should be viewed with an open mind and great expectations.  I have seen this movie about 50 times.  I watch it whenever I am in a bad mood or bored.  I can actually say all the lines with the actors (this annoys my mother terribly!).  I feel that this is Jonathan Demme's finest film.  It is quirky, weird, dark, funny, romantic, and it is filled with an abundance of oddballs and weird extras (the very large woman standing by the phone). The soundtrack is wonderful, and I have been having a heck of a time finding all the songs that are in the film.  This movie absolutely cannot be seen on television, the editing completely ruins it.  Rent it, rent it now!  You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A wonderful way to spend a couple of hours.","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out in '86 and thought it was the best work that Jonathan Demme had done. Just finished seeing this film  again and I'm glad to say that after 15 years it's still a wonderful way to spend a couple of hours. The performance by Griffith, Daniels and Liotta are top notch. "},{"Title":"Not worth it","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The first half of the movie is not that bad actually. Although there's not really too much depth in the characters, the story is somehow funny and generally OK with potential to get better, which it doesn't.In the second half things start to turn for the worse, not only for the characters in the movie, but also for the viewer, who will be basically waiting for the story to come to its obvious end.The previous user comment mentioned It's a love story, a road movie, a thriller, a comedy of errors, an 80's movie and most of all, it's a Jonathan Demme movie.Well, please allow me to rephrase that It's a boy gets girl story, they happen to be driving around in cars, the thrill is gone as it is all too clear how things will evolve, there wasn't any scene in this film to which one might laugh out loud, it does have some slight 80's feeling and yes, Jonathan Demme really was the director. "},{"Title":"Not in any way an attractive film","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I saw this when it first came out, twenty years ago, during the fad for Yuppies in peril films. It hasn't stood the test of time very well. The plot is strong, and not entirely incredible. There are good performances from Melanie Griffith and Ray Liotta. But I cannot see what the film is trying to do for its audience. Is it trying to make us laugh? To make satirical points? To make us feel that tragedy and danger are just a chance meeting away? Practically every character is dishonest to some degree. There is no-one to like here, and no-one to really fear, either &#150; Liotta has his moments of menace, but really he's just a small-time crook. There is physical as well as moral ugliness. Perhaps this is deliberate, but cinematically it is dull Demme finds no delight in his surroundings, apart from some attractive shots of the New York skyline. (The views of the Twin Towers now lend a prelapsarian feel very much at odds with the film's content.) When you consider the magic that Demme wrought in Stop Making Sense two years earlier, this is an unaccountable failing. The other failing is an excess of that American whimsy &#150; of imposed rather than inherent eccentricity &#150; that makes an entire genre in itself (True Stories. The Royal Tenenbaums). Too many of the characters seem to be saying Look at me, ain't I kooky? Well they ain't &#150; they've just been landed with a flawed screenplay. The soundtrack &#150; assembled by John Cale and Laurie Anderson &#150; is probably the best thing about the film, but even that is competent rather than enthralling. Four out of ten. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One of my all time favorites, Melanie is wild, Jeff is funny, Ray out of control, and it works, the little twists, make it a show to enjoy, and the soundtrack is superb. The best thing about the movie is the theme or moral, which is stated in one of the lines Tis better to be a live dog, than a dead lion - something by which I live my life - ain't never gonna be no dead lion ! "},{"Title":"0/10 Worst movie ever. No, really.","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" There needs to be a 0/10 option for bilge like this. It was painful to watch, but strangely compelling all the same. Compelling because it seemed unbelievable that a movie could actually suck this much. I kept thinking it must get better. It got worse. And worse. How on earth were people conned into producing such a categorical piece of junk I'll never know. The most surprising thing of all though, is all these reviews I see of people actually loving the movie. Yes, the acting was good, but the movie was very very very bad. Worst movie ever! "},{"Title":"the purple rose of yuppie-dom","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I guess that overall, Something Wild isn't particularly anything special. It seems that there have been many movies about a zany person interrupting a sedate person's life (namely Bringing Up Baby and its remake What's Up, Doc?). But the pace here is pretty good, and the movie almost seems to be taking a swipe at the 1980s yuppie culture. If nothing else, it shows that both Jeff Daniels and Melanie Griffith have some great comic abilities.True, this movie probably won't change your life or anything, but it's worth seeing just for fun. It's pretty eye-opening seeing both John Sayles (known for the most serious movies) and John Waters (known for the most outrageous movies) in small roles.To think that this was directed by the same guy who did The Silence of the Lambs, Philadelphia, Beloved and the Manchurian Candidate remake. "},{"Title":"Something Crazy From Jonathan Demme","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" My favorite scene in this movie is where Ray Liotta's character is running in a speedo to catch Melanie Griffith when she is trying to escape.Ray Liotta shows up half way through this movie as Melanie Griffith's psycho ex-husband Ray Sinclair and up to that point it is a quirky sort of bland eclair that reminds you of eating hospital food.Melanie Griffith's character is a stereotype of the low I.Q type women that exist today who have no drive and no goals, who think their only purpose is to procreate Without Ray Liotta in this movie it would have tanked big time. Jeff Daniels gives a great performance as a guy who is watching his life ruined by these circumstances, but not his best work Thanks Ray for a great performance and because you are in it for the art and not the big paycheck I will always be your greatest fan!! "}{"Title":"Best Film Ever Made??","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  No, of course Something Wild isn't the best film ever made. But boy, is it a good one! Another viewer used the expression tour de force and that struck me as the best description of this cinematic treat. This movie, which might appear at first glance to be little more than a fluffy romantic comedy, turns out to be a virtuoso display of filmmaking, one which can be watched again and again for the superb level of detail, and just for the sheer pleasure of watching it unfold. Seeing this film for the Nth time reminded me once again what an American treasure Jonathan Demme is, truly one of the most talented, daring and distinctive filmmakers working today. Nobody is better at portraying issues of class than Demme, and it's the idea of social class, supposedly nonexistent in America, that's provides the tension at the heart of this movie. Jeff Daniels portrays a stereotypical uptight Wall Street yuppie who acts out his rebellious fantasies by occasionally leaving restaurants without paying his check. Melanie Griffith is the downtown urban hipster woman who catches him in the act and tempts him into a real act of (equally senseless) rebellion, abandoning his job for the afternoon to join her on a spur-of-the-moment road trip into the unknown. Lulu (Griffith) is pure id incarnate, a seemingly supernatural being who exudes sexy style from every pore and who is apparently able to avoid trouble by the simple expedient of never allowing it to cross her mind. There's an absolutely brilliant scene early that sums up the start of their relationship. Lulu asks Charlie (Daniels) if he's going to come with her, turns on her heel and marches across a busy New York street without the slightest glance to the left or right. Charlie follows, desperate not to let her get away, and almost gets creamed by two or three vehicles which come careening through the intersection about one half-second after Lulu has passed. Like just about everything in this movie, it's smart, subtle (not overplayed) and absolutely hilarious (Daniels' double-takes as he sees the cars coming at him are priceless). Soon they're on a journey through middle America (New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Virginia) and as always, Demme's eye for the telling details of blue collar American life is absolutely unequalled. Like Scorcese portraying New York Italian-Americans, Demme gives us a run-down, faded exurban America that rings true down to the tiniest details. In addition, his use of music is absolutely perfect. Again, comparisons to Scorcese may be apt, but I think Demme uses music to even better effect. Think of the scene in Silence of the Lambs where Catherine is singing along with Tom Petty in her car. In this movie as well, the music is just exactly perfect, with dub reggae, indie rock and 60s punk coming together with John Cale and Laurie Anderson's original music for the film.Finally, I would be remiss if I did not point out that this film contains, IMO, two of the absolute funniest scenes ever put to celluloid; the first handcuff scene and the scene where Charlie buys a new outfit at the gas station (Charlie. Attempt to be cool.). But to simply say this is a funny movie is to sell it very, very short. In the hands of lesser talents, this probably would have remained a fish-out-of-water romantic comedy, but as Charlie and Lulu discover more about each others' past, Demme (as he does in Silence of the Lambs as well) subtly exposes issues of class and gender that are indelibly stamped on their relationship (and their lives). Yet not once once does he become preachy, sappy or dryly academic. This funny little offbeat comedy manages to say more the most important issues in our lives than a hundred self-conciously important serious Hollywood dramas, and manages to do it with such a light touch that probably won't even realize at first that you aren't just watching a funny little offbeat comedy.  "},{"Title":"A Powerhouse of a Movie!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Oh my god,what a masterpiece this is.Brilliantly directed by Jonathan(silence of the lambs)Demme.What an amazing cast of characters.Jeff Daniels is solid as always,for another great Jeff Daniels movie try Welcome Home Roxy Carmichael.See Something Wild tonight not tomorrow! "},{"Title":"A little something for everyone.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Something Wild tells what happens when a sedate professional family man from the burbs (Daniels) runs into an unabashed, unbridled babe who lives life fast and loose (Griffith). The result is a fun little odyssey with some sex, romance, drama, comedy, action, etc. A little something for everyone in this not-to-be-taken-seriously flick. "},{"Title":"Skipping out on the Check","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The movie opens with Charlie (Jeff Daniels), a business man just finishing his lunch in a neighborhood deli. It appears he doesn't have enough cash to cover the check. Instead of reaching for his plastic, he furtively glances around to see if the coast is clear and ducks out of the place without paying. Unbeknownst to Charlie, Lulu (Melanie Griffith) had been observing him from the other side of the deli.Lulu is decked out in what passed for cool back in the 1980's with a brunette page-boy cut. She follows him out to let him know that she saw what he did. He tries to deny it but can't escape her accusation. Thinking he's in it, Charlie is surprised when Lulu says she doesn't work for the deli and then offers him a ride back to work.When she heads in the opposite direction, thus begins their cavorting across the Middle Atlantic Seaboard.We're supposed to get titillated as thoroughly modern Lulu puts straight-laced Charlie into humiliating situations. It's all right when the two consenting adults get a little kinky in a motel room but off-putting when they wriggle out of paying the check at a family-style restaurant. Stealing the labor from hard-working people is not my idea of wild. Charlie is a jerk.Lulu is a loony jerk. She starts to pass off Charlie as her husband. First to her mom (who blithely tolerates the charade) and then at her conveniently timed 10-year high school reunion (an event used later by another too-cool-for-its-own-good movie Grosse Pointe Blank).The marriage comes as a surprise to Lulu's real husband (Ray Liotta)who's just been recently released from prison for armed robbery. Ray gives the two a welcome comeuppance and shows them how nasty crime really is.I can't add any irony by writing that I first watched this by sneaking in the movie theater. No, I don't do that sort of thing. I taped it off of cable TV and assure you I view it strictly in the privacy of my own home.So I got to thinking why I taped it when I don't like it very much and conclude that 20 years ago I was on a reggae kick and the soundtrack of Something Wild does prominently feature reggae. The closing credits start with the treat of Sister Carol performing her version of Wild Thing. "},{"Title":"This Movie Shocked Me","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER!! Please take a look at this film, it is wonderful. The acting is incredibly well done. The quality of the film is just great, the director makes sure you really like the film. The music is also very good, Jeff Daniels and Melanie Griffith are also very good together. I think Ray Liotta died at the end of the film, he ran real fast into a knife, that went right through his chest. I think it was an accident, but early on in the movie Ray liotta was wonderful. Ray Liotta acted well beyond average. "},{"Title":"Self-occupied home-movie","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  An awful film about some really awful people. I had a painful experience watching this one. Demme used his buddies and his buddies´ relatives to produce something without point or meaning. Waste of time. (Maybe the only person to gain from the film was Demme himself -- we have all got to learn somehow.) "},{"Title":"Starts fun, then goes awry.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A wild woman (Griffith) kidnaps a NYC businessman, then proceeds to take him on a wild road trip, turning his life upside down.Starts out really amusing and enjoyable, then goes (violently) downhill after Ray Liotta's character is introduced.Worth a look for sexy Griffith's nude scenes.** out of **** "}]