[{"Title":"An Intense Drama Featuring a Gritty Performance from its star...","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" EXTREMITIES is the disturbing, yet riveting screen version of a play by William Mastriosimone (who adapted his own play for the screen) about a woman who is attacked in her car one night by a would-be rapist on her way home and is terrified when she realizes the man got her purse and knows where she lives. After her roommates leave for work the next day, the guy shows up at her home and attempts to rape her. The story takes a surprising twist when, at one point, the woman turns the tables on the man and is able to overpower him; but when she realizes there is no way that attempted rape can be proved and if the man is arrested, he will just get off, she decides to keep him prisoner in the house until she can get a confession out of him. Far-fetched? Maybe. Disturbing? Definitely, but there's a wonderfully claustrophobic feel about this film, especially the middle with just the woman and her attacker, that you can't help but feel completely a part of what's going on. I did not see the play on Broadway, but I would imagine a piece like this works better onstage, but that doesn't make this film any less riveting an experience. Farrah Fawcett, one of the last actresses to do the role on Broadway, was awarded the role of Marjorie in the film version and delivers a taut and deeply moving performance as the victim who refuses to be a victim. Many critics found Fawcett's performance to be one-note, but for me, Marjorie is a woman completely numbed by what she has been through and the performance works for me. James Russo, in the performance of his career, is slimy and menacing as the would-be rapist who finds Marjorie to be much more of a challenge than he assumed. Alfre Woodard and Diana Scarwid co-star as Marjorie's roommates, who come home after Marjorie has overpowered the guy and has him tied up and stuffed in their fireplace upon their arrival. And it's the arrival of the roommates that take the story to an unexpected level because they didn't see what we saw Marjorie go through and therefore, think she should call the police and let them handle the guy. Not for the faint of heart, but if you can stand it, a gripping film experience anchored by a lead performance that will surprise you. "},{"Title":"Another good message film, with Fawcett excelling...","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Kudos to Fawcett to taking on roles that, at the time were considered controversial. To my recollection, rape was still a taboo subject in the 1980's, and women's rights and emotions were rarely so deeply examined during that time.Fawcett is simply a woman who is followed, then stalked by actor James Russo. He is adequate as the obsessed psychopath, but at times a bit transparent.Diana Scarwid has a bit role, as does Alfre Woodard as the house mate. Woodard worries about the legal consequences when Fawcett, the rape victim, takes revenge on the culprit. The scene where she throws a frying pan of hot oil at Russo is classic, and as the rapist he deserves it. She then keeps him in bondage, and the consequences must be faced.A very real story reflecting the emotions and rage of rape victims who have been violated, physically, and mentally. Highly recommended. 8/10. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie better when I was a kid","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I am a Fawcett fan, liked her in Charlies Angle's and I thought she was amazing in The Burning Bed.I liked this movie more when I was a kid, probably because I had less of an understanding of reality.I thought the performances where great from the main two characters, but the rest, is just not believable. What is believable is that pig would have been released, even with a confession that was circumstantial at best, an attorney would have had a field day with that. She had a knife to his throat so it didn't mean anything.More over, it is perfectly legal to kill an intruder in your home, whether they're there to rape you or still your freaking television. So that's why the plot was ridiculous to me. I wouldn't have had to ponder anything, I wouldn't have needed a confession.What I would have done was killed him, quite painfully, and then called the police. "},{"Title":"Extreme!","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Farrah Fawcett is terrific in this 1986 drama, where she plays Marjorie, a woman who manages to escape the clutches of a would-be rapist. Well done to Farrah for being a Golden Globe 'Best Actress' nominee.When her rapist Joe (played in a rather frightening and intense fashion by Farrah's co-star James Russo) enters her home - (which she shares with her two roommates who are conveniently out) - Marjorie has to play along with Joe's frightening demands, before the tables are finally turned and Marjorie gets the upper hand. It does make for some disturbing and shocking scenes.Both Fawcett and Russo had played these characters on the New York stage prior to this film adaptation, and both actors show their ability in carrying out emotionally charged scenes with admirable tenacity. Alongside her work in the 1984 film The Burning Bed, Extremities shows that Fawcett can push out the boundaries and show us her skills as a serious actress and not just be remembered as a lightweight Charlie's Angel. 8/10 "},{"Title":"High level rape film, a winner for our late Farrah","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Extremities is a story of a man, overwhelmed with guilt, one that has proved to be fatal, turning him killer. When first learning of this film, back at the start of '87, I thought it was just about some psycho getting his kicks, raping women. Little did I know. Our rapist, Joe has already raped a score of women and disposed of em'. Only his latest, Marjorie (Fawcett in a great dramatic performance) has managed to escape when first car jacked and driven to a deserted underpass. Marjorie explains her situation to the police, none too helpful, where the police woman tells her straight, there's a chance he could get off. Farrah's even mistaken for a hooker by a young cop, who interrupts the not so progressing well conversation. She leaves, irate, and by not signing this certain form, the cops can't take action. The rapist has got her wallet with her id, so we know what's gonna ensue. We too see Joe, has a family where he has been kept pretty faceless up to this point. When he's in his little shed, examining Farrah's id, his cute little daughter knocks on the glass, informing him, dinner's almost ready. So now with Farrah, it's a waiting game. Her two housemates, Patti and Terri, have been informed of the situation. Even when the pizza guy, comes delivering a meal, Farrah is rather surly, when he asks if the three of them live together, which is understandable. Then days later, low and behold, a man freely enters her house, asking after a Joe. And from here, the real drama and suspense begins, claustrophobic, one would say, as Russo, great here, gets quite physical and cruel, at one point almost threatening to toss a pan of burnt bacon onto her. He also examines her particulars, even making opportunity to indulge in some forced sex, cause in reality, there's no way in hell, she'd go out with this creep of low class status. Keeping with the stage play, she finally turns the tables on the attacker, after luring him on, when on top of her, falsely. She then sprays his eyes with insecticide, cracks a hot glass kettle of coffee over his head, before strangling him and barricading him in a fireplace, from which there is no escape. Not much sooner does her two friends return from work and cross this scene of madness. The two do not agree with her illogical plan of murder, which too could be seen as logical, if this madman gets off. We do weigh these real life options. Scarwid, a great character actress, brings an effervescent, quirky and sexy character as Terri, while the more mature Woodard, gives a very humane and real performance, I liked. She's the only one showing compassion to the not so healthy looking Russo. Farrah at one point, who's taken enough of her, says Why don't you just f..k him. That'll make him feel better. Extremities is a real film of real situations and choices. Even near the end, Scarwid chooses to stay with Russo, when Farrah and co, get the cops, warming up to him some, as hearing his reasons. One particular moment with Farrah running her knife down Russo's lower region, may make you flinch. This is a great dramatic film, that I wouldn't suggest a rape victim should watch. It's all too real, as are the performances, and I'm not just talking the mains. You will feel pretty washed out at the end of this, too, as in these claustrophobic movies. The up tempo music score, at it's opening is all so unfitting though, even though I liked it a lot, so. "},{"Title":"Don't mess with an angel","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Here's a film, I'll always remember seeing that late Farrah for who died a day apart from Michael Jackson. Ironically they were good friends, and one thing that Farrah could do instead of Michael, and that was act. She scorches up the screen here, a raging queen of revenge on her attacker, who has come to attack her, for the second time, invading her home. She scarcely escapes the first attack, a car jacking, where they end up in a discreet parking spot. She manages to get away, leaving her car and wallet behind. With not much help from authorities (der, we've seen it so many times before in rape films) it now becomes a game of waiting, with Farrah, quite on edge, and rightfully so. She does share house with two other women. Diana Scarwid, very good as a wild impulsive sort, and Alfre Woodard, as a more wiser black woman, the only one partially sympathetic to the rapist after the tables are turned, and turned they are. Farrah becomes caught in conflict with her mates who return to find Joe, the battered faced rapist chained up in the fireplace. She wants to kill Joe, on the too probable count, that if tried, and he gets off, he will come at her again. This is a real life situation scenario here, Woodard of course, dead set against the idea. For rape victims, this movie is not for you. It's an intense grueling flick about the rape process, where the consequences for a criminal's acts here are extreme (hence the title) for low class sort, Joe (a wonderful Russo) But it's Farrah who engrosses us, where Extremities is an engrossing and with a wonderfully claustrophobic atmosphere, where indeed it's well shot, where most of the movie is set in Farrah's pad. For some viewers it'll be tough to watch. Too, what's shocking is Russo's admittance, and his intentions, when untied and falling to the floor, where then Scarwid surprisingly becomes sympathetic. Although I really didn't like it's ending Extremities is powerful movie making and far from escapist fare for viewers, wanting to leave reality behind. I would also like to see the play one day, but for now, I'll stick to the movie. "},{"Title":"Extremities Hits You Where It Hurts!","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As a stage play, one can imagine how shocked audiences were when they stepped into William Mastrosimone's Extremities. Having to watch a woman on stage being brutalized in her own home by a stranger is not an experience I imagine to be fun. But it is a fascinating and utterly compelling story that leads into some very unexpected directions. In 1986, Extremities became a movie, adapted by Mastrosimone himself. With the incredible performances of Farrah Fawcett and James Russo, some very believable fight choreography, and a tightly woven script, Extremities goes to new extremes as a film.Alone in her car one night, innocent Marjorie is threatened by a man with a knife. Just before he attempts to rape her, she escapes. The bad news is the cops aren't helpful and the criminal has her credentials. He knows where she lives. A week later, Marjorie is home alone while her friends, the attractive Terry and social worker Pat, are away at work. Out of the blue, a man waltzes right into the house and asks Marjorie if a guy named Joe lives there. No matter how many times she tells him No Joe lives here, it becomes evident that this is the man that attacked Marjorie the other night. He beats her, tries to smother her with a pillow, and then tries to rape her again. But he doesn't get away with it when Marjorie sprays him in the face with insect repellent, ties him up, and jails him in the fireplace. But when Terry and Pat come home and there's no proof that the attacker laid a hand on her, Marjorie's only safety net is to keep him locked up until he confesses his sins. If he doesn't, she'll kill him.Ariel Dorfman's Death and the Maiden bears remarkable similarities to Extremities, but Mastrosimone's story works exceptionally well as a film knowing the decade that the film was released in. The same decade produced such crime movies as The Accused and TV's stunner The Burning Bed, another Farrah Fawcett feature. This was when women took hold of their sexuality and wouldn't allow themselves to be exploited by men. Keeping that in mind will allow the viewer of Extremities to connect to the plot, whether they're male or female.The movie also raises several questions about where the line is drawn in terms of justice. If a man rapes or beats a woman, does the victim have a right to physically hurt the other person? Worse if there's no proof of rape, what can the victim do to save herself? Marjorie pulls no punches. She is dead serious about keeping the police out of it and killing this home invader. But with his word against hers, she could go to jail for life. Though she is fully aware of the consequences, she can't allow him to walk away. Extremities is controversial, and gives the viewer plenty to talk about when the movie's over.However, I find it impossible to avoid the movie's rather typical opening, which begins differently from the play. The opening is almost like a B-grade 80's slasher movie, and I'm sure that's not what Mastrosimone was aiming for. But things get much better once we're isolated with Marjorie and the rapist in the house. When he walks through the front door, the guy easily gives us the creeps. We know he's up to something. The tension grows and grows as he commits more embarrassing and painful acts towards Marjorie. When she takes control, the suspense goes together perfectly with the drama, a classy combination for a movie so gritty and violent.In terms of casting, Mastrosimone and director Robert M. Young picked up two of the stage production's regulars the beautiful Farrah Fawcett and the alarmingly intimidating James Russo. Fawcett was just breaking free from her Charlie's Angels reputation, and this movie put her on the map. Marjorie is not at all an easy role to play, but Fawcett gladly accepts the challenge. Her performance is booming and simmering with a quiet anger. She makes Marjorie a very sympathetic and frail woman at first. Notice how her voice breaks every time she's about to cry. And when she throws the rapist in the fireplace and threatens him with a shovel, you understand her pain. Fawcett turns Marjorie into a force not to be messed with. How she walked away without an Oscar nomination proves that this woman was one of the most underrated actresses of her time. James Russo is absolutely spine-tingling as the rapist. His beady eyes and twisted smile make your skin crawl every time he's on screen, which is for the majority of the film. He, too, deserves more praise. Alfre Woodard is decent as Pat, but Diana Scarwid's performance as Terry is flawed. It is basically too over-the-top. She cries too much, and her dialog is delivered too unbelievably, her worst case being a monologue about a past encounter with a rapist. What translated so effectively on stage to the public has changed here, and the way Scarwid portrays it, it comes off more as forced subtext than being related to Marjorie's troubles.Does Extremities have its minor quibbles? Of course. Most movies do. But this is a film that plays most of its cards correctly and aims its darts close to the bullseye. If it weren't performed so believably by its leads, the movie wouldn't have nearly as much impact as the play. Movies like this are always more frightening when you realize that it can happen. Mastrosimone's story feels very real, which helps Extremities to be a powerful adaptation. "},{"Title":"A taste of his own medicine.","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember catching this movie on TV a few times and it always was an extreme experience for me. Here, a vulnerable woman named Marjorie (Farah Fawcett) who falls victim to an attempted rape by Joe (James Russo) escapes and turns the tables on him, caging the criminal in her fireplace.Seeing Joe abuse Marjorie left and right was difficult to watch, but it was thrilling to see Marjorie give her attacker a taste of his own medicine. It is also pretty suspenseful to see what will her and her two roommates, Patricia (Alfre Woodard) and Terry (Diana Scarwid), do to the confined attacker after the incident. A majority of the film takes place in the house and you get to know a little bit of background on all three women and how the course of the film's events affect them. The plot does drag after all the action but the generating suspense does keep the movie a somewhat intriguing experience.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Not a feel good 'lassie come home' type of movie.","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can't say that I enjoyed this movie as much as I think it achieves what it sets out to do... WAKE PEOPLE UP! The movie relies on good acting to suck you into watching the first halve then shocks you repeatedly with emotional violence.If you just want a bit of mindless Tits and ass then this is not for you but if you want to be challenged emotionally, give it a watch.I'd just like to answer the previous review who was upset because as he puts it;At the end this movie actually left me feeling sorry for the rapist which I sincerely doubt was the intention of the director. No, you didn't miss out and yes you are indeed meant to feel (a bit) for the rapist, he pushed her over the edge into a place where SHE became the monster!... that is the whole point of the play. "},{"Title":"Woman's revenge","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Marjorie, a young woman who works in a museum and lives with two female roommates, Pat and Terry.One night she gets in her car and is attacked by masked man with a knife.His plan is to rape her, but she manages to escape.The man has her purse.The police can't help her, since the actual rape didn't happen.Then one day, when Marjorie's roommates are at work, her assailant comes there.His name is Joe.A long battle begins against this man.But then she manages to spray his eyes and mouth with insect repellent, stuff that will kill him if he won't get help soon.She ties him up and makes Joe the subject of the same kind of physical and mental assaults he used on her earlier.The Extremities (1986) is directed by Robert M. Young.It's based on the controversial off-Broadway play from 1982 by William Mastrosimone.Farrah Fawcett, who sadly lost her battle with cancer last year, is terrific as Marjorie.James Russo, who played the attacker also in the play, is convincing as Joe.Alfre Woodard and Diana Scarwid are great as Pat and Terry.James Avery is seen as Security Guard.She got a Golden Globe nomination.This is not a movie that is supposed to entertain you.It asks a question is revenge justified.This is not a perfect movie, but I recommend it. "}{"Title":"Emotionaly charged revenge.","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Attractive Marjorie(Farrah Fawcett)lives in fear after being accosted by a lone biker. She is mortally shaken with the fact her attacker knows her address. As expected, Joe(James Russo), the attacker forces his way into Marjorie's home and subjects her to humiliating terror. Bruised and bloody, Marjorie manages to get an upper hand on her attacker, knocking the living daylights out of the jerk and renders him helpless thanks to wasp spray in his eyes and throat. Hog tied and battered himself, Joe tries to explain himself to Marjorie's roommates(Diana Scarwid and Alfrie Woodard) when they get home. There is almost a hint of mercy, but it is not coming from Marjorie. Should she continue to render her own punishment? Violence, sexual abuse and rough language makes for an R rating. Fawcett really gets away from the ditsy roles that would forever stain her career. Kudos to director Robert M. Young. "},{"Title":"Unpleasant, but undeniably gripping and potent","Date":"29 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Marjorie (a splendid and riveting performance by Farrah Fawcett) narrowly avoids being assaulted in her car by vicious serial rapist Joe (superbly played with frightening conviction and intensity by James Russo). However, Joe steals her wallet and finds out where Marjorie lives. He pays her a visit one fateful day. After subjecting Marjorie to plenty of degradation and psychological abuse, Marjorie manages to turn the tables on Joe and locks him in the fireplace. What is Marjorie going to do with Joe? Director Robert M. Young and screenwriter William Mastrosimone concoct a harsh, gritty and often disturbing morality tale that astutely nails the stark brutality and painful debasement of rape while also showing how any person when pushed to extremes is capable of shocking acts of violence and inhumanity. Joe perceives women strictly as objects while Marjorie only sees Joe as an animal. However, this movie to its admirable credit refuses to make Joe out to be simply a vile one-dimensional creep; instead he's a terrifyingly real and ultimately pitiable human monster with a wife and kid (Joe's climactic confession in particular is genuinely poignant). Fawcett and Russo are both outstanding in the leads; they receive fine support from Diana Scarwid as the passive Terry, Alfre Woodard as the sensible Patricia, and Sandy Martin as sympathetic policewoman Officer Sudow. Both Curtis Clark's agile cinematography and J.A.C. Redford's shivery, skin-crawling score greatly enhance the considerable claustrophobic tension. A real powerhouse. "},{"Title":"Extreme for sure","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've never been a fan of Farrah Fawcett...Until now. She was truly amazing in this movie. The emotion she must have gone through shooting re-take after re-take doesn't bare thinking about. This was a very hard movie to watch, the subject matter is decidedly unpleasant and you feel so helpless just sitting and watching a woman being abused for what seems like an eternity. I actually felt that the whole thing deflated somewhat when her friends returned to the house and I didn't find the conclusion at all plausible. The director seemed very keen in using height in his shots and loved using mirror reflections, I believe he should have paid more attention to the pace in the second half of this piece. I'm sure this makes a heck of a powerful piece of theatre, this movie for me, although it had merit, just fell short. "},{"Title":"The movie was so good I actually jumped out of my seat at times","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This move actually had me jumping out of my chair in anticipation of what the actors were going to do! The acting was the best, Farrah should have gotten a Oscar for this she was fabulous. James Russo was so good I hated him he was the villain and played it wonderful. There aren't many movies that have riveted me as this one. The cast was great Alfie looking shocked with those big eyes Farrah looking like a victim and you re-lived her horror as she went through it. Farrah made you feel like you were there and feeling the same anger she felt you wanted her to hurt him, yet you also knew it was the wrong thing to do. The movie had you on a roller coaster ride and you went up and down with each scene. "},{"Title":"Fiercely done movie.","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was some strong movie. Very powerful, very different. Yet strangely, I didn't warm to it as much as I should have. That does not diminish the movie's power. This just proved very difficult to watch.I can certainly appreciate the theme of having one's dignity stolen and the need to take back one's power. The movie itself was wonderfully acted and directed. And obviously it was SUPPOSED to be hard to watch. I just wish I had warmed to it enough to give it a 10 like The Accused. I think part of the problem was the limited focus of the camera,these 2 people starring almost by themselves, the story mainly going back and forth between Farra's Character and her rapist.After awhile it gets to you. All in all this was an edgy film that's certainly thought provoking and worth watching. I doubt I'd see it again but the film as a whole is very well done. "},{"Title":"The Dilemma","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" In Los Angeles, the gorgeous Marjorie (Farrah Fawcett) stops her car after-hours in a parking area to buy an ice-cream. However the store has just closed and when she returns to her car, a masked stranger attacks and attempts to rape her using a knife. Marjorie succeeds to flee, but the man keeps her purse with her documents. She goes to the police to report the assault but the female officer tells her that there is no evidence and no case since it is her word against the rapist's word. A couple of days later, the rapist breaks in Marjorie's house while her roommates Patricia (Alfre Woodard) and Terry (Diana Scarwid) are not at home. The cynical Joe (James Russo) submits Marjories to sadistic abuses and humiliations preparing to rape her. Out of the blue, Marjorie sprays insecticide in Joe's eyes, reverting the situation dominating Joe and then she ties him up. She decides to bury Joe alive in a grave in her garden since she does not have evidence to keep him in prison and he had promised to return to kill her. But Terry and Patty arrive and try to convince Marjorie to call the police and think about the consequence of her intention. What will she do?Extremities is a film with a dramatic story and a great dilemma. Farrah Fawcett has one of her best performances in the role of a woman abused by a stranger that she finally subdues. His first intention is to kill the man but there is a debate with her roommates and the film has a moralist conclusion. James Russo is impressive in the role of a sadistic rapist. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Seduzida ao Extremo (Seduced to the Extreme) "},{"Title":"Tense and disturbing moral play","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Adapted from the off-Brodway play, Extremities has Farrah Fawcett resuming her stage role as a woman targeted by a serial rapist and murderer who breaks into her home with the intent to kill her after a botched rape attempt. After dismantling him and blockading him inside her fireplace, she and her two female roommates struggle with what to do next.This is an all around minimalist thriller that is taut and effective in spite of locale limitations. The film is structured much like the stage play, with the majority of the action taking place in the confines of a living room. Thus, the film is very much dialogue-driven, dependent on strong performances which the cast deliver. Farrah Fawcett is one of the most underrated actresses ever as far as I'm concerned, and her performance in this film is proof of it; she was much more than a pretty face on Charlie's Angels and plastered on the walls of teenage baby boomer boys' bedrooms. James Russo&#x97; who also starred in the stage production with Fawcett&#x97; plays the villain with tenacity and menace that is overtaken in the second act as the film swirls with moral debate between the two other women; Alfre Woodard and Diana Scarwid provide solid and necessary support here. The real electric chemistry at the crux of the film is between Fawcett and Russo, and this is very likely due to their past experience playing out the narrative onstage together; regardless, both of these performances are honest and believable.Though not exactly a suspense film, there is a high level of tensity maintained throughout; nearly every scene is rife with it. The opening sequence featuring a point-of- view shot from Russo as he stalks potential victims in the night before locking in on Fawcett is especially sinister and almost reminiscent of a slasher film. The denouement follows a jaw-dropping one-to-one between the two leads with a hunting knife and family jewels.Overall, Extremities is a minimalist but solid thriller that works as a thriller and as an acting decathlon for Fawcett and Russo (especially Fawcett). I'd say to see it just for the acting, but there is also a great handling of material here that shapes the source material into a formidable and disturbing adaptation. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie with great performances but....","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember first seeing this movie back in the late 80s and I thought it was amazing.I just recently bought the DVD and watched it again. I think its an excellent movie with great performances by Farrah Fawcett and James Russo but I felt that the ending was a bit of a let down.I am amazed how some reviewers have commented that it was exploitative.Seriously you really need to get out more. I have seen plenty of rape/revenge movies that were way more exploitative than this.I Spit On Your Grave aka Day Of The Woman is one example.I thought the movie explored the issue of rape and/or sexual assault and how the legal system often leaves the victim feeling powerless very well.Okay she is not actually raped but at the beginning of the movie her attacker holds a knife to her throat and forces her to touch his genitals.Even though that is not actual rape it is still sexual assault. A thought provoking movie that I highly recommend despite the weak ending. "},{"Title":"Good idea, but how do we add dramatic tension?","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" WARNING--THERE ARE SPOILERS IN THE REVIEW BELOW. OF COURSE, THE MOVIE CAME OUT 20 YEARS AGO, SO YOU'VE HAD PLENTY OF TIME TO SEE IT.Rape and revenge is one of the oldest themes in female-centered fiction, so for a story of that genre--as this one is--to stand out, the writer has to be very careful in how s/he executes it.This one could have been a little more careful.Okay, so Marjorie can't prove attempted rape. She can sure as hell prove assault (unless of course, consensual sex includes windows broken FROM THE OUTSIDE)--not in the same class, but better than nothing. But we need The System to be helpless so that Marjorie has to take the law into her own hands, so this doesn't occur to any of the characters.Also, given what they know of the situation, Pat and Terry are way too willing to give Joe the benefit of the doubt. Let's review the facts as they know them1. Marjorie was attacked and almost raped a week before. 2. She escaped, but had to leave her wallet--with her address--behind. Therefore, her attacker now knows where she lives. 3. A total stranger is in their living room fireplace, with bug spray in his eyes and a nice scalp cut near his temple. 4. There's obviously been a fight, because there's broken crockery on the floor and the phones have been yanked out of the wall.So why in the name of God is Pat so willing to hear Joe out??????? Is it really so much of a leap for her to figure out that this is the guy who attacked Marjorie before??????? But we need there to be some doubt in how this will play out, so Pat has to play incredibly dumb and almost fall for Joe's story.All in all, the plot's inherent weakness overshadows very strong performances from the four principals. This should have been a lot better than it was. "},{"Title":"See the Play it is better","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While this movie is a good movie, it has the T.V. movie of the week feel to it. The play by William Mastrosimone is tons better, and has a much better ending.Farrah proved she could play more than everyone's favorite angel with this one, but unlike her Burning Bed character, has a bit of a mean streak. Russo is good as the Rapist, as well as Alfre Woodard as the roomate who tries to convince Marjorie she is going too far. Scarwid provides much needed laughs with her stolen Mommie Dearest performance as the flaked out roommate. "}{"Title":"Insipid morality tale.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Whatever magic and power this had on the stage is lost on the screen. Scripted by Mastrosimone from his own play, this movie attempts to make a statement about the subject of rape, but ultimately fails because of weak pacing, limp dialogue, and horrendous supporting performances.The film begins with Fawcett's character getting off work. She is terrorized by a man in a parking lot. She is able to get away and runs to the cops, who are impotent to do anything. Fast forward several days later Fawcett is at the home she shares with her two friends. The two friends head off to their respective jobs, and moments later, Fawcett's attacker arrives at home and proceeds to slap her around and attack her in the most sadistic, brutal (and exploitative) ways. Then, she turns the tables on him. As he has a grip on her, she reaches for a can of bug spray, gets him in the eyes, throws a pot of hot water on him, then proceeds to tie him up and stuff him in the fireplace, figuring out what to do next.At this point, much of what has gone on is remotely suspenseful. However, once the two roommates re-enter the picture, the movie becomes banal, with some horrendous dialogue (mostly shouting matches where idiot and moron are tossed around.) Since there was no actual rape, Fawcett realizes she has no case, and the cops will only let the man free to attack her again. Moreover, she can't make her own roommates believe her. The climax of the film is soap-opera material, and nothing more.I don't feel the need to comment much more on this, except that the ending doesn't ring true, Alfre Woodard has gone on to more worthy projects (Grand Canyon, Down In The Delta), and this one probably should've been left on the stage. A frustrating movie that I can't recommend. "},{"Title":"The best performance by an actress on film","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Farrah Fawcett gives the best performance by an actress on film in this gritty real life attempted rape thriller where she turns the tables & gives James Russo a taste of his own medicine.  A must see for any movie fan. "},{"Title":"The Outlook of this film on Fashion & Take.","Date":"14 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" One of the previous reviewers wrote, Beginning with her being enticingly clad in a thin robe, thus taking away from the serious character Faucett is applicably portraying... This is simply the reviewers inability to comprehend fashion of an era and its importance. Fashion and Faucett following the early 80's poster girl in her shorter jean shorts and classy blouses. The Movies of the 80's; What could be more timeless than the birth of an era that captures* far more elements of culture in such a spawnling*. ...Extremities alike other dramas and non-dramas, captures the revel of The Triumph, the clad robe, the jean shorts, the visual and non-visual personal dialogue all wrapped up into one. "},{"Title":"extremely moving drama","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this is one of the first movies that really moved me,i was ten when i saw it,and it's still one of my favourites.it's taken from a broadway play,still played by fawcett and russo,and the theatre dimension is palpable even in the motion picture,it's set in a house and we have just four players.this kinda thing,that in other cases would limit the life of a film,in this case increases the power of the performances.we're taken in that house and it seems we're close to farrah fawcett while she's having her revenge on the man that tried to rape her and kill her.it's an astonishing performance the one that farrah fawcett gave to us,extremely phisycal and passionate,surely she deserved to be oscar nominee.but the rest of the cast is good as well,james russo is a great villain,while diana scarwid brings a little of madness and short temper to the character.alfre woodard ends the cast as the wise one of the three female friends.to conclude,a worthy picture,that will involve you and move you from the bottom. "},{"Title":"VERY GOOD FIRST HALF!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Extremities, which runs 89 minutes, could have worked perfectly if the last 45 minutes were just like the first 44. The first half is very disturbing and realistic in its depiction of attackers and rapists. This half could even be seen as an after-school special showing teenagers that Rape is no laughing matter! Farrah Fawcett's character gets threatened, violated, beat up, raped, and humiliated. Her attacker is a married man with children who is a complete sadist in sexual dominance. He makes Farrah cook him some breakfast, touch his genitals, tell him I love you and I want to make love to you while beating her up in the process. This is where the movie really works. It shows the viewer that rape isn't always committed by a strange loner...it can be committed by anyone (Even a happily married man with children. I say happily married because in the beginning of the movie, you can hear the attacker's wife calling him to lunch. It is obvious that his wife, although never seen on screen, has made him a very nice and delicious lunch. You can tell by the tone of her voice). The first half also has us asking questions such as Why would a man do this? and that question has to be answered by the viewer's own opinion because the second half on Extremities falls completely apart. Farrah, with her beautiful strong feet, manages (in a completely impossible situation) to capture her attacker and reverse the role playing. She sprays his eyes with bug spray (which happens to be conveniently by her at the time) then ties and beats him up (yeah....whatever). The question above is never answered because instead of going into deep character studies, the last 45 minutes are close ups of Farrah's feet walking around her captor as her roomates look on wondering if she's really the crazier and more sadistic one. Excellent 51% of the way. "},{"Title":"Fair rendition of a dramatic stage play","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" EXTREMITIES Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format MonoA woman turns the tables on a would-be rapist when he mounts an assault in her home, and is forced to decide whether to kill him or inform the police, in which case he could be released and attack her again.Exploitation fans who might be expecting another rough 'n' ready rape fantasy in the style of DAY OF THE WOMAN (1978) will almost certainly be disappointed by EXTREMITIES. True, Farrah Fawcett's character is subjected to two uncomfortably prolonged assaults before gaining the upper hand on her attacker (a suitably slimy James Russo), but scriptwriter William Mastrosimone and director Robert M. Young take these unpleasant scenes only so far before unveiling the dilemma which informs the moral core of this production. Would their final solution hold up in a court of law? Maybe...Based on a stage play which reportedly left its actors battered and bruised after every performance, the film makes no attempt to open up the narrative and relies instead on a confined setting for the main action. Acing and technical credits are fine, though Fawcett's overly subdued performance won't play effectively to viewers who might be relying on her to provide an outlet for their outraged indignation. "},{"Title":"An attempted rape victim turns the tables on her attacker.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Farrah Fawcett gives an award nominated performance as an attempted rape victim who turns the tables on her attacker.  This movie not only makes you examine your own morals, it proves that Fawcett can excel as a serious actress both as a victim and victor. "},{"Title":"good until the end","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Tense moments abound in this drama that could've been great if the ending had been re-written.  Fawcett gets accosted by a dude in a ski mask in her back seat.  She manages to get away but the guy has her wallet containing her drivers license which of course can lead him to her address.  After a week passes she figures all is good until he strolls into her deluxe pad one morning after her friends have left for work.  Following some bogus story about money owed to him, the guy reveals himself as the would-be rapist and a series of chases and slappings occur throughout the house.  She ends up finding an opening to subdue him at which point the film starts its descent into lameness.  She sticks his banged up body in a fireplace with what looks like a metal headboard as a block, begins digging a grave for him in the backyard(!), and tries to convince her arriving roommates that he'll be let go by the police because there was no rape.  The last 20 minutes are so jumbled that you dont know if they're actually trying to drum up sympathy for the bad guy.  With his injuries and his sob story about his wife, it seemed out of place.  The performances are strong, although Russo, as the attacker, was (unfortunately) reminding me of Tony Danza with that New York accent of his.  Kind of like watching a nasty Whos the Boss? episode. But when he has to be, Russo is very hateful.  Fawcetts good, though a little bitchy in the beginning and a madwoman in the end.  Woodard does a nice job as the sympathetic friend to Russo, but Scarwid's a little too much to handle as the flipped out, babbling roommate.  But mainly look out for the ending, you're bound to be disappointed.   "},{"Title":"Pretty good, overall","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having looked at some of the other comments here, I have a main complaint with this presentation. The two primary characters are attractive in their own ways - the beautiful victim, and the handsome, obviously extremely off-center, blue-collar protagonist (if just short of totally-deranged) - take turns beating the hell out of each other, sort of like a Caucasian Kabuki scenario.This is all right, and this is, of course, mainly a turning-the-tables story. However, my referenced complaint is that I believe the director got caught-up in his desire to display Farrah's well-known and obvious physical attributes. Beginning with her being enticingly clad in a thin robe, and with a number of scenes displaying more than needed for any dramatic effect - while immensely pleasing to the eyes, these distract from the poignancy level of the drama.Her roommates I'm certain give performances as written and directed - however, their respective skepticism and histrionic babbling and sobbing, don't ring true -- based upon Farrah's previous experience with this guy, the obvious evidence of his having come to their premises with only the worst of intentions, and that she would have absolutely no grounds to be exaggerating what has occurred.But this is a film and story, compelling as much in spite of, as because of, the director's work. "},{"Title":"A filmed stage play would be an improvement","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Robert Young (no relation) gives on e of the most unimaginative directing efforts in the history of cinema.  Fawcett is marvelous, and Woodard and Scarwid give her ample support, but they are undermined totally by all the directorial and production-related aspects.  I loved this on the stage, and a bootlegged videotape of the production I saw would be infinitely superior to this.  This is a movie that needed a female director and didn't get one.  "}{"Title":"for people who get their understanding of the law from watching TV","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This isn't a film. The credits claim the screenplay was written from a play but there is no screenplay. This is simply the filming of a (fictional) psychopath torturing his victim and then the victim torturing him back. Why would anyone wish to watch this, except for the people who apparently find porno bondage films entertaining? Neither the rapist or the victim fights realistically but that comment suggests that this is a real film. It's not. It's simply an assembly of misery. Farah Fawcett has made some fine films but this is not one of them. Every character in this slop is literally retarded.The whole point of this thing is that any criminal can get away with any crime, as long as there aren't other (besides the victim) witnesses, though that does not apply to the criminal. If a victim tries to (incompetently) torture the criminal back, that does not require witnesses to send her away to the slammer.This wasn't set in America. Was it meant to represent North Korea? The moon? The municipal sewer? Using the film's own logic, why on earth didn't Farah simply get the ax out of her garden shed, chop off both the psychopathic rapist's legs, and then call the police and say he chopped off his own legs while breaking into her house? There'd be no witnesses against Farah so she'd go perfectly free, and yet the rapist couldn't re-terrorize Farrah or any other rape-victims. The why not is because then the film would have been over.Why did Farah's friend and house-mate believe everything that the rapist told her but nothing that Farah told her? This must have been written and filmed by that piece of scum who wrote a book and went on talkshows a few years ago claiming that ALL men are potential rapists and would commit rape, under the right circumstances. This monstrosity is evil. The makers of this thing worship Satan. Do they let people as stupid as these characters actually have drivers licenses (as they had in this)? I'd hate to think that I ever come even within twenty feet of scum like EACH of the characters, including the police.I know that some men work in the septic tank pumping business but at least they're paid to do that, and it's a useful service. Watching this slime serves no purpose, unless you've drunk some poison and need something to induce vomiting. Why did neither of Farrah's friends and house-mates believe Farrah or get mad at the rapist until Farrah tortured him back, in front of them, and then they believed his new version of the story, even though he'd only coughed up his confession with a knife to his throat? Oh, I already answered that one--because they're literally retarded.And why was the friend so hateful towards Farrah and believing of the rapist, earlier in the flick? Because her girlfriend's father had raped her but she, of course, couldn't do anything about it because there had, of course, been no witnesses so she had to always see her own rapist time & time again without being, of course, able to do anything about it. This is a horror flick, though not about the horror of rape and/or torture but rather the horror of people walking around who believe that this slime made sense. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film!","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I loved this excellent movie. Farrah Fawcett played the part phenomenally and with good heart. She plays a woman who is driven to extreme measures to protect herself and her friends after she is attacked by a stranger. After being rejected by the police she realizes she is on her own.Then one day when she at home alone the stranger breaks into her home and attacks her again. Not being about to call the police or get him out she is forced to spray him in the eyes and imprisons him in her fireplace.I think there is a need for a wake up call to the laws of the land. They are too easy on these criminals. It's time for more harsh punishments. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie a lot, especially because of the great performances by Farrah Fawcett and James Russo. I have to admit even though the rapist was very obnoxious in this movie he was very funny at times. The first half of the movie is more entertaining than the second half but the first half is very violent at times and unpleasant for the victim(Fawcett) trapped in the house with rapist Russo. Give this movie a chance you might just like it. "},{"Title":"Crudely exploitative","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This remarkably stupid film expects us to swallow the idea that a man's confession made under threat of violence in front of witnesses solves the female victim's problem. The reality is that any confession made by a man threatened with having his private parts eviscerated is inevitably going to be thrown out of court. This film ends where it should really be beginning, in examining the low conviction rates for sexual assault and why the system lets some men get away with multiple rape time and again but settles instead for cheap exploitation and bogus catharsis. "},{"Title":"Poor Production","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Extremities (1986)* 1/2 (out of 4)A woman (Farrah Fawcett) is attacked by a would be rapist but manages to get away before any serious harm can be done. A week later the attacker (James Russo) shows up at her home to finish the job but soon the woman turns the tables on him. That's a pretty simple set up for this psychological drama that comes off as a major disappointment. I had heard how terrific the original play was and how wonderful Fawcett was in it but this adaptation is a complete disaster that is poorly directed and features some questionable acting. I'll start with the direction which is just a complete horrid mess. There isn't a single thing in this movie that manages to have any emotion. None of the characters are believable and even worse is that we're never given anything to feel from start to finish. The opening attack sequence is meant to be full of suspense but it isn't. Fawcett's fear is meant to be dramatic but it isn't. The terror she's living in is meant to be dramatic but never is. Then when the cat and mouse game begins we're suppose to feel this psychological drama of the two characters going back and forth yet we never feel this. I've seen exploitation rape/revenge movies that have more emotion than this thing and that's pretty sad. I wouldn't place all the blame on the director because the cast has to take some of the heat for these horrid performances. Fawcett must have lost whatever she had in the play because she gives a one-note performance here and really comes off looking bad. Not once did I believe the shock her character was going through or anything else she was suppose to be portraying. Russo is just as bad as the rapist and Alfre Woodard and Diane Scarwid come off pretty poorly as well. This is all rather shocking because all four have proved that they can give good performance so why they're so incredibly bad here doesn't make any sense. The movie never really knows what it wants to do as it throws out so many mixed messages of rape, revenge and countless other items that are thrown out there only to slowly die off or be replaced by the next thought that the film tries to explain. A poor film all around and a real disappointment. "},{"Title":"Farrah's Ugly and the Movie Sucks","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I netflix'd Extremities after poor Farrah Fawcett passed away. I figured I'd pay respect to her legacy by revisiting some of her best-known screen work ('Charlie's Angels' excluded).I don't have a problem with movies from another era- I watched 'The French Connection' over the weekend, and loved it... So I'm inclined to think that 'Extremities' is garbage in any era (Not the kind of 'Timeless' they were going for). Awful story, awful script, awful performances, awful direction equals awful movie. There was no suspense, no cohesion to any of it, no attempt to even make any of it seem plausible or believable... You shouldn't have to suspend disbelief to watch a RAPE-DRAMA. Then again, she doesn't actually get raped. By the end of the movie, it seemed to be favoring the Raper over Farrah.If I were a victim of domestic abuse, I'd be personally insulted. Fifteen minutes into the movie, I couldn't decide which of the main characters I disliked more... Never a good foot for your film to start on.Avoid this at all costs. "},{"Title":"Two things about this film really bugged me.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One was the music, which belongs in a made-for-Lifetime movie or a Waltons episode. It considerably undermines what at times is a truly intense film. The other was the blatant exclusion of dialogue from the end of the play, conveniently omitting the play's best asset, which was its willingness to portray the rapist as a human being. Not one you'd let babysit your kids, probably not even one who should be allowed to live among others, but a human being none the less.Having read the play (I never saw it on stage), and liked it, my main reason for watching this film was to see James Russo in the kind of role he was born to play. In this I was not disappointed. Russo is an underrated actor whose uncanny ability to play hateful dirt-bags is usually wasted on supporting roles. Films in which he shines, such as Dangerous Game and No Way Home, are few and far between.I also was pleasantly surprised by Farah Fawcett, who turns in a flawless performance. Her cornered animal ferocity couldn't have been done better, nor could the inner conflict she expresses non-verbally at pivotal moments.The direction is at times, like certain inspired camera shots (I'm a sucker for snake-skin boots), quite complimentary to the story and acting, while at others, like the ones where the camera keeps cutting to the terrified faces of the roommates to show us things we already know as if we are sub-literate morons, utterly ridiculous. The whole opening sequence that establishes the character and her dilemma is unnecessary and plays like, again, a made-for-TV movie. If I watch this again, I'm fast-forwarding about twenty minutes and starting there.Once the real action begins, which is right in the thick of things, where the play begins, it's pretty much ceaseless in its intensity until the end. For me it even worked right up to the credits, it just really bugs me that you don't get to hear the guy sing, Found a peanut, found a peanut, and that it's not made clear enough that Farah isn't dragging him back to that fireplace because she wants to, it's because he wants her to. Now that he's told the truth and is playing fair, she doesn't hate him anymore. Maybe they could even be friends, seeing as they've now both experienced a power trip that polite folks haven't, one which I imagine triggers equal amounts of both self-loathing and exhilaration. That's the why that another poster alluded to, and that's the kind of message that could never make it into a movie with a score that belongs on network TV.Mastrosimone, who wrote both the play and the movie, damn well better have had a gun to his head, because the real rape victim here is his own play. "},{"Title":"Great Performances Undermined By Awful Direction","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Farrah Fawcett performs straight from the gut.  She is unforgettable. Diana Scarwid and Alfre Woodard are excellent as her feckless friends. The perpitrator is just a tad off in his shading of the character, and is disturbingly inconsistent.  But, the camerawork, presumably an attempt at cinema verite, comes off merely as conspicuously clumsy and amateurish. And, there is absolutely NO fluidity from scene to scene.  In the hands of Penny Marshall or Betty Thomas, this could have been a classic.  As is, it is a waste of three tremendous performances. "},{"Title":"Farrah should have danced","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Farrah Fawcett is a great actress and this is her best film. I was so glad that first she won acclaim for the stage version of Extremeties and then for her work in The Burning Bed. She set standards for a lot of actresses that have never been equalled. To this day whenever a lightly regarded actress takes on a challenging role, the critics say this is like her Burning Bed. Farrah makes a great damsel in distress who turns the tables on this guy. Russo is a good actor and its a challenge to both of them because they pretty much have to carry the whole film on their shoulders. Actually the rapist isn't such a bad guy. Theres one problem I had with the film. When he comes to the house, Farrah is real suductively clad (shes barefoot and in a bathrobe). I remember that great nude scene she did in Doctor T And THe Women and the dance in the fountain. What I would have liked to have had him do is force her to take off her robe and dance for him like Jamie Lee Curtis in True Lies. Farrah has a great body, why not show it off.  "},{"Title":"awful film that insults your intelligence","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I gave this movie three stars instead of one for the acting but even so I feel I am being way too generous. One thing that bugged me continuously throughout the movie was how unrealistic the entire movie was. At no point was I convinced that any of this was even remotely possible let alone feasible. It seemed to me as a matter of fact that it had just a bunch of preaching and other meaningless political drivel.Maybe back in the 80s when this film was made the film maker may have wanted to make a statement about rape and how the victims need to fight back. I agree but within the law not outside of it because if you don't that makes you no better than your attacker. Whats more am I supposed to believe that she'd actually get away with what she did to him? He may get put away but I'm inclined to doubt that but rather she would be the one spending massive time behind bars especially if she murdered him. Whats more nothing she forced him to say would ever be allowed to be used in the court of law. Add insult to injury he could sue her for any physical and emotional damages that she inflicted upon him. I understand that some may be outraged by what I'm writing her but this is a simple fact.At the end this movie actually left me feeling sorry for the rapist which I sincerely doubt was the intention of the director. "}{"Title":"Almost aggressively without thought...and too much compromise","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Young woman is attacked twice by a handsome, cackling psychotic, the second time in her own home. Based on the hit play, the screen translation doesn't work. The material is too one-dimensional, and the heroine is a problem. Did the filmmakers think that if we were shown a strong (headstrong, physically and emotionally strong) woman, we wouldn't be interested in seeing her turn the tables on this scheming psycho? Why is it that Farrah Fawcett is made to gape in shock, lethargic when she should be active? Later, after crawling along the carpet as the camera closes in, she slaps at the man in a playground manner. Yes, she gets in some digs at his expense, but she can't even get her own roommates to believe her story (these 'friends' obviously have no idea who she is, where she came from, what she's been through--they are stock-idiots in the screenwriter's stable of clichs). The attacker is not some slimy worm--which would've worked--but a muscular mechanic-type with a New Yawk drawl and tight-across-the-rear blue jeans. The formulaic structuring and presentation here provide hostility and resentment instead of food for thought. It leaves us whipped and bowed, but conscious only of the fact we have seen Farrah being ordered to cook her attacker breakfast--and then having her naked breast foisted at us in close-up. Certainly not the intent when they launched the off-Broadway show? ** from **** "}]